 ANITE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012  63 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
 64 Notes to the accounts
103 Five-year summary
104 Company balance sheet
105 Company statement of changes 
in equity
106 Company cash ﬂow statement
107 Notes to the Company accounts
OTHER INFORMATION
118 Shareholder information
119 Glossary of terms
120 Advisers and ofﬁces
OVERVIEW
01 Anite
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
06 Chief Executive’s review
08 Our businesses
08 Wireless
10 Handset Testing
14 Network Testing
18 Travel
22 Review of operations
26 Financial review
30 Group Key Performance Indicators
31 Principal risks and uncertainties
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
34 Directors
36 Report of the Directors
40 Corporate governance report
46 Remuneration report
56 Report of the Audit Committee
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
59 Independent auditors’ report, Group
60 Consolidated income statement
60 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
61 Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
62 Consolidated balance sheet OVERVIEW
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OVERVIEW
ANITE
Anite plc, an international software and solutions company, operates in two discrete markets: we provide 
device and network testing systems to the wireless market; and reservation and e-commerce solutions to 
the leisure travel industry. The success of both divisions is based on our comprehensive knowledge of the 
sectors and on our proprietary software and hardware products. 
Our 500 staff work with the world’s leading wireless and travel companies, from our headquarters in the 
UK and from ofﬁces in 15 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Middle East. Our services, 
which include implementation, systems integration, maintenance and managed services, enable us to 
meet our customers’ needs and enable them to achieve their business objectives.  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OVERVIEW
02
This was an exceptional year for Anite in terms of ﬁnancial results. 
At the same time, each of our businesses made signiﬁcant 
operational progress.
The fundamental drivers for all of our businesses continue to be 
favourable. Each has good market positions, products and people 
to pursue multiple growth opportunities.
We have started the current year well, ahead of last year,  
and we are well placed to deliver sustainable organic growth.
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY 
Chief Executive
AT A GLANCE
NT
DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE
WIRELESS TRAVEL
TRAVEL
Anite sells systems to enable leisure travel 
companies to operate more efﬁciently. 
In what is a highly pressurised market, 
fewer companies are managing more 
travellers and are doing so under increasing 
cost constraints. Our technology directly 
addresses the industry’s core challenges 
– to reduce costs and increase productivity 
– while, at the same time, supporting 
improved customer service across a 
broader, more ﬂexible product range.
HANDSET TESTING
Anite sells systems that enable 
manufacturers to design efﬁcient chipsets 
and mobile devices and bring them to 
market quickly and cost-effectively.  
At a time when technology is advancing 
and the functionality of devices is becoming 
increasingly complex, development and 
testing are critical. Our laboratory-based 
test systems not only enable manufacturers 
to certify their products against industry 
standards, but also enable network 
operators to meet end-customers’ quality 
expectations by ensuring that devices 
perform in real-life situations.
NETWORK TESTING 
Anite supplies systems that enable mobile 
network operators and manufacturers  
to manage their businesses effectively.  
Our range of Nemo-branded tools enables 
operators to collect and analyse data  
on network coverage and performance;  
to check that networks are working as 
planned; and to make sure that the quality 
of service meets customer expectations.  03
OVERVIEW
HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (ADJUSTED)¹
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS1
STATUTORY RESULTS
● Proﬁt for the year of £18.0m (2011: £9.4m)       ●    Basic earnings per share up 97% to 6.5p (2011: 3.3p)       ●    Diluted earnings per share up 94% to 6.0p (2011: 3.1p).
WIRELESS TRAVEL
Wireless revenue as a whole contributed 84% of Group revenue (2011: 79%)
 ● Record R&D investment up 32% to £17.0m (2011: £12.9m)
HANDSET TESTING
 ● Strong growth for 2G/3G, up 29%, 
and LTE 4G, up 102%, on the 
previous year; LTE 4G now 
represents 44% of Handset 
Testing’s revenue (2011: 34%)
 ● Revenue up 54% to £76.4m (2011: 
£49.6m) and operating proﬁt up 
115% to £21.5m (2011: £10.0m)
 ● Order intake up 33% to £79.4m 
(2011: £59.6m); closing order book 
£24.9m (2011: £21.7m)
 ● Signed multi-year contract with 
Thomas Cook Group to implement 
@com in UK and Ireland
 ● Revenue £20.1m (2011: £20.0m) 
and operating proﬁt up 10% to 
£4.6m (2011: £4.2m)
 ● Closing order book £89.6m 
(2011: £63.2m), book-to-bill ratio 
2.3 (2011: 1.7)
NETWORK TESTING
 ● Invex products gaining traction: 
benchmarking product launched  
at end of H1
 ● Revenue up 8% to £26.0m (2011: 
£24. 1m) and operating proﬁt down 
17% to £5.3m (2011: £6.4m)
 ● Order intake up 13% to £26.0m 
(2011: £23.0m)
122.5
93.7
78.8
2012 2011 2010
REVENUE
£m
+31%
6.7
3.8
2.3
2012 2011 2010
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
p
+76%
24
19
15
2012 2011 2010
OPERATING MARGIN
%
+5%
28.8
17.6
11.9
2012 2011 2010
OPERATING PROFIT
£m
+64%
17.0
12.9
12.6
2012 2011 2010
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
£m
+32%
152.0
116.6
82.3
2012 2011 2010
ORDER INTAKE
£m
+30%
1.125
0.735
0.65
2012 2011 2010
FINAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE
p
+53%
1 Adjusted results are for continuing operations before share-based payments, amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, restructuring costs, other gains and losses and recycled hedge losses. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OVERVIEW
04
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to report that Anite had an 
exceptional year in terms of its ﬁnancial 
results, which comfortably exceeded the 
Board’s expectations. While the highlight of 
the year was Handset Testing’s particularly 
strong performance, driven mainly by 
a signiﬁcant increase in revenue for LTE 4G 
products, each of our three businesses, 
Handset Testing, Network Testing and Travel, 
made signiﬁcant operational progress. 
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
We continue to make good progress with our 
strategy to position Anite as a global leader 
in wireless test software, and to take 
advantage of the opportunities that will 
emerge from the development and roll-out 
of LTE 4G technology. 
The Board believes that our Wireless division 
operates in a long-term growth market, 
which has high barriers to entry and relatively 
few major competitors. This enables it to 
generate good proﬁt margins and returns 
on investments. Wireless contributed an 
increased proportion of total Anite revenue 
– 84% (2011: 79%). 
Our strategy for Travel is to increase its 
long-term value as it changes its business 
model. Its @com product is the only proven 
large-scale reservation system on the market 
today and is at the beginning of a potential 
20-year product life cycle. It sits at the very 
heart of our customers’ businesses and offers 
them greater efﬁciency and reduced costs. 
The addition in recent years, of TUI Central 
Europe and UK, and Thomas Cook UK to 
Travel’s expanding customer base represented 
signiﬁcant landmarks in strengthening and 
improving its market position and in building 
long-term revenue visibility. 
In both divisions, Wireless and Travel, the 
Board anticipates that the majority of growth 
will be organic: it will come from underlying 
growth in their respective markets, 
investment in their products to win market 
share, and lengthy and cumulative product 
life cycles. In addition, the Board is 
committed to maintaining market leadership 
by continuing to invest in R&D.
Finally, it is the Board’s intention that we 
should maintain a strong ﬁnancial position, 
to provide ﬁnancial ﬂexibility through 
a combination of retaining a net cash  
position while having access to appropriate 
bank facilities through a new ﬁve-year 
£20m revolving credit facility signed in 
October 2011.
RESULTS SUMMARY 
The Group’s results were well ahead of the 
previous year and both divisions reported 
strong underlying proﬁtability: our Wireless 
division, as a whole, reported an adjusted 
operating margin of 26% (2011: 22%) while 
our Travel division reported 23% (2011: 21%). 
Overall Group adjusted operating proﬁt was 
up 64%, to £28.8m (2011: £17.6m), on 
revenue up 31%, to £122.5m (2011: £93.7m). 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share were  
up 76%, to 6.7p (2011: 3.8p). 
Robust cash generation enabled us to 
maintain a strong ﬁnancial position at the  
year end. Net cash, as at 30 April 2012, was 
£16.9m (April 2011: £27.7m). The reported 
Anite reported strong results and made good progress  
in all three businesses in the year.
CLAY BRENDISH
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
46.6
34.0
29.0
21.1
32.2
23.0
59.6
26.0
79.4
2012 2011
  Handset Testing      Network Testing      Travel
2010
152.0
116.6
82.3
ORDER INTAKE BY BUSINESS
£m  05
OVERVIEW
We remain committed to ensuring we 
continue to improve our governance and 
processes and details on this are set out in 
the Corporate governance report on pages  
40 to 45, the Audit Committee report 
on pages 56 and 57 and the Remuneration 
Committee report on pages 46 to 55.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK 
Anite reported strong results and made good 
progress in all three businesses in the year. 
In particular, the LTE 4G opportunity has 
added an additional layer to our expertise: 
we are now a leading force in two signiﬁcant 
handset testing sub-markets – 2G/3G and 
LTE 4G. As a result, Handset Testing is in a 
better position to take advantage of larger 
markets than in the past and is capable of 
achieving double-digit revenue growth for 
the immediate future.
Based on the opportunities available to 
each of our businesses, Anite is well placed  
to deliver sustainable organic growth and 
increased shareholder value.
CLAY BRENDISH
Chairman
2 July 2012
level of net cash followed the settlement on 
31 October 2011 of the £21.6m swap liability. 
DIVIDEND
In recognition of the signiﬁcant growth in 
earnings per share over the past two years, 
the Board is recommending a signiﬁcantly 
increased ﬁnal dividend of 1.125p per share, 
an increase of 53% on the previous year 
(2011: 0.735p per share). This will result  
in a total dividend for the year of 1.50p per 
share, a 43% increase on the previous year’s 
total dividend (2011: 1.05p per share). It is 
proposed that the ﬁnal dividend be paid on 
23 October 2012 to shareholders on the 
register at 28 September 2012.
Overall, the Board’s intention is to maintain 
a progressive dividend policy, broadly in line 
with earnings growth, and to retain strong 
dividend cover. 
PEOPLE
On behalf of the Board, I recognise that 
Anite’s success in recent years has been  
built on the deep industry expertise of our 
committed and hard-working staff. It is their 
know-how and experience that keeps us at 
the forefront of our industries. 
GOVERNANCE 
The Board recognises the importance that 
good corporate governance and the highest 
standards of professional ethics have in 
achieving its goal of delivering shareholder 
value. I am satisﬁed by the breadth and 
range of skills of the individual Directors and 
am pleased that the Board performance 
evaluation we undertook this year conﬁrmed 
that the Board operates effectively.
20.1
20.0
23.0
20.0
35.8
24.1
49.6
26.0
76.4
2012 2011
  Handset Testing      Network Testing      Travel
2010
122.5
93.7
78.8
REVENUE BY BUSINESS
£m
4.6
4.2
5.6
4.5
3.5
6.4
10.0
5.3
21.5
2012 2011
  Handset Testing      Network Testing      Travel
2010
28.8
(includes Group costs 
of £2.6 million)
17.6 
(Includes Group costs 
of £3.0 million)
11.9
(Includes Group costs 
of £1.7 million)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT BY BUSINESS
£m ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
06
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
of Handset Testing revenue. Here, customers 
invested in LTE 4G equipment to support the 
early stages of the mandatory testing phase 
of LTE 4G devices. In addition, they bought 
2G/3G products to test the backwards 
compatibility of devices, rather than using 
existing systems which they have tended to 
keep exclusively for 2G/3G devices. Growth 
also came from our second major growth 
driver, Interoperability Testing (IOT), which 
also covers 2G/3G and LTE 4G. Overall sales 
of LTE 4G technology products grew by 
102%, to 44% of Handset Testing revenue, 
helping drive overall Handset Testing revenue 
growth of 54% and more than doubling 
its operating proﬁts.
In a highly technological market, we further 
established our proprietary LTE 4G hardware 
platform, Anite 9000, and continued to 
develop our products and strategy to support 
the next generation of mobile technology, 
beyond LTE 4G to LTE-Advanced (LTE-A), 
which we expect to accelerate over the 
next few years.
Although Network Testing’s operating proﬁt 
was below that of last year, its order intake 
and revenue increased – particularly in 
the second half of the year – in what are 
extremely competitive markets. With the 
exception of the US – which was an early 
adopter of LTE 4G – network roll-outs  
are expected to take off around the world 
over the next few years. Last year’s 
acquisition of the Invex product lines 
expanded our portfolio of scanner and 
benchmarking products, although the 
later-than-planned launch of the updated 
benchmarking platform pushed sales into 
the second half of the year and that, in turn, 
held back proﬁts.
OVERVIEW
Anite had an exceptional year – revenue and 
proﬁt both increased substantially – and  
we made good operational progress in all 
three businesses. 
While the continuing uncertainties 
surrounding the global economy are likely  
to result in a more challenging economic 
environment over the next few years, the 
underlying drivers for our Wireless division – 
the inexorable increase in mobile data and 
smartphones and in the complexity of devices 
and networks as new technology is introduced 
– will continue, and will undoubtedly create 
more requirements for testing. To ensure that 
we will be ready to take advantage of the 
opportunity this offers, our total R&D spend 
during the year was a record £17m, a 32% 
increase year-on-year.
That investment, combined with the 
commitment and quality of our people, our 
credibility and long-standing relationships 
with major customers, and our rapid response 
to changes in customer and market demand 
will, we believe, ensure that we are well 
placed to deliver sustainable growth over 
the long term.
PERFORMANCE
The principal driver of the growth in revenue 
and proﬁt that resulted in our improved 
margins was the strong demand in the 
Handset Testing business for LTE 4G systems, 
as well as a higher-than-expected demand for 
2G/3G products.
Growth in Handset Testing came from two 
product areas. First from Conformance 
Testing (CT), which continues to be our key 
product area and accounted for around half  
The past year was an exceptional one for the Group, driven by the 
growth in revenue and proﬁts in the Handset Testing business.
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY 
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our Travel business continued to make good 
progress and successfully negotiated the 
difﬁcult market conditions that existed across 
Europe. During the year, it diversiﬁed its 
customer base when it won another major 
order for @com – from one of the world’s 
largest tour operators, Thomas Cook Group 
– with the result that @com was further 
endorsed in the eyes of other major 
international tour operators. That is resulting 
in an encouraging sales pipeline across 
Europe and farther aﬁeld. The business  
has increased its order book to £89.6m  
of contracted revenue, has signiﬁcant 
longer-term opportunities with TUI and 
Thomas Cook, and is better positioned  
for future growth.  07
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
set and executing our product strategy to 
support the next generation of technology.
In addition, we expect to build further value 
into our Travel business. We will achieve this 
by continuing to evolve its business model: 
ﬁrst, by transitioning customers from legacy 
technology to its new, more ﬂexible and 
scalable platform; and second, by delivering 
more large implementations with associated 
multi-year support contracts that will provide 
long-term recurring revenue, proﬁt visibility 
and growth.
OUTLOOK
The past year was an exceptional one for the 
Group, driven by the growth in revenue and 
proﬁts in the Handset Testing business. 
Looking ahead, the fundamental drivers 
for all of our businesses continue to be 
favourable. This gives us conﬁdence in our 
ability to achieve future growth although, 
given that the Wireless pipeline visibility is 
inherently low, we remain conservative with 
our guidance.
The sustained growth in the mobile 
telecommunications market will undoubtedly 
create more requirements for testing, and  
our focus and continued investment in R&D 
will, we believe, enable us to maintain our 
technology leadership in Handset Testing.  
In the current year, we expect to beneﬁt 
from both of our key growth engines: the 
continued development of the Conformance 
Test market and also an increase in demand 
for Interoperability Testing. These factors 
are expected to lead to revenue growth 
in Handset Testing in the low to mid teen 
percentage range.
OUR MARKETS
Anite is structured into two market-facing 
divisions: Wireless, which comprises two 
separately managed businesses – Handset 
Testing and Network Testing – and Travel: 
 ● Handset Testing provides specialist 
laboratory-based systems, hardware  
and software to enable manufacturers  
to design new chipsets and devices 
effectively, to bring high-quality devices 
to market quickly, and to enable network 
operators to meet end-customers’ needs 
by ensuring that devices meet their 
quality expectations in real-life situations; 
 ● Network Testing provides the technology 
that enables operators of mobile phone 
networks to test their networks’ 
efﬁciency and effectiveness – and to 
ensure consistently high quality for users 
of mobile devices – by carrying out live 
testing with a wide range of devices; and 
 ● Travel provides reservation and 
administration systems that help 
companies, primarily in the leisure sector, 
to run their businesses more efﬁciently 
and to reduce back ofﬁce costs.
GROUP STRATEGY 
Our overriding objective is to continue to 
deliver shareholder value by focusing on our 
Wireless division where we seek to maintain 
our position as market leader in testing 
solutions. This division has strong growth 
drivers, an equally strong market position and 
exhibits good potential for long-term growth. 
We will continue to grow the Wireless 
division by maintaining technological and 
market leadership, broadening our product 
35%
LTE 4G
In a highly technological market, we further 
established our proprietary LTE 4G hardware 
platform and continued to develop our 
products and strategy  
to support the next  
generation of mobile 
technology, beyond  
LTE 4G to LTE-Advanced. 
£
@com
A major order from Thomas Cook Group, 
one of the world’s largest tour operators, 
further endorsed 
@com in the eyes 
of other major 
international
tour operators.
In Network Testing, we expect mid single 
digit percentage growth in revenue at 
constant currency. We expect the success 
of our benchmarking product to offset any 
impact from competitive pressures and we 
are well positioned to take advantage of 
LTE 4G roll-outs as they accelerate.
We have been transitioning our Travel 
business over the past few years, with the 
objective of building on its strong market 
position and optimising the value of its 
long-term product life cycle. Around 75%  
of our expected revenue for the current year 
is already contracted and the pipeline of 
additional opportunities is encouraging. 
Performance in the current year – in which  
we will focus on delivering the major @com 
implementations that we have contracted  
for over the past two years – is expected 
to be similar to the one just completed, with 
low single digit percentage revenue growth. 
Our businesses have good market positions, 
products and people to pursue multiple 
growth opportunities. We have started  
the current year well, ahead of last year, 
and are well placed to deliver sustainable 
organic growth. 
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Chief Executive 
2 July 2012 ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
08
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
OUR BUSINESSES
While the roll-out of LTE 4G commercial 
networks continues – and far outstrips  
the rate at which previous 3G technology  
was taken up – the speed of adoption is 
inﬂuenced by a number of factors: spectrum 
allocation from governments; legacy 
technology on networks; and economic 
pressures that constrain the investment 
necessary to upgrade the infrastructure. 
LTE 4G roll-out has begun in North America,  
Asia Paciﬁc and in some countries in 
mainland Europe. While we do not expect  
LTE 4G to be implemented in the UK until 
2013/14, this slow roll-out will not affect  
our business since our customers are based 
all over the world, from the US to China. 
Indeed, 97% of our Wireless revenue last  
year came from outside the UK.
Despite the growth in LTE 4G there are, 
however, still relatively few LTE 4G 
subscribers worldwide; the majority of the six 
billion mobile phone subscriptions are still 2G 
(GSM). Only 15% (890 million) are 3G 
(WCDMA) devices and, at the time of writing, 
only just over 17 million are LTE 4G, the 
majority of which are in North America3. 
While production of the now-dominant 2G 
phones will slow down, shipments of 3G and 
4G devices will continue to increase.
In time, we expect manufacturers to 
rationalise the number of different models 
they produce. Advances in technology will, 
however, always result in new models and 
devices that are more complex to design and 
produce and that need more tools to test 
them effectively, and bring them to market 
quickly. Despite the efﬁciency of the new 
testing systems, we estimate that a typical 
LTE 4G device requires 20-25% more testing 
than a 3G one; each new technology has to be 1 Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Trafﬁc  
Forecast Update, 2011-2016, February 2012
2 Jefferies Mobility 2010, September 2011
3 GSA – Evolution to LTE Report, June 2012
4 GCF Terminal List, May 2012
WIRELESS
MARKET TRENDS
The mobile telecommunications market 
continues its relentless growth; people 
throughout the world are moving from 
desktop computers to mobile devices – 
smartphones and tablets – to send emails, 
access the internet, shop, transfer money, 
control other devices and watch videos, and 
constantly expect those devices to do more, 
and more quickly.
As a result, the volume of data trafﬁc 
generated by mobile devices is increasing 
dramatically; it has grown 33-fold in the past 
ﬁve years and is projected to grow a further 
18-fold in the next ﬁve. In particular, changes 
in content-viewing habits have resulted in a 
surge in video trafﬁc – currently 50% of mobile 
data trafﬁc; it is expected to be 70% by 2016¹.
The number of handsets sold around the 
world is forecast to reach 3 billion a year  
by 2020 – up from 1.7 billion today. It is also 
forecast that smartphones will continue to 
replace feature phones: by 2020 the number 
of smartphone units sold each year is 
expected to reach 2.5 billion – up from 
0.4 billion in 2011².
LTE 4G – a new, more efﬁcient technology – 
is not only expected to alleviate the network 
overload caused by this increase in mobile 
data trafﬁc, but also to meet network 
operators’ constant need to reduce costs and 
improve the quality of experience for their 
customers; 327 operators, in 99 countries, 
are currently investing in LTE 4G, and at least 
144 LTE 4G networks are expected to be in 
commercial service in 59 countries over 
the next few years³.
Source: Cisco VNI Mobile, 2012
2011
0.6
2012
1.3
2013E
2.4
2014E
4.2
2015E
6.9
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2016E
10.8
GLOBAL MOBILE DATA TRAFFIC 2011 TO 2016
exabytes per month
 Mobile Video 70.5%    Mobile Web/Data 20.0%    Mobile M2M 4.7%    
 Mobile File Sharing 3.3%    Mobile Gaming 1.1%    Mobile VoIP 0.3%
Figures in legend refer to trafﬁc share in 2016. Source: Cisco VNI Mobile, 2012
2011 2012 2013E 2014E 2015E
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2016E
RISE IN MOBILE VIDEO 2011 TO 2016
exabytes per month  09
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
us to maintain our leadership and will deliver 
further growth in revenue and proﬁt as the 
market continues to develop.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH
We will offer an increasing range of products 
to enable our wireless customers, worldwide, 
to exploit changes in technology. In Handset 
Testing, this includes maintaining our 
market-leading CT capability, increasing  
our IOT offer as we expand the number of 
new operator eco-systems worldwide, and 
ensuring that our Development Testing (DT) 
solutions continue to anticipate and meet  
the demands of end-customers and industry 
bodies. We will develop into adjacent 
markets, as appropriate, to meet our major 
customers’ demands.
In Network Testing, we augmented our 
testing tools when we launched 
benchmarking and scanner products, with  
the objective of establishing them as 
market-leading products. While there will not 
be a signiﬁcant volume of LTE 4G business for 
Network Testing until commercial networks 
are rolled out, we are in the enviable position 
of having the most comprehensive LTE 4G 
product portfolio on the market. We have 
already sold LTE 4G equipment to network 
equipment manufacturers and operators  
in North America and mainland Europe,  
and expect to make progress in this area  
in the coming year. 
We continue to support products that 
address legacy technologies, the demand 
for which has proved to be more sustained 
than expected. Our current focus is,  
however, principally on LTE 4G, although  
we are already planning for the next 
generation, LTE-Advanced. 
compatible with legacy technology, and work 
on different frequencies around the world. The 
industry is only now entering the mandatory 
testing phase for LTE 4G devices and, to date, 
only 19 LTE 4G devices have been certiﬁed 
this year whereas 300 to 400 2G/3G devices 
were certiﬁed in each of the past three years4.
This phase will require each manufacturer to 
signiﬁcantly increase its testing capacity as 
network roll-outs accelerate.
Nor is the industry standing still: it is 
anticipating future demands that will result 
in more testing opportunities. LTE-Advanced 
(LTE-A) – the next stage in LTE’s evolution 
– delivers even faster data rates. It will 
provide super-fast wireless broadband, 
delivered in gigabytes rather than megabytes. 
The industry is currently building consensus 
on the capability and features of LTE-A and 
deployment is expected to begin during 2013.
STRATEGY
Our strategy in both Wireless businesses is  
to position Anite as a global leader in wireless 
test solutions by focusing on the areas in 
which we specialise. We will continue to 
invest in early R&D, to keep our highly 
specialised products at the leading edge and 
to have the latest technology available for 
our customers as soon as they need it. In 
addition, we will look to expand our testing 
capabilities into adjacent markets, as we have 
already achieved with IOT, benchmarking and 
scanners. In meeting customers’ and market 
demands, our primary focus will be on 
internally developed products, but we may 
supplement these with carefully selected 
small acquisitions, as appropriate. 
We believe this commitment to our 
customers, and to the market, will enable  
 2G    3G    LTE 4G    
 Source: GCF Terminal List – 25 May 2012
2002 2000 2001 2003 2004 2005 2010 2011 2012
YTD
2006 2007 2008 2009
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
GCF DEVICE CERTIFICATIONS BY TECHNOLOGY
number
  Feature phones     Smartphones
Source: Jefferies Mobility 2010 and Anite’s own estimates
2011E 2010 2012E 2013E 2018E 2019E 2020E 2014E 2015E 2016E 2017E
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
MOBILE HANDSETS SOLD ANNUALLY 
SMARTPHONES VS. FEATURE PHONES 2010–2020
billions ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
10
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED
 Handset Testing
HANDSET TESTING PRODUCT RANGE
DEVELOPMENT TESTING (DT)
Anite’s Development Toolset supports all phases of wireless device development, 
from pre-silicon protocol module development through to systems integration  
and veriﬁcation. 
CONFORMANCE TESTING (CT)
Anite’s industry-leading Conformance Toolset tests the individual protocol stack 
layers in a wireless device to ensure compliance with the latest industry standards.
INTEROPERABILITY TESTING (IOT)
Anite SAS is a network simulator solution that enables customers to quickly evaluate 
devices in the integration, interoperability and carrier acceptance testing phases.  
The ﬁrst product of its kind, it remains the market leader.   11
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
12
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
We are now developing our technology 
to support LTE-Advanced, which is 
signiﬁcantly faster than LTE 4G, in 
preparation for the time when it can 
be supported by the networks.
The market is driven by certiﬁcation schemes 
that are administered by the standard setters 
– such as the Global Certiﬁcation Forum 
(GCF), a partnership of mobile network 
operators, mobile device manufacturers 
and the test industry, which has created  
an independent certiﬁcation programme  
to help ensure interoperability between 
mobile devices and networks, worldwide.  
We have consistently led the LTE 4G 
conformance testing market in both veriﬁed 
and validated test cases.
IOT has grown signiﬁcantly as a result of the 
world’s larger network operators realising 
that, while in theory a mobile network exists 
in a standard form, in reality the combination 
of different manufacturers, handsets and 
radio technology, results in inconsistencies. 
This can lead to customer churn if subscribers 
experience variable quality – and it costs an 
operator signiﬁcantly more to acquire a new 
subscriber than to retain an existing one. 
Field testing of devices – the traditional 
method of IOT, which is carried out when  
a device is materially complete, involves 
performing drive tests to assess the device’s 
behaviour. Network simulation, which 
involves re-creating ﬁeld tests of devices in 
the laboratory, is rapidly gaining momentum 
because it enables testing to be more 
focused, more repeatable and subsequently 
reduces test time and related costs. 
Manufacturers need to test their devices 
We sell our products, worldwide, through a 
directly employed sales force. Software sales 
are most commonly made using perpetual 
licences. In addition, customers buy annual 
maintenance and support contracts that 
entitle them to upgrade to new software 
releases, which reﬂect development in 
underlying wireless standards. Once 
acquired, customers will often operate 
systems and pay for support for as long  
as ten years.
As mobile phone technology advances, our 
systems – which have a long lifespan and are 
easy to use – can be used in conjunction with 
newer technology. 
HANDSET TESTING SOLUTIONS
We focus on Conformance Testing (CT) – 
which ensures that devices are certiﬁed as 
complying with minimum industry standards 
and are able to deliver the service expected  
of them, Development Testing (DT) – working 
in collaboration with our customers as they 
develop viable early-stage devices, and 
Interoperability Testing (IOT) – simulating 
real-world network conditions to ensure that 
devices function as expected on different 
network conﬁgurations.
Our solutions test the entire range of devices 
– from second generation (2G) through to the 
latest fourth generation (4G). New mobile 
devices must contain legacy as well as new 
generation technology to enable them to 
maintain a connection across a variety of 
networks. This creates a signiﬁcant level 
of commercial protection for us, since new 
entrants to the test market would have to 
be able to provide a comprehensive range  
of test cases for 2G, 3G and 4G. 
WIRELESS: HANDSET TESTING
Our Handset Testing business has been a 
world leader for 20 years. It enables chipset 
and device manufacturers to test their 
products’ viability, to improve their quality, 
and to reduce their time-to-market, and 
enables network operators to tailor devices 
to their individual network conﬁgurations.
During the complex process of developing 
new radio chipsets or handsets – using old  
or new radio technology – it is not possible  
to use existing networks to establish whether 
prototypes work to the required standards. 
Our system not only tests newly developed 
devices’ radio function by wiring them to 
simulated networks, it also changes the radio 
simulation to test their overall performance 
in hundreds of everyday scenarios. Each new 
technology evolution has to be compatible 
with previous technologies to enable any 
device to function across the entire network 
and in different countries.
BUSINESS MODEL
Our Handset Testing business employs  
highly specialised engineers (employees  
and short-term contractors) to develop 
its products – often in collaboration with 
customers, as we both seek to tackle the 
challenges presented by new technologies. 
Our products are built around a core 
hardware and software platform, on which 
one of Handset Testing’s own applications is 
loaded. For certain applications, customers 
buy additional test scripts – which run 
exclusively on our systems – that enable 
them to test their devices against speciﬁc 
simulated scenarios and characteristics. 
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED
2G-4G
Our solutions test the 
entire range of devices – 
from second  
generation (2G)
through to the 
latest fourth 
generation (4G)  13
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
against real network conditions as early as 
possible; the later into the life cycle they are, 
the more it costs to ﬁx a bug. Laboratory-
based IOT can be carried out at various 
phases of a device’s life cycle, even at the 
early development stage.
Network operators can perform IOT testing 
either in-house or by managed supply-chain 
testing, which is often referred to as a  
“carrier acceptance scheme”. Larger network 
operators are beginning to take much 
stronger control of their supply chains, 
as evidenced by the increasing number of 
carrier acceptance schemes we are running, 
by pushing quality assurance back onto 
the device manufacturers. Our IOT product 
includes carrier test scripts customised to 
speciﬁc network conﬁgurations. By reducing 
post-launch bugs, it reduces time and 
cost-to-market. As a result of using our 
system, one customer cut its time to launch 
new devices by 50%.
CASE STUDY: HANDSET TESTING
Telefónica  
Germany 
Telefónica Germany (Telefónica), with the leading 
O
2
 brand, is one of Europe’s foremost, integrated, 
telecommunications companies. With 100% 
population coverage, the company’s customer base 
currently stands at more than 24 million households 
throughout Germany. One of its principal business 
drivers is to maintain its reputation, not only for  
being the ﬁrst to provide the latest, must-have, 
devices, but also for providing excellent quality  
for its customers.
In order to achieve these objectives, Telefónica 
needed a cost-effective interoperability testing 
system that enabled it to carry out rigorous  
device approval in a timescale that accelerated 
speed-to-market. In 2001, it began to use Anite’s 
interoperability test system – SAS – to ensure that  
all devices complied with its network speciﬁcations. 
This partnership between our companies, which 
coincided with the development of 2G and 3G 
networks, continues to provide major beneﬁts  
as Telefónica increases its introduction of devices  
to the market in preparation for the launch of  
its LTE 4G network, in July 2012. 
For Telefónica, SAS’s principal advantage is that  
it is a laboratory-based device-testing tool 
programmed to simulate real-life network  
situations under controlled conditions. Compared 
with traditional ﬁeld-testing, which tests devices 
on actual networks, SAS helps to reduce the time  
to approve new handsets, dongles and routers. 
As Telefónica’s Guenter Wende says: “Working  
in a lab simpliﬁes and speeds up the testing of  
devices. We use Anite’s SAS software to deﬁne 
a whole set of complex scenarios and to verify 
compliance against required speciﬁcations in a 
timescale that we could not achieve in the ﬁeld.” 
SAS substantially reduces test time and related  
costs. Its unique graphic interface enables a 
straightforward and rapid test set-up, and provides  
an intuitive and simpliﬁed method of analysing 
results. Because it is software-centric and is  
operated from a PC, in contrast to ﬁeld-testing – 
which typically needs to be run by three qualiﬁed 
engineers – it does not need to be conﬁgured 
manually to set up the tests and does not require  
an experienced programmer to run it. 
 “Being ﬁrst to market is crucial. If you can offer  
a range of devices and excellent quality of service 
ahead of the competition, you are more likely to 
attract the early adopters and high-revenue mobile 
users. This is important for market share and 
for maintaining our position as a market leader. 
Competition in this sector is tough and you have 
to get the launch of services and devices right 
ﬁrst time. There are no second chances.”
GUENTER WENDE
Manager Devices
Telefónica Germany
35% ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
14
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED
Network Testing
NETWORK TESTING PRODUCT RANGE
OPTIMISATION
Anite’s Optimisation solution offers measurement, troubleshooting and 
maintenance tools for every stage of the network life cycle, indoors or outside,  
by collecting radio network performance metrics through walk or drive testing. 
BENCHMARKING
Anite provides the most complete and ﬂexible set of tools to benchmark  
wireless network coverage and quality of service across service providers and 
technology generations. 
AUTONOMOUS TESTING
Anite’s unattended measurement probes are installed in moving vehicles or ﬁxed 
locations to monitor what’s happening on a network and provide steady streams  
of radio network performance metrics at the lowest possible cost.
ANALYSIS AND REPORTING 
This scalable solution combines high performance analysis of drive test data with 
advanced root cause troubleshooting capabilities to highlight any network issues 
and includes automated report generation.   15
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
16
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
We sell to around 130 countries and 
continued to develop our network of local 
distributors during the year. In addition 
to their sales function, these partners offer 
technical help to customers.
Towards the middle of the year, Network 
Testing launched the recently acquired Invex 
benchmarking product. It enables a large 
number of devices to be measured 
simultaneously without radio interference 
and we are receiving good feedback from 
initial sales. The predecessor to the new Invex 
product was predominately sold in the North 
American market – our international sales 
coverage will enable it to be sold around  
the world to reach a far larger market. The 
scanning receiver product, which we acquired 
at the same time, is highly competitive and 
has also been well received by customers. 
and it becomes necessary to replace 
equipment that has become damaged 
in the harsh environment in which they 
typically operate, or as mobile phone 
technologies evolve. 
NETWORK TESTING SOLUTIONS
We offer our customers one of the strongest 
and most versatile ranges of network  
testing products available. Our network 
measurement tools are designed to meet 
the needs of all our customers, regardless  
of their internal processes and means of 
testing. The tools provide a wide range  
of information, from call quality and data 
download and upload speeds, to signal 
reliability, the interaction of neighbouring 
cells, and the efﬁciency with which devices 
“hand-off” from one cell to another as they 
move in a vehicle, on foot or in a building.
Our products range from Nemo Handy,  
an easy-to-use handheld device that can be 
used for indoor and outdoor testing, to Nemo 
Autonomous, which provides a cost-effective, 
unmanned continuous stream of data. Nemo 
Outdoor is a powerful laptop-based solution, 
used for “drive testing” by an engineer who 
travels around an area – at all times of the 
day and night, and in all weather conditions 
– to compare coverage and quality. As devices 
need to handle increasing volumes of data, 
our test systems need to be able to process 
and portray the more complex problems  
that occur in today’s networks.
The software embedded in our products 
enables network operators and their 
subcontractors to manage and analyse vast 
quantities of data, quickly and efﬁciently, 
either on our post-processing analyser or 
on third-party processing tools. 
WIRELESS: NETWORK TESTING
Our Network Testing business provides 
products – under the Nemo brand – for 
network operators and network infrastructure 
manufacturers to measure the coverage and 
quality of mobile phone networks. It enables 
operators, or their subcontractors, to ensure 
that customers’ ability to make telephone 
calls, send an SMS or receive and send data  
is as unimpaired as possible. By identifying 
anomalies in the radio network, it also 
enables operators to ﬁx reception problems 
and to maintain a consistent quality of 
experience for subscribers.
BUSINESS MODEL
Network Testing develops and sells highly 
specialised software to mobile network 
operators and service companies to help 
them install, monitor and maintain their 
mobile networks around the world. It 
employs a direct sales force in strategically 
important locations but, given the diverse 
geographic locations of customers, it also 
uses a network of distributors to sell and 
support its products. Our solutions are 
developed by our own highly specialist  
radio technology engineers. The products  
are usually incorporated in, and run on, 
commercially available third-party hardware 
and are sold with a perpetual software 
licence that includes a period of warranty 
and support (usually 12 months). 
Customers are given the option to extend the 
warranty, but the relatively short life cycle of 
most products means that recurring revenue 
is not as high as in the other Anite businesses. 
However, once network operators have made 
the initial investment in a suite of products 
to test their networks, they usually make 
follow-on purchases as their needs expand 
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED  17
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
CASE STUDY: NETWORK TESTING
 Benchmarking
Mobile network operators are experiencing an 
unprecedented increase in trafﬁc on their networks 
as a result of the rapidly growing demand for 
high-speed data on the move. In today’s wireless 
market, which is changing at an extraordinary pace, 
it is extremely important for operators to stay ahead 
of the competition. An in-depth understanding of 
the way their network is performing and how it 
compares with its competitors, gives any operator 
a competitive advantage.
To gain this advantage, one of South-East Asia’s 
leading mobile network operators selected Anite 
as its preferred partner in providing a solution  
to benchmarking its services. It chose our Nemo 
Invex solution because it:
● is capable of supporting a large number of 
measurement devices – handsets, USB data 
modems and scanning receivers – from 
different vendors; 
● supports all major network technologies,  
from GSM/CDMA to HSPA+/EVDO and LTE 4G;
● is simple to use and is robust in drive tests;
● uses common application protocols to provide 
results that closely emulate end-users’ 
experiences; and
● has versatile scripting features to enable the 
measurement of many different KPIs.
The results from these nationally deployed Nemo 
Invex drive-test systems provided an invaluable 
insight into the network’s performance, including 
comparative network coverage, call success and 
data speed. In addition to providing business-
critical information for network planning and 
optimisation, results are also often used to validate 
marketing campaigns demonstrating a network’s 
superiority over its competition.
This customer, the market leader in its country, 
is committed to working with Anite for a number 
of reasons: 
● we are leading the deployment of new 
technology across our entire product range;
● our work with measurement-device 
manufacturers enables fast integration 
of new devices;
● we have a wide range of tools – in addition  
to Nemo Invex – for various mobile network 
measurement purposes;
● we provide strong local and regional after-sales 
support that ensures continuous productive  
use of our tools and ensures that any issues 
are resolved promptly and efﬁciently. 
A SENIOR MANAGER AT THE CUSTOMER 
COMMENTED:
 “Anite’s benchmarking system has fulﬁlled our 
stringent requirements – it is easy to use, is highly 
reliable during drive testing and provides 
best-in-class measurement logs for post-analysis. 
We are delighted with the service they give 
us, remotely and on-site, and look forward  
to increasing our co-operation in the future.” ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
18
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED
Travel
TRAVEL PRODUCT RANGE
@COM EBUSINESS SUITE 
Aimed at the leisure sector, the @com eBusiness Suite is our premier travel product. 
It provides a comprehensive suite of modules, supporting many types of tour 
operator and wholesaler models, from accommodation wholesalers to high volume 
package and dynamic packaging tour operations. 
This integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution – which includes supplier 
contracting, dynamic supplier connectivity, sales, inventory management, customer 
documentation, supplier notiﬁcation, and accounts receivable and payable – can  
be bought and implemented in modules.
Our ﬂexible software enables leisure travel companies to manage a wider range  
of products and allows international companies to tailor their product offerings  
to meet national characteristics.
@COMRES
@comRes is the core around which our @com eBusiness Suite is built and offers the 
key functions of reservations and administration which in turn support content and 
customer relationship management and operational ﬁnance. @comRes also provides 
multi-channel distribution for leisure travel companies.
@comRes has the potential to signiﬁcantly reduce tour operators’ back ofﬁce costs 
by standardising processes across all markets and types of holiday and can be scaled 
up to cope with an increasing workload as the business grows.  19
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
20
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
The systems are sold by an in-house sales 
team. Contract arrangements vary, but 
typically involve an upfront licence fee, and 
charges for development and implementation 
to get the system live and operational. Part of 
the sales process involves a customer-funded 
detailed gap analysis, which identiﬁes any 
gaps between the functionality of our current 
product and the customers’ requirements. 
Once live, the systems may be in operation 
for more than 15 years; replacing them 
creates considerable disruption and business 
continuity risk for the customer. Once live, 
the customer will require signiﬁcant 
maintenance and support as well as the 
potential for annual licences depending  
on the structure of the overall contract. 
This is generally contracted for a ﬁxed 
minimum term of ﬁve years. In addition 
there will be ongoing business functionality 
improvements demanded by customers  
as the market evolves. Travel also  
provides a facility for hosting customers’ 
infrastructures at its own data centre; this, 
again, is typically contracted on the basis 
of multi-year agreements.
TRAVEL SOLUTIONS
@com, which sits at the heart of leisure travel 
companies’ businesses, enables them to 
operate efﬁciently in today’s cost-pressured 
environment. Our e-business suite takes  
them through the entire range of operations 
required by the demanding and ever-changing 
travel market, and enables them to contract 
with hoteliers, and to gather internal and 
third-party inventory to form the basis of 
package holidays. These can be ﬂexibly priced 
and, if required, can link to yield management 
systems to present holidays for sale – through 
the internet, travel agents and call centres – 
by a variety of search methods supported  
convert our strong sales pipeline, in a manner 
to suit resources and timescales, which 
should enable proﬁtable growth of the 
business into the future. We will seek to 
increase the proportion of support and 
maintenance revenue from existing projects 
to provide future stability and proﬁtability.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH
Our @com solution is currently the only 
successful, and proven, large-scale leisure 
travel reservation system on the market.  
TUI’s and Thomas Cook’s commitment to  
@com has increased the product’s reputation, 
and has led to wider interest across Europe, 
where inﬂexible legacy solutions still abound. 
There is also increasing interest outside the 
European package holiday heartland; we plan 
to beneﬁt from this either by working with 
our existing major customers, who are 
moving into these markets, or by selling 
to new, large customers.
BUSINESS MODEL
Travel’s software engineers develop systems 
based around a common core of code and 
functionality, for leisure travel companies 
to manage their full business life cycles. 
Individual implementations can involve 
signiﬁcant work to develop interfaces that 
enable Travel’s software to ﬁt within the 
customer’s existing system landscape. 
Bespoke business functionality enhancements 
undertaken for individual customers can be 
added to core functionality if appropriate, 
and offered to existing customers as part 
of their upgrade pattern, thus ensuring 
continual development of the system and 
maintenance of a common code base. Since 
individual implementations for customers  
are broadly similar they can be supported  
by a single team, although some customers 
require a dedicated resource. 
TRAVEL
MARKET TRENDS
Travel provides reservations systems that 
enable leisure travel companies to run their 
businesses more efﬁciently. The economic 
environment continues to exert pressure on 
the industry; tighter budgets, rising costs and 
geopolitical events are creating an ever-
changing challenge over destinations. 
In addition, as a result of the trend for  
online travel agents and dynamic packaging, 
our customers demand more from their IT 
systems. Our technology directly addresses 
the industry’s core issues in this highly 
pressurised environment; it helps them 
reduce costs by retiring legacy IT platforms 
and automating processes, offers high-speed 
and accurate holiday searching, and gets  
their own differentiated products to market 
as quickly as possible.
We are well positioned to succeed in this  
new world. The inherent ﬂexibility of our 
industry-leading @com system creates the 
means for traditional tour operations to 
co-exist with dynamic packaging by enabling 
destination, pricing and inventory ﬂexibility.
STRATEGY
Our strategy is to maintain and develop  
our products to exploit our technological 
leadership and capitalise on our customer 
relationships in the mid- and upper-tier 
leisure travel market. To this end, we will 
continue to develop and launch new @com 
modules to meet changing market needs.  
We will also continue to deliver successful 
projects to our major customers, which 
should lead to further opportunities – 
for add-ons and new territories – in these 
very large organisations. We will work to 
OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED  21
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
by content management and Customer 
Relationship Management modules.
As an operator sells holiday packages,  
@com records the transactions and produces 
documentation, updates prices and 
availability, optimises inventory and  
produces complete ﬁnancial records that  
can be fed into the organisation’s ﬁnancial 
and management information systems.
Geopolitical and economic pressures over 
recent years have resulted in leisure travel 
companies focusing on the need to improve 
their cost bases, in what was already a 
low-margin sector. The key attribute of @com 
is its ability to make a substantial reduction to 
back ofﬁce costs through improved efﬁciency, 
ﬂexibility and user control. This enables  
faster reaction to market changes, speedier 
price updates and signiﬁcantly improved 
time-to-market for new offers or late deals.
@com helps operators manage their 
technology challenges, as internet and 
mobile data continue to drive consumer 
behaviour. It enables operators to combine 
traditional holidays with dynamic packaging 
using third-party ﬂights, hotels and 
other components. 
Initially @com supported the sale of holidays 
through travel agents, using inventory 
aggregation and internet-based selling tools, 
as more holidays were being sold over the 
internet. Developments in high-speed search 
and multiple message sets – that are able 
to feed the demand for faster and more 
accurate data on the web and onto mobile 
devices – have moved Anite directly into this 
sector, creating opportunities to gain a bigger 
share of customers’ IT spend.
£
CASE STUDY: TRAVEL
TUI Central 
Europe 
TUI Travel is one of the world’s leading leisure travel 
companies, with over 250 trusted brands in 180 
countries and more than 30 million customers. 
TUI Central Europe (TUI) covers their mainstream 
operations in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and 
Poland, with TUI and 1-2-Fly the top-selling brands. 
The business is focused on providing a unique service 
and great products at the best value for its customers.
Because matching capacity to proﬁtable demand 
is crucial to the success of its business, TUI began 
a working relationship with Anite in 2006, when 
it implemented our @com reservation system,  
which enabled it to streamline its contracting and 
production processes, and to create and price 
products more quickly and ﬂexibly. 
In August 2011, we embarked on a new project to 
provide TUI with a platform to integrate its destination 
agents and hoteliers with its internal product services 
business (Project Destimo). This would, in effect, be an 
inventory and product management portal to support 
a range of features, including intelligent search, and 
to create the ability for suppliers to offer or add new 
inventory. It would also enable TUI to create new, 
or make changes to, existing products more quickly 
and effectively.
Typically, the life cycle of a tour-operating product 
begins with the hotel contracting process, through 
mobile contracting systems. After the initial load  
and launch of TUI’s product at the beginning of the 
season, there was a considerable amount of ongoing 
administration, including daily engagement with 
hoteliers and destination agents.
Our project with TUI was designed not only to 
save it overheads by optimising the management 
of a number of internal processes – which were 
previously administered manually – but also to give 
hoteliers and destination partners direct access  
to up-to-date product information through TUI’s 
Destimo portal. This enables suppliers to monitor  
the rate of sales of their own inventory and to offer 
TUI new inventory as and when it becomes available. 
The new facility has delivered substantial cost 
efﬁciencies to TUI because it has effectively 
streamlined a number of operational processes  
which previously had a high degree of manual 
administrative overhead, while providing hoteliers  
and destination partners access to real-time 
up-to-date product information.
The 2012 launch of Project Destimo at the world’s 
leading travel trade show, ITB, in Berlin, resulted 
in extremely positive feedback from hoteliers 
and destination agents. That gave TUI the 
conﬁdence to roll it out across its hotel regions  
and destinations, worldwide. 
 “Anite’s people clearly understand the travel market, 
and their technical teams have the ability to translate 
complex operational requirements into effective 
solutions for our business. Being able to rely on the 
expertise of a reliable and strategic partner is key to 
keeping TUI at the forefront of the travel industry.”
JAN VAN DAAL
TUI’s Director IT-Management Production Systems 
and Platforms  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
22
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
than doubled to £33.9m (2011: £16.7m), 
represented 44% of Handset Testing revenue 
in the year, compared with 34% in the prior 
period. The level of growth achieved by 
LTE 4G products was at the top of the 
range of the expectations we had for the 
technology at the start of the year and was a 
reﬂection of the developments in the overall 
industry, where operators are demonstrating 
an increased commitment to rolling-out  
the new technology, and chipset and  
device manufacturers are seeking to  
support this commitment by introducing 
compatible devices. 
In addition to the growth in LTE 4G products,  
we also achieved growth in 2G/3G 
technologies. Here, we had anticipated a year 
of ﬂat revenue growth as we expected spend 
to shift to LTE 4G technologies. In practice, 
we achieved growth of 29%, to £42.5m 
(2011: £32.9m), in these older technologies. 
Much of this growth emanated from 
customers buying systems to test for 
backwards-compatibility functionality at the 
same time as equipping for LTE 4G testing. 
From a market perspective, there was good 
growth for our traditionally strong 
Conformance Testing (CT) product which 
grew over 50% and now accounts for around 
half of Handset Testing’s revenue. The most 
signiﬁcant growth was, however, achieved  
in the newer area of Interoperability Testing 
(IOT), which grew nearly 80% year-on-year 
and now accounts for approximately 40%  
of Handset Testing’s revenue. 
On a regional basis, Asia Paciﬁc revenue 
increased 78%, to £30.3m (2011: £17.0m), 
making it our biggest region. This growth  
was driven by the signiﬁcant investment  
The past 12 months delivered strong ﬁnancial 
results, with exceptional growth rates in 
revenue and adjusted operating proﬁt  
of 31% and 64% respectively compared  
with the prior year.
The growth was primarily delivered by 
Handset Testing, which beneﬁted from 
a stronger-than-anticipated demand for 
both LTE 4G and 2G/3G technology products. 
In Network Testing, revenue increased, 
particularly in the second half of the year, 
although proﬁts were affected by the 
investment being made in the Invex 
benchmarking and scanner products, 
acquired in the previous year.
Following the declines of the previous two 
years, Travel had a more encouraging year, 
delivering slightly improved adjusted 
operating proﬁt on revenue that was in line 
with the prior year. More importantly for the 
future of the business, Travel increased its 
closing order book by 42%. 
WIRELESS: HANDSET TESTING 
The adjusted results for the Handset Testing 
business show exceptional year-on-year 
growth. Order intake grew 33%, to £79.4m 
(2011: £59.6m), revenue increased by 54%, 
to £76.4m (2011: £49.6m), and adjusted 
operating proﬁt more than doubled, to 
£21.5m (2011: £10.0m). The closing order 
book in the business increased 15%, from 
£21.7m at the start of the year to £24.9m 
at 30 April 2012.
A signiﬁcant proportion of the revenue growth 
in Handset Testing came from increased sales 
of LTE 4G-compatible products, such as the 
Anite 9000 LTE 4G hardware platform. 
Revenue from LTE 4G products, which more 
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
  2010      2011      2012
2010 Operating margin 10%  2011 Operating margin 20%  2012 Operating margin 28%
79.4
59.6
32.2
Order intake
21.5
10.0 3.5
Operating proﬁt
76.4
49.6
35.8
Revenue
24.9
21.7
12.1
Closing order book
+115% +54% +15% +33%
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS – HANDSET TESTING
£m
  EMEA      The Americas      Asia Paciﬁc
13.1
19.5
2011
Total £49.6m
17.0 17.3
28.8
2012
Total £76.4m
30.3
REVENUE BY DESTINATION – HANDSET TESTING
£m  23
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
and IOT scripts resulted in a net capitalisation 
of R&D costs of £0.7m (2011: £1.0m), with 
the result that the proﬁt and loss charge  
for R&D increased in the period to £12.3m 
(2011: £9.2m). Other ﬁxed costs in Handset 
Testing increased by £2.5m to £20.7m  
(2011: £18.2m). The majority of the 
increase resulted from higher staff costs, 
predominantly in supporting the larger 
number of systems installed at customer 
sites. Headcount in Handset Testing was  
211 employees at the year end (2011: 180) 
and 56 contractors (2011: 45) an increase  
of 19% in total headcount compared with  
the 54% increase in revenue. 
As a result of the factors described above, 
Handset Testing’s operating margin increased 
eight percentage points to 28% (2011: 20%). 
WIRELESS: NETWORK TESTING 
Network Testing increased its order intake  
by 13%, to £26.0m (2011: £23.0m), while 
revenue increased by 8%, to £26.0m (2011: 
£24.1m). This business has no signiﬁcant 
closing order book. Adjusted operating 
proﬁt fell by 17%, to £5.3m (2011: £6.4m),  
as a result of the increased R&D cost base 
following the acquisition of the Invex 
benchmarking and scanner products  
in January 2011.
Market conditions for network testing 
products were relatively difﬁcult as operators 
once again tightened budgets, following  
a period in the prior year when they caught 
up on previously deferred spending. This, in 
turn, led to signiﬁcant competitive pressure, 
but despite this negative market trend, 
Network Testing performed well and 
increased its revenue. 
Asia Paciﬁc manufacturers are making in 
developing smartphones. EMEA revenue 
increased 32%, to £17.3m (2011: £13.1m) 
while the Americas increased 48%, to 
£28.8m (2011: £19.5m). 
Handset Testing’s net revenue margin 
(revenue, less third-party hardware costs as  
a percentage of revenue) fell, as predicted,  
to 71% (2011: 75%). This was the result of an 
increased proportion of hardware costs in the 
product mix. In the future, as the LTE 4G 
product mix develops, we expect this 
percentage to start to increase as we sell a 
greater proportion of software and support.
The business continued to invest in R&D 
during the year; enhancement of the Anite 
9000 platform continued, as did investment 
in CT and IOT applications. Throughout the 
past year, Anite continued to lead the market 
on numbers of validated LTE 4G conformance 
test scripts and currently has around 380 
scripts validated by the standards bodies.  
The range of what we offer in this area is 
helping us to win signiﬁcant share in the  
early stages of the LTE 4G conformance
test market. In IOT, we increased our range  
of scripts for the small number of carrier 
acceptance programmes that we had  
in place, as well as progressing programmes 
with a number of potential new operators, 
including China Mobile, the world’s largest 
mobile operator.
Maintaining our position at the forefront of 
the technology is critical to the continued 
success of our business. The cash spent on 
R&D projects increased to £13.0m (2011: 
£10.2m), with the bulk of the increase being 
spent on our hardware platform and IOT.  
A planned increase in spend on writing LTE CT  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
24
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED
existing products, including drive testing, 
handheld and analysis tools. The hand held 
Nemo Handy-A product line was enhanced 
by several new LTE 4G-capable devices and 
by the launch of the ﬁrst tablet-based variant. 
The development of the Nemo Invex 
benchmarking product line included support 
for the latest LTE 4G devices. Development 
of the Nemo FSR1 scanning receiver focused  
on improving LTE 4G measurement 
capabilities and expanding supported 
frequencies. These developments ensure that 
Network Testing’s product portfolio supports 
the very latest LTE 4G measurement 
capabilities for both LTE FDD and LTE TDD 
technologies on all the major frequency 
bands in use worldwide. Other ﬁxed costs 
increased by 7%, to £9.3m (2011: £8.7m). 
Most of this was additional sales and 
marketing costs to support the bigger 
business. Headcount at the year end was  
113 (30 April 2011: 103).
Overall, after the factors above, operating 
margins for the Network Testing business 
remained healthy at 20%, albeit down  
from the 27% achieved in the prior year.
The business beneﬁted from the previous 
year’s re-invigoration of the sales function 
and the continuing improvements to its 
distributor network. Part of the growth in 
revenue came from the Invex benchmarking 
product, which was only partially developed 
at the time of its acquisition in January 2011 
and was completed and launched just before 
the end of the ﬁrst half of this ﬁnancial year. 
Subsequent sales of the product were 
achieved in the second half of the year and 
the pipeline of opportunities at the year end 
is encouraging. Other developments included 
further enhancements to the scanner 
product acquired at the same time as the 
benchmarking product and sales were 
extremely successful in the year. In addition, 
all Network Testing products are now 
compatible with LTE 4G technology and the 
business had some limited early success in 
helping operators with roll-out programmes, 
even though the market is still embryonic. 
Network Testing’s revenue in EMEA decreased 
slightly to £11.8m (2011: £12.2m). In the 
Americas, however, it beneﬁted from its 
increased presence, following the Invex 
acquisition, and grew by 21%, to £6.8m 
(2011: £5.6m). In Asia it grew by 17%, to 
£7.4m (2011: £6.3m) a reﬂection of the 
region’s growth in the mobile industry. 
The beneﬁt of having an in-house scanner 
offset some price erosion caused by market 
conditions with the result that net revenue 
percentage was down only slightly, at 70% 
(2011: 72%). R&D costs increased to £3.7m 
(2011: £2.2m), including £0.4m of capitalised 
development (2011: 0.5m), mainly as a result 
of the extra R&D facility that came with the 
Invex acquisition in January 2011. During the 
year, signiﬁcant upgrades were launched to 
  2010      2011      2012
2010 Operating margin 23%  2011 Operating margin 27%  2012 Operating margin 20%
26.0
23.0
21.1
Order intake
5.3
6.4
4.5
Operating proﬁt
26.0
24.1
20.0
Revenue
0.0 0.0
1.1
Closing order book
-17% +8% +00% +13%
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS – NETWORK TESTING
£m
  EMEA      The Americas      Asia Paciﬁc
12.2
5.6
2011
Total £24.1m
6.3
11.8
6.8
2012
Total £26.0m
7.4
REVENUE BY DESTINATION – NETWORK TESTING
£m  25
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
In the year, 61% of Travel’s revenue came 
from the @com product (2011: 51%) and 
60% (2011: 56%) came from the UK; 39% 
(2011: 42%) from Europe and 1% (2011: 2%) 
from the rest of the world. More than 
six million passengers a year now book their 
holidays on @com systems in the UK and 
across continental Europe. 
The net revenue percentage was essentially 
unchanged at 96% (2011: 95%) while ﬁxed 
costs fell £0. 1m from the previous year. 
Headcount remained relatively stable during 
the year at 163 (2011: 167).
Overall, Travel’s operating margin increased 
two percentage points over the prior year, 
to 23%.
OTHER GROUP COSTS 
The divisional performances above are stated 
before unallocated corporate costs which 
include an element of head ofﬁce staff costs, 
Directors’ remuneration, professional fees 
and other non-operational costs. During the 
year, unallocated Group costs decreased  
by £0.4m to £2.6m (2011: £3.0m), largely 
because of the non-recurrence of a one-off 
property cost incurred in the prior year. 
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Chief Executive 
2 July 2012
TRAVEL 
The Travel division had a good year as 
reﬂected in its ﬁnancial results. Order intake 
was very strong, up 37% to £46.6m (2011: 
£34.0m), with revenue ﬂat at £20.1m (2011: 
£20.0m) and adjusted operating proﬁt up 
10% at £4.6m (2011: £4.2m). The closing 
order book was up to £89.6m (2011: 
£63.2m), with the intake in the year 
representing a book-to-bill ratio of 2.3 times 
(2011: 1.7 times). Over the past two ﬁnancial 
years, more than £40m has been added to 
Travel’s closing order book, an important 
driver of value in the business.
The major orders signed in the past 
12 months included follow-on work for TUI 
Central Europe, following the successful 
implementation of the @com system, and 
the award of a contract from Thomas Cook  
to implement @com in its UK mainstream 
business. Around £16m of the closing order 
book is expected to be delivered in the 
current ﬁnancial year, with the balance 
due for delivery over the next ten years.
In addition to the initial implementation for 
Thomas Cook, the other key feature of the 
year was the continued progress on the 
contract signed last year with TUI to 
implement @com in their UK mainstream 
business. 40% of Travel’s revenue was of 
a recurring nature (2011: 41%), being either 
managed services or software maintenance/
support revenue. Licence sales in the year 
were £3.0m (2011: £1.5m). We expect the 
proportion of recurring revenue to increase  
in the future as the large projects currently  
in development go live and migrate  
to a maintenance and support phase. 
Call Centre
£
Travel Agent
Shop Online
Search   Price   Book 
  2010      2011      2012
2010 Operating margin 24%  2011 Operating margin 21%  2012 Operating margin 23%
46.6
34.0
29.0
Order intake
4.6 4.2
5.6
Operating proﬁt
20.1 20.0
23.0
Revenue
89.7
63.2
49.2
Closing order book
+10% +00% +42% +37%
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS – TRAVEL
£m
  UK      Europe      RoW
11.3
8.3
2011
Total £20.0m
0.4
12.1
7.8
2012
Total £20.1m
0.2
REVENUE BY DESTINATION – TRAVEL
£m ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
26
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
As previously explained in the report, the year 
ended 30 April 2012 was one of exceptional 
growth for the Group; this resulted in good 
cash generation which, in turn, led to a 
stronger balance sheet. During the year 
the Group’s outstanding swap liability was 
settled and the new bank facilities were 
signed. Although they are currently unused 
they give the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility necessary 
as the Group continues to develop. 
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The principal accounting policies are 
unchanged. There were two new standards 
and a number of minor improvements  
to existing standards in the year but none  
of these had a material impact on the  
Group’s results. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Revenue from continuing operations was up 
31% at £122.5m (2011: £93.7m) and adjusted 
proﬁt before tax increased 75% to £28.0m 
(2011: £16.0m). 
Reconciliations of adjusted EBITDA of 
£34.2m (2011: £22.2m) to the operating 
proﬁt of £22.5m (2011: £13.9m) and adjusted 
operating proﬁt of £28.8m (2011: £17.6m)  
to the reported proﬁt before tax for the year 
of £22.2m (2011: £12.2m), are set out in the 
tables below. The reconciling items are those 
that, in the opinion of the Board, are either 
one-off in nature or are non-cash related and 
are not, therefore, indicative of the Group’s 
underlying trading. In the opinion of the 
Board, the adjusted results give a better 
representation of the underlying performance 
of the Group.
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING TO STATUTORY RESULTS
2012 2011
£m £m
ADJUSTED EBITDA 34.2 22.2 
Depreciation       (3.3) (2.8) 
Amortisation of intangible assets       (2.1) (1.8)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT       28.8 17.6 
Share-based payments       (2.9) 0.1
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets      (3.3) (3.6) 
Restructuring costs       (0.1) (0.2)
OPERATING PROFIT       22.5 13.9 
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT       28.8 17.6 
Net ﬁnance charges excluding recycled hedge losses (0.8) (1.6) 
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX 28.0 16.0 
Share-based payments  (2.9) 0.1
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  (3.3) (3.6) 
Restructuring costs  (0.1) (0.2) 
Other gains and losses 0.5 –
Net ﬁnance charges: recycled hedge losses  – (0.1)
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX 22.2 12.2 
We have strengthened the balance sheet through good 
cash generation.
RICHARD AMOS
Group Finance Director
FINANCIAL REVIEW  27
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
CURRENCY EFFECTS 
Movements in exchange rates in the year had 
an overall mildly positive effect on the results 
compared with the previous year. Year-on-
year, the average exchange rate for the US 
dollar weakened 2% against sterling, from  
£1 = US$1.57 to £1 = US$1.59, although the 
average rate of the euro strengthened by 1%, 
from £1 = €1.18 to £1 = €1.17. The net effect  
of these changes on the translation of results 
from overseas subsidiaries was to reduce 
revenue by £0.1m with no impact on adjusted 
operating proﬁt. There was no signiﬁcant 
impact on any of the individual businesses.
The closing exchange rates at the year end, 
which affect the conversion of foreign 
exchange-denominated balance sheet items 
– such as cash, and trade debtors and 
creditors – saw mixed movements of the 
foreign currencies against sterling. The closing 
rate for the euro was £1 = €1.226 (2011:  
£1 = €1.123), an appreciation of 9% on the 
previous year; the closing exchange rate for 
the US dollar was, however, £1 = US$1.626 
(2011: £1 = US$1.666), a depreciation of 2% 
on the previous year. 
Where possible, exposures associated with 
foreign currency balance sheet accounts are 
hedged or minimised by converting into local 
currencies, as are the transactional effects  
of business units trading in currencies other 
than their local currency. In the year, these 
exposures net of hedging impacts had, 
combined, an approximate net £0.9m 
positive proﬁt effect compared with  
a corresponding net £0.3m positive proﬁt 
effect in the previous year, resulting in  
£0.6m overall positive year on year impact 
on operating proﬁt. Network Testing and 
Travel each beneﬁted by £0.3m. 
REVENUE
Revenue from continuing operations 
increased in the year by 31% to £122.5m 
(2011: £93.7m). The growth in revenue was 
principally achieved by the Handset Testing 
business; Network Testing also grew and 
Travel reversed the trend of the previous two 
years by achieving ﬂat revenue. Details of this 
are set out in the Review of operations on 
pages 22 to 25. On a geographic basis, 
revenue by destination showed signiﬁcant 
increases in sales to the Americas (primarily 
North America) and to Asia Paciﬁc, which – in 
a reﬂection of the importance of the region to 
the wireless industry – has become our most 
signiﬁcant region. Revenue in the UK and 
EMEA also increased in absolute terms, but 
fell as a proportion of overall Group revenue. 
The proportions of total revenue by region 
were: UK 13% (2011: 16%); EMEA 27% (2011: 
32%); Americas 29% (2011: 27%); and Rest 
of the World (mainly Asia) 31% (2011: 25%). 
In revenue by type, the principal changes  
in the year were strong growth in sales of 
software licences and hardware/third-party 
equipment, which increased by 44% to 
£83.6m (2011: £58.0m). Recurring revenue 
(software maintenance and managed 
services) increased 15% to £31.0m (2011: 
£27 .0m) with the proportion of recurring 
revenue 25% (2011: 29%). 
COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT 
Cost of sales increased by 31% to £50.1m 
(2011: £38.2m) in line with revenue. As a result, 
the gross margin remained constant at 59% 
with gross proﬁt at £72.4m (2011: £55.5m). 
Within cost of sales, the costs of hardware  
and third-party products sold on to customers 
increased 47% to £30.4m (2011: £20.7m). 
Most of the increase came from the growth 
in the Handset Testing business. Other cost 
of sales, mainly staff costs directly associated 
with the delivery of revenue and to support 
the growing number of installed systems, 
increased 13% to £19.7m (2011: £17.5m). 
OPERATING EXPENSES 
Total operating expenses in the period 
increased 20% to £49.9m (2011: £41.6m), 
considerably less than the corresponding 
increase in revenue and gross proﬁt.  
A detailed breakdown of operating expenses 
is given in note 3.5 on page 75. 
Within the total operating expenses are 
one-off and non-cash items not charged  
to adjusted operating proﬁt and underlying 
operating expenses that are charged to 
adjusted operating proﬁt. The latter totalled 
£43.6m (2011: £37.9m). 
Within the £5.7m increase in underlying 
operating expenses, R&D costs incurred  
by the Wireless businesses increased by 
£4.6m to £16.0m (2011: £11.4m) with both 
businesses contributing to the increase. In 
response to accelerating requirements from 
customers, the Handset Testing business 
increased investment in its LTE 4G hardware 
and software platform during the year. It also 
increased investment in the development 
of its IOT product. An increase in R&D 
investment by the Network Testing business 
was primarily due to the full-year effect of 
the additional resource acquired with the 
Invex product line, in January 2011. Across 
both businesses, £2.6m of R&D costs  
were capitalised in the year (2011: £2.7m), 
mainly on conformance test cases in Handset 
Testing and the Invex benchmarking chassis 
in Network Testing. Amortisation of 
capitalised R&D increased to £1.6m 
(2011: £1.2m).
Other underlying operating expenses 
increased £1.2m, to £27.6m (2011: £26.4m). 
The main increase was in distribution costs, 
particularly in the Handset Testing business, 
to support the larger installed base of testing 
systems at customer sites.
After underlying operating expenses, adjusted 
operating proﬁt was £28.8m (2011: £17.6m), 
an increase of 64%. Adjusted EBITDA was up 
54% at £34.2m (2011: £22.2m). 
One-off and non-trading operating expenses 
excluded from adjusted proﬁt calculations 
totalled £6.3m (2011: £3.7m). These included 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets  
of £3.3m (2011: £3.6m) and a charge for 
share-based payments of £2.9m compared  
with an abnormal credit of £0.1m in the prior  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
28
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
year, which also included a charge of £0.3m 
for the costs associated with acquiring the 
Invex product line. The share-based payment 
charge in the year included a £1.4m cost of 
providing for employers’ NI liabilities (2011: 
£0.2m). This was particularly high because 
of the strong increase in the share price over 
the year. 
After these non-operational costs, the Group 
reported an overall statutory operating proﬁt 
of £22.5m (2011: £13.9m). 
OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES 
Other gains and losses, which are excluded 
from the calculation of adjusted proﬁt before 
tax, were a gain of £0.5m in the current  
year (2011: £nil). These represented gains  
recorded on the ineffective portions of cash 
ﬂow and net investment hedges that related 
to the hedging arrangements settled in 
November 2011. 
GROUP FINANCE COSTS 
Despite having an excess of cash over 
ﬁnancial borrowings throughout the year, 
the Group incurred a net ﬁnance charge of 
£0.8m (2011: £1.7m). This was principally 
because the borrowings that were in the 
capital structure that was in place until 
30 November 2011 were ﬁxed at the 
relatively high long-term rates available 
when the facilities were put in place in 2006, 
while surplus cash earned interest only at 
current low rates. The position normalised 
following the expiry of those facilities, with a 
net £nil charge for the remaining ﬁve months 
of the year, as the small amount of interest 
earned on surplus cash offset the fees 
incurred for the new ﬁve year bank facilities.
TAXATION 
The tax charge for the year on continuing 
operations was £6.0m (2011: £3.3m).  
The tax rate on the statutory operating proﬁt 
was 26.9% (2011: 26.8%). The underlying 
adjusted tax rate on adjusted proﬁt before 
tax was 26.9% (2011: 27.7%). 
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 
After taking account of the factors described 
above, adjusted basic earnings per share  
were 7.2p (2011: 4.0p), an increase of 80%; 
adjusted diluted earnings per share similarly 
increased 76% to 6.7p (2011: 3.8p).  
The statutory basic earnings per share for 
continuing operations was 5.7p (2011: 3.1p). 
As explained in the Chairman’s statement, 
the Board is proposing a signiﬁcantly 
increased ﬁnal dividend of 1.125p per share 
(2011: 0.735p), making a total for the year 
of 1.50p (2011: 1.05p) which is covered  
4.8 times by adjusted basic earnings. 
The Board recognises that as a result of the 
signiﬁcant proposed increase in the ﬁnal 
dividend this year, the ratio of payment 
between interim and ﬁnal dividends has 
become unbalanced from the normal one 
third:two thirds ratio. It intends to address 
this in the current ﬁnancial year and return  
it to the more normal ratio.
BALANCE SHEET 
INVENTORIES
The carrying value of inventories held by  
the Wireless businesses has increased 
signiﬁcantly from £4.7m at 30 April 2011  
to £10.2m at 30 April 2012. This reﬂects the 
increasing importance of hardware to both 
Wireless businesses. The majority of the 
increase is in Handset Testing where at the 
year end the business was also carrying 
higher than normal inventories of Anite 9000 
systems and components in order to ensure 
continuity of supply in the face of high 
demand and extended lead times for certain 
key components. Inventory in Network 
Testing also increased over the year to 
support the Invex benchmarking product 
launched at the end of the ﬁrst half. 
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
Trade and other receivables increased 3%  
to £32.9m at 30 April 2012 (2011: £31.9m). 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
21.1
14.3
30.8
22.6
19.8
39.2
52.6
7.9
26.5
7.3
5.3
7.7
4.4
2012 2011
 Own product software licence    Hardware and third-party products   
 Software maintenance and support   
 Bespoke services, systems integration and implemention    Managed services 
2010
122.5
93.7
78.8
4.5
31.0
REVENUE BY TYPE
£m
0.95
2012 2011 2010
1.50
1.05
PROPOSED ANNUAL DIVIDEND
P
+43%  29
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
Within this, trade debtors, net of provisions, 
decreased 4% to £24.2m (2011: £25.3m) 
despite revenue increasing 31%. The 
improvement is largely as result of phasing  
of year end debtors; debtor days at 30 April 
2012 were 59 days (30 April 2011: 76 days).
Accrued income (revenue taken to the 
income statement but not yet invoiced to 
customers) increased by £1.4m to £4.2m 
(2011: £2.8m), due to the timing of payment 
schedules on long-term contracts in both 
Handset Testing and Travel. 
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade and other payables increased 24%  
to £37.7m at 30 April 2012 (30 April 2011: 
£30.5m). This is mainly as a result of the 
increase in overall business over the course 
of the year, which resulted in a signiﬁcant 
increase in trade creditors. In addition, there 
was a £2.5m increase in deferred income 
(amounts invoiced to customers, but not 
yet recognised as revenue in the income 
statement), to £14.8m (2011: £12.3m).  
This predominantly represents an increase  
in pre-billed maintenance contracts in 
Handset Testing.
PROVISIONS
Provisions reduced by £2.5m to £5.8m at 
30 April 2012 (30 April 2011: £8.3m). The 
main reductions were in the £0.6m deferred 
consideration provision for the Invex 
acquisition, which was settled in the year, 
and the property provision where £2.1m was 
paid out in the year. This included an amount 
paid to change the lease arrangements for 
the Travel business’s Slough headquarters, 
where we have secured longer-term security 
of tenure over the ﬂoor-space required, 
settled existing dilapidation responsibilities, 
and released early surplus space back to 
the landlord. 
CASH FLOW 
Cash generated from operations was £31.0m 
(2011: £17.2m). This represented a conversion 
of 91% of adjusted EBITDA (2011: 77%).  
Cash generated by operations was affected 
by the decrease in provisions and by a net 
working capital increase of £1.2m (2011: 
increase of £3.3m). The latter was mainly 
caused by the increase in inventory although 
it was partially offset in trade creditors as 
described above. 
Net payments for ﬁnance costs were £0.9m 
(2011: £1.7m) while tax payments increased 
to £5.4m (2011: £2.0m), a reﬂection of the 
increased proﬁts.
The cross-currency swap liability was ﬁnally 
settled on 31 October 2011 by payment of 
the capped amount of £21.6m. In addition,  
the deferred consideration of £0.6m related 
to the acquisition of Invex, was paid during 
the year. 
Capital expenditure in the period increased 
signiﬁcantly to £5.8m (2011: £3.5m). 
Signiﬁcant purchases included £2.9m  
(2011: £1.6m) on Anite 9000 development 
equipment. As described above, a further 
£2.6m (2011: £2.7m) was incurred on 
capitalised development expenditure. 
Dividends paid to shareholders totalled 
£3.2m (2011: £2.8m). An additional £1.6m 
(2011: £5.4m) was incurred on the purchase 
of shares for the Company’s employee beneﬁt 
trust. The gross cash balance also decreased 
by £10.0m (2011: £5.0m) as a result of the 
payment of the ﬁnal amount outstanding 
on the long-term loan following its expiry  
in November 2011. This had no impact  
on the Group’s net cash which is stated  
net of borrowings.
After these movements, net cash decreased 
by £10.8m (2010: net cash decrease of 
£2.1m). The net cash balance at 30 April 2012 
was, as a result, £16.9m (30 April 2011: 
£27.7m). With no borrowing outstanding  
at 30 April 2012, this also represents the 
gross cash balance (30 April 2011: £37.7m).
BORROWINGS AND FACILITIES 
During the year, the Group arranged new 
banking facilities including a revolving credit 
facility of £20.0m (2011: £20.0m) and a net 
overdraft facility of £5.0m (2011: £5.0m).  
The revolving facility is due to expire on 
31 October 2016 and the overdraft is due 
for renewal on 31 July 2012. The Group had  
no drawings against its banking facilities  
at 30 April 2012 (2011: net borrowings  
of £10.0m). 
In view of the current strong cash position, 
the availability of banking facilities, the 
maturity proﬁle of debt obligations and 
forecast cash position over the next  
18 months, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, Anite continues to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
RICHARD AMOS
Group Finance Director  
2 July 2012
14.2
2012 2011 2010
31.0
17.2
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
£m
+80% ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
30
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
The Group uses a range of performance 
measures to manage the three businesses 
within the Group. In addition, each business 
has established its own performance 
indicators that are speciﬁc to its individual 
business. The Group KPIs monitor order 
intake, revenue, margins, research and 
development spend, adjusted operating proﬁt 
and headcount. In addition to these Group 
KPIs, other speciﬁc measures such as cash 
generation, working capital, capital 
expenditure, product development and  
major project performances are used for each 
business. The Group changes and reﬁnes the 
KPIs regularly depending on the major issues 
that are identiﬁed in the businesses.
GROUP KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIS)
ORDER INTAKE
£m
Order intake represents the value of orders 
received from customers in the year. It is a 
measure of in-year performance and supports 
future years’ revenue performance. 
The order intake in the year increased mainly  
as a result of a 33% increase in orders in our 
Handset Testing business due to the increasing 
demand for the Company’s LTE 4G products, 
which include the Anite 9000 hardware platform 
and a 37% increase in orders in our Travel 
business for our @com product.
+30%
152.0
116.6
82.3
2012 2011 2010
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£m
Adjusted operating proﬁt measures the operating 
performance of the business before taking into 
account share-based payments, impairment 
and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, 
impairment of goodwill, restructuring costs, 
other gains and losses and recycled hedge losses. 
Management believes this gives a better 
comparable measure of the true operating 
performance of continuing operations. 
The increase in adjusted operating proﬁt 
primarily arises from the higher revenue within 
the Handset Testing business.
+64%
28.8
17.6
11.9
2012 2011 2010
REVENUE
£m
Revenue represents the amounts derived from 
the provision of goods and services in the year.
The increase in revenue reﬂects the strong 
growth in the Handset Testing business where 
revenue grew by 54%, including an increase 
in LTE 4G revenues, which rose by £17.2m and 
represented 44% (2011: 34%) of our Handset 
Testing revenue.
+31%
122.5
93.7
78.8
2012 2011 2010
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TOTAL SPEND
£m
Research and development (R&D) total spend 
represents the total cash invested in R&D in  
the year, before the effect of capitalisation and 
amortisation under IAS 38, and shows the total 
amounts the Group invests each year on new, 
and on enhancing its existing, software products.
The increase in R&D occurred in our Wireless 
businesses where in Network Testing we 
continued to develop the benchmarking tools 
acquired in the acquisition of the Invex product 
line last year, and in our Handset Testing business 
where, as planned, we invested in our Anite 9000 
hardware platform and also in the development 
of conformance and interoperability test scripts. +32%
17.0
12.9
12.6
2012 2011 2010
NET REVENUE MARGIN
%
Net revenue margin is total revenue less 
third-party hardware cost as a percentage of 
revenue, and is important in measuring the 
proportion of software and own man-time 
services revenue in the business.
The net revenue fell as expected due to the 
increased proportion of hardware within 
our Handset Testing business’s product mix. 
We expect the margin to improve as the 
LTE 4G products become more mature and  
more LTE 4G product software is sold.
-3%
75
78
83
2012 2011 2010
HEADCOUNT
Closing number
Headcount measures the number of staff 
employed directly by the Group at the end of 
each year and is an important measure to ensure 
the business is not overstaffed in relation to its 
revenue. The Group maintains a regular review 
of headcount in each business in order to keep 
costs under control.
Headcount across the Group increased by 38 
staff (8%), primarily as a result of the increase 
in development and support staff in our Handset 
Testing business where revenue grew by 54%.
+8%
507
469
452
2012 2011 2010 31
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The following are the principal risks that the Group is exposed to  
as identiﬁed in the Group risk review documented in the Corporate 
governance report on pages 40 to 45.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND GEOPOLITICAL RISK
DESCRIPTION IMPLICATIONS MITIGATION
With the current uncertainty in global economies, most notably recently 
around Europe which accounts for around 30% of our revenue, our business 
could be adversely affected, should the weakening cause customers to  
defer their investment plans in light of lower consumer spending. Equally,  
geopolitical issues, such as have been seen in North Africa and the Middle East 
since early 2011, could have an impact on consumer travel plans, potentially 
affecting tour operator investment programmes.
 In common with many other businesses, adverse 
economic conditions could increase our ﬁnancial 
exposure to defaults by customers or by suppliers 
on whom we rely for critical components or 
products. Equally they could result in customers 
slowing investment plans that have either a 
direct or indirect impact on the demand for our 
products and services. This could result in lower 
revenues, higher costs or adverse cash ﬂow.
 ● The Group regularly monitors external 
developments to assess their potential impact 
on the Group – and amends plans, resources 
and investments accordingly. Monthly 
assessment of sales pipelines, short-term 
forecasts and feedback from sales personnel 
are also used to assess developments in 
this area.
TECHNOLOGY RISKS
DESCRIPTION IMPLICATIONS MITIGATION
Each of our businesses is a technology leader in its ﬁeld and this position is 
a key element of its competitive positioning. Technology risks could include: 
a failure of a technology development project to deliver an effective and 
efﬁcient solution; unforeseen developments in underlying technologies in the 
speciﬁc industry that result in Anite products becoming obsolete; or progress 
in technology development being made by one or more competitors that 
reduces the market appeal of one or more Anite products. 
Since the decision in 2009 to pursue an in-house strategy for the provision of 
the hardware platform of Handset Testing’s LTE 4G solution, the risk in this 
area has changed, with a reduction in the risk that a technology partner might 
fail to provide a competitive platform on which to deploy our software being 
offset by an increase in the risk of our own in-house developments.
A similar change has occurred in the Network Testing business following 
the purchase in January 2011 of the Invex scanner solution which reduces 
the reliance on third-party suppliers.
 ● Any failure to maintain this technology 
leadership could have an adverse impact on 
business, through a loss of competitiveness 
or indeed a loss of reputation as a technology 
leader in a speciﬁc ﬁeld. 
 ● Having to manage more in-house designed and 
manufactured products exposes the Group to 
having increased costs through the requirement 
to write-off components or ﬁnished products 
should they become obsolete. Equally, costs 
could increase if an in-house product fails in 
the ﬁeld and requires rectiﬁcation work. 
 ● Market developments are regularly monitored 
through feedback from customers and sales 
personnel, and review of market commentaries. 
Technology roadmaps are regularly reviewed 
to ensure that they remain relevant. 
 ● The move to more in-house sourced products 
has moved management of that speciﬁc 
element of risk more into our own control 
and the Group has subsequently undertaken 
a number of actions to manage and mitigate 
that risk. These have included bringing in 
new personnel experienced in areas such as 
hardware design and logistics management 
and also upgrading systems to deal with 
increased challenges of supply chain and 
inventory management.  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
32
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
RELIANCE ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS
DESCRIPTION IMPLICATIONS
The Group has relationships with a number of signiﬁcant customers. 
Continuing sales to these are an important element of Group revenue. 
Additionally the Group is exposed to the credit risk associated with 
these customers.
 ● There are only three individual customer groups 
that account for more than 5% of Group 
revenue, with none over 10%. No customer 
accounted for more than 9% of the £25.2m of 
trade receivables outstanding at 30 April 2012. 
 ● Despite that, given the high gross margin nature 
of most of the Group’s revenue, the loss of 
one of Anite’s major customers could result in 
a signiﬁcant reduction in proﬁts, particularly if  
it were accompanied by the inability to collect 
outstanding receivable balances. 
MITIGATION
 ● Where possible the Group contracts  
with major customers through long-term 
agreements that provide certainty to both 
parties. In addition, the Group undertakes  
a number of customer support, business 
development and sales activities to foster 
continued strong relationships with  
major customers. 
 ● To mitigate credit risks, the Group monitors 
the credit reports of major customers. It also 
uses other risk management strategies such as 
trade ﬁnance protection and credit insurance 
on a case by case basis.
COMPETITIVENESS
DESCRIPTION
Each of our businesses operates in highly competitive markets, and changes 
in relative competitiveness could have an impact on business levels. Changes 
could be caused by new market entrants, by existing competitors merging or 
changing their focus or strategy or introducing new products that undermine 
the competitive position of existing Anite products. 
IMPLICATIONS MITIGATION
 ● Changes to relative competitiveness could  
result in reduced business volumes or Anite 
businesses having to change pricing strategies 
that result in reduced margins. This could  
result in us needing to amend or accelerate  
our investment strategies.
 ● Mitigation strategies in this area include 
regular reviews of sales pipelines and  
actual margins achieved to highlight evidence 
of a change in competitiveness. Market 
developments are monitored through regular 
feedback from sales personnel and review 
of market commentaries.
PROJECT DELIVERY RISK
DESCRIPTION IMPLICATIONS MITIGATION
The success of all Group businesses is partially dependent on the successful 
completion of development projects within budget, cost and speciﬁcations. 
Delivery of such projects might be subject to certain technical, commercial, 
legal, customer-related or economic risks. The risk is particularly acute in 
Travel, where we have a number of customer-funded implementations and 
developments such as @com. However, the risk also exists for internal 
development projects such as the design and production of a new generation 
of the Handset Testing platform.
 ● If a project fails to achieve its goals within  
the budget and timeline expected then it could 
impact Anite in a number of ways. These could 
include additional costs of completion in the 
case of a ﬁxed price development for a customer, 
or in delays in achieving revenue in the case  
of a product being developed via an internal 
development project. Subsequent effects  
could include a loss of competitiveness or  
loss of reputation that could impact future 
sales prospects.
 ● Long-term projects are managed according 
to an internal project management standard. 
Monthly progress reports are compiled and 
variances to plans investigated. These reports 
are formally presented to senior management 
on a monthly basis. For the largest projects, 
periodic updates are also given to the 
Executive Directors and main Board.  33
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
HUMAN RESOURCE AND ORGANISATION RISKS
DESCRIPTION IMPLICATIONS
IMPLICATIONS
The Group’s performance and its ability to mitigate signiﬁcant risks within its 
control depend on its employees and management teams. Future success will 
depend to a large extent on the Group’s ability to attract, retain and motivate 
its people.
 ● If the Group loses the services of key people or 
is unable to attract and retain employees with 
the right capabilities and experience, it would  
be likely to have an effect on the Group’s ability 
to implement its strategies and business plans.
 ● The Group’s credit risk in relation to cash and 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments is explained 
further in note 24I. The credit risk of trade 
receivables is detailed in note 18 and discussed 
further in the risk of “reliance on major 
customers” section on page 32. 
 ● If the Group has insufﬁcient liquid resources it 
may not be able to react quickly enough to take 
advantage of market opportunities.
 ● The sensitivity of the overseas investments 
to exchange rate movements can be seen 
in note 24F.
MITIGATION
 ● The Group uses a variety of techniques to 
attract, retain and motivate its staff, with 
particular attention paid to those in key roles. 
Techniques include the regular review of 
remuneration packages, regular communication 
with all staff and annual performance reviews. 
In addition, a Group-wide review of staff 
contingency plans was undertaken in the year, 
with plans put in place for speciﬁc areas of risk. 
MITIGATION
 ● To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the 
Group’s policy is to invest surplus cash with 
highly rated ﬁnancial institutions only and to 
limit each counterparty deposit to a maximum 
value of £10m. The mitigation of credit risk  
is covered under the “reliance on major 
customers” section on page 32. 
 ● The Group’s policy is detailed in note 24J. 
During the year, the Group entered into a 
ﬁve-year revolving credit facility, which 
although undrawn at the year end, remains 
available to support the Group’s requirements.
 ● The Group seeks to hedge foreign currency 
cash ﬂows and translations of foreign currency 
denominated monetary assets and liabilities
by hedging a proportion of the forecast future 
cash ﬂows. Details of this policy can be found 
in note 24H.
FINANCIAL RISKS
DESCRIPTION
The Group is exposed to a number of ﬁnancial risks:
CREDIT RISK
Our operations are exposed to the risk that customers and counterparties 
to our transactions that owe us money will not perform their obligations. 
LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group’s business is ﬁnanced through cash generated from ongoing 
operations and bank lending facilities. 
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The Group has foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings that are 
not hedged, therefore a movement in the exchange rate will have an impact 
on both reserves and the income statement. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
34
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
NIGEL CLIFFORD*
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Nigel, 53, joined the Board on 1 April 2009. 
He has wide experience across a number  
of sectors, including the wireless telecoms 
and software sectors. He is currently CEO 
of ProcServe Limited, and was previously  
CEO at Micro Focus International plc, 
Symbian Limited and Tertio Telecoms 
Limited, and Senior Vice President,  
Service Delivery at Cable & Wireless.
PAUL TAYLOR
†
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Paul, 47, was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 5 October 2009 and became 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in 
December 2009. He is also Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Ubisense plc and Escher Group 
Holdings plc and Non-Executive Director  
of Digital Barriers plc. From March 2001  
until January 2011, Paul was Group Finance 
Director with AVEVA Group plc. He is a 
Fellow of the Association of Chartered 
Certiﬁed Accountants.
DAVID HURST-BROWN
†
SENIOR INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION 
AND NOMINATION COMMITTEES
David, 63, joined the Board on 23 August 
2004, becoming Senior Independent Director 
in December 2009. Following a career in  
the investment banking industry, David has 
been acting as a Non-Executive Director for 
a variety of public and private companies. 
These include Imagination Technologies 
Group plc and FFastFill plc. David is a Fellow 
of the Securities Institute.
DIRECTORS
DAVID HURST-BROWN
NIGEL CLIFFORD
PAUL TAYLOR  35
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
CLAY BRENDISH CBE
†
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Clay, 65, was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman in October 2005. Prior to his 
retirement in May 2001, he was Executive 
Deputy Chairman of CMG (now part of 
Logica), having joined the Board when it 
acquired Admiral plc, the software services 
company he co-founded in 1979.
Clay is also Non-Executive Chairman of 
SThree plc and is also a member of the 
Administrative Board of Elster Group SE.  
He is a trustee of Economist Newspapers 
Limited and Chairman of The Test and 
Itchen Association Limited.
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY**
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Christopher, 55, joined the Board in February 
2003 as Group Finance Director and was 
appointed Chief Executive of the Company 
on 31 December 2008. He has held senior 
positions in ﬁnance at Conoco, Eurotherm 
International plc and Critchley Group plc.
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
CLAY BRENDISH
RICHARD AMOS
RICHARD AMOS
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR AND 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Richard, 45, was appointed to the Board 
as Group Finance Director on 2 November 
2009, assuming the additional responsibility 
of Company Secretary on 17 February 2010. 
He was previously Group Finance Director at 
Agilisys Holdings Limited, a private IT services 
company, and Group Finance Director and 
Company Secretary at two listed technology 
groups, Retail Decisions plc and VEGA 
Group plc.
†   Member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. 
*   Member of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. 
** Member of the Nomination Committee. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
36
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited ﬁnancial statements, for the year ended 30 April 2012. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 
The Group is a leading worldwide provider of hardware and software solutions, systems integration and managed services within its core markets of Wireless and Travel. 
Analyses of turnover, proﬁt on ordinary activities and net assets are given in note 3 on pages 72 to 75. 
BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS 
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to include a fair review of the Group’s business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing  
the Group. The required information relating to the review of the year’s operations, business model, key risks, strategy, trading outlook and future developments is 
contained in the Chairman’s statement on page 4, the Chief Executive’s review on page 6, the Financial review on page 26 and the Corporate governance report on  
page 40 of this report. 
Where the Annual report contains forward-looking statements, these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time 
of their approval of this report. Consequently, such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business 
risk factors, underlying such forward-looking statements or information. 
RESULTS 
The audited accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2012 are set out on pages 60 to 117. The Group proﬁt for the year after taxation was £18.5m (2011: £9.4m). 
DIVIDENDS
The Directors recommend a 53% increase in the ﬁnal dividend to 1.125p (2011: 0.735p) per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), will be due for payment on 23 October 2012 to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on 28 September 2012. This, together 
with the interim dividend of 0.375p per ordinary share (2011: 0.315p) paid on 17 February 2012, will make a total dividend for the year of 1.50p per ordinary share, up 43% 
on the previous year (2011: 1.05p per ordinary share). 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
The total expenditure in the year within continuing operations was £17.0m (2011: £12.9m), of which £16.0m was expensed in the income statement (2011: £11.4m)  
after net capitalisation of £1.0m (2011: £1.5m). This expenditure was incurred on product development and enhancement in our Wireless division. 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 
There were no acquisitions or disposals during the year.
SHARE CAPITAL 
During the year, the Company allotted 195,603 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 11.25p each in respect of the exercise of options under Anite’s share option plans. 
The Company’s authorised ordinary share capital as at 30 April 2012 comprised 355,555,556 ordinary shares of 11.25p each and the issued ordinary share capital 
comprised 299,131,879 (2011: 298,936,276) ordinary shares of 11.25p each. Details are set out in note 27 on pages 99 and 100. 
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES 
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM (held on 15 September 2011) to purchase up to 29,894,628 ordinary shares with a nominal value of  
11.25p each (being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 June 2011) which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM 
on 13 September 2012. 
The Company may not pay less than the nominal value (currently 11.25p each) for each ordinary share purchased (exclusive of expenses) and may not pay more per 
ordinary share than the higher of: (i) 5% over the average of the middle market closing price of the ordinary shares, based on the Daily Ofﬁcial List of the London Stock 
Exchange, for the ﬁve business days immediately before the day of purchase (exclusive of expenses); and (ii) the price of the last independent trade and the highest 
current independent bid on trading venues where the purchases are carried out (exclusive of expenses). 
The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or for cancellation during the year. 
The Company will put a resolution to shareholders at the 2012 AGM to give it authority to purchase up to 29,913,188 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 11.25p each 
(being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2012). 
DIRECTORS 
Details of the persons who were Directors during the year can be found in the report on corporate governance which starts on page 40. Full biographical details of the 
Company’s Directors at the date of this report are given on pages 34 and 35.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 37
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
The Company’s Articles of Association require that one-third of the Directors must retire at each AGM and that each Director must offer himself for re-election at least 
once every three years. The 2010 UK Corporate Governance code guidance for FTSE 350 companies suggests that all Directors should offer themselves for re-election 
annually. Although the Company was not a member of the FTSE 350 index during the year, the Board has voluntarily agreed that in accordance with that guidance, 
all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGM. The Company was appointed to the FTSE 350 in June 2012.
The Board is satisﬁed that each of the Directors standing for re-election continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role, including 
commitment of time to Board and Committee meetings and his other duties.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS 
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors holding ofﬁce at 30 April 2012, and their immediate families, in the capital of the Company, together with any changes in 
interests since the end of the ﬁnancial year, are as set out in the Remuneration report which starts on page 46. No Director has, or had during the period under review, 
any interest in any contract of signiﬁcance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than his own employment contract. 
INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE 
Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company and its subsidiaries beneﬁt from Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance cover in respect of legal actions brought against them. 
In addition, Directors of the Company are indemniﬁed in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association to the maximum extent permitted by law. All Directors 
have deeds of indemnity that are in force as at the date of this report. 
These indemnities are available for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours and will be available for inspection  
at the AGM. 
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant Director or ofﬁcer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
The Company adopted new Articles of Association at the 2009 AGM. No changes to these articles are proposed at the 2012 AGM. A copy of the current Articles of 
Association can be inspected at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM. 
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 
As at the date of this report, the Company has been notiﬁed of the following holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attaching to its issued share capital: 
Percentage of issued capital  
%
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited         9.90
Old Mutual Asset Managers (UK) Limited 5.14
Prudential plc         5.02
Aberforth Partners LLP         4.90
Hawksford Jersey Ltd (as Trustee of the Anite Employee Share Ownership Plan)  4.64 
Legal & General Investment Management Limited  3.99
Kames Capital         3.37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Details of the Group’s compliance with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found in the Corporate governance report set out on  
pages 40 to 45. 
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AND VOLUNTARY INITIATIVES 
Contributions by the Group during the year for charitable purposes amounted to £15,797 (2011: £22,745). The Group does not make any political donations. 
FINANCIAL RISK POLICIES 
A summary of the Group’s treasury policies and objectives relating to ﬁnancial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is set out in note 24 
on pages 93 to 97.  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
38
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED
EMPLOYEES 
The energy, commitment and passion of our employees are vital to our business. The Company strives to create a working environment which encourages people to 
be individuals and develop their full potential within a framework of shared values and goals. To achieve this, the Group is committed to a policy which provides all 
employees and potential employees with equality of opportunity for selection and development regardless of age, gender, nationality, race, creed, disability or sexuality. 
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Company continues and that appropriate training  
is arranged for them. Employees are provided with information through myanite.com, the Group’s global intranet, roadshows and other internal communications.  
The views and ideas of employees are sought through discussion, line management and focus groups. 
The Company operates a range of employee share schemes for Executive Directors and a small number of senior executives in the UK and overseas, as set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 46 to 55. Since August 2005, the Company has offered all UK employees an enhanced Share Incentive Plan which currently matches on  
a one-for-one basis the number of shares purchased monthly by employees. The Company will be seeking shareholder approval to renew this plan for a further ten years 
at the 2012 AGM. The Company also operates the Anite UK Sharesave Plan. These schemes provide for options to be granted over shares using new issue shares or 
treasury shares as well as market purchase shares.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 
The Company supports the protection of a sustainable environment. The Group’s activities, which are mainly ofﬁce-based, do not produce harmful waste or emissions and 
the Group is a constituent of the FTSE4Good index of ethically sustainable companies. While our operations, by their nature, have minimal impact on the environment, 
we recognise our responsibilities in this respect. 
The Company is therefore committed to: 
 ● complying with the relevant environmental legislation, regulations and industry standards of the countries in which it conducts business; 
 ● reducing the output of emissions that may have an adverse impact on the environment; 
 ● minimising the consumption of energy and water used in its facilities; 
 ● reducing waste and, wherever practicable, reusing and recycling consumables (e.g. paper, toner cartridges and computer equipment) and disposing of non-recyclable 
items in an environmentally acceptable manner; and 
 ● where practicable, purchasing environmentally sound goods and services. 
In order to achieve these objectives, the Company is building awareness and promoting initiatives to encourage employees to become fully engaged. 
CHANGE OF CONTROL 
All the Company’s employee share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid. Under these provisions, a change 
of control of the Company would normally be a vesting event, facilitating the exercise or transfer of awards, subject to any relevant performance conditions being 
satisﬁed or waived at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Company is not party to any other signiﬁcant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than with regard 
to the Company’s syndicated revolving bank facility agreement, which provides that, on a change of control, the majority lenders have the ability to cancel and seek 
repayment of all outstanding loans. 
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS 
Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate standard terms in respect of payments to suppliers. Subsidiary operating companies 
are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions and payment terms with their suppliers. It is the Group’s policy to agree with all suppliers, where practicable, 
appropriate terms of trade and to operate within those terms. Trade creditors at 30 April 2012 represented on average 56 days’ credit (2011: 33 days) for the Group 
and 48 days’ credit for the Company (2011: 42 days). 
GOING CONCERN 
The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern. The Directors believe that the Group has a robust business model, as evidenced by the trading of the 
business over the past 12 months, strong free cash ﬂow generation and is compliant with all its banking covenants. In making their assessment of going concern, the 
Directors consider the budgets, including the Wireless research and development commitments, three-year plans and cash forecasts for the following 18 months together 
with the forecast covenant positions. In addition, the Directors take into account the current strong net cash position and the availability of additional banking facilities 
(as set out in note 24J). After considering the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, Anite continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.  MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
 39
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS 
At the date of this report, as far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are not aware. Each of the  
Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
RE-APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS 
The Board has considered and recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors. Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofﬁce as auditors, 
and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) 
The AGM of the Company will be held at 12 noon on Thursday 13 September 2012 at 353 Buckingham Avenue, Slough, Berkshire SL1 4PF. The Notice setting out details  
of the business to be considered at the meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual report. 
By Order of the Board and signed by 
RICHARD AMOS 
Company Secretary 
2 July 2012 ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
40
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Board is committed to the highest standards of good corporate governance. It follows an approach that complies with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code dated June 2010 (the “Code”). This report sets out the Company’s compliance with the Code. 
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE 
The Board considers that Anite has, throughout the year, complied with the relevant provisions set out in sections A to E of the Code apart from the requirement (B.4.2) 
for the Chairman to regularly agree with each Director his training and development needs. Currently each Director is expected to take responsibility for his own training 
needs with details of relevant seminars made available to them by the Company Secretary. This has not been felt to present any additional risk to the Group and will be 
addressed in the current ﬁnancial year. 
Further explanations of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied are set out below in the Remuneration report and in the Report of the  
Audit Committee. 
BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
ANITE BOARD
Clay Brendish Non-Executive Chairman
Christopher Humphrey Chief Executive
Richard Amos Group Finance Director  
and Company Secretary
David Hurst-Brown Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Nigel Clifford Non-Executive Director
Paul Taylor Non-Executive Director
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Paul Taylor Chairman
Clay Brendish
David Hurst-Brown
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
David Hurst-Brown Chairman 
Clay Brendish
Nigel Clifford
Paul Taylor
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
David Hurst-Brown Chairman 
Clay Brendish
Christopher Humphrey
Nigel Clifford
Paul Taylor
THE BOARD 
The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate governance, for establishing policies and objectives and for the stewardship of the Group’s resources.  
In accordance with paragraph A2 of the Code, it is the Company’s policy that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with their roles and responsibilities 
clearly divided and recorded. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. He also ensures that 
communication with shareholders is effective and facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors. The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing the 
strategy agreed by the Board as a whole and for managing the Group. Currently, the Board is made up of the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and three Non-Executive Directors. David Hurst-Brown is the Senior Independent Director. There have not been any changes to the Board during this 
ﬁnancial year. The biographies of the Directors as at the date of this report are given on pages 34 and 35. 
The Chairman was considered to be independent on his appointment to the Board. It is the opinion of the Board that the three Non-Executive Directors are independent 
of management and have no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement in relation to the business of the 
Company or the Group. 
The current Board includes a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors so that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making. 
The Directors believe it is essential that the Company has an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company. 
The Board operates formally through regular scheduled Board meetings and there is also frequent communication between the Directors outside these meetings 
including as members of relevant committees. The Board met formally 10 times during the year, with a further 24 ad hoc meetings convened to deal with speciﬁc matters 
requiring Board consideration or approval. Details of attendance at the formal meetings are given in the table on page 42. During the year, the Board also attended 
detailed strategy presentations from the divisional Managing Directors and met both formally and informally with the management teams of the three businesses.   41
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet without Executive Directors present at least once annually and the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, meet at least once annually to assess the performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors  
are satisﬁed that the Chairman continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role, including commitment of time to Board and Committee 
meetings and his other duties.
The regular and timely provision of information to the Board is ensured through the monthly preparation and circulation to all Board members of the Chief Executive’s 
report, which reports on operational matters, and the Group Finance Director’s report, which provides the monthly management accounts and other relevant ﬁnancial 
information, and which also covers corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and matters concerning the Company’s shares, share schemes and shareholders. 
Other matters are tabled on a regular basis at Board meetings or are reported to the Board as appropriate. 
The Board has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved speciﬁcally for its decision which include: 
 ● strategy and objectives; 
 ● business risks; 
 ● business plans and budgets; 
 ● changes in capital and corporate structure; 
 ● accounting policies and ﬁnancial reporting; 
 ● internal controls and business risk factors; 
 ● major contracts; 
 ● capital projects; 
 ● acquisitions and disposals; 
 ● communications with shareholders; and 
 ● Board membership. 
The Board has delegated the normal operational management of the Company to the Executive Directors who have direct responsibility for all operations and activities. 
The Company currently has two Executive Directors supported by an Executive Team, which comprises the Managing Directors of the Handset Testing, Network Testing 
and Travel businesses.
The roles of Group Finance Director and Company Secretary are combined which is felt appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group. All Directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Group Finance Director and Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and 
regulations are observed. The Group Finance Director is also responsible for Human Resources within the Group. There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain 
independent professional advice, paid for by the Company. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, one-third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year and each Director must offer himself for 
re-election once every three years. In addition, any Director appointed during the year will stand for election at the next general meeting, ensuring that each Board 
member faces re-election at regular intervals. However, the Board has decided to voluntarily adopt the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies and requires all 
Directors to offer themselves for re-election annually. This will apply for the AGM in 2012.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
The Board’s Committees meet regularly to enable them to discharge their responsibilities. Each Committee has terms of reference which are reviewed regularly by  
the Board. Copies are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Group’s website www.anite.com.
Following formal decision-making the Board may, on occasion, delegate authority to a committee consisting of any two Directors to approve the detailed execution 
of an agreed course of action within strict parameters. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
The report of the Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57 includes details of the Audit Committee and its work. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration report on pages 46 to 55 includes details of the Remuneration Committee and its work.  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
42
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the three Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive. It is chaired by David Hurst-Brown,  
the Senior Independent Director. The Committee may invite others, including external advisers, to attend its meetings as appropriate. The Nomination Committee 
met once during the year. Details of attendance at the meeting are shown in the table below. 
The principal role of the Nomination Committee is to advise and make recommendations to the Board with regard to the size, structure and composition of the Board, 
the appointment of new Directors and the re-appointment of existing Directors. The Committee follows formal, rigorous and transparent procedures when appointing 
new Directors which include the preparation of a job description, the use of external advisers to facilitate the search and the evaluation of candidates according to 
objective criteria. All shortlisted candidates are interviewed by at least two members of the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee have considered the re-election of Clay Brendish and David Hurst-Brown who have been Directors for six years and seven years respectively. 
The Committee concluded that both brought considerable value to the Company and that the interests of the Company were best served by recommending them for 
re-election. The Committee considered that the considerable changes made to the composition of the Board in 2009 meant that there was no need at this time to make 
further changes.
In arriving at its recommendation, the Committee considered current guidelines and guidance on Board diversity. It recognised the lack of female representation on the 
Board but felt that any gains to be had from addressing that now would be more than outweighed by the loss of skills that such a change would cause. The Board does  
not consider that increasing its size to achieve greater diversity would be in the interests of shareholders at this time.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND ATTENDANCE 
The following tables detail the current Board appointments and the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and Board Committees during the year ended  
30 April 2012. 
BOARD APPOINTMENTS
 Date of service contract or letter of Unexpired term as at  
Director appointment or re-appointment the date of this report
Clay Brendish Non-Executive Chairman 8 October 2011 Two years three months
Christopher Humphrey Chief Executive 3 February 2003 Rolling one year 
Richard Amos Group Finance Director and Company Secretary 2 November 2009 Rolling one year 
David Hurst-Brown Non-Executive Director  
   (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) 24 August 2010 One year two months
Nigel Clifford Non-Executive Director 1 April 2012 Two years 9 months
Paul Taylor Non-Executive Director 5 October 2009  Three months
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Meetings during Attended during Meetings during Attended during Meetings during Attended during Meetings during Attended during 
the year the year the year the year the year the year the year the year
CHAIRMAN
Clay Brendish 10 10445511
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Christopher Humphrey 10 10 – 4* – 3* 1 1
Richard Amos 10 10 – 4* – 3* – 1*
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
David Hurst-Brown 109445511
Nigel Clifford 10 10 – 4* 5511
Paul Taylor 10 10445511
* Attended by invitation.   43
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a term of three years. These appointments are subject to re-election by shareholders. The terms and conditions  
of the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at Ancells Business Park, Harvest Crescent, Fleet, Hampshire GU51 2UZ  
or the Company’s Registered Ofﬁce during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting of the Company. 
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND TRAINING 
The Board, as part of its commitment to ensure its effectiveness and to evaluate its performance, undertook an evaluation of its performance and that of its Directors 
during the year. 
This evaluation was undertaken by Edis-Bates Associates Limited, an external independent consultant, covering the performance of the Board and each of the 
Committees in connection with a formal evaluation of each Committee’s assessment of its performance and effectiveness. Edis-Bates Associates Limited has no  
other connection with the Company.
The Board and each of its principal Committees were found to be operating effectively. Speciﬁc outcomes include: suggested improvements to the format of the annual 
strategy away day; building on the work already begun on a formal executive succession plan; introducing more formality into the operation of the Nomination 
Committee; and minor changes affecting the content and circulation of Board papers.
The evaluation of Board performance will continue to be conducted annually with external evaluations carried out as deemed necessary to ensure that the process 
is robust.
During the year, detailed succession planning was carried out to document detailed succession plans for all the senior executives/managers throughout the Group. 
These plans will be reviewed and updated as necessary to ensure they are kept up to date.
INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECTORS 
All new Directors receive a comprehensive tailored induction to the Company, including meeting major shareholders and advisers as required. 
Individual Directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the 
Company and their responsibilities as a Director. In addition, the Company has a continuing professional approach to assist the Directors in discharging their responsibilities 
effectively. This is achieved through brieﬁngs on business issues, on legal and accounting matters and on changes in corporate governance, with attendance at external 
seminars where appropriate. 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) 
The Group uses a range of performance measures to measure and manage the businesses within the Group. In addition, the divisions have established their own 
performance indicators that are speciﬁc to their individual businesses. 
The Group KPIs for the year in review monitored order intake, revenue, net revenue margin, research and development spend, adjusted operating proﬁt and headcount. 
Details are set out on page 30.
In addition to these Group KPIs, other measures are used covering speciﬁc divisional measures such as cash generation, working capital management, capital expenditure, 
product development progress and major project performance. 
The Group reviews and reﬁnes the KPIs regularly, dependent on the major issues that are identiﬁed in the businesses. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
44
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
POLICIES, APPROVAL LIMITS, DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE 
The Board sets Group-wide policies including authority procedures and Group accounting and procedures manuals which are adopted by each subsidiary. Local Managing 
Directors and Finance Managers are required to certify each half year that they have complied with the policies. As explained on page 57, the Group has established  
a limited internal audit function. This function reviews compliance with policies each year and reports to the Audit Committee on its ﬁndings. 
Included in Group policies are project management processes that are required to be followed for all major development projects in the Group. The Group employs 
a Group Director of Project and Programme Management to develop, implement and monitor these policies. Included within the policies are regular reporting 
requirements including, for the largest projects, regular updates to the Board. 
BUDGETARY PROCESS AND FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The Group undertakes annually a rigorous budgeting exercise that follows on from an annual strategic planning process. The output of the budgeting exercise is a 
Board-approved detailed ﬁnancial plan with monthly proﬁt and loss, balance sheet, cash ﬂow and key performance indicator projections. Monthly management reporting 
of actual performance against these targets and monthly revised forecasts takes place, with analysis of signiﬁcant variances. These reports are reviewed via monthly 
business reviews attended by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Managing Director of the relevant business unit and its senior management team.  
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director produce monthly summary reports to the Board which are reviewed at the Board meeting. 
MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group. There is an Executive Committee formed of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Managing Director 
of each of the businesses. Subject to deﬁned approval limits, responsibility for the operations of each business is delegated to the Managing Director of that business  
who has a separate management team to manage the day-to-day operations. Stafﬁng skills and resource levels within business units are reviewed regularly to ensure 
adequacy, with a speciﬁc review done annually as part of the strategy and budget process. In addition, there are staff employed at a Group level in the areas of ﬁnance, 
human resources, project management and IT infrastructure to deﬁne Group policy and ensure compliance. Where speciﬁc skill shortfalls are identiﬁed, the Group 
employs external advisers, subject to deﬁned approval levels. 
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a sound system of internal control and risk management. The internal control systems  
are designed to meet the needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed. There are limitations in any system of internal control and, accordingly, even the most 
effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
There is an ongoing process in place for continually identifying, assessing and managing the material risks faced by the Group. This Board retains responsibility for this 
process, delegating day-to-day responsibilities to the Executive Directors. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board, complies fully with Turnbull guidance and has 
been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of this report. 
The Audit Committee is delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control process as detailed on pages 56 and 57. 
The key procedures that the Board has established and which are designed to provide effective internal control for the Group are as follows: 
IDENTIFICATION, MITIGATION AND MONITORING OF BUSINESS RISKS 
Identiﬁcation of business risks is an integral part of the system of internal control. The potential existence of new risks is continually being assessed through monthly 
operational business review meetings, monthly board meetings and other ad hoc assessments. In addition, on an annual basis, the Board considers the principal risks of 
the Group and each of the business units. This is done in conjunction with the annual strategy review and the annual budgeting exercise. Risk registers are documented 
and mitigation strategies are considered and implemented where possible. These include the purchasing of insurance where appropriate. Monitoring processes are also 
designed to ensure regular reporting of indicators and impacts of risks. A “whistle-blowing” policy is in place to enable the conﬁdential reporting of possible malpractice 
or dishonesty. 
MATERIAL RISKS
The principal risk factors that have been identiﬁed by the risk management process which may affect the Group’s business are set out on pages 31 to 33. These are not  
all within the Group’s control. The list sets out the major risks, the potential impact and the mitigation strategies in place to limit the impact should the risk materialise. 
Other risks, besides those listed, may also affect the Group.  45
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
COMMUNICATIONS 
The Board considers effective communication with its investors, whether institutional, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important. 
The Company reports formally twice a year with the half-year results announcement and the preliminary announcement of the full-year results. An Interim statement  
is published on the Company’s website in December and the Annual report and accounts is published in July. In addition, as required under Article 6 of the Transparency 
Directive, the Company issues an interim management statement during each half year. These reports are available on www.anite.com.
The Company makes other announcements from time to time, which can also be found on www.anite.com.
Members of the Board meet institutional investors regularly to provide an opportunity to discuss, in the context of publicly available information, the progress of  
the business. Institutional investors and analysts are also invited to attend brieﬁngs by the Company following the announcements of the annual and interim results. 
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met a number of major shareholders individually. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to shareholders on all matters relating to governance. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) 
The Company’s AGM will be held on 13 September 2012 at the Company’s registered ofﬁce in Slough. The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the AGM. The Directors encourage the participation of private shareholders at the AGM and are available for questions both formally during the meeting  
and informally afterwards. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are normally available to answer questions at the AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf 
RICHARD AMOS 
Company Secretary 
2 July 2012 ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
46
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and associated legislation, the principles of the 2010 Corporate Governance Code, and meets 
the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. As required by the relevant legislation, a resolution to approve the report will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company at which the ﬁnancial statements will be presented for approval. 
At the AGM in 2011, the resolution on adoption of the Remuneration report was passed, albeit with a sizeable minority of around 20% either voting against or abstaining. 
In recognition of this, the Committee has this year consulted more closely with seven of the largest shareholders (who account for approximately 40% of the share 
capital) during the process of determining policy for the forthcoming ﬁnancial year and drafting this report. The proposals presented herein reﬂect the outcome of those 
discussions. In arriving at these proposals, the Committee has also taken note of the speciﬁc issues that it understands were the subject of last year’s shareholder 
concerns. In particular, it has restructured the CEO’s salary package to remove the grant of options in lieu of basic salary increases and has restructured the performance 
conditions associated with this year’s grant of PSP incentives to remove the condition that was seen as rolling retesting by some shareholders.
The relevant legislation requires the independent auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on certain speciﬁed matters and this report has, therefore, been split 
into separate sections for the unaudited and audited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION  
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board and comprises the Non-Executive Directors who are independent of management and free from any  
business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Company Chairman (who was independent on appointment)  
is also a member. 
During the year, membership of the Committee was as follows: David Hurst-Brown (Chairman of the Committee), Clay Brendish, Nigel Clifford and Paul Taylor. 
The Committee met ﬁve times during the year. Details of attendance at the meetings are shown in the table in the Corporate governance report on page 42. 
The principal function of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. It is also responsible for setting 
the individual remuneration packages for the Chairman (in his absence), for certain other members of the executive management, and for monitoring and approving  
the operation of all share-based incentive arrangements. The Committee also determines the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors. 
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference which are posted on the Company’s website. 
ADVICE AND ASSISTANCE 
New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc) is the Committee’s independent adviser on executive remuneration and employee share 
schemes. Neither New Bridge Street nor any other part of Aon plc provided other services to the Company during the year. The Group Finance Director provides the 
Committee with information and assistance and only attends meetings by invitation. The Chief Executive regularly attends meetings, by invitation, to provide his  
insight on business objectives, the individual performance of his direct reports and pay and conditions throughout the Group. No individual is present when their  
own remuneration is being speciﬁcally discussed. 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
MAIN PRINCIPLES 
The Company’s objective is to attract, retain and incentivise high-calibre executives who can drive the business forward and increase shareholder value. To meet this 
objective, the Company follows three key principles: 
 ● total rewards are designed to be competitive, with the remuneration package of each Executive Director and his direct reports benchmarked regularly against 
companies of a similar size and in similar markets; 
 ● incentive-based rewards are seen as an important part of each Executive Director’s total remuneration and are designed to drive and reward exceptional performance; 
and
 ● long-term incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and senior managers with those of the shareholders and to support 
the Company’s business strategy. 
The Committee also ensures that, when determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages, due account is taken of pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Group. In this regard, the Committee ensures, via the Chief Executive’s and Group Finance Director’s attendance at certain meetings, that it is kept fully abreast  
of all relevant Group-wide remuneration-related issues. 
The Chairman of the Committee also meets with a number of major investors to discuss proposed remuneration and incentive plans for the Executives, giving them the 
opportunity to raise any related issues of concern before they are implemented.
REMUNERATION REPORT  47
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
The Committee ensures that remuneration structures neither encourage nor reward inappropriate operational risk-taking and are applied with due account taken of  
the Company’s risk policies and systems. In addition, the Committee ensures that the incentive structures for Executive Directors and senior managers will not raise 
environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to overall remuneration structures,  
there is no restriction on the Committee that prevents it from taking into account ESG matters. 
REWARD STRUCTURE 
The Executive Directors’ total remuneration packages consist of: 
 ● base salary; 
 ● annual performance bonus; 
 ● pension contributions (Group Finance Director only); 
 ● other beneﬁts and allowances; and 
 ● share-based long-term incentive arrangements.
BASE SALARY 
Base salary is reviewed annually and is set with reference to salary levels for similar roles in other comparable companies in the software and computer services sector 
and the market generally. It also takes into account the personal performance and contribution to corporate performance by the individual. The factors for comparability 
include market sector, size and business complexity.
For the 2012 review, the Remuneration Committee paid particular regard to the appropriate positioning of the Executive Directors’ salaries, taking into account the 
signiﬁcant growth in Anite’s business and share price over the last few years, and hence its relative comparative position within the market. When Christopher Humphrey 
was ﬁrst appointed to the role of CEO in December 2008, the Company had a market value of around £85 million. At the time of his appointment to Chief Executive, 
together with Richard Amos’ appointment as Group Finance Director in 2009, their salaries were set at conservative levels to reﬂect, in part, this relative market positioning.
Since December 2008, the Company’s market capitalisation has more than quadrupled, to approximately £350 million at the time of writing. This represents a total 
shareholder return over the period of over 300%, compared to around 50% across the FTSE All Share over the same time. The Company has recently been promoted  
to the FTSE 250 index. The Company’s revenue and adjusted proﬁt before tax (“PBT”) have also increased by 36% and 55% respectively over the same period, 
demonstrating the increased size of the Group.
In the view of the Committee this excellent performance represents a step-change in the size of the Group and the responsibilities involved in running the Group. 
Therefore, following consultation with the leading shareholders of the Company, the Committee concluded that the salary reviews for Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos  
for 2012 should reﬂect this fundamental shift in market position. 
In addition, other factors that the Committee took into account when considering salary increases for the Executive Directors for 2012 were:
 ● the exceptional performance of the individuals concerned, their importance to the Group and their contribution to restoring shareholder value and ﬁnancial stability 
to the Group over the last few years; 
 ● when Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos were appointed into their roles, both their salaries were deliberately set at a signiﬁcant discount to their predecessors to reﬂect the 
fact that they were new to their roles and to provide scope for future salary rises as they matured into these; and
 ● in Mr Humphrey’s case, the fact that he has not had a salary increase for the period since his appointment in 2008, other than the consolidation of car allowance and 
the “one-off” grant of nil cost options worth approximately £15,000 in 2011.
Taking these factors into account, the Remuneration Committee has awarded “underlying” base salary increases to both Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos of 12.2%. 
Furthermore, in common with other senior executives in the Group, Mr Amos’ car allowance of £14,400 has been consolidated into his base salary from the same date.  
This results in the following salaries from 1 May 2012:
 ● Christopher Humphrey  £375,000
 ● Richard Amos £250,000
This compared to average salary increases at 1 May 2012 for all staff in the Group of around 3.5%. Over the last three years, the cumulative salary increases across the 
Group have been around 10%. 
The Committee is comfortable that the approach outlined above is very much in the interests of shareholders and reﬂects the integral role played by Messrs Humphrey 
and Amos in the Company’s continued strong performance.  ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
48
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS 
Mr Humphrey makes his own pension arrangements and the Group makes no payment in this respect. Mr Amos belongs to the Anite Stakeholder Pension Plan and from 
1 May 2012 the Company will contribute 10% (previously 5%) of his base salary on the basis that he contributes a minimum of 5%.
OTHER BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES 
Following the recent salary reviews there are no longer any car allowances. Executive Directors are entitled to medical insurance, death-in-service, permanent health 
insurance and car fuel expenses together with reasonable business expenses. 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE BONUS 
The Company operates an Annual Bonus Plan (the Plan) for Executive Directors, which rewards the achievement of meeting stretching annual proﬁt growth targets and 
also individual personal objectives aligned to the Group’s strategy.
2012 BONUS
Under the terms of the Plan, for year ended 30 April 2012, a bonus of up to 125% of salary could be earned – 100% for proﬁt achievement and 25% for achieving personal 
objectives that were agreed at the beginning of the new ﬁnancial year. 
The proﬁt bonus for 2012 was determined on a sliding scale for achieving growth in adjusted PBT, where at budget level 12.5% of salary would be earned. In order to earn 
the maximum 100% of salary, PBT had to exceed by 50% that achieved in 2011.
The actual performance for the year ended 30 April 2012 resulted in PBT exceeding the prior year’s result by 75%. This was in excess of the maximum target set by the 
Committee and therefore as a result of the excellent performance for the year, the Committee awarded both Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos the maximum award at 100% 
of salary for successfully exceeding the stretching proﬁt targets.
The Committee reviewed performance against the personal objectives set for Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos for 2011/12, which included strategic, customer-facing and 
investor-based objectives. They considered that these had been achieved and therefore awarded them both the maximum of 25% of salary. 
2013 BONUS
For the ﬁnancial year ending 30 April 2013 the Plan will again be primarily based on the achievement of stretching proﬁt growth targets. At budget proﬁt level, which 
reﬂects signiﬁcant growth over the past year’s achievement, 25% of salary will be paid, with the maximum proﬁt bonus only being awarded if the budgeted performance 
is exceeded by 20%, at which level a maximum of 100% of salary would be paid. In addition, up to 25% will be based on the achievement of agreed personal objectives. 
While the exact targets cannot be disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity, they are tied to the strategic objectives and key performance indicators of the Group. 
The Committee believes these targets are appropriately stretching and if delivered will represent value creation for shareholders.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE ARRANGEMENTS 
The Company operates the following two long-term share-based incentive plans for Executive Directors, which are designed to align with shareholders’ interests by 
encouraging investment in Anite shares: 
 ● the Performance Share Plan (PSP); and 
 ● the Share Matching Plan (SMP). 
Under the PSP the policy for Executive Directors is that an annual award of shares is made of 100% of salary per annum, which is the normal maximum limit under the 
Plan (although in exceptional circumstances an award of up to 200% of their salary may be made). 
The Executive Directors are also able to participate in the SMP. Under the SMP, since 1 May 2010, executives may invest up to 90% of base salary in any rolling three-year 
period (i.e. an average annual level of co-investment of 30% per annum, with the opportunity to invest a higher amount in any of the three ﬁnancial years). In 2010,  
Mr Humphrey invested 90% of salary and Mr Amos 60%. In 2011, Mr Amos invested a further 30%, taking his investment up to the maximum of 90% of salary. 
Therefore, as both Mr Humphrey and Mr Amos have reached their three-year investment limit, no SMP investments may be made by them in 2012. 
Investment shares are matched at a ratio of two-for-one (grossed up for tax). The shares lodged against the SMP scheme have to be held by the Directors throughout  
the performance period. 
Awards granted under the PSP and SMP are subject to three-year performance conditions. The performance conditions for the awards made in 2011 and forthcoming 
2012 awards are set out below. The conditions applying to awards made prior to 2011 are set out as footnotes to the table of PSP and SMP interests. 
Currently, the policy is that half of awards made under the PSP and SMP are based on the Group’s relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance and half are on the 
ﬁnancial performance of the Wireless Division over the three-year vesting period. The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that this provides a suitable blend of targets, 
ensuring a focus on both the delivery of above market returns to shareholders and delivery of the core ﬁnancial performance applicable to the Group’s strategy and plans.
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  49
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
PSP AND SMP 2011 AWARDS PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 
 ● Half of awards are based on the Company’s relative TSR compared with the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Sector. The following vesting schedule  
will apply:
TSR ranking Proportion of shares vesting 
Below median        0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile or above        100%
 ● Half of the award will be based on the adjusted PBIT performance of the Wireless division and split into two parts: 
1. 75% (i.e. 37 .5% of the total grant) will be based on the sum of the PBIT of the Wireless division in each of the three ﬁnancial years of the performance period. 
The following vesting schedule will apply to this part of the award:
Total PBIT of Wireless division for 2012, 2013 and 2014  Proportion of shares vesting 
Less than £54m        0%
£54m 25%
Between £54m and £64m Pro rata from 25% to 100% 
£64m or above        100%
2. 25% (i.e. 12.5% of award) will be paid if in any one year of the performance period the PBIT of the Wireless division is in excess of £23.4m (which was the sum  
of the record years of PBIT the Handset and Network Testing businesses that now make up the Wireless division achieved in 2007 and 2009 respectively).
PERFORMANCE TO DATE
If 30 April 2012 were the end of the performance period, the Company’s TSR over the performance period to date would have placed it within the top quartile 
of the comparator group, which would result in full vesting of that element of the awards.
Total PBIT of Wireless division for 2012, 2013 and 2014  Proportion of upper end of target range achieved so far 
PBIT for 2012 – £26.8m (upper end of target range over the full three years: £64m)  42% 
In respect of measure 2 above, the 2012 PBIT result for the Wireless division totalled £26.8m, exceeding the performance target required of £23.4m. This element  
will therefore vest at the end of the performance period. 
PSP 2012 AWARDS PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 
 ● Half of the award will be based on the Company’s relative TSR compared with the FTSE techMARK index which has replaced the previously used FTSE Software and 
Computer Services sector. The decision to use a new comparative index was taken due to the dwindling number of constituents in the previously used index. By way  
of example the number of companies in the FTSE Software and Computer Services index has declined from 23 a year ago to an estimated 15 companies at present, 
assuming that recently announced agreed takeovers are completed. The view taken by the Committee was, that such a small sample of comparators could produce 
distorted outcomes. By way of comparison FTSE techMARK comprises 63 companies including most of those in the FTSE Computer Software and Services sector. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
50
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
TSR ranking Proportion of shares vesting 
Below median        0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile or above        100%
 ● Half of the award will be based on the sum of the PBIT of the Wireless division in each of the three ﬁnancial years of the performance period. The following vesting 
schedule will apply to this part of the award: 
Total PBIT of Wireless division for 2013, 2014 and 2015  Proportion of shares vesting 
Less than £105m        0%
£105m 25%
Between £105-120m Pro rata from 25% to 100% 
£120m or above        100%
In addition, the Committee will also carry out a qualitative assessment of the performance of the Group as a whole when deciding whether to release the shares under  
the PBIT element of the PSP and SMP. This will ensure that there has been no event outside the Wireless division that would make a vesting inappropriate. 
In the event that acquisitions or disposals are made during the three-year period, the Committee may, with appropriate ﬁnancial advice, make adjustments to the 
PBIT target. Furthermore, the PBIT target will be measured on a consistent basis with respect to intercompany charges and exceptional items. 
Finally, in the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee can decide to determine vesting of the entire awards by reference to the TSR performance 
conditions (if, for example, it proves impractical to measure performance against PBIT targets at the relevant time).
The Committee will keep the structure and operation of the Company’s share incentive arrangements under regular review to ensure they take due account of market/
best practice and the Company’s strategic and risk management objectives and do not encourage excessive operational risk taking. 
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
To provide a further alignment of interest with shareholders, the Executive Directors participating in the PSP and SMP, when exercising an award, are required to retain  
in shares an amount equal in value to 50% of the after-tax gain made until they have built up a shareholding equal to 100% of base salary. Both Executive Directors  
held in excess of 100% of salary in shares at the date of this report.
The use of new issue or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under the share plans is subject to a 15% dilution limit in any ten-year period. The current potential 
dilution is below this level. The Committee, aware of shareholders’ views in connection with this matter, continues to take active steps to control the dilutive effect  
of the Company’s share incentives and is currently working under an informal dilution limit of 10%. The actual potential dilution is currently 7.7% (2011: 7.7%). 
OTHER SHARE PLANS 
RECRUITMENT AWARD TO RICHARD AMOS 
In addition to the long-term incentive plans detailed above, the Committee awarded Mr Amos a one-off Restricted Share Award on the commencement of his 
employment. The award of 150,000 ordinary shares was granted on 10 December 2009. No consideration was paid by Mr Amos for the award. The Committee  
conﬁrms that the award was felt to be necessary to facilitate the recruitment of Mr Amos. 
The award vested on 10 December 2011, and the value of the award based on the mid-market value on the date of exercise was £130,035. After selling 78,276 shares  
to pay for tax, national insurance and dealing costs Mr Amos retained 71,724 shares, which were added to his shareholding in the Company. 
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION
As disclosed last year, Mr Humphrey was awarded a nil cost option for 20,134 shares on 30 June 2011 as part of last year’s remuneration package review. This award  
vests after one year and must be exercised within ﬁve years of the grant date. The Committee believed that the grant of this award was more appropriate than 
increasing Mr Humphrey’s ﬁxed cash remuneration and, as such, it was granted without any performance conditions. 51
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
SHARESAVE AND SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN
The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Company’s Sharesave Plan and the Share Incentive Plan, which are available to all UK employees. 
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN 
In 2007, the Company introduced a Management Incentive Plan (MIP) for key employees. The MIP is not available to Executive Directors and all awards are settled  
using market purchase shares or cash equivalent. Further details of the MIP are contained in note 10 on page 79. 
CONVERSION OF EXISTING AWARDS TO NIL COST OPTIONS 
On 1 June 2011, the Remuneration Committee approved the conversion of existing outstanding awards (structured as conditional awards) under the Performance Share 
Plan and Management Incentive Plan to nil cost options with a ten-year exercise period. It was felt that this would give the participants more ﬂexibility as to when they 
could obtain their shares under the plans. There was no change to the performance conditions or other terms under which the awards were ﬁrst granted. All awards issued 
since 1 January 2010 have been issued as nil cost options with performance conditions attached as explained above. 
SERVICE CONTRACTS 
The Committee’s policy is that all Executive Directors’ service contracts will be rolling contracts of one year’s duration. Information regarding the service contracts  
of Executive Directors who served during the year is summarised in the table below. 
Executive Director      Date of contract  Notice period 
Christopher Humphrey 3 February 2003 12 months
Richard Amos      2 November 2009 12 months
Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external Non-Executive Directorships or ofﬁces without the approval of the Board. During the year the Board gave approval 
on 14 November 2011 for Mr Humphrey to hold the position of Non-Executive Director at Alterian plc. Due to the subsequent takeover of that company Mr Humphrey 
resigned from the position on 31 January 2012. Mr Humphrey retained gross fees of £25,077 for services during his period of tenure. 
The table below sets out the rights the Company has to pay Executive Directors in lieu of notice together with the contractual compensation payable if the Company 
terminates the contract (other than for cause) without notice. 
Months’ salary and contractual beneﬁts Months’ salary payable in equivalent 
Executive Director payable within seven days of termination
1
 number of monthly instalments
2
Christopher Humphrey     6 6
Richard Amos     – 12
1 Contractual beneﬁts for Christopher Humphrey alone include the annual performance bonus he would have received had he continued to be employed from the date of termination  
until the expiry of the notice period. 
2 Payments cease, in effect, if the Executive Director commences employment with a new employer during the payment period. 
Other than in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, the provisions of Mr Humphrey’s service contract will be honoured in full. These legacy contractual provisions 
were agreed many years ago when standard practice for service contracts was different to current prevailing corporate governance standards. 
The Company adopted the above described approach to determining the compensation that is payable in the event that Mr Humphrey’s service contract is terminated as 
it believed at the time of agreeing his contract that it was in shareholders’ interests that the maximum obligations of each party in such circumstances were transparent 
and agreed in advance to provide certainty. 
If the Company terminates Mr Humphrey’s employment without cause, the Committee will be asked to exercise any discretion it has under the terms of any share 
incentive plans in his favour. If the Remuneration Committee determines not to follow this recommendation, he shall be entitled to damages. ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
52
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
The Company is aware of the provisions now in place for the UK Corporate Governance Code which states that compensation payments should reﬂect a departing 
Director’s obligation to mitigate his loss. However, the Committee considers that the cost of amending Mr Humphrey’s contract in respect of the above (including the 
cost of any compensation he might be entitled to claim) could outweigh the existing termination costs under his contract and therefore such a change is not the most 
economical solution for shareholders. 
These terms do not apply to Mr Amos; the provisions in his contract reﬂect the Committee’s standard ongoing policy for new Executive Director appointments, which are 
fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. These are that, in the event of termination without cause, he would be entitled to 12 months’ 
salary only, paid in monthly instalments and with mitigation. There are no obligations on the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion in respect of the terms  
of the share incentive plans. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Mr Brendish has a three-year term of ofﬁce with six months’ notice of termination required by either party. Mr Hurst-Brown, Mr Clifford and Mr Taylor each have  
a three-year term of ofﬁce with no notice period or provision for compensation for loss of ofﬁce. 
Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ terms of employment can be found on page 43. 
The Board reviews the independent Non-Executive Directors’ fees annually, in the course of which it compares fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of comparable 
companies. Fees recognise the additional responsibilities undertaken by the Non-Executive Directors in chairing the Board and its Committees. In addition to their  
fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable business expenses. 
The Chairman’s fees are set by the Remuneration Committee. He is not present at any discussion of his own remuneration. The fees for Non-Executives, as reported  
in the 2011 Remuneration Report, were increased on 1 May 2011. There was no increase in Non-Executive Directors fees on 1 May 2012. 
200
150
100
50
0
30 April 2012 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 30 April 2007
Value £
FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index FTSE techMARK All-Share Index Source: Thomson Reuters Anite Group
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
This graph shows the value, by 30 April 2012, of £100 invested in Anite plc on 30 April 2007 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services 
Index and the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends. 
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  53
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
AUDITED INFORMATION 
DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS FOR YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012
Car Subtotal Pension  Beneﬁts in Total Total 
Salary allowance salary contributions Bonus kind 2012 2011
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS        
Christopher Humphrey 334,000 – 334,000 – 417,500 11,881 763,381 730,169
Richard Amos
1
210,000 14,400 224,400 10,500 262,500 4,563 501,963 443,703
544,000 14,400 558,400 10,500 680,000 16,444 1,265,344 1,173,872
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS        
Clay Brendish 139,000 – 139,000 – – – 139,000 135,000
David Hurst-Brown 47,000 – 47,000 – – – 47,000 42,000
Nigel Clifford 40,000 – 40,000 – – – 40,000 37,000
Paul Taylor 45,000 – 45,000 – – – 45,000 42,000
815,000 14.400 829,400 10,500 680,000 16,444 1,536,344 1,429,872
1 Mr Amos has elected for £12,500 of his bonus to be paid to the Company pension plan (2011: £30,000)
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SHARE OPTIONS
 Options held Options Options held First
 at 1 May Issued in at 30 April Exercise Date of exercisable 
2011 year 2012 price grant date Expiry date
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY       
Long Term Incentive Plan  571,226 – 571,226 34.5p 15/07/2003 15/07/2006 14/07/2013
 149,912 – 149,912 56.5p 23/01/2004 23/01/2007 22/01/2014
 187,500 – 187,500 48.5p 16/08/2004 16/08/2007 15/08/2014
Executive options – total 908,638 – 908,638
SAYE  41,466 – 41,466 22.5p 31/07/2009 01/09/2014 01/03/2015
SAYE – 10,439 10,439 59.1p 01/08/2011 01/09/2016 01/03/2017
TOTAL OPTIONS 950,104 10,439 960,543
RICHARD AMOS       
SAYE – 15,270 15,270 59.1p 01/08/2011 01/09/2016 01/03/2017
TOTAL OPTIONS – 15,270 15,270
The closing price of an ordinary share of Anite plc as at 30 April 2012 was 124p (2011: 64.25p). The range of closing prices during the year ended 30 April 2012 was  
128p (high) (2011: 69.25p) and 56.75p (low) (2011: 31.00p). ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
54
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN, SHARE MATCHING PLAN AND OTHER SHARE AWARDS 
For the reasons explained above, on the 1 June 2011 the Remuneration Committee resolved that all existing Conditional Awards under the Management Incentive Plan, 
Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan be converted to nil cost options, subject to the rules of the respective plans. The 2010 and 2011 PSP and SMP awards 
were both issued as nil cost options. 
Awards at Options Options Options Vesting/ﬁrst 
1 May awarded exercised in Lapsed at 30 April Share price  exercisable
2011 during year year during year 2012 at award Date of grant date Expiry date
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Performance Share Plan
3
 683,784 – – (455,742) 228,042 37.0p 18/08/2008 18/08/2011 17/08/2018
Performance Share Plan
3
 1,148,000 – – (843,206) 304,794 27.0p 23/12/2008 23/12/2011 22/12/2018
Performance Share Plan
3
 830,350 – – – 830,350 28.0p 10/07/2009 10/07/2012 9/07/2019
Performance Share Plan
4
 861,111 – – – 861,111 36.0p 7/07/2010 7/07/2013 6/07/2020
Performance Share Plan – 448,322 – – 448,322 74.50p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
Share Matching Plan
4
 3,207,818 – – – 3,207,818 35.50p 7/07/2010 7/07/2013 6/07/2020
Share option award
2
– 20,134 – – 20,134 74.50p 30/06/2011 30/06/2012 29/06/2016
Total 6,731,063 468,456 – (1,298,948) 5,900,571    
RICHARD AMOS
Performance Share Plan
4
 513,889 – – – 513,889 36.0p 7/07/2010 7/07/2013 6/07/2020
Performance Share Plan – 281,879 – – 281,879 74.50p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
Share Matching Plan
4
 1,276,229 – – – 1,276,229 35.50p 7/07/2010 7/07/2013 6/07/2020
Share Matching Plan – 352,349 – – 352,349 74.50p 30/06/2011 30/06/2014 29/06/2021
Restricted share award
1
 150,000 – (150,000) – – 32.25p 10/12/2009 10/12/2011 10/12/2011
Total 1,940,118 634,228 (150,000) – 2,424,346    
STEVE ROWLEY (FORMER DIRECTOR)    
Performance Share Plan
3
 351,352 – (43,339) (308,013) – 37.0p 18/08/2008 18/08/2011 17/02/2012
Total 351,352 – (43,339) (308,013) –    
1. These conditional shares were not converted to nil cost options at 1 June 2011.
2. This award made in 2011 was for nil cost options to the value of £15,000.
3. PSP awards 2008 and 2009 performance conditions.
 a)Half of each award is subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target. This is measured relative to the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Sector, with 25% of this portion  
of awards vesting at the median and full vesting at the upper quartile. Straight-line vesting applies between these points. 
 b)Half of each award is assessed by reference to Anite’s Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance. The Company’s EPS growth must match or exceed the UK Government’s Retail Price Index (RPI) 
plus 4% compound per annum over the performance period, at which point 25% vests, rising to full vesting for growth of RPI + 12% p.a. or more. 
The vesting position of the awards made in 2008 and 2009 is as follows:
% of award vesting
Grant date Performance period EPS element TSR element Total
August 2008 1 May 2008 to 30 April 2011 0 33.35 33.35
December 2008 1 May 2008 to 30 April 2011 0 26.55 26.55
July 2009* 1 May 2009 to 30 April 2012 50 50 100
* The July 2009 award will vest on 10 July 2012 assuming the other conditions of the scheme continue to be met.
4. PSP and SMP awards 2010 performance conditions 
 a)Half of the award is based on the Company’s relative TSR compared with the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Sector, with 25% of this portion of awards vesting at the median 
and full vesting at the upper quartile. Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
 b)Half of the award is based on the adjusted Proﬁt before Interest and Tax (PBIT) performance of the Wireless division and split into two parts: 
i. 75% (i.e. 37 .5% of the total grant) will be based on the sum of the PBIT of the Wireless division in each of the three ﬁnancial years of the performance period. The following vesting schedule 
will apply to this part of the award: 
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  55
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
Total PBIT of Wireless division for 2011, 2012 and 2013  Proportion of shares vesting 
Less than £42.5m 0%
£42.5m 25%
Between £42.5m and £50m Pro rata from 25% to 100% 
£50m or above 100%
ii. 25% (i.e. 12.5% of award) will be paid if in any one year of the performance period the PBIT of the Wireless division is in excess of £23.4m (which was the sum of the record years of  
PBIT the Handset and Network Testing businesses achieved in 2007 and 2009 respectively). 
Note that the two proﬁt performance measures above will be assessed independently of each other. In addition, these are both independent of the TSR target, which will continue to apply  
to half of all awards. Performance to date under the 2010 awards indicates that TSR performance to 30 April 2012 would have placed the Company in the top quartile if that were the end  
of the period. 
Performance to date under the element related to the aggregate PBIT of the Wireless division is shown below: 
Total PBIT of Wireless division for 2011, 2012 and 2013 Proportion of target achieved to date 
Proﬁt for 2011 & 2012 – £43.2m (target £50m) 86%
In respect of the second performance measure above, the 2012 results for the Wireless division totalled £26.8m, exceeding the performance target required of £23.4m. This element will therefore 
vest at the end of the performance period (subject to the service condition being met).
FORMER DIRECTOR 
When Steve Rowley resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2008 it was agreed that his Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2008 should not lapse 
but should be capable of vesting on the agreed vesting date, subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are satisﬁed at that time and a pro rata reduction 
on the size of the original award up to the date of resignation. Following the announcement of the 2011 results the TSR element of this award partially vested and 43,339 
options were released to Mr Rowley with remaining options lapsing. The value of the options vesting at the date of exercise was £25,911, being the gross proceeds (before 
tax and national insurance deductions) from the sale of the shares in the market.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The interests of the Directors who held ofﬁce at 30 April 2012 (and their immediate family) in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as shown in the table 
below. All interests are beneﬁcial. 
Number of shares held Number of shares held 
as at 30 April 2012 as at 1 May 2011
Clay Brendish      291,222 291,222
Christopher Humphrey      1,262,249 1,233,021
Richard Amos      481,424 343,349
David Hurst-Brown      180,000 180,000
Nigel Clifford      30,000 30,000
Paul Taylor – –
In the period from 1 May 2012 to 30 June 2012 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document) the only changes in the interests of  
the Directors related to the monthly investments of the Executive Directors in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). During this period, Mr Humphrey acquired 420 and  
Mr Amos 420 ordinary shares under the SIP. 
This report has been approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: 
DAVID HURST-BROWN 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 July 2012 ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
56
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board which comprises two Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, who was considered independent  
on his appointment to the Board on 4 October 2005. 
During the year, the members of the Committee were Paul Taylor (Chairman), Clay Brendish and David Hurst-Brown. The Board considers that Paul Taylor, who  
is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certiﬁed Accountants, has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.
Details of the relevant experience of the other committee members are detailed on pages 34 and 35. 
The Company provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members. 
Having reviewed the composition of the Committee during the year, the Board is satisﬁed the Committee has the skills and resources to fulﬁl effectively its roles  
and responsibilities, including those in connection with risk and internal controls. Members are offered relevant training where necessary to ensure such skills are  
kept current and at appropriate levels.
ROLE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE 
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which can be found on the Company’s website. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities include: 
 ● making recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the Company’s external auditors, assessing their performance and independence,  
monitoring the provision of non-audit services and any potential impact on independence; 
 ● reviewing the annual and interim ﬁnancial statements and results announcements of the Company, including reviewing the Company’s accounting policies; 
 ● monitoring and reviewing the Company’s systems of internal control and risk management, including the “whistle-blowing” procedures; and 
 ● reviewing the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors, the results of their work and the response of management. 
MEETINGS
The Committee invites others, including the external auditors, the Group Finance Director, and the Chief Executive, to attend its meetings as appropriate. The Group 
Financial Controller is the Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee meets with the external auditors without any Executive Directors present, at least twice annually and more often if this is considered appropriate. 
WORK DURING THE YEAR 
During the period under review the Committee met four times. The meetings were held to review the results of the external audit for the previous ﬁnancial year;  
discuss and agree scope of internal and external audits and reviews for the year. Details of attendance at each formal meeting are shown in the table in the Corporate 
governance report on page 42. 
The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the ﬁnancial year as follows: 
EXTERNAL AUDIT 
The Committee has considered the independence and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP. Deloitte LLP have been the Group’s auditors since September 2002. The Audit 
Committee considered that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisﬁed with their independence and effectiveness. The external auditors  
are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every ﬁve years and the current lead audit partner, who was appointed in  
October 2008, has completed four year end audits. 
Non-audit fee work conducted by Deloitte LLP over the past year for tax services, corporate ﬁnance advice and half-year review assurance services amounted to  
35% of the audit fee work. The Committee considers that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors. 
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary in the current year to run a tender process for the audit work. There are no contractual obligations restricting the  
Group’s choice of external auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit. 
During the period the Committee reviewed and approved the scope of the audit as proposed by Deloitte LLP. 
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE  57
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The Committee reviewed the interim and annual ﬁnancial statements. The Committee received and considered reports from the external auditors on accounting 
and judgemental issues which required its attention. The reports were based on a full audit (Annual) and a limited scope review (Interim). 
During the year the Committee reviewed speciﬁc judgements in a number of areas including revenue recognition on large contracts, assumptions supporting intangible 
asset impairment reviews and obsolescence provisions for inventory levels recognising the increasing importance of hardware within the Wireless division business model.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Board retains the responsibility for risk assessment and monitoring as explained in the Corporate governance report on page 44. The Audit Committee is delegated 
the responsibility for assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control regime. It undertook this during the year by reviewing the principal risks facing the Group 
and its trading operations and the necessary mitigation and monitoring activities, and by receiving reports from the internal audit function, Project Management Director, 
Group Financial Controller, IT Director and from the external auditors.
INTERNAL AUDIT 
The Committee agreed in July 2006 to create an internal review function, headed by a member of the Group ﬁnance team who, under the control of the Audit 
Committee, carries out a plan of detailed reviews throughout the operating companies. Where additional resource is required, this is sourced either from an external 
professional ﬁrm or by selecting divisional staff who carry out peer reviews in divisions other than their own. This internal review function does not represent an 
independent internal audit function as deﬁned by professional internal audit standards, but has been a signiﬁcant enhancement in the Group’s internal control framework. 
The Committee considers that the current internal review function is suitable given the size and complexity of the business. 
The Committee agreed the scope of the work at the start of the year and requested two reviews be conducted during the year. These were reviews across the Group by  
the Group ﬁnance team of inventory management and contracting processes. External legal assistance was used in the latter review. Both reviews concluded that the 
overall controls in the areas tested were appropriate and effective, and recommended minor improvements which are expected to be implemented over the next year. 
PAUL TAYLOR 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
2 July 2012 58
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these 
ﬁnancial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 ● properly select and apply accounting policies;
 ● present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
 ● provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
 ● make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
 ● the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position 
and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 ● the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY   RICHARD AMOS
Chief Executive    Group Finance Director
2 July 2012     2 July 2012  59
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANITE PLC
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Anite plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprises the Group income statement, the Group statement of 
comprehensive income, the Group and parent company balance sheet, the Group and parent cash ﬂow statement, the Group and parent company statements of changes 
in equity and the related notes 1 to 32 and notes 1 to 16 respectively. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
 ● the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 April 2012 and of the Group’s proﬁt  
for the year then ended;
 ● the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
 ● the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance  
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 ● the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements,  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
 ● the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 ● the information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 ● adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 ● the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
 ● certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 ● we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 ● the Directors’ statement, contained within the Report of the Directors on page 38, in relation to going concern; 
 ● the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed 
for our review; and
 ● certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
PETER O’DONOGHUE (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
2 July 2012 60
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
REVENUE 3.1 122,546 93,694
Cost of sales (50,105) (38,184)
GROSS PROFIT 72,441 55,510
Distribution costs  (12,463) (11,358)
Research and development (17,096) (12,838)
Administrative expenses  (20,383) (17,354)
OPERATING EXPENSES 3.5 (49,942) (41,550)
Operating proﬁt before share-based payments, amortisation  
of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs  3.2 28,772 17,660
Share-based payments 10 (2,889) 126
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14 (3,340) (3,582)
Restructuring costs 4 (44) (244)
OPERATING PROFIT 3.2 22,499 13,960
Other gains and losses 5 487 19
Finance income 7 353 484
Finance charges 7 (1,152) (2,242)
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX 22,187 12,221
Tax expense 11 (5,974) (3,270)
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 16,213 8,951
Proﬁt from discontinued operations 6 2,253 484
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 8 18,466 9,435
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent  18,466 9,435
CONTINUING AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Earnings per share  – basic 12 6.5p 3.3p
– diluted 6.0p 3.1p
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Earnings per share  – basic 12 5.7p 3.1p
– diluted 5.3p 2.9p
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 18,466 9,435
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (6,745) 1,941
Cash ﬂow hedges 237 404
Recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges to proﬁt or loss 7 42 133
Tax charge taken directly to other comprehensive income 11 (193) (559)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 11,807 11,354
The Directors have reconsidered the requirements of IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” with respect to the presentation of certain items relating to share 
transactions, which were previously reported in other comprehensive income. In light of this, they have re-presented those items in the statement of changes in equity,  
on the basis that it is most appropriate to regard them as transactions with equity holders. 61
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Issued Share Capital
share premium Own Merger redemption Other Retained 
capital account shares reserve reserve reserves earnings Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
BALANCE AT 1 MAY 2010 33,652 25,500 (3,895) 722 2,741 (6,748) 25,978 77,950
CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE  
YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2011
Total comprehensive income  
for the year ––––– 1,919 9,435 11,354
Issue of share capital 28 60––––– 88
Purchase of own shares into 
employee beneﬁt trust – – (5,351) –––– (5,351)
Gain on sale of shares from 
employee beneﬁt trust – – 17––– (12) 5
Recognition of equity-settled 
share-based payments after tax – ––––– 480 480
Dividend paid –––––– (2,826) (2,826)
BALANCE AT 30 APRIL 2011 33,680 25,560 (9,229) 722 2,741 (4,829) 33,055 81,700
CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE  
YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2012
Total comprehensive income  
for the year ––––– (6,659) 18,466 11,807
Issue of share capital 22 68––––– 90
Purchase of own shares into 
employee beneﬁt trust – – (1,628) –––– (1,628)
Gain on sale of shares from 
employee beneﬁt trust – – 875––– (871) 4
Recognition of equity-settled 
share-based payments after tax – ––––– 3,299 3,299
Dividend paid –––––– (3,171) (3,171)
BALANCE AT 30 APRIL 2012 33,702 25,628 (9,982) 722 2,741 (11,488) 50,778 92,101 62
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill 13 54,280 58,690
Other intangible assets 14 15,892 19,254
Property, plant and equipment 15 10,967 9,226
Deferred tax assets 25 4,489 2,491
 85,628 89,661
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 17 10,195 4,722
Trade and other receivables 18 32,856 31,939
Derivative ﬁnancial assets 23 92 486
Current tax assets 157 224
Cash and cash equivalents 19 16,947 37,667
 60,247 75,038
TOTAL ASSETS 145,875 164,699
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 20 (37,741) (30,538)
Bank borrowings 21 – (9,995)
Current tax payable (7,666) (8,257)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 23 – (22,394)
Provisions 26 (4,899) (4,794)
 (50,306) (75,978)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (2,527) (3,561)
Provisions 26 (941) (3,460)
 (3,468) (7,021)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (53,774) (82,999)
NET ASSETS 92,101 81,700
EQUITY
Issued share capital 27 33,702 33,680
Share premium account  25,628 25,560
Own shares 27(d) (9,982) (9,229)
Merger reserve 722 722
Capital redemption reserve  2,741 2,741
Other reserves 28 (11,488) (4,829)
Retained earnings  50,778 33,055
TOTAL EQUITY 92,101 81,700
The ﬁnancial statements of Anite plc (Company no. 01798114) were approved by the Board on 2 July 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Chief Executive
RICHARD AMOS
Group Finance Director  63
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Continuing operations 16,213 8,951
Discontinued operations 2,253 484
 18,466 9,435
ADJUSTMENTS FOR:
Tax charge – continuing and discontinued 11 3,721 2,786
Other (gains) and losses 5 (487) (19)
Net ﬁnance charges 7 799 1,758
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 3,280 2,722
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 2,154 1,796
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14 3,340 3,582
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (74) –
Share-based payments charge/(credit) 10 2,889 (126)
Decrease in provisions  (1,907) (1,458)
OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL 32,181 20,476
Increase in inventories  (5,473) (115)
Increase in receivables  (894) (7,260)
Increase in payables  5,160 4,071
Increase in working capital  (1,207) (3,304)
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 30,974 17,172
Interest received 509 190
Interest paid  (1,381) (1,899)
Income taxes paid (5,413) (2,012)
NET CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 24,689 13,451
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Settlement of cross-currency swap  (21,591) –
Purchase of product line and deferred consideration paid  (622) (1,263)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (4,952) (2,836)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 76 –
Purchase of software licences 14 (697) (631)
Expenditure on capitalised product development 14 (2,629) (2,657)
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (30,415) (7,387)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issue of ordinary share capital 90 88
Purchase of own shares into employee beneﬁt trust  (1,628) (5,351)
Proceeds from sale of own shares from employee beneﬁt trust 4 5
Dividend paid to Company’s shareholders 29 (3,171) (2,826)
Repayment of bank loans  (10,000) (5,000)
NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (14,705) (13,084)
NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 22 (20,431) (7,020)
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES (289) (116)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 May  37,667 44,803
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 30 APRIL 19 16,947 37,667 64
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 CORPORATE INFORMATION
Anite plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales whose ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). 
The principal activities of the Company’s subsidiaries are described in note 16.
The Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 2 July 2012. 
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A) BASIS OF PREPARATION
These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modiﬁed by the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments. 
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting as explained on page 38 in the Report of the Directors.
The Group has prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The ﬁnancial statements have also been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, therefore the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with Article 4 of EU IAS regulations.
The signiﬁcant accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The following new 
standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the ﬁrst time in the current period and have been adopted by the Group with no signiﬁcant 
impact on its ﬁnancial performance or position.
IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures” revising the deﬁnition of related parties
IFRIC 19 “Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments” 
Improvements to IFRSs (2010)
B) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, all of which are made up to 30 April each 
year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from 
its activities. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
The results of companies acquired are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred from the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
C) BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair value of the assets given, 
equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Where an acquisition includes a contingent consideration arrangement, this is measured at its fair value on the date of acquisition. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
that are made within the measurement period are adjusted against the cost of acquisition.
D) GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identiﬁable assets 
and liabilities of the subsidiary at the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually (see note 2G). Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement 
and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the amount of goodwill attributable is included in determining the proﬁt or loss on disposal or closure.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
E) INTANGIBLE ASSETS
I) SOFTWARE LICENCES
Software licences are initially measured at cost. Cost includes the purchase price of the assets and the directly attributable costs of bringing the asset into its intended 
use. After initial recognition, the intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation less any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is charged evenly 
over the assets’ estimated useful life which is typically three years.
II) SEPARATELY IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS ARISING ON BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at their fair value on the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition the intangible asset is carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation less any accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of assets such as customer lists and relationships, technology and R&D 
are assessed over the period that beneﬁts are expected to accrue to the Group. The useful economic lives are reviewed regularly to ensure the recoverability of these 
intangible assets. 
The amortisation period ranges from ﬁve to ten years and is based on equal annual instalments over the assets’ estimated useful life. Amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets is charged as a separate line item on the income statement.
III) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
Expenditure on research activities as deﬁned in IFRS is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised only when its future recoverability can be reasonably assured and both its technical feasibility and commercial 
viability can be demonstrated. The capitalised expenditure represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset from the point at which the above 
criteria are met up to the point at which the product is in use. If the qualifying conditions are not met, such development expenditure is recognised as an expense  
in the period in which it is incurred.
The intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation less any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over 
the useful life of the related asset which management estimate to be no more than ﬁve years.
F) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible ﬁxed assets and freehold properties at rates calculated to write off the cost over the estimated useful lives, on a straight-line basis, 
as follows:
Freehold properties 2% per annum of cost excluding land
Short leasehold properties Length of lease
Ofﬁce equipment and ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 10% to 50% per annum of cost
Vehicles 25% per annum of cost
Computer equipment 33% per annum of cost
Costs relating to short leasehold properties, ofﬁce equipment and ﬁxtures and ﬁttings and vehicles are included in the “plant, ﬁxtures, equipment and motor vehicles” 
category (see note 15).
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and 
is recognised in the income statement. 66
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
G) IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS
Goodwill is tested at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Tangible and intangible 
assets with ﬁnite useful lives are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. 
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the expected cash ﬂows (value in use) 
of the relevant cash-generating unit (“CGU”) or asset and the fair value less cost to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. In the event that an 
asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
H) OTHER INVESTMENTS
Other investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
I) INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROGRESS
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after making allowance for slow-moving and obsolete items. 
Cost represents the expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their present location and condition. The cost is calculated on a FIFO basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
J) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
I) TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
II) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
For the purpose of preparation of the statement of cash ﬂows and the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 
with an original maturity period of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiary’s cash management are included in cash and cash 
equivalents where they have a legal right of set-off.
III) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Debt and equity instruments are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
IV) EQUITY INSTRUMENTS
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the 
Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
V) BANK BORROWINGS
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Subsequent measurement is made at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated 
future cash payments through the expected life of the ﬁnancial liability to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
VI) TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.  67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
K) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations.
The use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of ﬁnancial 
derivatives. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, if used by the Group, are for hedging purposes to alter the risk proﬁle of an existing underlying exposure to the Group.
CASH FLOW HEDGE
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges is recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement under the heading of “other gains 
and losses”.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in the period when the hedged item is 
recognised in proﬁt or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in proﬁt or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
FAIR VALUE HEDGE
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the gain or loss attributable to the change in fair value of the hedged item as a result of the underlying 
risk being hedged is recognised in the income statement. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is similarly attributable to the change in fair value of the hedged 
risk is recognised in the income statement under the same line item.
HEDGES OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash ﬂow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the 
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other reserves; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement  
under the heading of “other gains and losses”.
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related 
to those of host contracts.
L) PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, when it is probable that an outﬂow of economic 
beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reﬂects, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability. 
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised within ﬁnance charges.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
M) LEASING
The Group does not hold ﬁnance leases. All leasing transactions are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Beneﬁts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 68
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
N) FOREIGN CURRENCY
The Company’s functional currency, and the currency in which these consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented, is pounds sterling. 
I) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are 
recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
II) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign 
operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
retranslation are recognised directly in other reserves. Exchange gains and losses arising on the translation of the Group’s net investment in foreign entities are also 
recognised in other reserves. On disposal of a foreign entity the cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement and recognised as part of the 
gain or loss on disposal.
O) REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable from customers for software and hardware products and related services supplied by the Group, 
net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
The Group earns revenue from the following main sources:
1. Sales of software licences and software products with associated hardware;
2. Sales of software development effort, implementation and systems integration services. These are sold either on a “time and materials” or “ﬁxed price” basis;
3. Sales of maintenance and support of previously sold software and hardware; and
4. Sales of managed services, such as application hosting, whereby the Group contracts to provide an agreed service for a ﬁxed period of time.
Whenever possible the individual performance obligations of the contract are unbundled so that the transaction price is allocated to the separate performance 
obligations of the contract based on their stand-alone selling prices. Revenue is recognised when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; the Company’s 
fee is ﬁxed or determinable; delivery/control is passed to the customer to satisfy the performance obligations and it is probable that the resulting future economic 
beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Company.
Revenue from the sale of software relates mainly to sales of perpetual licences, which provide the customer with the right to use the Group’s products for an unlimited 
period. Revenue from the sale of perpetual licences and software products (including associated hardware and other third-party product) is normally recognised on 
delivery unless there are any acceptance criteria speciﬁed in the contract; then part or all of the revenue, depending on the scale of the acceptance conditions, is deferred 
until all the acceptance conditions have been satisﬁed.
Revenue from any ﬁxed term software licences or software rental is recognised evenly over the period of the licence.  69
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
O) REVENUE RECOGNITION CONTINUED
For other software revenues:
 ● Revenue from the sale of test case software in our Handset Testing business, where validation by the various standards bodies may be required, is recognised on 
delivery, with an amount retained until ﬁnal validation is received.
 ● Revenue from software development, training, implementation and any other services contracted on a time and materials basis is recognised in line with when the 
work is performed at the rate contracted.
 ● Software development done on a ﬁxed price basis is recognised on a percentage completion basis over the life of the contract. Provision is made for any expected 
losses on contracts yet to be completed. 
Where associated services (e.g. signiﬁcant software development) are essential to the functionality of the software then the software licence and services are bundled 
and recognised on a percentage completion basis based on project milestones over the period of the contract.
Maintenance and support revenue is generally recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the related agreement, taking into account any free maintenance periods.
Managed services revenue is recognised over the life of the contract. 
All ﬁnance income is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it arises.
P) TAXATION
The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of 
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The liability for current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts 
will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 70
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Q) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
I) RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS
Payments to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement beneﬁt schemes 
are dealt with as payments to deﬁned contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a deﬁned contribution 
retirement beneﬁt scheme. The Group has no deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
II) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments”. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity 
instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group operates several equity-settled share-based payment plans for its employees. The Group does not operate separate cash-settled share-based payment plans; 
however the employers’ NIC liability arising on the outstanding awards is treated as such an arrangement for accounting purposes. The Group holds an accrual for this 
NIC liability with any movement in the period being charged or credited to share-based payments in the income statement.
The Group operates an Inland Revenue approved employee share option scheme (“SAYE”), which allows employees the ability to purchase the Group’s ordinary shares 
at a discount to the current market value. The fair value of the estimated number of shares expected to vest is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period. 
The Group has granted executive options, which include approved option plans and long-term incentive plans. The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as an 
expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
R) ADOPTION OF NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
At the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements, the following standards, interpretations and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory for the Group and 
early adoption has not been applied:
IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” covering classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial assets
IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” introducing a single consolidation model for all entities based on control
IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” removing the option to apply the proportional consolidation method when accounting for jointly con trolled entities
IFRS 12  “Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities” requiring enhanced disclosures about both consolidated entities and u nconsolidated entities 
in which an entity has involvement
IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement” deﬁning fair value, setting out a framework for its measurement and required disclosures
IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements” amended for items not included in IFRS 10
IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” amended for conformance with new standards
Amendment to IFRIC 14 “Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement”
Amendment to IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of IFRS”
Amendment to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”
Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”
Amendment to IAS 12 “Income Taxes”
Amendment to IAS 19 “Employee Beneﬁts”
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements in the period 
of initial application.  71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
S) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect items reported. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and make estimates about the future. The areas requiring a higher 
degree of judgement, or areas where estimates and assumptions are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, are discussed below:
I) GOODWILL
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the “value in use” of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The value in use calculation includes estimates and assumptions, which are disclosed in note 13.
II) INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The assessment of commercial viability relies on estimates regarding the expected future cash generation of new products and the technical feasibility of the 
development involves a degree of judgement as to when this is achieved.
III) REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Group undertakes ﬁxed price contracts that require estimates of the total revenue and total costs expected on each contract along with judgement in determining 
whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably.
Management has exercised a degree of judgement in setting the criteria used for determining when revenue that involves several deliverable elements should be 
recognised on a bundled or unbundled basis.
IV) TAXATION
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, estimates are made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for 
tax purposes is uncertain. Where the ﬁnal outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous assessments, a change to the carrying value of 
income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which such a determination is made.
V) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
The calculation of the fair value on date of grant used in share-based payment transactions requires determining the most appropriate valuation model, which is 
dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant, and estimates of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model, including volatility and dividend yield. 
These assumptions are detailed in note 10.
The total amount of this fair value to be expensed, over the vesting period, is determined using assumptions about the non-market vesting conditions that determine the 
number of shares that the employee will ultimately receive.
The accrual made for the NIC liability on share-based compensation is based on assumptions of likely vesting and the share price. 72
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
3 REVENUE AND SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
3.1 REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
Own product software licences  52,561 39,198
Hardware and other third-party product 30,959 18,779 
Bespoke services, systems integration and implementation of software products  7,908 7,720 
Managed services  4,552 4,467 
Software maintenance and support  26,566 22,572 
Other – 958
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 3.2 122,546 93,694
Finance income 7 353 484
TOTAL REVENUE 122,899 94,178
3.2 OPERATING SEGMENTS – PRIMARY BASIS
The Group is organised into four operating segments: Handset Testing, Network Testing, Travel and Group. With the exception of Group, which performs the head ofﬁce 
function, each operating segment derives its revenue from the development, installation and support of products, mainly software, relating to its relevant industry sector.
Operating segment information under the primary reporting format is as disclosed in the tables below:
Handset Network Total 
Testing Testing Wireless Travel Group Total 
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
External revenue 76,423 26,044 102,467 20,079 – 122,546
Internal revenue –––– 1,583 1,583
TOTAL REVENUE 76,423 26,044 102,467 20,079 1,583 124,129
SEGMENT ADJUSTED1 PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX 21,458 5,311 26,769 4,622 (3,376) 28,015
Net ﬁnance charges before recycled hedge loss –––– 757 757
SEGMENT ADJUSTED1 OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 21,458 5,311 26,769 4,622 (2,619) 28,772
Share-based payments (695) (36) (731) 69 (2,227) (2,889)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (3,340) (3,340) – – (3,340)
Restructuring costs –––– (44) (44)
SEGMENT OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 20,763 1,935 22,698 4,691 (4,890) 22,499
Other gains and losses –––– 487 487
Finance income –––– 353 353
Finance charges –––– (1,152) (1,152)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX 20,763 1,935 22,698 4,691 (5,202) 22,187
Tax expense –––– (5,974) (5,974)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 20,763 1,935 22,698 4,691 (11,176) 16,213
Proﬁt from discontinued operations –––– 2,253 2,253
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 20,763 1,935 22,698 4,691 (8,923) 18,466
1 Segment adjusted operating proﬁts are stated prior to the adjusting items of share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs.  73
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3 REVENUE AND SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
3.2 OPERATING SEGMENTS – PRIMARY BASIS CONTINUED
Handset Network Total 
Testing Testing Wireless Travel Group Total 
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
External revenue 49,543  24,148  73,691  20,003  – 93,694 
Internal revenue –––– 1,370  1,370 
TOTAL REVENUE 49,543  24,148  73,691  20,003  1,370  95,064 
SEGMENT ADJUSTED1 PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX 10,003  6,420  16,423  4,206  (4,594) 16,035 
Net ﬁnance charges before recycled hedge loss –––– 1,625  1,625 
SEGMENT ADJUSTED1 OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 10,003  6,420  16,423  4,206  (2,969) 17,660 
Share-based payments 314  (112) 202  28  (104) 126 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (3,582) (3,582) – – (3,582)
Restructuring costs – (281) (281) – 37 (244)
SEGMENT OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 10,317  2,445  12,762  4,234  (3,036) 13,960 
Other gains and losses –––– 19 19
Finance income –––– 484  484 
Finance charges –––– (2,242) (2,242)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX 10,317  2,445  12,762  4,234  (4,775) 12,221 
Tax expense –––– (3,270) (3,270)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 10,317  2,445  12,762  4,234  (8,045) 8,951 
Proﬁt from discontinued operations –––– 484 484
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 10,317  2,445  12,762  4,234  (7,561) 9,435 
3.3 OTHER INFORMATION
Handset Network Total 
Testing Testing Wireless Travel Group Total 
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
TOTAL ASSETS 38,599 61,687 100,286 11,700 33,889 145,875
Including:
Capital additions in the year 6,799 1,016 7,815 435 119 8,369
ADJUSTED EBITDA CALCULATION
Segment adjusted1 operating proﬁt/(loss) 21,458 5,311 26,769 4,622 (2,619) 28,772
Depreciation 2,454 233 2,687 433 160 3,280
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,701 366 2,067 56 31 2,154
ADJUSTED EBITDA 25,613 5,910 31,523 5,111 (2,428) 34,206
1 Segment adjusted operating proﬁts are stated prior to the adjusting items of share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs. 74
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
3 REVENUE AND SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
3.3 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED
Handset Network Total 
Testing Testing Wireless Travel Group Total 
YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
TOTAL ASSETS 29,811  65,794  95,605  12,161  56,933  164,699 
Including:
Capital additions in the year 4,578  1,113  5,691  114  131  5,936 
Capital acquired in the year – 1,792  1,792  – – 1,792 
ADJUSTED EBITDA CALCULATION
Segment adjusted operating proﬁt/(loss) 10,003  6,420  16,423  4,206  (2,969) 17,660 
Depreciation 1,466  138  1,604  606  512  2,722 
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,367  200  1,567  189  39  1,795 
ADJUSTED EBITDA 12,836  6,758  19,594  5,001  (2,418) 22,177 
3.4 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS – SECONDARY BASIS
The operating segments operate in four principal geographic areas, as set out below.
The following analysis of the Group’s revenue is based on the geographic location of customers irrespective of the origin of the goods or services. The corresponding 
segment assets are based on the geographic location of the assets.
Total revenue
2012 2011
£000 £000
United Kingdom 15,341 15,242
EMEA – excluding United Kingdom 33,557 29,674
The Americas 35,700 25,126
Rest of the World 37,948 23,652
122,546 93,694
Non-current assets
2012 2011
£000 £000
United Kingdom 14,265 16,950
EMEA – excluding United Kingdom 65,557 68,967
The Americas 1,213 1,172
Rest of the World 104 81
81,139 87,170
Unallocated – deferred tax 4,489 2,491
85,628 89,661  75
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3 REVENUE AND SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
3.5 OPERATING EXPENSES
2012 2011
£000 £000
DISTRIBUTION COSTS
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2,243 2,211
– other underlying operating expenses 10,220 9,147
12,463 11,358
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
– amortisation of internally generated assets 1,622 1,230
– other underlying operating expenses 14,377 10,237
15,999 11,467
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1,097 1,371
17,096 12,838
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
– share-based payments 2,889 (126)
– restructuring costs 44 244
– other underlying operating expenses 17,450 17,236
20,383 17,354
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 49,942 41,550
ANALYSED AS:
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (note 14) 3,340 3,582
– restructuring costs (note 4) 44 244
– share-based payments (note 10) 2,889 (126)
ONE-OFF AND NON-TRADING OPERATING EXPENSES EXCLUDED FROM ADJUSTED PROFIT 6,273 3,700
– amortisation of internally generated assets (note 14) 1,622 1,230
– other underlying operating expenses 42,047 36,620
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 49,942 41,550
4 RESTRUCTURING COSTS
Restructuring costs incurred in the year relate to the net impact on the property provision of changes in the provisions for non-operational properties that were originally 
charged within restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs incurred in the prior period relate to the acquisition costs for the purchase of the Invex product line.
2012 2011
£000 £000
Net property provision established/(released) 44 (37)
Costs incurred on acquisition of product line – 281
44 244 76
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
5 OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES
2012 2011
£000 £000
Hedge ineffectiveness on cash ﬂow hedges 236 404
Hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedge 286 237
Change in the fair value of derivative assets outstanding at year end (Options) (53) (775)
Change in the fair value of derivative liabilities outstanding at year end (Forwards) 18 153
487 19
The gains arising as a result of hedge ineffectiveness are derived from the differences in the movement in the fair values of both the interest rate and cross-currency swaps 
and the hypothetical derivative that represented the market value of the swap on the date of designation. 
6 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
There were no discontinued operations in either the current or immediately prior years. The proﬁt after tax from discontinued operations of £2,253,000 (2011: £484,000) 
relates to the release of tax provisions made in prior years.
7 NET FINANCE CHARGE
2012 2011
£000 £000
FINANCE INCOME
Interest receivable and similar income 26 15
Interest on short-term deposits 237 412
Interest on extended payment terms 90 57
Total ﬁnance income 353 484
FINANCE CHARGES
Bank loans and overdrafts (84) (202)
Other loans/commitment fees1 (106) (82)
Losses on ﬁnancial instruments in a hedging relationship:
– Interest rate swaps and caps – cash ﬂow hedges (478) (952)
– Cross-currency swaps – net investment hedge (347) (691)
Other interest (3) (36)
Unwinding of discount on provisions2 (92) (146)
(1,110) (2,109)
Recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges3 (42) (133)
TOTAL FINANCE CHARGES (1,152) (2,242)
NET FINANCE CHARGE (799) (1,758)
Adjusted net ﬁnance charge before recycled hedge loss (757) (1,625)
Recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges3 (42) (133)
NET FINANCE CHARGE (799) (1,758)
1 Finance charges on other loans/commitment fees include amortisation of issue costs of £5,000 (2011: £28,000).
2  The unwinding of discount on provisions (note 26) relates to property and deferred consideration provisions.
3 The recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges arises due to the repayments of the term loan reducing the interest payments, causing some of the interest cash ﬂows to be classed as no 
longer probable. In accordance with IAS 39, an equivalent proportion of the fair value losses under the interest rate swap arrangement, previously taken to equity, are released to proﬁt or loss.  77
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Proﬁt for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
2012 2011
£000 £000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,280 2,722
Amortisation of intangible software licences 532 566
Amortisation of acquired intangibles assets 3,340 3,582
Amortisation of internally generated assets 1,622 1,230
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (74) –
Restructuring costs 44 244
Research and development costs (excluding amortisation of intangible assets) 14,377 10,237
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 22,674 10,146
Cost of write down of inventories recognised as expense 2,375 –
Staff costs (note 9) 39,807 34,027
Foreign exchange gains (77) (327)
Net (credit)/charge arising from movements in the property provision (119) 341
The analysis of the auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
2012 2011
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 89 97
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 133 123
TOTAL AUDIT FEES 222 220
– taxation advisory services 5 1
– other assurance services: half-year review 48 49
– corporate ﬁnance services 63 –
– other non-audit services 25 –
TOTAL NON-AUDIT FEES 141 50
TOTAL AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 363 270
Total fees payable to other auditors in relation to the statutory audits of subsidiary companies amount to £12,000 (2011: £19,000); non-audit fees payable to other auditors in relation to tax and 
other services were £30,000 (2011: £26,000). 78
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
9 STAFF COSTS
The average number of persons employed (including Executive Directors) was as follows:
2012 2011
Number Number
United Kingdom 341 327
EMEA – excluding United Kingdom 61 55
The Americas 54 36
Rest of the World 36 35
492 453
The amount charged in arriving at the operating proﬁt for the year in respect of all employees was as follows:
2012 2011
Total Total 
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 31,826 28,745 
Social security costs 2,979 3,299 
Share-based payments 2,889 (126)
Pension costs 2,113 2,109 
39,807 34,027 
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS
The Group has several deﬁned contribution Group personal pension plans. The contributions payable by the Group in respect of the year to these schemes are charged 
to the proﬁt and loss account on an accruals basis. The pension costs for both years are related to deﬁned contribution schemes only. The Group does not operate any 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes.
KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION
Key management personnel, as disclosed under IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”, have been identiﬁed as the Board of Directors.
Details of the Board of Directors’ remuneration for those who served during the year are as follows:
2012 2011
£000 £000
Short-term employee beneﬁts 1,536 1,430
Share-based payments 650 212
2,186 1,642  79
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
EQUITY-SETTLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The Group operates several share option plans including SAYE and other share-based schemes, the terms of which are summarised below:
Contractual life Vesting conditions Share price at grant date
SAYE Granted over either three or ﬁve years with 
six months to exercise following maturity, 
after which the options expire.
Savings over the period (three 
or ﬁve years) until maturity date. 
No performance conditions.
Closing mid-market quotation on day preceding 
date of invitation or average of three days 
preceding date of invitation, less 20% discount.
Approved Share 
Option Plan 
(“ASOP”) and Long 
Term Incentive 
Plan (“LTIP”)
Ordinarily exercisable between three and ten 
years from the date of grant, following which 
the options expire. The option holders must 
be in continued employment during this 
period. If the options remain unexercised 
after a period of ten years from the date 
of grant, the options expire.
Options vest as soon as one-year proﬁt 
performance target is met.
Closing mid-market quotation on day preceding 
date of grant or average of three days preceding 
date of grant.
Performance Share 
Plan (“PSP”)/ 
Share Matching 
Plan (“SMP”)
Both plans – conditional award vests on 
third anniversary, subject to performance 
conditions being met in part or in full.
Both plans – conditional award vests on 
third anniversary, subject to performance 
conditions being met in part or in full.  
Award holders under the SMP must be still 
employed or good leavers. These award 
holders must acquire “invested shares”  
which the Company matches on a two 
for one grossed up basis.
PSP – Closing mid-market quotation on the 
dealing date before the date of grant.
SMP – Closing mid-market quotation on the 
dealing date ending on the date of grant.
Share Incentive 
Plan (“SIP”)
Leavers can keep matching shares held for 
three years or more. Full tax relief available 
after ﬁve years.
Employees keep shares they have purchased 
(“partnership shares”). Shares matched by 
the Company (“matching shares”) on a one 
for one basis may be retained by good 
leavers. Bad leavers may retain matched 
shares only if held for three years or more. 
Matched shares vest in full for employees 
after ﬁve years. No performance conditions.
Shares are market purchased on a monthly basis.
Management
Incentive Plan 
(“MIP”)
A conditional award using market purchase 
shares is made over a performance period 
agreed prior to the time of grant, subject to 
performance conditions being met in part 
or in full.
Vesting takes place for meeting loyalty 
and performance conditions based on 
achieving predetermined divisional ﬁnancial 
performance measures over a period of 
between one and three years.
Closing mid-market quotation on day preceding 
date of grant.
In accordance with the accounting policy at note 2Qii, IFRS has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested  
as of 1 January 2005. 80
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Details of relevant share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2012 2012 2011 2011
SAYE Other share based SAYE Other share based
 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted 
Number average Number  average Number average Number average 
of share exercise of share exercise of share exercise of share exercise  
options price options price options price options price
Outstanding at 1 May 2,463,654  23p  24,496,091  3p 2,709,523 23p 15,436,852 6p
Granted during the year 935,291 59p 4,380,064 – – – 13,452,425  –
Exercised during the year (16,696) 23p (1,585,184) 6p (29,940) 23p  (253,081) 35p 
Lapsed during the year (54,462) 33p (4,373,675) 1p (215,929) 23p  (4,140,105) 2p
OUTSTANDING AT 30 APRIL 3,327,787 33p 22,917,296 3p 2,463,654  23p  24,496,091  3p
Exercisable at 30 April – – 4,605,831 35p – – 4,387,903  38p
Weighted average fair value of 
options/shares granted in the year 24p 71p – 31p
Weighted average share price  
on date of exercise 68p 75p 43p 49p
Weighted average remaining  
contractual life (years) 2.0 6.9 2.4 7.5
Exercise price 22.5p–59.1p 0.0p–59.5p 22.5p 0.0p–59.5p
 SAYE  Other share based
 Weighted Weighted 
Outstanding average Weighted Outstanding average Weighted 
options at remaining average options at remaining average 
30 April contractual exercise  30 April contractual exercise  
2012 life price 2012 life price
EXERCISE PRICE RANGE
0p – – – 21,261,287 7.4 –
1p–40p 2,406,544 1.4 23p 1,135,428 1.1 34p
41p–60p 921,243 3.5 59p 520,581 2.0 52p
3,327,787 2.0 33p 22,917,296 6.9 3p
The fair values for the above options were calculated using the Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models. The inputs into these models were as follows:
2012 2011
Other Other
SAYE share based SAYE share based
Grant date 31 Jul 2009– 17 Jan 2003– 31 Jul 2009 17 Jan 2003–
31 Jul 2011 16 Dec 2011 16 Aug 2010
Model used Black-Scholes Stochastic Black-Scholes Stochastic
Weighted average share price at grant 39p 45p 29p 36p
Expected volatility 42.2%–48.5% 0.0%–59.0% 42.2%–48.5% 0.0%–59.0%
Expected life 3–5 years † 3–5 years †
Risk free rate 0.9%–3.1% 0.0%–5.5% 2.4%–3.1% 0.0%–5.5%
Expected dividend yield 1.5%–3.6% 0%–3.5% 3.6% 0%–3.5%
† Expected life for other share-based payments is 100% of the options that are exercised after three years if a gain of 10% is available. If this gain is not available, options are held until such 
a gain can be achieved. Any remaining options are exercised at maturity providing that they are “in the money”. For LTIP (proﬁt element only) – 5% p.a. leavers in the ﬁrst three years was 
assumed. Under the PSP, SMP and MIP awards, the expected life is equal to the vesting period of three years. However, for MIP, depending on performance, annual vesting is possible.  81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the following periods (expected life) up to grant date: 
other share-based schemes – three years and SAYE – three and ﬁve years for three- and ﬁve-year contracts respectively.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
CASH-SETTLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The Group does not operate separate cash-settled share-based payment arrangements; however, the employers’ NIC liability arising on the outstanding awards is treated 
as such an arrangement for accounting purposes.
The employers’ NIC liability on the outstanding awards at 30 April 2012 was £1,787,000 (2011: £483,000), which is fully provided for in the accounts.
The Group recognised the following total expense/(credit) in relation to both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements during the year. 
2012 2011
£000 £000
Equity-settled 1,481 (305)
Cash-settled 1,408 179
2,889 (126)
11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
CURRENT TAX
UK corporation tax 4,071  922 – – 4,071  922
Foreign tax 2,774 2,495 – – 2,774  2,495
6,845  3,417 – – 6,845  3,417
Adjustments in respect of prior years
UK corporation tax 86 (27) (2,253) (484) (2,167) (511)
Foreign tax – 83 – – – 83
86 56 (2,253) (484) (2,167) (428)
Total current tax expense/(credit) 6,931 3,473 (2,253) (484) 4,678  2,989
DEFERRED TAX
UK (180) 700 – – (180) 700
Foreign (777) (903) – – (777) (903)
Total deferred tax credit (note 25) (957) (203) – – (957) (203)
TOTAL INCOME TAX EXPENSE/(CREDIT) 5,974 3,270 (2,253) (484) 3,721  2,786
UK corporation tax is calculated at 25.84% (2011: 27.84%) of the estimated assessable proﬁt for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates 
prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 82
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED
2012 2011
£000 £000
CHARGED/(CREDITED) TO EQUITY
Deferred tax relating to the translation adjustment to acquired intangibles (257) 75
UK corporation tax relating to foreign exchange 450 484 
INCOME TAX RELATING TO COMPONENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 193 559 
Deferred tax relating to share-based payments (1,818) (785)
(1,625) (226)
FACTORS AFFECTING TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR
The tax assessed on the proﬁt on ordinary activities for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below:
2012 2011
£000 £000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Continuing operations 22,187 12,221
Tax on Group proﬁt at standard UK corporation tax rate of 25.84% (2011: 27.84%) 5,733 3,402
Effects of:
Disallowed expenses and non-taxable income (net) 301  (214)
Ineligible depreciation 82  111 
Change in UK tax rate 178  129 
Prior year adjustment in relation to deferred tax (59) 232 
Short-term timing differences (452) (559)
Tax losses carried forward 18 5
Utilisation of tax losses (238) (66)
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 147 80
Deferred tax not provided 178 94
Adjustments to current tax charge in respect of previous periods 86 56
INCOME TAX EXPENSE FOR YEAR 5,974 3,270
Tax rate for continuing operations 26.9% 26.8%
The Group earns its proﬁts in the UK and overseas. The tax rate used for tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities is 25.84% (2011: 27.84%), being the standard rate for UK 
corporation tax, as the Group’s head ofﬁce is in the UK. As a result of the reduction in the prospective rate of UK corporation tax the deferred tax charge for the year 
was increased by £178,000 (2011: £129,000).
Some components of the Group’s overseas proﬁts are likely to be taxed at an effective rate that is higher than the UK rate. Other components, due to the availability 
of losses brought forward in certain countries, are likely to be taxed at a lower rate.  83
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculations of earnings per share are based on the Group proﬁt for the year, adjusted proﬁt1 and weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic Diluted
2012 2011 2012 2011
EPS summary
Basic EPS 6.5p 3.3p  6.0p 3.1p
Basic EPS for continuing operations 5.7p 3.1p 5.3p 2.9p
Adjusted EPS2 7.2p 4.0p 6.7p 3.8p
2012 2011
Pence Pence 2012 2011
per share per share £000 £000
Proﬁt for the year 6.5 3.3 18,466 9,435
Proﬁt from discontinued operations (0.8) (0.2) (2,253) (484)
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ON CONTINUING OPERATIONS 5.7 3.1  16,213 8,951 
Reconciliation to adjusted proﬁt: 
Other gains and losses (net of tax) (0.1) – (361) (14)
Recycled hedge losses3 (net of tax) – – 31 96
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 0.9 0.9 2,472 2,650
Share-based payments (net of tax) 0.7 (0.1) 2,103 (337)
Restructuring costs (net of tax) – 0.1 32 254
ADJUSTED PROFIT1 7.2 4.0 20,490 11,600
1 Proﬁt from continuing businesses before other gains and losses, recycled hedge losses, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payments and restructuring costs.
2 Earnings per share on adjusted proﬁt1 have been included to give a clearer understanding of the results of the continuing businesses.
3 Recycled hedge losses relate to the recycling of fair value losses on cash ﬂow hedges reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss in the year.
Diluted EPS for discontinued operations is 0.7p (2011: 0.2p).
Number of shares (000) 2012 2011
Weighted average number of shares in issue used to calculate basic earnings per share 283,597 289,781
Effect of dilutive ordinary shares
– SAYE and share option schemes 24,255 15,351
Number of shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 307,852 305,132 84
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
13 GOODWILL
Total 
£000
COST
At 1 May 2010 62,438
Exchange movement 1,367
At 30 April 2011 63,805
Exchange movement (4,410)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 59,395
ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
At 1 May 2010 5,115
Exchange movement –
At 30 April 2011 5,115
Exchange movement –
AT 30 APRIL 2012 5,115
NET BOOK VALUE AT 30 APRIL 2012 54,280
Net book value at 30 April 2011 58,690
Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
IMPAIRMENT TESTS
The cash-generating unit (CGU) is typically the combination of a group of assets acquired which cannot be separately identiﬁed, within each primary segment of the Group. 
The carrying amounts, basis of determination and key assumptions for the goodwill impairment calculations are as follows:
Wireless Nemo Travel
Carrying amount of goodwill £000 48,080 6,200
Basis on which the CGU’s recoverable
amount has been determined  Value in use Value in use
Key assumptions:
Discount rate % 9.6 9.0
Includes a risk factor of 0.6 –
Long-term growth rate after ﬁve years % 0.0 0.0
Period over which cash ﬂows are projected years 5 5
The discount rate is based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the Group as adjusted for risk. The WACC is derived by taking the results from calculations 
using the Capital Asset Pricing Model, using data from leading market data providers, which gives an average value of 9%. In light of this, management has reduced the 
underlying discount rate to 9% (2011: 10%).
The risk adjustments relate to management’s view of the sensitivity to market and operational risks within the relevant business segments and are based on past experience.
The long-term growth rate has been set at zero for each CGU. Management is sensitive to the technology risk within the software industry and does not deem it 
appropriate to forecast growth for products more than ﬁve years into the future.
The period over which the cash ﬂows are projected is set at ﬁve years. The cash ﬂow projections are based on the budgets, strategic plans, knowledge of the market, 
performance of the sector and management’s view of the recoverable amount based on observable market prices for the CGU.
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN KEY ASSUMPTIONS
Wireless Nemo – Management has based its determination of the unit’s recoverable amount on the key assumptions listed above. At 30 April 2012, the recoverable 
amount of Wireless Nemo exceeded its carrying amount by £42.9m. A 1% perpetual reduction in the operating cash ﬂow would reduce its recoverable amount by £1.0m.  85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Separately
identiﬁed
Customer acquired Capitalised
lists and intangible development Software 
relationships Technology R&D assets costs licences Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
COST
At 30 April 2010 22,819 7,380 1,980 32,179 13,375 3,656 49,210
Additions  –––– 2,657 631 3,288
Acquisition – – 1,728 1,728 – 49 1,777
Disposals (221) (1,680) (1,040) (2,941) – (753) (3,694)
Exchange movement 582 (6) 16 592 16 29 637
At 30 April 2011 23,180 5,694 2,684 31,558 16,048 3,612 51,218
Additions  –––– 2,629 697 3,326
Disposals –––– (475) (754) (1,229)
Exchange movement (1,945) (479) (228) (2,652) (67) (87) (2,806)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 21,235 5,215 2,456 28,906 18,135 3,468 50,509
AMORTISATION
At 30 April 2010 8,058 5,535 1,708 15,301 11,798 2,940 30,039
Amortisation 2,211 1,089 282 3,582 1,230 566 5,378
Disposals (221) (1,680) (1,040) (2,941) – (753) (3,694)
Exchange movement 289 (2) (67) 220 – 21 241
At 30 April 2011 10,337 4,942 883 16,162  13,028  2,774 31,964
Amortisation 2,243 645 452 3,340 1,622 532 5,494
Disposals –––– (475) (754) (1,229)
Exchange movement (1,065) (372) (102) (1,539) (6) (67) (1,612)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 11,515 5,215 1,233 17,963  14,169  2,485 34,617
NET BOOK VALUE AT 30 APRIL 2012 9,720 – 1,223 10,943 3,966 983 15,892
Net book value at 30 April 2011 12,843 752 1,801 15,396 3,020 838 19,254
Disposals include the writing off of cost and amortisation of assets no longer in use. 86
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold  Plant, ﬁxtures,
land and  equipment and  
buildings Computers motor vehicles Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000
COST
At 30 April 2010 5,283 18,757 4,005 28,045
Additions – 2,322 324 2,646
Acquisition – – 17 17
Disposals – (644) (3) (647)
Written off against provisions – – (1,051) (1,051)
Exchange movement (1) (43) (3) (47)
At 30 April 2011 5,282 20,392 3,289 28,963
Additions – 4,524 519 5,043
Disposals – (2,294) (920) (3,214)
Exchange movement – (31) (85) (116)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 5,282 22,591 2,803 30,676
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
At 30 April 2010 409 16,415 1,183 18,007
Charge for the year 74 1,794 854 2,722
Disposals – (644) (3) (647)
Written off against provisions – – (305) (305)
Exchange movement – (41) 1 (40)
At 30 April 2011 483 17,524 1,730 19,737
Charge for the year 75 2,669 536 3,280
Disposals – (2,293) (919) (3,212)
Exchange movement – (30) (66) (96)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 558 17,870 1,281 19,709
NET BOOK VALUE AT 30 APRIL 2012 4,724 4,721 1,522 10,967
Net book value at 30 April 2011 4,799 2,868 1,559 9,226
Disposals include the writing off of cost and depreciation of assets no longer in use.  87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 INVESTMENTS
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
 Ownership  
 percentage by   Place of 
the Group at  incorporation/ 
Company name Principal activity of the company 30 April 2012  registration
HELD DIRECTLY BY THE COMPANY
Anite Holdings International Limited Holding company 100%  England & Wales
Anite Properties plc Property holding company 100%  England & Wales
Anite Systems Holdings Limited Holding company 100%  England & Wales
Anite Telecoms Holdings Limited Holding company 100%  England & Wales
Anite Financial Management Limited Investment holding company 100%  England & Wales
Anite Travel Limited Travel software solutions and managed services 100%  England & Wales
HELD INDIRECTLY BY THE COMPANY
Anite Travel Systems GmbH Travel software solutions and managed services 100%  Germany
Anite Travel Systems Pty Ltd Travel software solutions and managed services 100%  Australia
Anite Finland Ltd Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  Finland
Anite Telecoms Limited Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  England & Wales
Anite Telecoms India Pvt Ltd Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  India
Anite Telecoms Inc Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100% USA
Anite Telecoms KK Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  Japan
Anite Telecoms Korea Limited Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  Korea
Anite Singapore Pte Ltd Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  Singapore
Anite Wireless Trading (Beijing) Ltd Telecoms testing technologies for wireless devices 100%  China
Reilrop B.V. Holding company 100%  The Netherlands1
1 Principal place of business in England
All companies listed above have been included in the consolidated accounts. 
Unless otherwise stated, the country of incorporation is also the country in which each company has its principal place of business.
17 INVENTORIES
2012 2011
£000 £000
Electronic components 10,195 4,722
Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable value. 88
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2012 2011
£000 £000
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade debtors 25,229 26,590
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (983) (1,255)
Trade debtors net of provision 24,246 25,335
Other receivables 1,555 1,572
Prepayments 2,810 2,218
Accrued income1 4,245 2,814
32,856 31,939
1 Amounts due from customers under construction contracts have been reclassiﬁed to accrued income as speciﬁc disclosure is not material.
The amounts presented in the table above are net of provision for doubtful recoverability and foreseeable losses.
The Group’s policy is to ensure that all credit trade customers are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures and, where appropriate, parent guarantee and letters of credit, 
especially for overseas customers, are used so that the Group is exposed to a minimum level of bad debts.
The credit risk for trade receivables by business segments for 2012 and 2011 is as follows:
 ● In Travel, the top four customers represent 9% (2011: 12%) of the Group’s trade receivables.
 ● In Wireless, the top four customers represent 26% (2011: 22%) of the Group’s trade receivables.
Overall, the Group has no customer that accounted for 9% or more of the accounts receivable at 30 April 2012 (2011: 7%) and therefore there is no signiﬁcant 
concentration of credit risk since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties. 
The average credit period for trade receivables is 59 days (2011: 76 days). In the United Kingdom trade receivables are typically on 30 days’ credit terms whilst, in certain 
cases, a schedule of payments or extended payments have been agreed. In other geographical areas, especially Europe, trade receivables can be based on longer credit 
terms of up to 90 days before the debt falls due for payment. Interest may be charged on any outstanding balance that is 30 days overdue. At 30 April 2012 and 2011, 
the trade receivables were non-interest bearing.
The Group has provided for all debts that, individually, are deemed doubtful at their estimated irrecoverable amount. With the exception of debts for which the revenue 
has yet to be recognised or where the monies are received prior to the reporting date, the Group applies a collective assessment of impairment for debts with similar 
credit risk characteristics. These characteristics are determined on the basis of the Group’s historical loss experience within the industry and provide, in varying 
percentages, for debts that are overdue the agreed payment terms. The reason for the policy is because overdue receivables carry an increased risk of not being 
recoverable. The table below shows the movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables:
2012 2011
£000 £000
At 1 May 1,255 1,000
Charge for the year through income statement 327 457
Release in the year (561) (55)
Utilised for bad debt written off (38) (147)
AT 30 APRIL 983 1,255  89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
The ageing of the individually impaired trade receivables is as follows:
2012 2011
£000 £000
One to two months overdue – –
Two to three months overdue 290 523
More than three months overdue 693 732
983 1,255
Ageing of trade receivables (excluding those that have been impaired):
2012 2011
£000 £000
NEITHER PAST DUE NOR IMPAIRED 19,932 21,294
PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED
Less than one month overdue 1,613 1,823
One to two months overdue 793 552
Two to three months overdue 435 547
More than three months overdue 1,473 1,119
24,246 25,335
The neither past due nor impaired and those that are past due but not impaired balances are due from customers with good credit ratings. There is no known reason why 
these amounts will not be recovered in due course.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The trade receivables do not include any advances or retentions at 30 April 2012 (2011: £nil). 90
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2012 2011
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 8,423 13,503
Term and overnight deposits 8,524 24,164
16,947 37,667
Note: €400,000 (2011: €400,000) of the cash at bank and in hand is held as security against forward currency exchange contracts. These contracts expire within two 
months (2011: two months) of the balance sheet date. 
Cash at bank and in hand was invested on a ﬂoating rate basis and is therefore subject to cash ﬂow interest risk. The Group has the legal right of set-off for certain of its 
overdraft and cash balances under an offsetting arrangement within its banking facilities.
Term and overnight deposits comprise money market deposits, which attract interest rates based on market rates, placed on overnight deposit (2011: ﬁxed for periods 
of up to six months). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their fair values.
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the above amounts.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2012 2011
£000 £000
Trade creditors 8,988 5,134
Other taxes and social security 1,740 1,385
Deferred income 14,767 12,349
Accruals 11,870 11,282
Other creditors 376 388
37,741 30,538
Trade and other payables principally comprise trade purchases and non-operating costs.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
The trade and other payables do not include any retentions at 30 April 2012 (2011: £nil).  91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21 BANK BORROWINGS
2012 2011
£000 £000
Bank loan – 9,995
The borrowings are repayable as follows: 
On demand or within one year – 9,995
The bank loan had been taken out on 30 November 2006 as part of the borrowing facility and was repaid in full on 30 November 2011. At the previous balance sheet 
date, the loan comprised a £10m ﬁxed term loan less £5,000 of unamortised issue costs being amortised over the ﬁve-year period of the loan. The loan carried a weighted 
average ﬂoating interest rate of 1.43% (2011: 1.27%) and exposed the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk. This interest rate risk was fully hedged by the Group using 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments (note 23).
The bank loan was initially measured at fair value and net of transaction costs. The bank loan was subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The average effective interest rate for this loan was 1.43% (2011: 1.28%).
22 NET CASH
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 19 16,947 37,667
Bank borrowings – current 21 – (9,995)
Net cash  16,947 27,672
A reconciliation of the movement in net cash for the year is as detailed below:   
2012 2011
£000 £000
Net cash at 1 May 27,672 29,836
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (20,431) (7,020)
Unamortised issue costs of bank borrowings (5) (28)
Decrease in bank borrowings 10,000 5,000
Exchange movement (289) (116)
NET CASH AT 30 APRIL 16,947 27,672 92
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
23 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and methods adopted, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect 
of each class of derivative ﬁnancial instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are carried at fair value. The fair values are derived from inputs that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly and 
relevant for the term, currency and instrument and are therefore Level 2 as described in IFRS 7. The fair values of the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:
2012 2012 2011 2011
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 
£000 £000 £000 £000
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS
Foreign currency contracts 92 – 433 –
Foreign currency options –– 53 –
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Foreign currency contracts –– –25
Interest rate swaps – in a cash ﬂow hedge relationship –– – 474
Cross-currency swaps – in a net investment hedge relationship –– – 21,895
92 – 486 22,394
Analysed as expiring:
Within one year 92 – 486 22,394
CASH FLOW HEDGES – INTEREST RATE SWAPS
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings.
At 30 April 2012, the Group holds no interest rate swaps. For the ﬁrst half of the year until 31 October 2011, the Group held interest rate swaps with notional principal 
amounts totalling £20m, that had ﬁxed interest rate payments at an average rate of 5.535% and had ﬂoating interest receipts at LIBOR rate. On 31 October 2011,  
these swaps matured and have not been replaced.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps as shown above were based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. Interest rate swaps to the value 
of £nil (2011: £237,000) were designated and effective as cash ﬂow hedges and the fair value thereof had been deferred in equity. Interest rate swaps to the value of £nil 
(2011: £237,000) were designated but were no longer effective under IAS 39. During the period, losses of £42,000 (2011: £133,000) previously held in reserves, have been 
recycled from reserves to the income statement and are disclosed as ﬁnance charges (note 7) under the heading “recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges”. A gain 
of £236,000 (2011: £404,000) arising due to ineffectiveness has been credited to the income statement and is disclosed as other gains and losses under the heading 
“hedge ineffectiveness on cash ﬂow hedges”.
NET INVESTMENT HEDGES – CROSS-CURRENCY SWAPS
The Group has overseas subsidiaries which operate mainly in North America, Northern Europe and Asia Paciﬁc and whose revenues and expenses are denominated  
in their local currencies. The Group does not currently hedge its investments in overseas subsidiaries, other than through natural hedges.
Until 31 October 2011, the date on which the combined derivative ﬁnancial instruments were settled, the Group held a derivative ﬁnancial instrument comprising  
of a combination of forward exchange contracts and a cross-currency swap. The principal amount under this combined instrument was €nil. At the same time up 
to 31 October 2011, the designated principal value of the hedged item was also £nil. From 27 April 2010, the Group had ceased to apply hedge accounting to its 
euro-denominated net investment in Wireless Nemo using this derivative ﬁnancial instrument.
At 30 April 2011, the combined derivative ﬁnancial instrument had indicated a mark to market liability of £21,877,000 of which £286,000 related to the future quarterly 
interest payments and £21,591,000 to the net exchange of principals. The net exchange of principals was settled in cash on 31 October 2011.
The ﬁxed interest rates on the cross-currency swap elements ranged from 4.64% to 5.19% (2011: 4.64% to 5.19%). The Group had also entered into forward exchange 
contracts to eliminate the impact of exchange rate movements on the net interest payable/receivable. At 30 April 2011, these forward contracts indicated a mark to 
market liability of £18,000. A credit of £18,000 (2011: £153,000) has been recognised in the income statement and is disclosed as other gains and losses under the 
heading “Change in the fair value of derivative liabilities outstanding at year end (Forwards)”.
The fair value change on the cross-currency swap is wholly recognised in the income statement during the year due to the principal amounts hedged being £nil.  
A gain of £286,000 (2011: £237,000) relating to ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement during the year and is disclosed as other gains and losses  
under the heading “hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedge”.  93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
A) CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group manages its capital structure to ensure that the entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the returns to the 
shareholders through the optimisation of the net debt and equity balance.
The Group is currently in a net cash position therefore the capital employed is equivalent to the shareholders’ funds of £92.1m (2011: £81.7m).
The Group has a credit facility agreement under which the Group is subject to certain ﬁnancial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover and also the requirement 
that the maximum pre-agreed level of overdrafts and ancillary facilities granted to the Group companies that are guarantors of the credit facility are not exceeded. 
The Group has complied with these covenants and requirements. 
B) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Details of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and methods adopted, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect 
of each class of ﬁnancial asset, liability and equity, are disclosed in note 2.
C) CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The following assets and liabilities at carrying values meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial instruments and are classiﬁed according to the following categories:
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS – HELD FOR TRADING
Foreign currency contracts 23 92 433
Foreign currency options 23 – 53
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES
Cash and cash equivalents 19 16,947 37,667
Trade receivables 18 24,246 25,335
FINANCIAL ASSETS 41,285 63,488
FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS – HELD FOR TRADING
Foreign currency contracts 23 – 25
AMORTISED COST
Bank borrowings 21 – 9,995
Trade creditors 20 8,988 5,134
Deferred consideration in a business combination 26 – 599
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IN DESIGNATED HEDGE ACCOUNTING RELATIONSHIPS
Interest rate swaps 23 – 474
Cross-currency swaps 23 – 21,895
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 8,988 38,122
D) FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities mainly comprise cash and liquid resources, foreign currency contracts and various items, such as trade receivables and payables 
that arise directly from its operations.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are market risk (primarily exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign currency risks), liquidity risk and 
credit risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. 94
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
E) MARKET RISK – INTEREST RATE
The Group ﬁnances its operations and acquisitions through a mixture of retained reserves and bank facilities. The Group seeks to minimise overall net interest expense 
and, where there are surplus funds, to obtain a fair market rate of return. The Group operates a cash-pooling arrangement for all its UK operating companies and 
endeavours to balance liquidity requirements with achieving a market rate of return on cash through the use of short-term money market deposits or other term deposits. 
Appropriate ﬁnancial instruments are used to mitigate the impact of changes in interest payable in respect of signiﬁcant borrowings.
The ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are interest bearing and expose the Group to interest rate risk are as follows.
I) CASH AND EQUIVALENTS (NOTE 19). The weighted average ﬂoating interest rate for these ﬁnancial assets which were based on sterling market rates, ﬁxed for periods 
up to three months was 1.56% (2011: 1.18%).
II) BANK BORROWINGS (NOTE 21). During the period that the Group had outstanding bank borrowings, the weighted average ﬂoating interest rate for bank borrowings 
was 1.43% (2011: 1.27%). This was linked to LIBOR plus a margin for bank loans. The margin varied between 0.60% and 1.05% dependent on the ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA, reviewed annually, but during the year, the margin remained constant at 0.60% (2011: 0.60%).
The contractual interest rate on the overdrawn balance is based on 2.5% per annum over the bank’s base rate for its sterling accounts and 1% per annum over the bank’s 
relevant short-term offered rate for any other currency accounts.
III) INTEREST RATE SWAPS. At 30 April 2012, the Group had no interest rate swaps but these derivatives had been used to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate 
risk on the bank borrowings that were repaid during the year. See note 23 for details of the interest rate.
IV) CROSS-CURRENCY SWAPS. At 30 April 2012, the Group had no cross-currency swaps but these derivatives had been used to hedge the net investment of an overseas 
subsidiary. See note 23 for details of the interest rate.
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined, based on the exposure to interest rates for both ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, both including derivative instruments, 
as listed above at the balance sheet date and adjustments have been made particularly where some of the signiﬁcant derivatives only existed for part of the year.
With all other variables held constant, the table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 0.5% change in interest rates applied to the major currencies of net variable rate 
assets/liabilities. 0.5% is the sensitivity rate that represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in the next 12 months.
£-denominated US$-denominated €-denominated
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 11,909 28,029 1,378 3,902 2,898 4,931
Bank borrowings – (9,995) – – – –
Interest rate swaps – ﬂoating rate – 20,000 – – – –
NET VARIABLE RATE ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) 11,909 38,034 1,378 3,902 2,898 4,931
£ interest rate US$ interest rate € interest rate
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – GAIN/(LOSS)
+0.5% change in interest rate 60 190 7 20 14 25
–0.5% change in interest rate (60) (190) (7) (20) (14) (25)
The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is not materially different from the book value recorded at 30 April 2012 and 2011.  95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
F) MARKET RISK – FOREIGN CURRENCY
The Group is subject to a cross-border transactional currency exposure in respect of trading outside of each operating company’s functional currency. Where possible, 
currency receivables and payables are matched, creating a natural hedge. Any surplus cross-border transactional exposure is identiﬁed and a proportion is hedged using 
appropriate derivative instruments. The proportion of forecast cash ﬂows that will be hedged is reviewed regularly in the light of experience. The policy is that any surplus 
foreign currency is converted into sterling at the earliest opportunity.
As detailed in note 23, the Group has overseas subsidiaries whose revenues and expenses are denominated in their local currencies. Currently the Group hedges its 
investments in overseas subsidiaries through natural hedges and does not use derivative ﬁnancial instruments.
FOREIGN CURRENCY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The Group has a euro-denominated investment in Wireless Nemo that is not hedged, consequently any foreign exchange movements will create a gain or loss on the 
value of the investment. With all other variables held constant, the effect of a 10% appreciation and depreciation of the euro against sterling applied to the investment 
will be either a gain of £7.8m (2011: £8.8m) or a loss of £6.4m (2011: £7.2m) in other reserves, respectively.
The sensitivity analysis below is based on a 10% appreciation/depreciation of the euro and US dollar against sterling, applied to the net monetary assets or liabilities 
of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved.
£-denominated US$-denominated €-denominated
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Monetary assets 361 297 9,817 12,309 2,030 3,225
Monetary liabilities (18) (3) (6,498) (2,560) (165) (5,240)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) 343 294 3,319 9,749 1,865 (2,015)
£ currency impact US$ currency impact € currency impact
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – GAIN/(LOSS)
10% appreciation 38 27 369 1,083 207 (224)
10% depreciation (31) (33) (302) (886) (170) 183
G) OTHER PRICE RISKS
The Group has a limited exposure to commodity price risks through its reliance on precious metals used in the manufacture of hardware components. In management’s 
opinion, this does not represent a material area of risk to the Group due to the high gross margins and therefore no steps have been taken to hedge the exposure. 96
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
H) FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS
Anite’s strategy is to hedge a proportion of the forecast future cash ﬂows for a period of up to three months, creating a cash ﬂow movement to offset the translational 
movement. The proportion of forecast cash ﬂows that will be hedged is reviewed periodically in the light of experience.
At 30 April 2012 (2011: assets £433,000, liabilities £25,000), the Group had the following outstanding contracts:
 Weighted- Total Total Total
 average contract value fair value fair value
Maturity date  ﬁxed rate £000 €000 £000
FORWARD CONTRACTS TO SELL EURO AND RECEIVE STERLING
Up to July 2012 1.1461 1,353 1,550 90
 Weighted- Total Total Total
 average contract value fair value fair value
Maturity date Note ﬁxed rate €000 US$000 £000
FORWARD CONTRACTS TO SELL US DOLLARS AND RECEIVE EURO
Up to June 2012 1.3223 5,522 7,300 2
Derivative assets 23 92
I) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a ﬁnancial loss to the Group.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows:
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 19 16,947 37,667
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 92 486
Trade receivables 18 24,246 25,335
 41,285 63,488
The credit risk on cash and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is limited because the counterparties to these assets are highly rated ﬁnancial institutions. In addition, the 
Group has further mitigated this risk by spreading cash deposits over a range of ﬁnancial institutions, with no more than £10m being deposited with any one counterparty.
The Group’s policy to mitigate potential credit risks and the concentration of credit risks of trade receivables is detailed in note 18 – Trade and other receivables. 97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
J) LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance and continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of internally generated cash resources, bank overdrafts and  
other bank facilities. At the balance sheet date, the Group has no signiﬁcant borrowings from third parties and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a signiﬁcant  
risk at this time.
The Group’s UK overdraft facility was renewed during the year at £5m (net), (2011: £5m (net)). The net amount drawn down under these facilities at 30 April 2012 and 
2011 was £nil. 
In October 2011, the Group entered into a new ﬁve-year facility with Lloyds Banking Group Plc. This facility consists of a revolving credit facility of £20m. The amount 
of undrawn facilities at 30 April 2012 was £20m (2011: undrawn under old facility £20m) and total undrawn facilities including the overdraft facility were £25m 
(2011: £25m). The revolving credit facility incurs commitment fees at market rates.
This facility is available to be drawn to support the general corporate purposes for the Group including working capital requirements.
MATURITY PROFILE
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s undiscounted cash ﬂows of the ﬁnancial liabilities and the earliest date on which the Group is required 
to pay:
Effect of
discount/
Less than Undiscounted ﬁnancing 
one year balance rates 2012
2012 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade creditors (note 20) 8,988 – – 8,988
Effect of
discount/
Less than Undiscounted ﬁnancing 
one year balance rates 2011
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000
Bank borrowings – variable rate (note 21) 10,000 10,000 (5) 9,995
Trade creditors (note 20) 5,134 5,134 – 5,134
15,134 15,134 (5) 15,129
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Interest rate swaps 493 493 (19) 474
Cross-currency swaps1 21,947 21,947 (52) 21,895
37,574 37,574 (76) 37,498
1 Split of cross-currency swaps between: 
£-leg (assets)  (68,134) 49 (68,085)
€-leg liabilities  90,081 (101) 89,980
 21,947 (52) 21,895 98
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
25 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Short-term 
Accelerated tax Development Intangible Share- timing
depreciation costs assets based differences Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 30 April 2010 1,658 (366) (4,389) 666 448 (1,983)
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year (184) (288) 903 211 (439) 203
Credit to equity for the year – – (75) 785 – 710
At 30 April 2011 1,474 (654) (3,561) 1,662 9 (1,070)
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year (247) (120) 777 150 397 957
Credit to equity for the year – – 257 1,818 – 2,075
AT 30 APRIL 2012 1,227 (774) (2,527) 3,630 406 1,962
Deferred tax is recognised at the latest enacted rate. For UK temporary differences, this is 24% (April 2011: 26%). Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been 
offset to the extent permitted by IAS 12. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet purposes.
2012 2011
£000 £000
Deferred tax assets 4,489 2,491
Deferred tax liabilities (2,527) (3,561)
1,962 (1,070)
2012 2011
£000 £000
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS NOT RECOGNISED
Income losses carried forward 6,266 7,122
Capital losses carried forward 28,093 17,706
Surplus ACT carried forward 2,457 2,457
36,816 27,285
Deferred tax assets in respect of losses carried forward in certain companies have not been recognised because at present it is not envisaged that there will be sufﬁcient 
taxable proﬁts in those companies from which future reversal of these reliefs can be deducted. The unutilised reliefs may be carried forward for various periods. The gross 
temporary differences relating to these unprovided deferred tax assets are as follows.
2012 2011
£000 £000
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES IN RESPECT OF WHICH NO DEFERRED TAX ASSET HAS BEEN RECOGNISED
Income losses carried forward 24,405 25,725 
Capital losses carried forward 117,056 68,095 
141,461 93,820 
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain overseas subsidiaries. 
No provision is required since the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is probable that such differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
2012 2011
£000 £000
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES IN RESPECT OF WHICH NO DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY HAS BEEN RECOGNISED
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 24,404 18,428  99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26 PROVISIONS
Deferred Property Other Group 
consideration Warranties provision provisions total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 May 2011 599 3,210 4,445 – 8,254
Release of provision – – (218) – (218)
Established during the year – operating expenses – – 99 300 399
Established during the year – restructuring costs – – 44 – 44
Utilised during the year (622) – (2,132) – (2,754)
Unwinding of discount – – 92 – 92
Exchange movement 23––– 23
AT 30 APRIL 2012 – 3,210 2,330 300 5,840
2012 2011
£000 £000
Analysed as: 
Current liabilities 4,899 4,794
Non-current liabilities 941 3,460
5,840 8,254
The warranty provision has been made to cover any potential claims made by disposed businesses during the contractual warranty period. It is expected to be utilised 
in one to three years.
The property provision is in respect of all properties surplus to business requirements and dilapidation provisions for properties currently in use. The provision is calculated 
in accordance with IAS 37 as disclosed in note 2 to the accounts. It is expected to be utilised in one to three years.
Other provisions include contractual provisions that are expected to be utilised within one year.
27 SHARE CAPITAL
Deferred 
Ordinary shares redeemable shares 
of 11.25p each of £1 each
Number £000 Number £000
Authorised:
AT 30 APRIL 2011 AND 2012 355,555,556 40,000 50,000 50
Allotted, issued and fully paid: 
At 30 April 2011 298,936,276 33,630 50,000 50
Issued during the year 195,603 22 – –
AT 30 APRIL 2012 299,131,879 33,652 50,000 50
A) REDEEMABLE SHARE CAPITAL
These deferred shares of £1 each may be redeemed at any time at the option of the Company at a price of 1p each. They are non-equity shares and have no voting rights.
B) SHARES ISSUED DURING THE YEAR
195,603 ordinary shares were issued at prices between 30.5p and 56.5p each in respect of the exercise of options under the Approved Share Option Scheme and 
Long Term Incentive Plan. 100
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
27 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
C) OUTSTANDING OPTIONS
As at 30 April 2012, the following options over the Company’s ordinary shares had been granted and were still outstanding:
 Executive 
 Share Option SAYE Option
 Grants/Awards Schemes Total
Outstanding at 1 May  22,782,472  2,463,654  25,246,126
Granted during the year 4,262,684  935,291  5,197,975
Exercised during the year (1,585,184)  (16,696)  (1,601,880)
Lapsed during the year (4,720,215)  (54,462)  (4,774,677)
OUTSTANDING AT 30 APRIL 20,739,757   3,327,787   24,067,544 
Subscription price  0.0p–57.0p  22.5p–59.1p 
Dates exercisable May 2012–December 2021 September 2012–August 2017 
Weighted average exercise price 3p 33p
D) OWN SHARES RESERVE
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Anite plc purchased in the market for the following trusts of the Company:
I) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST (EBT). The EBT purchases shares in the Group for the beneﬁt of employees under the various Group share option schemes, where market 
purchase shares are to be used to satisfy the awards. All of the shares held at 30 April 2012 will continue to be held until the performance conditions of all the relevant 
share plan awards are fulﬁlled. Shares were sold during the year to satisfy awards that vested and were exercised by employees. Further details of the various employee 
share schemes in operation are given in note 10.
II) SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (SIP). The Company’s SIP is used to satisfy the awards under the terms of the SIP scheme. These shares will be held until the conditions of  
the SIP are fulﬁlled. 
The movements in the number and value of shares held under both the EBT and SIP schemes are as follows:
EBT SIP Total
Number £000 Number £000 Number £000
Held at 1 May 2011 13,072,619 8,090 2,185,159 1,139 15,257,778 9,229
Purchased during the year 2,000,000  1,531  117,380  97  2,117,380  1,628 
Sold during the year (1,406,277) (875) – – (1,406,277) (875)
HELD AT 30 APRIL 2012 13,666,342  8,746  2,302,539  1,236  15,968,881  9,982   101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28 OTHER RESERVES
Other reserves are analysed as follows:
Net exchange  Cash ﬂow 
differences hedges Total 
£000 £000 £000
At 1 May 2010 (5,932) (816) (6,748)
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 1,941 – 1,941 
Cash ﬂow hedges – 404 404
Recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges to proﬁt or loss – 133 133
Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income (559) – (559)
At 30 April 2011 (4,550) (279) (4,829) 
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (6,745) – (6,745) 
Cash ﬂow hedges – 237 237
Recycling of fair value loss on cash ﬂow hedges to proﬁt or loss – 42 42
Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income (193) – (193)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 (11,488) – (11,488)
29 DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid during the year are set out below:
2012 2011
pence 2012 pence 2011
Payment date per share £000 per share £000
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2010
Final dividend 26 October 2010 0.650 1,905
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2011
Interim dividend 18 February 2011  0.315 921
Final dividend 25 October 2011  0.735   2,101 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2012
Interim dividend 17 February 2012  0.375  1,070 
3,171 2,826
At the AGM on 13 September 2012, a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2012 of 1.125p per share (expected total £3,365,000) is to be proposed. 102
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
30 COMMITMENTS
A) CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
At 30 April 2012, the Group had no capital commitments (2011: £880,000 of electrical components, delivered in July 2011).
B) OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2012 2011
£000 £000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2,440 2,383
The Group has total outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
Leases expiring in one year 2,090  2,429 84 6
Leases expiring in two to ﬁve years inclusive 4,141  3,388 – 20
Leases expiring after ﬁve years 3,290  1,960 – –
 9,521  7,777 84 26
31 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties, guarantees and legal claims. However, the Directors  
have considered that none of these claims are expected to result in a material loss to the Group. There has been no change in the Directors’ assumptions in regard to 
contingent liabilities since the year ended 30 April 2011.
32 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
A) KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
The details of key management remuneration are disclosed in the Remuneration report. The key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Board  
of Directors of the Company, which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company. Transactions with key management personnel 
are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
B) THE BOARD IS NOT AWARE OF ANY RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS THAT SHOULD BE DISCLOSED
i) No guarantees have been provided to any related parties. 
ii) Transactions between Anite plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.  103
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
REVENUE
Revenue – continuing operations 122,546 93,694 78,770 90,098 91,648
Revenue – discontinued and disposed operations – – – 28,810 63,535
TOTAL REVENUE 122,546 93,694 78,770 118,908 155,183
RESULTS
Adjusted operating proﬁt – continuing operations 28,772 17,660 11,856 20,045 18,709
Operating proﬁt/(loss) – continuing operations 22,499  13,960 (1,843) 9,361 10,216
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to equity holders of Anite plc 18,466  9,435 (3,427) 36,343 13,234
ASSETS EMPLOYED
Non-current assets 85,628  89,661 88,938 103,592 121,170
Current assets 60,247  75,038 74,896 74,219 86,555
Current liabilities (50,306) (75,978) (42,845) (42,303) (82,096)
Non-current liabilities (3,468) (7,021) (43,039) (51,598) (63,085)
 92,101  81,700 77,950 83,910 62,544
KEY STATISTICS:
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Total operations  – Basic 6.5p 3.3p (1.2)p 11.3p 3.8p
– Diluted 6.0p 3.1p (1.2)p 10.8p 3.7p
PROPOSED DIVIDEND PER SHARE HISTORY
Dividend per share  – Interim 0.375p 0.315p 0.30p 0.30p 0.28p 
– Final 1.125p 0.735p 0.65p 0.65p 0.60p
TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE 1.50p 1.05p 0.95p 0.95p 0.88p
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 104
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets 2 48 39
Property, plant and equipment 3 119 113
Investments in subsidiaries 4 177,354 141,692
Deferred tax assets 5 3,027 1,233
 180,548 143,077
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 6 696 566
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7 35,289 48,339
Current tax receivable 2,397 –
Cash and cash equivalents 8 734 11,751
 39,116 60,656
TOTAL ASSETS 219,664 203,733
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 9 (5,401) (3,683)
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 7 (65,874) (58,655)
Provisions 10 (1,184) –
Current tax payable – (2,828)
 (72,459) (65,166)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Provisions 10 – (2,749)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (72,459) (67,915)
NET ASSETS 147,205 135,818
EQUITY
Issued share capital 11 33,702 33,680
Share premium account  25,628 25,560
Own shares  (9,982) (9,229)
Merger reserve  39,029 39,029
Capital redemption reserve  2,741 2,741
Retained earnings  56,087 44,037
TOTAL EQUITY 147,205 135,818
The ﬁnancial statements of Anite plc (Company no. 01798114) were approved by the Board on 2 July 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Chief Executive
RICHARD AMOS
Group Finance Director
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET  105
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Issued Share Capital
share premium Own Merger redemption Retained 
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
BALANCE AT 1 MAY 2010 33,652 25,500 (3,895) 39,029 2,741 47,391 144,418
CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR  
TO 30 APRIL 2011
Total comprehensive loss for the year ––––– (691) (691)
Issue of share capital 28 60–––– 88
Purchase of own shares into employee beneﬁt trust – – (5,351) – – – (5,351)
Sale of own shares from employee beneﬁt trust – – 17 – – (12) 5
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments  
after tax (Company) ––––– 406 406
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments  
after tax (subsidiaries) ––––– (231) (231)
Dividend paid ––––– (2,826) (2,826)
BALANCE AT 30 APRIL 2011 33,680 25,560 (9,229) 39,029 2,741 44,037 135,818
CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR  
TO 30 APRIL 2012
Total comprehensive income for the year ––––– 13,290 13,290
Issue of share capital 22 68–––– 90
Purchase of own shares into employee beneﬁt trust – – (1,628) – – – (1,628)
Sale of own shares from employee beneﬁt trust – – 875 – – (871) 4
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments  
after tax (Company) ––––– 2,140 2,140
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments  
after tax (subsidiaries) ––––– 662 662
Dividend paid ––––– (3,171) (3,171)
BALANCE AT 30 APRIL 2012 33,702 25,628 (9,982) 39,029 2,741 56,087 147,205
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 106
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2012 2011
Total Total 
Note £000 £000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 13,290 (691)
Adjustments for:
Tax credit  (3,391) (3,239)
Share-based payment expense  2,143 104
Finance charges  1,134 393
Amortisation of intangible assets 2 31 39
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3 72 357
Exchange differences arising on translation of amount due to subsidiary undertakings (4,481) 1,403
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries 4 20,000 –
Reversal of impairment on amounts due from subsidiaries (13) (78)
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings  (31,515) –
Decrease in provisions  (1,600) (1,738)
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital  (4,330) (3,450)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables  (150) 30
Increase in payables 349 1,216
CASH USED IN OPERATIONS (4,131) (2,204)
Interest (paid to)/received from subsidiary undertakings  (486) 505
Interest received 193 195
Interest paid (53) (27)
Income taxes paid (3,000) –
NET CASH USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES (7,477) (1,531)
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings  18,387 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (78) (78)
Purchase of software licences (40) (53)
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 18,269 (131)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issue of ordinary share capital 90 88
Purchase of own shares into employee beneﬁt trust  (1,628) (5,351)
Proceeds from sale of own shares from employee beneﬁt trust 4 5
Dividend paid to Company’s shareholders  (3,171) (2,826)
Movement in amounts due to/from Group undertakings1  (17,104) (5,067)
NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (21,809) (13,151)
NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (11,017) (14,813)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 May  11,751 26,564
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 30 APRIL 8 734 11,751
1 Movement in amount due to/from Group undertakings is primarily due to cash transfers and Group relief receipts from subsidiary undertakings.
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT  107
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A) BASIS OF PREPARATION
Anite plc has presented separate ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes when the 
Consolidated income statement has been presented. There are no other recognised gains or losses other than the proﬁt for the year.
B) ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies as set out in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been applied in the preparation of these Company ﬁnancial statements.
2 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Software licences 
£000
COST
At 1 May 2010 181
Additions  53
At 30 April 2011 234
Additions  40
Disposals (55)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 219
AMORTISATION
At 1 May 2010 156
Amortisation 39
At 30 April 2011 195
Amortisation 31
Disposals (55)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 171
NET BOOK VALUE AT 30 APRIL 2012 48
Net book value at 30 April 2011 39
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 108
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
3 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 Plant, ﬁxtures,
 equipment and 
Computers motor vehicles Total 
£000 £000 £000
COST
At 1 May 2010 1,079 1,665 2,744
Additions 75 3 78
Written off against provisions – (433) (433)
At 30 April 2011 1,154 1,235 2,389
Additions 78 – 78
Disposals (634) (94) (728)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 598 1,141 1,739
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
At 1 May 2010 983 935 1,918
Charge for the year 69 289 358
At 30 April 2011 1,052 1,224 2,276
Charge for the year 61 11 72
Disposals (634) (94) (728)
AT 30 APRIL 2012 479 1,141 1,620
NET BOOK VALUE AT 30 APRIL 2012 119 – 119
Net book value at 30 April 2011 102 11 113
4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
2012 2011
£000 £000
COST
At 1 May 196,771 197,001
Additions 55,000 –
Adjustments under IFRIC 111 662 (230)
AT 30 APRIL 252,433 196,771
PROVISIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT
At 1 May 55,079 55,079
Impairments 20,000 –
AT 30 APRIL 75,079 55,079
NET BOOK VALUE 177,354 141,692
1 This relates to capital contributions made by the Company to its subsidiaries equal to the share-based payments recognised by these subsidiaries in their accounts.  109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Other
short-term 
Accelerated tax Share-based timing
depreciation payments differences Total 
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 May 2010 209 530 – 739
(Debit)/credit to income statement for the year (93) 106 – 13
Credit to equity for the year – 481 – 481
At 30 April 2011 116 1,117 – 1,233
(Debit)/credit to income statement for the year (19) 181 311 473
Credit to equity for the year – 1,321 – 1,321
AT 30 APRIL 2012 97 2,619 311 3,027
There are no deferred liabilities that have been offset as permitted by IAS 12.
6 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2012 2011
£000 £000
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR:
Trade receivables 41 19
Other receivables 22 38
Prepayments 633 509
696 566
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The trade receivables do not include any advances or retentions at 30 April 2012 and April 2011.
7 AMOUNTS OWED BY/(TO) GROUP UNDERTAKINGS
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts owed by and to Group undertakings approximates their fair value. The provision for impairment of amounts 
owed by Group undertakings was £16.9m (2011: £16.9m). See note 16H for further details. 110
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
8 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2012 2011
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand – 2,632
Overdrafts (7,783) –
Term and overnight deposits 8,517 9,119
734 11,751
Cash at bank and in hand was invested on a ﬂoating rate basis and was therefore subject to cash ﬂow interest risk. The Company has the legal right of set off for certain 
of its overdraft and cash balances under a master netting arrangement within its banking facilities.
Term and overnight deposits comprise money market deposits, which attract interest rates based on market rates placed on overnight deposit (2011: ﬁxed for periods  
of up to six months). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their fair values.
For the purposes of the cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the above amounts.
The carrying value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts are denominated in the following currencies:
2012 2011
£000 £000
Euro (912) (61)
Sterling 1,646 11,812
734 11,751
9 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2012 2011
£000 £000
Trade creditors 601 383
Other taxes and social security 111 134
Other creditors 142 126
Accruals 4,547 3,040
5,401 3,683
Trade and other payables principally comprise trade purchases and other operating costs.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
10 PROVISIONS
Property provision 
£000
At 1 May 2011 2,749
Release of provision credited to income statement (23)
Utilised during the year (1,577)
Unwinding of discount 35
AT 30 APRIL 2012 1,184
The provision is held in relation to the empty space within the Group’s corporate ofﬁce in Slough resulting from the disposal of Anite Public Sector in October 2008 and 
in respect of dilapidation obligations under an operating property lease.  111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 SHARE CAPITAL
The movements on share capital are disclosed in note 27 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
12 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates several share option plans including SAYE and other share-based schemes. The terms are disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2012 2012 2011 2011
SAYE Other share based SAYE Other share based
 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted 
Number average Number average Number average Number average 
of share exercise of share exercise of share exercise of share exercise 
options price options price options price options price
Outstanding at 1 May 318,128  23p 13,232,195  4p 379,111 23p 10,032,095 5p
Granted during the year 96,033  59p 1,270,064  – – – 6,496,925 –
Exercised during the year – – (284,611) 8p (13,348) 23p (86,956) 35p
Lapsed during the year – – (1,606,961) – (47,635) 23p (3,209,869) –
OUTSTANDING AT 30 APRIL 414,161 28p 12,610,687 4p 318,128 23p 13,232,195 4p
Exercisable at 30 April – 1,574,265 – 1,299,367
Weighted average fair value 
of awards granted during year 25p 64p – 29p
Weighted average share price  
on date of exercise – 84p 53p 66p
Weighted average remaining  
contractual life (years) 2.2 6.0 2.7 6.7
Exercise price 22.5p–59.1p 0.0p–59.5p 22.5p 0.0p-59.5p
 SAYE  Other share based
 Weighted Weighted 
Outstanding average Weighted Outstanding average Weighted 
options at remaining average options at remaining average 
30 April contractual exercise 30 April contractual exercise 
2012 life price 2012 life price
EXERCISE PRICE RANGE
0p – – – 11,385,787  6.5 –
1p–40p 318,128 1.7  23p  867,488  1.1  34p 
41p–80.6p 96,033 3.9  59p  357,412  2.0  52p 
414,161 2.2  28p  12,610,687  6.0 4p
The fair values for the above options were calculated using the Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models. The inputs into these models are disclosed in note 10 
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 112
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
13 COMMITMENTS
A) CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
There were no capital commitments at 30 April 2012 and 2011.
B) OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2012 2011
£000 £000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 905 905
The Company has total outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and buildings
2012 2011
£000 £000
Leases expiring in one year 460 905
Leases expiring in two to ﬁve years inclusive – 462
460 1,367
14 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has contingent liabilities, which have not been provided for in the accounts, in respect of performance guarantees given by the Company in respect 
of subsidiary contracts with third parties. The nature of these performance guarantees is such that they would only come into effect in the case of a major default 
of a subsidiary in performing these contracts. It is not practical to estimate the amount of the liability.
Anite plc is a guarantor of the overdraft and syndicated facilities of the Group, totalling £25m (2011: £35m), of which £nil (2011: £10m) was drawn down at 30 April 2012. 
Details of the borrowings are set out in note 21 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
15 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
A) SUBSIDIARIES
The Company has outstanding balances with its wholly owned subsidiaries. The amounts owed by and owed to subsidiaries are disclosed in the balance sheet. These loans 
are unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates.
During the year, the Company entered into the following transactions with its subsidiaries.
2012 2011
£000 £000
Management fees receivable 1,900 1,621
Interest payable (857) (211)
Dividends received 31,515 –
Other costs recharged to subsidiaries 29,017 6,303
Net cash transfers/intercompany settlement to subsidiaries (27,137) (244)
B) KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
The key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Board of Directors of the Company, which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling 
the activities of the Company. Transactions with key management personnel are disclosed in the Report of the Directors on page 37 .  113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
A) CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company manages its capital structure to ensure it is operating as a going concern and maximising the returns of the shareholders through the optimisation  
of its equity balance.
The Company’s capital structure is as follows:
2012 2011
£000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents (734) (11,751)
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 65,874 58,655
Total equity 147,205 135,818
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 212,345 182,722
B) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Details of the signiﬁcant accounting policies and methods adopted, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect 
of each class of ﬁnancial asset, liability and equity are disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
C) CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The following assets and liabilities at carrying values meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial instruments and are classiﬁed according to the following categories:
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES
Cash and cash equivalents 8 734 11,751
Trade receivables 6 41 19
Amounts owed by Group undertakings  35,289 48,339
FINANCIAL ASSETS 36,064 60,109
AMORTISED COST
Trade creditors 9 601 383
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 65,874 58,655
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 66,475 59,038
D) FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities mainly comprise cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and payables, that arise directly 
from its operations.
The main risks arising from the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments are market risk (primarily exposure to changes in the interest rate and foreign currency risks), liquidity 
risk and credit risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. 114
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
E) MARKET RISK – INTEREST RATE
The Group ﬁnances its operations and acquisitions through a mixture of reserves, bank borrowings and new equity and this policy is reviewed from time to time. 
The Group borrows in the desired currencies at ﬂoating rates of interest and manages the interest rate risk by selectively using interest rate swaps. Any surplus cash 
is converted into sterling and is invested in short-term money market and bank deposits at the prevailing rates of interest in order to achieve the market rate of return. 
The ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are interest bearing and expose the Company to interest rate risk are as follows:
(I) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (NOTE 8). The weighted average ﬂoating interest rate for these ﬁnancial assets which were based on sterling market rates, ﬁxed for 
periods up to three months was 1.05% (2011: 1.05%).
(II) INTEREST-BEARING INTERCOMPANY DEBTORS AND CREDITORS. The weighted average of these interest rates (net) is 2.04% (2011: 1.83%). These rates are linked 
to LIBOR plus margin. The margin is 0.85% as stipulated in the loan agreement.
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined, based on the exposure to interest rates for both ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, both including derivative 
instruments, as listed above at balance sheet date.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 0.5% change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, applied to the major currencies of net variable rate 
assets/liabilities. 0.5% is the sensitivity rate that represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in the next 12 months.
£-denominated €-denominated
2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,646 11,812 (912) (61)
Amount due (to)/from Group undertakings 18,387 42,055 (48,972) (52,371)
NET VARIABLE RATE ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) 20,033 53,867 (49,884) (52,432)
£ interest rate € interest rate
2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – GAIN/(LOSS)
+0.5% change in interest rate 100 269 (249) (262)
-0.5% change in interest rate (100) (269) 249 262
The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is not materially different from the book value recorded at 30 April 2012 and 2011.  115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
F) MARKET RISK – FOREIGN CURRENCY
FOREIGN CURRENCY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The table below shows the Company’s currency exposures in the proﬁt and loss account arising from the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Company that 
are not denominated in sterling, its functional currency. The sensitivity analyses below are based on a 10% appreciation/depreciation of euro against sterling, applied 
to the net monetary assets or liabilities denominated in this currency at reporting date. The sensitivity analysis includes amounts owed by the Group undertakings.
€-denominated
2012 2011
£000 £000
Monetary assets (912) (61)
Monetary liabilities (48,972) (52,371)
NET MONETARY LIABILITIES (49,884) (52,432)
€ currency impact
2012 2011
£000 £000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX – GAIN/(LOSS)
10% depreciation 4,548 4,755
10% appreciation (5,563) (5,808)
G) OTHER PRICE RISKS
The Company is not exposed to other price risks apart from interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
H) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a ﬁnancial loss to the Company.
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows:
2012 2011
Note £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 8 734 11,751
Trade receivables 6 41 19
Amounts owed by Group undertakings  35,289 48,339
 36,064 60,109
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties to these assets are highly rated ﬁnancial institutions. In addition, the Company has 
further mitigated this risk by spreading cash deposits over a range of ﬁnancial institutions with no more than £10m being deposited with any one counterparty.
The amounts presented in the table above are net of allowances for doubtful recoverability and foreseeable losses. 116
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
H) CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
The table below shows the movements in the provision for impairment of amounts owed by Group undertakings:
Amounts owed by 
Group undertakings
2012 2011
£000 £000
At 1 May 16,939 17,017
Charge for the year 118 107
Release in the year (131) (185)
AT 30 APRIL 16,926 16,939
The ageing of the individually impaired amounts owed by Group undertakings is as follows:
Amounts owed by 
Group undertakings
2012 2011
£000 £000
More than 12 months overdue 16,926 16,939
The ageing of the trade receivables and amounts owed by Group undertakings (excluding those that have been impaired) is as follows:
Amounts owed by 
Trade receivables Group undertakings
2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
NOT PAST DUE 30 3 3 193
PAST DUE
Less than one month overdue – – 361 868
One to two months overdue 11 16 11 33
Two to three months overdue – – 11 11
More than three months overdue – – 34,903 47,234
11 16 35,286 48,146
BALANCE AT 30 APRIL 41 19 35,289 48,339
The credit quality of those debts owed by Group undertakings that are past due but not impaired has been assessed at the reporting date and has not signiﬁcantly 
changed. There is no reason why these amounts will not be recovered in due course.  117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
I) LIQUIDITY RISK
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance and continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and bank syndicated facilities. 
Working capital requirements are mainly funded through dividend income from its subsidiary undertakings.
The Group’s UK overdraft facility was renewed during the year at £5m (net), (2011: £5m (net)). The amount drawn down under these facilities at 30 April 2012 and 2011 
was £nil.
The Company is a guarantor of the Group’s overdraft and syndicated revolving credit facilities of £25m (2011: £35m) of which £25m (2011: £25m) was undrawn at 
30 April 2012. The Company is also a party to an unlimited omnibus set-off arrangement to secure the liability of the Company and certain Group companies with 
Lloyds TSB Bank Plc.
MATURITY PROFILE
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s undiscounted cash ﬂows of the ﬁnancial liabilities which approximates their fair value and the earliest 
date on which the Group is required to pay:
Less than one year
2012 2011
£000 £000
Trade payables 601 383
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 65,874 58,655
66,475 59,038 118
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OTHER INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
Equiniti Limited maintains the Company’s register of members. If any of your details change, or if you have any queries regarding your shareholding, please contact 
the registrars at:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
T: 0871 384 2181 (International: +44 121 415 7047)
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers’ costs may vary. Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Textphone for shareholders with hearing difﬁculties: 0871 384 2255 (International: +44 121 415 7028).
Equiniti also offers a range of shareholder information online at www.shareview.co.uk.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE
Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet share dealing service, is provided through Equiniti and is a convenient way to sell your Anite plc shares or add to your holding. 
Commission is 1.5% of the value of the transaction on the ﬁrst £50,000, with a minimum charge of £45 and 0.2% thereafter for telephone dealing and 1.5% with 
a minimum of £40 for internet dealing. For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on  
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certiﬁcate, if you wish to sell, or your debit card number,  
if you wish to buy.
ANITE CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT (ISA)
A stocks and shares ISA is now available to Anite plc shareholders through Equiniti Financial Services Limited. For further details please go to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or contact Customer Services on 0845 300 0430 (International: +44 121 415 0105).
MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS ON THE SHAREHOLDER REGISTER
If you have received two or more copies of this document, it may be because there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register. This may be caused 
by either your name or address appearing on each account in a slightly different way. For security reasons, the registrars will not amalgamate the accounts without your 
written consent, so, if you would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Equiniti at the above address.
SHAREGIFT
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation. It is especially for those who may wish to dispose of a 
small parcel of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis. Further information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org or from Equiniti.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Annual General Meeting 13 September 2012
Half-year end  31 October 2012
Preliminary announcement of half-year 2012/13 results  December 2012
Financial year end 30 April 2013
Preliminary announcement of 2012/13 results  July 2013
DIVIDEND PAYMENT TIMETABLE
Declared at Annual General Meeting  13 September 2012
Ex-dividend date 26 September 2012
Record date 28 September 2012
Payment date 23 October 2012
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  119
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OTHER INFORMATION
OTHER INFORMATION
2G Second Generation of mobile phone technologies, including GSM and CDMA, 
introduced data services for mobiles, e.g. SMS text messaging.
3G Third Generation of mobile phone technologies enabled high-speed 
downlink/uplink packet access (HSDPA/HSUPA).
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project – collaboration of groups of 
telecommunications associations to make globally applicable mobile phone 
system speciﬁcations.
4G Fourth Generation system expected to provide a comprehensive and secure 
all IP-based solution whereby facilities such as IP telephony, ultra-broadband 
internet access, gaming services and streamed multimedia may be provided 
to users.
BRIC The group of emerging economies (Brazil, Russia, India and China) known 
as the BRIC countries.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Includes the aggregate of capitalised property, plant 
and equipment additions, and capitalised software licences.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access technology.
CONFORMANCE TESTING (CT) Tests the individual protocol stack layers in 
a wireless device to ensure compliance with the latest industry standards.
DEVELOPMENT TESTING (DT) Supports all phases of wireless device 
development, from pre-silicon protocol module development through to 
systems integration and veriﬁcation.
DRIVE TEST A typical means of collecting information on cellular networks’ 
coverage and quality. A car containing cellular network measurement tools 
is driven along a pre-deﬁned route.
DYNAMIC PACKAGING Enables customers to buy their own ﬂights and 
accommodation, rather than buying pre-deﬁned packages, which are priced 
according to current availability.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning – a computer-based system used for managing 
internal and external resources.
EVDO Evolution Data-Optimised, code division multiple access (CDMA) cellular 
technology standardised by 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 (3GPP2).
EXABYTE A unit of computer memory or data storage capacity equal to 
10
18
 bytes.
FSR1 A modular digital scanning receiver that provides high-speed RF 
measurements of wireless networks across multiple bands and technologies.
GCF Global Certiﬁcation Forum – a regulatory body to give operators conﬁdence 
in the interworking of new mobile terminals.
GIGABYTE A unit of computer memory or data storage capacity equal to 10
9
bytes.
GSM Global System for Mobile communications – the dominant global 2G 
wireless telephony standard.
HOSTED Serviced computer facility within which companies can house their 
servers so that they do not need to construct their own secure, air-conditioned 
computer room within their own premises.
HSPA+ High Speed Packet Access Plus – 3G evolution enabling mobile broadband.
INTEROPERABILITY TESTING (IOT) Phase associated with testing to ensure 
suitable interworking between speciﬁc wireless devices and mobile networks.
LTE Long Term Evolution is the latest standard in mobile air interface technology. 
It is a project of the Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).
LTE-ADVANCED (LTE-A) Long Term Evolution Advanced – LTE 4G evolution 
enabling even higher data rates.
LTE FDD Frequency Division Duplexing LTE utilising paired spectrum.
LTE TDD Time Division Duplexing LTE – variant that will be adopted in China.
M2M Machine-to-machine refers to technologies that allow both wireless and 
wired systems to communicate autonomously without human intervention.
MEGABYTE A unit of computer memory or data storage capacity equal to 10
6
bytes.
NET CASH Cash and cash equivalents less bank borrowings.
POST-PROCESSING TOOLS Tools for analysing collected network measurement 
data ofﬂine. Typically involves simultaneous analysis of several ﬁles and 
calculation of statistics from measurement ﬁles.
SMARTPHONE Mobile phone which incorporates advanced capabilities, 
including email and internet access.
SPECTRUM Government-controlled airwaves that companies license to transmit 
wireless signals on certain frequency allocations.
TEST SCRIPT A deﬁned procedure used to verify device functionality.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol, the phone service over the internet.
VoLTE Voice over LTE is an IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem)-based speciﬁcation 
enabling voice to be carried through an IP cellular system.
WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access – the dominant global 3G 
wireless telephony standard.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 120
ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
OTHER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL ADVISERS
JEFFERIES HOARE GOVETT
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
FINANCIAL PR ADVISERS
MHP COMMUNICATIONS
60 Great Portland Street
London W1W 7RT
AUDITORS
DELOITTE LLP
Chartered Accountants
London
STOCKBROKERS
JEFFERIES HOARE GOVETT
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
CANACCORD GENUITY LIMITED
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
BANKERS
LLOYDS BANK
25 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7HN
REGISTRARS
EQUINITI LIMITED
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
SOLICITORS
SIMMONS & SIMMONS
City Point 
One Ropemaker Street
London EC2Y 9SS
REGISTERED OFFICE
ANITE PLC
353 Buckingham Avenue
Slough
Berkshire SL1 4PF
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 1753 804000 
F: +44 (0) 1753 804497
COMPANY NUMBER
1798114
HANDSET TESTING HEAD OFFICE
ANITE TELECOMS LTD
Ancells Business Park 
Harvest Crescent
Fleet
Hampshire GU51 2UZ
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 1252 775200 
F: +44 (0) 1252 775299
NETWORK TESTING HEAD OFFICE
ANITE FINLAND LTD
Kiviharjunlenkki 1 D 
90220 Oulu
Finland
T: +358 50 395 7700 
T: +358 8 551 6182
TRAVEL HEAD OFFICE
ANITE TRAVEL LTD
353 Buckingham Avenue
Slough
Berkshire SL1 4PF
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 1753 804000 
F: +44 (0) 1753 804497
ADVISERS
OFFICES Designed and produced by FTI Consulting www.fticonsulting.com
This report is printed on Hello Silk paper. This paper is made from 100% virgin wood ﬁbre from well-managed forests independently certiﬁed according to the rules 
of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). It is manufactured at a mill that is certiﬁed to ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. The mill uses pulps that are 
totally chlorine free (TCF), and some pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. The inks in printing this report are all vegetable-based.
Printed by Pureprint, ISO14001, FSC certiﬁed and Carbon Neutral. Anite plc
353 Buckingham Avenue
Slough
Berkshire
SL1 4PF
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 1753 804000
F: +44 (0) 1753 804497
www.anite.com
