  Overview
01 Highlights
02 At the heart of ﬁnancial services
06 Global reach
10 Relationships that matter
14 Leading technology and innovation
Business review
18 Chairman’s statement
20 Chief Executive’s review
24 Key performance indicators
26 Misys Sophis
28 Treasury & Capital Markets
30 Banking
32 Open Source
34 Global Services
36 People
38 Social and environmental responsibility
40 Financial review
Corporate governance
48 Board of Directors
50 Corporate governance report
62 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial statements
74 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
75 Audit opinion for the Misys plc Group
76 Consolidated income statement
76  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
77 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
78 Consolidated balance sheet
79  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
80 Accounting policies
87 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
119  Audit opinion for the Misys plc  
Parent Company only
120 Company balance sheet
121  Notes to the Company ﬁnancial 
statements
130 Five year ﬁnancial record
131 Investor information
Misys Leading technology and innovation  Performance highlights
  Revenue £370m – up 4% for the full year, 
accelerating to 8% in the 2nd half
  Order intake £213m – up 3%
  Adjusted operating proﬁt £72m – up 12% 
  Adjusted basic EPS up 22% pro-forma 
for the share count reduction following 
return of capital to shareholders
  Misys Sophis revenue for the 4th quarter, 
its ﬁrst in the Group, up 32% on the 
prior year quarter. Sophis integration 
successful – cost and revenue synergies 
on track 
  Banking returned to growth with revenue 
of £167m – up 3% including a 10% 
increase in the 2nd half. BankFusion 
adoption accelerated with 27 sales 
in the period and 40 customers in total 
  Treasury & Capital Markets (TCM) 
revenue £185m – up 3%. TCM’s market 
position continued to strengthen with  
25 new name wins 

See ﬁnancial review for a reconciliation 
to as reported measures
i

revenue

pro-forma adjusted EPS growth

adjusted operating proﬁt

BankFusion customers

new name wins in TCM
Overview
Annual Report 2011 01
Misys Leading technology and innovation 50 of the top 50 banks rely on Misys

capital markets solutions provider
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
02 Annual Report 2011 With over 1,300 customers in 120 countries relying on our solutions,  
Misys is truly at the heart of the ﬁnancial services industry. In capital  
markets, the acquisition of Sophis catapulted Misys to a leadership position 
with the broadest asset class coverage in the industry and over a third of  
the installed base in our market place. In banking, we are delivering much 
needed innovation in the core banking systems space with our BankFusion 
solutions, and are at the forefront of transaction banking with our portal 
solutions for payments, cash management and trade ﬁnance.


syndicated loan book runners use Misys
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 03 Financial services is changing
The ﬁnancial services market is  
changing rapidly. Financial institutions  
of all shapes and sizes need to keep 
abreast of regulatory requirements, 
respond to changing customer 
expectations, manage risk and take 
advantage of opportunities in new  
growth areas. Subject to a higher level of 
scrutiny than ever before, they also need 
to ensure transparency across all areas  
of their business. Financial technology  
is playing a critical role by delivering the 
functionality and agility needed to keep 
up with the fast pace of change.
Misys is a pure play ﬁnancial services 
provider, committed to innovation  
in ﬁnancial services technology. We 
provide a broad range of solutions to 
help all types of ﬁnancial institutions  
run their businesses more efﬁciently  
and cost-effectively. Our solutions help 
our customers to comply with industry 
regulations, meet the changing 
requirements of their customers and 
retain competitive advantage. Many 
ﬁnancial institutions are using our 
solutions to help them to grow their 
business by expanding into new  
sectors and geographies.
Growth regions
Misys has over 1,300 customers  
in 120 countries around the globe.  
Financial institutions in the emerging 
markets of Latin America and Asia were 
less affected by the credit crisis and we 
are seeing continuing growth in demand 
from these regions. We are partnering 
with many clients to help them adopt 
best practice processes to get the most 
from their software solutions as well as 
building additional functionality to meet 
local regulations and business 
requirements. 
Our global footprint and partner network 
means that we have the resources and 
expertise to service clients worldwide. 
The importance of innovation
Global institutions and those in the more 
mature markets of the USA and Western 
Europe are re-engineering their existing 
systems to be able to cope with these 
changes. In the growth markets of Asia, 
Latin America and the Middle East and 
Africa many banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions do not have complex legacy 
systems in place and can take more 
immediate advantage of packaged 
solutions. 
We are engineering our solutions to make 
it as easy as possible for our clients to take 
advantage of the beneﬁts that we offer. By 
championing the concept of ‘continuous 
migration’ with our BankFusion solutions, 
we are enabling banks to renovate their 
existing systems with new functionality 
while minimising the impact on their 
day-to-day operations. 
We are integrating many of our  
solutions to provide end-to-end support 
for a broad range of ﬁnancial activities, 
and to enable our clients to access the 
full range of functionality available across 
our different products.



For more information  
go to page 16  
For more information  
go to page 12  

Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
04 Annual Report 2011 Focus on leadership
Leading in capital markets
The acquisition of Sophis has catapulted 
Misys into a leadership position in the 
capital markets sector. We now generate 
more than 60% of our revenue from our 
Capital Markets business units – Treasury 
& Capital Markets and Misys Sophis.  
Our capital markets solutions address 
requirements across four major areas  
of business: sell-side, buy-side, lending 
and risk management.
Leading in banking
Transaction banking is becoming more 
important as banks return to fee-earning 
activities after the credit crisis. In many 
cases their underlying systems are in 
need of modernisation. Misys is the 
leading provider in the transaction banking 
space and is the only organisation that 
can offer banks a fully integrated solution 
for payments, cash management and 
trade ﬁnance via our portal solutions. 
The ability to have a single view of cash 
and trade transactions is leading many 
banks to look at how they can increase 
their efﬁciency by consolidating their 
systems in these areas.
Misys is leading the way in innovating core 
banking systems with the BankFusion 
platform. BankFusion is the newest core 
banking system available in the market  
– embracing the latest technology 
developments and offering a completely 
new approach to delivering, implementing 
and upgrading a core banking system.
 
Misys provides a comprehensive  
suite of solutions to help ﬁnancial 
institutions run their businesses more 
efﬁciently and cost effectively.
Customer Geography
Misys Solution Portfolio
 – Opics
– Summit
– Loan IQ
–  BankFusion 
Universal 
Banking
–  BankFusion 
Equation
–  BankFusion 
Midas
– RISQUE
– LIFE
– VALUE
– iSophis
Core
–  Payment 
Manager
–  Online, 
Mobile & 
Portal
–  Trade 
Innovation
Transaction Misys Sophis
Capital Markets Banking
TCM
RISK
Americas 
250 customers
19% of total
Europe
500 customers
38% of total
Middle East  
and Africa
230 customers
18% of total
Asia Paciﬁc 
320 customers
25% of total

Misys serves customers  
in over 120 countries
For more information  
go to www.misys.com
i
Misys
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 05 Misys is a truly global organisation, providing software solutions to ﬁnancial 
institutions across the world, from the recognised ﬁnancial centres of London, 
New York, Hong Kong and Singapore to the growth regions of Africa, Latin 
America and Asia. We have aligned our resources to these geographical 
growth opportunities and are committed to providing the best software, 
services and support to our customers, regardless of their location. Our 
global footprint and diverse pools of talent in different locations enable us  
to meet these objectives.

Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
06 Annual Report 2011 staff in over 35 ofﬁces worldwide
 Six Global Development Centres 
providing centres of excellence for 
R&D and 24/7 customer support

customers across 120 countries
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 07 Relocating leadership roles
Misys has viewed globalisation very 
pragmatically and moved ownership  
and accountability of work rather than 
just focusing on traditional labour 
arbitrage. Instead of centralising all 
leadership roles in the head ofﬁce, we 
have multiple global leadership roles  
in our development locations based in 
emerging economies. This shows the 
strategic shift in our capacity planning 
and approach to global sourcing.
Building a globally distributed 
development model
At Misys, our strategy has been to  
develop a globally distributed development 
model to minimise the risk of having all of 
our development expertise housed in a  
single location and to introduce different 
perspectives to our development process. 
It also provides us access to skills and 
resources around the world as and when 
required. Our goal is to have development 
capabilities for each product line in at  
least two locations. This strategy is on 
track following the successful migration  
of our development capacity to the East  
with four Global Development Centres 
based in Bangalore (India), Bucharest 
(Romania), Manila (the Philippines)  
and Beijing (China). 
Each of these locations is a centre of 
excellence for different technical skills  
so that we can continue to support our 
existing solutions, while also developing 
new solutions based on the latest 
technical innovations.
As these locations are experiencing 
unprecedented growth, our challenge is to 
keep pace with the competition and attract 
and retain talent. We have devised many 
innovative ways to manage attrition and 
create a culture of high performance. We 
run very successful graduate programmes 
in these locations, attracting engineering 
students from some of the best universities.
During the year we also added 
Development Centres in Paris and  
Dublin with the acquisition of Sophis.
Bangalore
1,200 employees 20% growth 265 people hired during the year Centre of excellence for BankFusion Bangalore is our primary Development 
Centre; a multi-function, multi-divisional 
hub covering every solution in the Misys 
portfolio (with the exception of Misys 
Sophis). 75% of staff are focused on 
development and together constitute  
our centre of excellence for Java and  
.Net solutions. Bangalore is also the 
global centre for innovations in Open 
Source solutions for Misys. We have 
doubled in size over the past four years, 
achieving the critical mass that we need 
to service our clients’ development 
requirements. 
Bangalore is host to a huge ecosystem of 
domain expertise in both IT and ﬁnancial 
services, providing us with access to 
leading talent with the right skills for our 
business. The competitive environment 
means that we need to stay sharp and 
provide our employees with exciting and 
technically challenging work. Misys has  
a strong reputation with the major 
universities and is able to attract top 
graduates to work in our organisation. 
In addition to acting as a main R&D hub 
for Misys, Bangalore also hosts customer 
support and professional services teams;  
it is a global solutions centre (GSC) for 
customisations and a shared services 
centre for ﬁnance.

Distribution of Misys R&D professionals
Bangalore – 32%
Manila – 19%
Partners – 18%
Western Europe – 10%
Bucharest – 8%
New York – 7%
London – 6%

Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
08 Annual Report 2011 Misys has introduced an innovative 
programme called ‘excellence through 
education’ where selected employees 
are sponsored for higher education in 
software engineering in collaboration 
with a university. Flexible hours allow our 
staff to pursue advanced education and 
converge their academic learning with 
industry experience.
Beijing
Newly established Opics  development team
Double-byte expertise to support North Asia
Global Solutions Centre for customisations
The growth regions of Asia, and China  
in particular, are of increasing importance 
to Misys’ continued growth. To meet 
current and anticipated demand from  
the region, we are scaling Beijing as a 
strategic Development Centre to support 
North Asia, including the development  
of double-byte versions of our solutions. 
This year, we established an Opics 
development team in Beijing to assist  
with the large number of opportunities in 
China, and to accelerate the development 
of generic product functionality for 
Chinese clients. The team will deliver  
both strategic and funded developments 
for the region. We will add other product 
lines over time starting with Summit,  
and our intention is to have BankFusion 
development facilities in Beijing which  
will supplement the Bangalore and  
Manila Development Centres.
 “ The main areas of focus across all 
our Global Development Centres  
are on quality and productivity. Our 
ultimate goal is for these centres to 
deliver end-to-end world-class 
software solutions.”
Manoj Kumar, 
Vice President, Solution Management 
and Development
Manila
650 employees 115 people hired during the year 24/7 global call centre Centre of excellence for Midas  and Equation
Manila is the home of Misys’ global call 
centre which provides 24/7 level 1 and 2 
support to clients across the globe. The 
language skills that Manila offers make it 
the perfect location to consolidate our 
customer support teams. We are actively 
rotating employees between support and 
services roles to encourage knowledge 
transfer and to provide our support staff 
with a 360° view of the customer. It is 
also our centre of excellence for our Midas 
and Equation banking solutions. We have 
recently started BankFusion shared 
application development in Manila 
alongside Bangalore.
Bucharest
235 employees 83 people hired during the year Centre of excellence for C++/Summit Bucharest provides an excellent pool  
of good quality engineering skills 
accompanied by high levels of 
productivity and quality. Bucharest 
provides time zone and travel advantages 
for servicing the needs of our European 
clients. We are expanding the footprint in 
Bucharest from just being an R&D centre 
to evolve into a resource pool of experts 
for delivering professional services to our 
European customers. 
Misys Sophis Development Centres
148 employees 29 people hired during the year Centre of excellence for C++ & C# and Quality Assurance
We have two further Development 
Centres in Paris and Dublin that support 
our Misys Sophis solutions. They provide 
a pool of highly skilled engineers including 
talented ﬁnancial engineers skilled in 
developing and integrating cutting-edge 
mathematical models for pricing. We 
focus on maintaining the right balance  
of expertise between technical skills and 
business knowledge. As such, we are 
able to attract top-level graduates and 
experienced people to work on 
developing and maintaining our solutions. 
They are responsible for all buy-side 
and asset class functionality, quantitative 
models, and server and technical 
architecture-related developments.
These bases also provide Quality 
Assurance (QA), documentation and 
global IT second level support. They  
host the back-ofﬁce development team 
focusing on operations and accounting 
as well as the team in charge of security 
ﬁnance developments. The QA team is  
in charge of testing and validating all 
Misys Sophis solutions, the Documentation 
team is responsible for the technical 
documentation that is delivered with  
our products and the Support team 
helps our consultants to solve technical 
issues for our clients.
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 09 percentage points year-on-year 
increase in customer satisfaction

Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
10 Annual Report 2011 By strengthening relationships between our customers, our partners 
and our people, Misys is able to grow its business, expand into new 
markets and gain market share.
We have built a global partner network of more than 100 partners that provide 
us with the scalability and expertise to expand our coverage, extend our scale 
and drive deeper customer relationships. Together, we create compelling 
solutions enabling our customers to differentiate themselves and drive a 
competitive edge. Fostering close relationships with our customers and 
partners provides valuable insight to Misys so that we can deliver the best 
solutions in an ever-growing and changing market.

 partners

of new name business won in 
conjunction with partners
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 11 Evolving the partner model
We work as ‘one team’ with our partners 
to be fully aligned in front of customers.  
In some regions we have implemented 
partner-led coverage strategies – localising 
our products, addressing local issues and 
resolutions and driving high value solutions 
while increasing customer satisfaction. 
Our ability to partner more effectively  
has enabled us to provide more 
comprehensive, cost-effective solutions 
that drive greater customer value. 
Partnerships are essential in helping 
Misys to scale our business. We have 
built a Partner Value Net that enables  
us to execute with more speed, scope 
and scale. In turn, our partners provide 
Misys with greater reach into the 
marketplace, greater scale to execute  
on customer requirements, and their 
complementary skills and solutions 
deliver greater depth of value to our 
customers. 
We bring together the collective talent  
of the best information technology 
companies, systems integrators, 
consultancy practices and local partners 
– empowering an entire community  
to beneﬁt from a strong collaboration  
of knowledge, relationships and skills. 
They offer a broad range of value added 
services around Misys solutions, working 
on design, implementation and delivery 
of them.
Partners are an extension of our sales 
force and delivery teams. In-country 
specialists are key to extending our reach 
and helping us cover new territories, 
enabling us to extend farther and faster 
than we could do on our own. 
Teaming for customer value 
No one company can provide all the 
solutions to meet the diverse needs  
of ﬁnancial institutions in today’s 
marketplace. Our Partner Value Net 
comprises global, regional and in-country 
partnerships across all our business  
lines and market segments. We align as 
one team to drive and support business 
opportunities that lead to incremental 
revenue. The depth and breadth of our 
network ensures better alignment to  
our customers’ demands for integrated, 
end-to-end solutions and provides the 
skills and services they require. 
By tapping into our Partner Value Net  
we increase our market presence, learn 
about new opportunities and can fast 
track the sales cycle resulting in increased 
market penetration and higher revenues.
With regular governance and execution 
on our joint business plans, we consistently 
grow our revenues together. This year,  
we closed 35% of new name business in 
conjunction with our partners, and expect 
to increase this rate further over the 
coming 12 months. 


Global partner footprint
 Regional GTM Partners
Misys has more than 100 partners across the world including more than  
40 solution and technology partners. Our strategic partners include everis, 
HCL Technologies, IBM and Microsoft.

Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
12 Annual Report 2011 Long-standing relationships
Our customer base is one of our biggest 
assets. We have an impressive installed 
base worldwide and enjoy long-standing 
relationships with many of our customers. 
We are actively engaged in strengthening 
our customer-facing resources so that we 
can deepen these relationships further, 
helping our customers to address their 
pain points, expand their businesses and 
gain competitive advantage with our 
technology solutions.
Enabling our customers to compete
We are investing heavily in technology  
and innovation to deliver world-class 
solutions to our customers. In many 
ﬁnancial institutions, the decision to invest 
in software and systems is based on cost 
and efﬁciency considerations, the need to 
meet changing customer and regulatory 
requirements, and the need to achieve  
(or retain) competitive advantage. 
We are developing new solutions such  
as BankFusion, utilising portal technology 
to provide integrated transaction banking 
solutions and unlocking the value of our 
capital markets solutions to meet the 
evolving needs of our customers. 
Creating bespoke solutions
Packaged software solutions are easier  
to upgrade and maintain and have a lower 
total cost of ownership. This being said, 
we appreciate that our customers have 
requirements speciﬁc to their business  
or the regions in which they operate. We 
work with our customers to understand 
their needs. Where appropriate, we 
incorporate bespoke developments into 
our product roadmaps so that all of our 
customers can take advantage of them. 
This symbiotic relationship is hugely 
beneﬁcial to our customer base.
Improving customer satisfaction
Achieving continuous improvements in 
customer satisfaction rates is a priority  
for all Misys employees, and is included  
as a key measure in each employee’s 
performance plan. Misys uses Net 
Promoter
®
 from Satmetrix
®
 to support  
its customer loyalty programme, effectively 
capturing customer feedback, identifying 
actions to improve and distributing relevant 
information to employees so they can 
follow up with customers.
Great relationships = shared success
We value all of our relationships and 
invest in them to ensure shared success. 
Our strong management team and 
values are geared towards client focus 
and delivering results. 
Our strategic partners include:
HCL Technologies is a leading global IT Services company, 
focusing on ‘transformational outsourcing’, underlined by 
innovation and value creation. It offers an integrated portfolio  
of services including software-led IT solutions, remote 
infrastructure management services, engineering and R&D 
services and BPO. We work together with HCL for off-shore 
development, IT support, professional services, and global 
go-to-market coverage to open new markets. This extends  
our reach in fast growing economies to gain market share  
and is delivering growth and value for customers. 
For a century, only IBM has created technology around the  
world to invent and integrate hardware, software and services  
to enable the Financial Services industry to work smarter. We 
partner with IBM at many levels, from hardware and middleware 
technology and services, to developing complete customer  
value propositions for our joint customers. 
 
IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
everis is a multi-national consulting company offering  
business development and strategy, technological applications, 
maintenance and outsourcing solutions. everis has operations 
in Europe, Latin America and the US with more than 10,000 
consultants. We work together with everis to increase our 
penetration in Europe, expand international markets, jointly 
collaborate to implement a range of services to existing and 
new clients and deliver local, customised solutions, presence 
and support. 
Founded in 1975, Microsoft is the worldwide leader in 
software, services and Internet technologies for personal  
and business computing. Microsoft offers a wide range of 
innovative products and services designed to help individuals 
and organisations realise their full potential. We work with 
Microsoft to develop new delivery mechanisms for our 
banking solutions and differentiated performance for our 
capital markets solutions.
Improving customer satisfaction with Net Promoter
®
 from Satmetrix
® 
Misys uses Satmetrix
®
 to support its customer loyalty programme.
0%
+
-
TCM Misys Banking
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
For more information on Technology 
and Innovation go to page 16
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 13 solutions are driving our business
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
14 Annual Report 2011 Investment in technology and innovation has been at the heart of our 
turnaround strategy to deliver world class solutions to our customers. 
We have shifted our R&D spend so that the majority is invested in the 
development of new solutions, which are now gaining signiﬁcant traction  
with our customers. We are delivering innovation in all areas of our business 
from core banking to portal technology and componentisation projects that 
unlock the functionality within our different software solutions. Misys is also 
pioneering developments in the carbon and healthcare markets with our  
open source solutions.

new BankFusion  
customers this year

of R&D spend is on  
new solutions
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 15 Driving innovation
This year has been a turning point  
as many of our new solutions hit the 
marketplace and gained signiﬁcant 
traction. We saw a big increase in  
licence orders from our new solutions 
which contributed 41% of our total 
licence revenues. We are pleased to  
see that our hard work and commitment 
to BankFusion is starting to pay off. 
Our development teams are using the 
BankFusion architecture to unlock the 
depth and breadth of ﬁnancial services 
functionality that we have embedded 
within our different products and make  
it available to all our customers. With 
BankFusion we can build a component  
or application once and re-use it many 
times – for example, enabling the treasury 
capabilities within our Opics solution  
to be made available within BankFusion 
Universal Banking. This makes our 
development processes more efﬁcient  
and effective but, more importantly, it 
enables us to deliver more comprehensive, 
integrated solutions to our customers  
and accelerate time to market.
With clear development principles ﬁrmly 
in place, we have been able to construct 
the building blocks for our new solutions 
and foster innovation within the ﬁnancial 
services technology sector.
Improving quality and service levels
This year, we launched a major quality 
initiative to improve customer service 
levels and new code quality for all our 
new solutions. As part of the programme, 
we are introducing new, improved 
service level agreements to give 
customers greater certainty over when 
they can expect problems to be resolved. 
We are also committing resources to 
drive down customer defect backlogs 
thus ensuring that when customers raise 
problems, they are dealt with quickly. 
Finally, we are strengthening our testing 
practices to improve the quality of our 
new code releases. Speciﬁcally, we  
are increasing the coverage of our test 
cases, introducing continuous integration 
and automated testing. We are also using 
customer test cases in our own testing; 
this not only improves the coverage of 
our testing processes but it means that 
customers can shorten their own testing 
cycles.
Delivering the next generation of 
banking systems
We are delivering much needed 
innovation in the core banking systems 
space with our BankFusion solutions, the 
foundation of which is the BankFusion 
Platform – a process-centric graphical 
development environment that enables 
business processes to be created or 
re-conﬁgured quickly and easily. We 
used the BankFusion Platform to build 
BankFusion Universal Banking (UB) –  
a completely new retail banking solution. 
In addition, we are building out a set  
of shared applications starting with  
Teller, Loan Origination and Islamic 
Banking to extend the functionality  
of BankFusion UB, as well as other  
Misys and third party banking systems. 
We plan to make the BankFusion 
Platform available to banks to extend 
their own banking systems, utilising 
pre-conﬁgured common banking 
services and shared applications  
from Misys as well as in-house and 
third-party applications. This is a 
completely new approach that enables 
banks to maximise the value of their 
existing assets.
Maximising functionality,  
minimising disruption
Many banks need to add new capabilities 
to their core banking systems without the 
disruption of a major system replacement. 
BankFusion banking solutions meet this 
requirement by enabling clients to extend 
the life of their existing systems. Since its 
general release in September 2010, the 
rapid take-up of BankFusion Equation 
has demonstrated the demand for  
a new approach within our own client 
base. We will also extend this capability  
to non-Misys customers who can use 
BankFusion to incorporate new 
functionality into their in-house or  
legacy core banking systems.


For more information on our Banking 
business, please go to page 30
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
16 Annual Report 2011 Harnessing the power of the portal
Our customers are shifting from highly-
geared lending to fee-earning activities. 
Misys is providing integrated transaction 
banking services to banks who seek  
to improve and expand these services  
for their corporate clients. Our portal 
technology means that banks can run 
trade ﬁnance and cash management 
applications on the same platform, 
beneﬁt from more efﬁcient systems 
management and reduced cost of 
ownership, and leverage a ﬂexible 
platform to expand into new  
geographies and banking services. 
Unlocking the value of our capital 
markets solutions
Our BankFusion service-oriented 
architecture (SOA) strategy is also being 
implemented across our capital markets 
solutions to make it easier for ﬁnancial 
institutions to implement, consume and 
scale our solutions according to their 
speciﬁc business requirements. Our 
componentisation project will extend  
to the recently acquired Misys Sophis 
solutions to provide even greater 
cross-asset class coverage, portfolio 
management and risk management 
capabilities to both sell-side and  
buy-side clients.
Responding to market requirements
The fast pace of change in the capital 
markets means that our solutions must 
be kept up-to-date with market and 
regulatory changes as well as local 
requirements. Our teams are constantly 
working with clients to ensure that we 
deliver the capabilities they need to run 
their businesses.
Risk management
We have a wealth of risk management 
capabilities within our solutions that 
address the needs of the Capital Markets 
sector, even more so with the addition  
of Misys Sophis. Our intention is to 
consolidate the best of breed components 
from the Misys Sophis Risk Management 
Solution, Misys Eagleye, Misys Risk Vision 
and Misys Opics Risk Plus into a global 
enterprise risk management solution that 
will be available on a single platform. 
Phase 1 of this project will create a 
comprehensive market risk solution so  
that clients can monitor and measure  
the full range of market risks, including VAR 
calculations (Value at Risk) and implement 
stress testing scenarios direct from their 
front ofﬁce application. Phase 2 will extend 
the solution to include credit risk. 
Technology trends
While much of our development effort 
is focused on delivering solutions that 
meet banks’ short-to-medium term 
requirements, we actively track trends  
to determine the future development of 
our solutions. We are seeing increased 
demand for our hosted services across 
many of our solutions and, in the longer 
term, we believe cloud computing 
represents a signiﬁcant opportunity to 
deliver our solutions on a self-service, 
pay-as-you-go basis. We are working 
actively with Microsoft and other partners 
to ensure our solutions are ready for the 
cloud when customer demand emerges. 
Pioneers in Open Source
Misys Open Source Solutions,  
dedicated to the development and 
distribution of open source solutions,  
is growing into a major player in the 
rapidly emerging carbon and healthcare 
markets. Our pioneering healthcare 
information exchanges and carbon 
registry systems have attracted the 
attention of government and voluntary 
agencies and major corporations 
worldwide.
Innovative ideas from our employees  
help to create new solutions that enable our 
customers to achieve competitive advantage 
and position Misys as an industry leader. 
Our inventors work tirelessly to ensure  
that their ideas will succeed. In 2010,  
we launched our Intellectual Property 
Programme to help encourage and protect 
the value of our innovation.
We ﬁled our ﬁrst patent application in  
the US for BankFusion in 2010. This was 
followed by two further applications in 2011, 
a second for BankFusion and another for 
mobile banking. We expect to ﬁle additional 
patent applications in the coming year 
relating to additional BankFusion features, 
new Misys Open Source offerings and new 
Trade Portal features.


“ Patents are core assets that uniquely 
secure company innovation and will 
play a key role in realising the long 
term business goals of Misys. We will 
continue to encourage our innovators 
and work to develop our Intellectual 
Property Programme even further.” 
Robin Crewe,  
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer

of orders came from new solutions
For more information on our Capital 
Markets business, please go to  
pages 26 to 29
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 17 Transformation
This has been a year of transformation 
for Misys. We completed three signiﬁcant 
transactions; the sale of Allscripts, the 
capital return to shareholders and the 
acquisition of Sophis. Together, these 
repositioned Misys as a pure play 
ﬁnancial services software company. 
More importantly, strong market 
positions and compelling products for 
both the capital markets and banking 
sectors mean that Misys is now well 
positioned for future growth.
Shareholder value
In June 2010, we announced our plan  
to sell the majority of our stake in 
Allscripts and the intention to return  
the majority of the net proceeds to 
shareholders through a tender offer.  
With the overwhelming support of our 
shareholders, we sold the entire stake 
and completed the return of £670m to 
shareholders by way of a tender offer 
and B Share scheme. 
The stake in Allscripts was acquired 
in late 2008 through a signiﬁcant 
investment that involved purchasing 
shares in, and merging Misys’ US 
healthcare business with, Allscripts.  
In just two years this investment yielded  
a return of around 130%.
The divestiture of our stake in Allscripts 
and the capital return to shareholders 
were complex transactions and in many 
ways without precedent. They involved  
a complicated, three-way transatlantic 
set of transactions with many US and  
UK legal and regulatory requirements 
and the distribution of four shareholder 
circulars. 
Robust performance
Last year, Misys delivered robust 
operating performance, with a good  
end to the ﬁnancial year as revenue 
growth improved to 8% in the second 
half. Group revenue for the whole year 
was £370m, an increase of 4% on the 
previous year on a pro-forma, constant 
currency basis. Adjusted operating proﬁt 
was up 12% with the adjusted operating 
margin 1.3 percentage points higher as 
management made further savings in  
the back-ofﬁce whilst sustaining our 
investment in product development and 
customer-facing resources. Adjusted 
pro-forma basic earnings per share rose 
by 22% to 15.1p.
Strengthening our position in  
ﬁnancial services
As a newly focused ﬁnancial services 
software provider we see acquisitions  
in our chosen markets as a key way of 
reinforcing Misys’ prospects for future 
growth. In November, we announced  
the proposed acquisition of Sophis,  
a leading provider of portfolio and risk 
management solutions which are largely 
complementary to our existing offerings. 
We see Sophis as an exciting engine  
for growth, in particular through its 
leadership position in the buy-side; 
providing solutions to organisations 
ranging from global asset managers  
to start-up hedge funds.
The ﬁrst post acquisition revenue 
contribution from the Misys Sophis 
division for the fourth quarter, included  
in our ﬁnancial results, was encouraging, 
showing impressive growth of 32% on 
the previous year. We are very pleased 
with the energy and enthusiasm of the 
Misys Sophis employees.
Together, the Treasury and Capital 
Markets and Misys Sophis divisions 
occupy a leading position within the 
capital markets and Misys is now ideally 
placed to win more deals in this sector, 
as well as being able to take advantage 
of cross-selling opportunities and more 
immediate cost synergies. 
In our Banking business we continued  
to invest in the development of our 
innovative BankFusion platform. This  
was rewarded both by sales success 
that exceeded our expectations and  
the emerging consensus amongst 
market commentators as to the special 
capabilities BankFusion can unlock  
for its customers.
Improving customer satisfaction
Nothing demonstrates the power  
of Mike Lawrie’s turnaround strategy  
for Misys more than the dramatic 
improvement in customer satisfaction 
achieved each year. Last year was no 
exception with signiﬁcant improvements 
across the business, with the strongest 
scores recorded in product reliability  
and customer relationships.




Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
18 Annual Report 2011 Rewarding the creation of  
shareholder value 
Last year, a series of major and complex 
corporate transactions challenged 
our remuneration committee to make 
changes to incentive arrangements  
that struck the right balance between 
fairly rewarding management for their 
achievements and securing value for 
money for shareholders. Throughout the 
year, we actively consulted shareholders 
on matters as diverse as recalibrating 
existing long-term incentives, resetting 
dilution limits and the creation of a new 
incentive arrangement for our Chief 
Executive. We were particularly grateful 
for shareholders’ consistent support,  
all the more so as our remuneration 
committee had to be innovative in  
its proposals.
Board succession
I am pleased to welcome Stephen  
Wilson and Timothy Tuff to the Board as 
executive and independent non-executive 
Directors respectively. Together, they bring 
greater international and direct experience 
of our industry to the Board.
Conﬁdence in our future
The strength of Misys’ prospects for 
future growth recently prompted an 
approach with a potential bid for the 
Company. We will evaluate any and  
all such approaches thoroughly to  
ensure the best possible outcome for our 
employees, customers and shareholders. 
Your Board believes that Mike Lawrie  
and the Misys team can justiﬁably  
be very proud of the Company’s 
transformation. Aside from creating 
signiﬁcant shareholder value, they  
have undoubtedly made Misys a more 
attractive place to work and a better 
company to do business with. The  
Board has great conﬁdence in Misys’ 
on-going strategy and its ability to 
continue to generate signiﬁcant growth 
and value for shareholders. 
It traditionally falls to the Chairman to 
record the Board’s thanks to the CEO 
and their entire team. Rarely can such 
thanks be more richly deserved than in 
respect of last year’s achievements by 
the Misys team. Throughout the year, 
their effort and persistence has been 
extraordinary. I would also like to thank 
our shareholders for their active interest 
and consistent support, without which 
this very critical year in Misys’ 
transformation simply wouldn’t  
have happened.
James Crosby
Chairman
James Crosby Chairman
For more information on our approach 
to Corporate Governance please go 
to pages 50 to 61
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 19 Business review
20 Annual Report 2011
Misys Leading technology and innovation  “ This has been a year of great progress with our strategy and corporate 
structure. We completed the acquisition of Sophis to create the leading 
capital markets platform and delivered signiﬁcant value to shareholders  
from the divestment of Allscripts. We have great conﬁdence in the future 
opportunities for Misys to continue its path to leadership in our industry.” 
 
Mike Lawrie 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Business review
Annual Report 2011 21
Misys Leading technology and innovation The year was one of signiﬁcant progress 
in the ongoing transformation of Misys 
that began in 2007 . We established Misys 
as a pure play ﬁnancial services software 
company by divesting Allscripts and 
subsequently increased our exposure to 
the fast-growing capital markets sector 
by acquiring Sophis. We have continued 
to invest in innovation and technology, 
with the bulk of our investment going 
towards the development of new 
solutions. We are also investing to 
expand the skills base in the customer-
facing parts of our organisation. The 
results of our investments began to be 
evident in increased revenues from Asia 
and other growth regions, a return to 
growth in our banking division, and rapid 
revenue growth from Misys Sophis. 
These achievements have generated 
increased interest in Misys. The interest 
in our organisation is a great tribute to 
our ongoing strategy and the dedication 
of our staff to make our transformation  
a success.
Return of capital to shareholders  
and creation of pure play ﬁnancial 
services software company
During the year, we returned £670m to 
Misys shareholders from the proceeds  
of our divestment of Allscripts. As a result 
of the Allscripts sale, we created a pure 
play ﬁnancial services company, with an 
opportunity to be a leader in the ﬁnancial 
services industry.
Increased exposure to high-growth 
capital markets
We believe capital markets will be the 
faster-growing of the ﬁnancial services 
markets that we operate in, and we 
substantially increased our presence  
with the acquisition of Sophis, a leader in 
portfolio and risk management solutions, 
which improves our asset class coverage 
and greatly accelerates our buy-side 
strategy. Its integration into the Misys 
group has been successful. Since 
acquisition, Misys Sophis has already 
demonstrated a high level of growth,  
with 32% revenue growth in its ﬁrst 
quarter as part of the Group. 
Substantial investment in product 
development now producing a 
pipeline of new solutions
We have continued to invest heavily in 
research and development – 19% of 
revenue this year. Our signiﬁcant product 
development spend is now producing a 
pipeline of new and innovative solutions. 
As a result, 41% of our orders in the year 
came from new solutions developed over 
the last two years, compared with 28%  
in the previous year.
Investment in people and skills
This year, we made a record number  
of new hires – around 900 people.  
Our investments in people have been 
focused on the growth regions of Asia, 
Latin America, Africa and the Middle 
East, where we see exciting sales 
opportunities in the years ahead. 75%  
of our people are now outside the UK 
and US.

growth in revenues across Asia, Latin 
America, Africa and the Middle East

BankFusion customers
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
22 Annual Report 2011 We made signiﬁcant investments in the 
customer-facing parts of our operations 
to upgrade our skills base and attract 
new talent into our organisation – sales, 
customer service and pre-sales solution 
consulting. Our training programmes 
have been expanded, including the 
successful launch of new graduate 
programmes in New York, India and 
London. We have extended existing 
partnerships and established new  
ones, with industry leaders such as  
HCL, everis, IBM and Microsoft.
Our independent customer survey  
this year has shown a signiﬁcant rise in 
customer satisfaction to the highest level 
since the beginning of our turnaround. 
This makes us more relevant to our 
customers and gives us the permission 
to upgrade customers to our new 
solutions.
Growth from new regions and  
new solutions 
Our investments in Asia, Latin America, 
Africa and the Middle East have brought 
early signs of growth. Revenues across 
these regions grew 14%.
Our new solutions have brought back 
growth to our Banking business, with 
12% order intake growth in the year,  
as a result of our new solutions.  
We have launched and established 
BankFusion as the newest and most 
modern core banking platform in the  
last decade, with 40 customers so  
far, just over a year after its general 
release. BankFusion is now recognised 
independently as one of the leading 
banking platforms in the marketplace. 
We have applied for two patents so  
far to protect the unique technology 
underpinning BankFusion, and are 
continuing to invest in the banking 
functionality available in the platform. 
During this year, we made signiﬁcant 
progress in the ongoing transformation of 
Misys. We have a strong leadership team 
in place that is ready to take the business 
to the next level. As a result, we are 
strongly positioned to create value for  
our customers and for our shareholders, 
making Misys an innovative workplace for 
our people. We are conﬁdent in the future 
of our business and our ongoing strategy 
to achieve and maintain a leadership 
position in all of our market segments. 
Mike Lawrie
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 Misys business segment reporting structure
Banking TCM Misys Sophis

of our people outside of UK and US
Misys
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 23 Reported Group revenues rose by  
8% including the ﬁrst post-acquisition 
revenue contribution from Misys Sophis 
in Q4. On a pro-forma, constant currency 
basis, Group revenues increased by 4% 
with consistent growth across the 
Banking and TCM divisions and 
signiﬁcant growth in Misys Sophis.
Adjusted operating margin expanded  
0.8 percentage points (1.3 percentage 
points on a pro-forma, constant currency 
basis) resulting from reductions in 
general administration and infrastructure 
costs, whilst investment in product 
development, sales and solution 
implementation was sustained.
Group adjusted operating proﬁt 
increased by 13% (12% on a pro-forma, 
constant currency basis) due to revenue 
growth and well executed cost disciplines.
Outlook
  Our medium term target for revenue 
growth (at constant currency and 
pro-forma for the Sophis acquisition) 
is 5-8%. 
Outlook
  We expect to continue to improve 
margins through further productivity 
gains in the back ofﬁce, Misys Sophis 
synergies and the beneﬁts of revenue 
growth. 
Outlook
  We are capable of growing adjusted 
operating proﬁt in excess of revenue 
growth as we continue to realise further 
efﬁciencies in our business model. 
Group revenue Adjusted operating margin Adjusted operating proﬁt
Margin expansion (2007-2011)

Compound annual growth (2007-2011)

Compound annual growth (2007-2011)

£m
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
274
302
344
342
370
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
14.3
14.5
15.1
18.6
19.4
%
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
39
44
52
64
72
£m
All key performance indicators exclude Allscripts 
and include Misys Sophis for Q4 in 2011
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
24 Annual Report 2011 Order intake grew 9% to £213m, 
reﬂecting accelerated sales of our  
new Banking solutions and the ﬁrst 
contribution from Misys Sophis. On  
a pro-forma, constant currency basis, 
order intake rose by 3%. 
We sustained a high level of product 
development spend, increasing the 
development of key new solutions as 
spending on old solutions was reduced.
The increase in adjusted operating  
proﬁt per employee reﬂects our focus  
on productivity improvements during  
the year. This year, we made good 
progress on cost savings across a  
range of administrative functions, whilst 
we increased implementation capacity  
in our Centres of Excellence located in 
Bangalore, Manila and Beijing. We also 
expanded our sales and solution 
consulting activities in all regions. 
Outlook
  As our new solutions gain acceptance 
in the marketplace, our objective is  
to generate high levels of order intake 
growth from new customers, upgrades 
and associated implementations.
Outlook
  We aim to sustain research and 
development spending as a proportion 
of revenue. Development resource  
will be efﬁciently allocated between 
maintaining existing solutions and 
developing new solutions to meet  
the needs of our customers. 
 
Outlook
  We aim to continue delivering higher 
productivity per employee through 
increased revenues, streamlining 
processes, and more efﬁcient use of 
our development and implementation 
skills outside the US and UK. 
Total order intake Research and development Adjusted operating proﬁt per employee
Year on year growth

Compound annual growth (2007-2011)

Year on year growth

2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
111
156
168
195
213
£m
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
58
61
69
64
69
£m
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
14
15
15
17
19
£k
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 25 How ﬁrms manage risk is changing
As regulation intensiﬁes and cross-asset 
class strategies, as well as the use of 
derivatives, become more prevalent, fully 
integrated portfolio and risk management 
solutions are becoming increasingly 
important. The turmoil of the past three 
years has increased the need for ﬁrms  
to understand and assess their risk 
exposure. 
In the buy-side, the use of derivatives  
and risk management are becoming  
an integral part of ﬁrms’ trading and 
compliance strategies to secure and 
improve performance. In the sell-side, 
liquidity shortages have led banks to 
review liquidity risk as well as their 
day-to-day cash at risk. New Basel 
regulations have also resulted in banks 
taking a much more analytical view  
of credit risk with the introduction of 
measures such as CVA (credit value 
adjustment) and IRC (incremental  
risk charge).
As a result, both buy-side and sell-side 
ﬁrms must combine trading and risk 
management practices in the way in 
which they manage their assets.
Demand for cross-asset portfolio  
and risk management solutions  
is on the rise
For many organisations, their current 
trading or portfolio management 
solutions are not geared up to deal  
with the complexity of today’s ﬁnancial 
instruments and the associated market 
and credit risk implications. The last  
few years have seen many banks 
strengthening their securities ﬁnance 
business and increasing their use of 
instruments such as Portfolio Swaps  
and ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds)  
as they strive to improve market access  
and investment offerings for their client 
base. These changes are driving 
investment banks to strengthen their 
business processes and improve risk 
management procedures.
Interest in commodities has increased 
with investment banks creating more 
investment and hedging products to 
satisfy increased demand – pushed  
up by high volatility in the commodity 
markets. Last year, three Misys Sophis 
clients incorporated European and US 
gas and power commodities into their 
portfolios for the ﬁrst time in order to 
leverage regulation changes.
As ﬁnancial institutions expand the  
scope of their investment or trading 
strategies, they are looking for a solution 
that can handle multiple asset classes, 
as well as sophisticated risk calculations. 
We have kept pace with recent trends  
by strengthening our ﬂow business 
processes, introducing new commodity, 
fund and synthetic products and 
investing in market, credit and liquidity 
enterprise risk management.
Pascal Xatart Executive Vice President  
and CEO Misys Sophis
Business summary
4th quarter revenue £17m up 32% 4th quarter total order intake up  1% at £11m
4th quarter adjusted operating proﬁt £6m up 155%
4th quarter adjusted operating margin 33% up from 17%
Key new buy-side customers added

4th quarter revenue
Financial performance measures reported  
on a like-for-like basis. See the ﬁnancial review  
for reconciliation to as reported measures.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
26 Annual Report 2011 Positioned for growth
Misys Sophis’ heritage lies in the 
sell-side, where we developed a market 
leading trading and risk management 
solution, renowned for its handling of 
equities and equity derivatives. This 
expertise led us to develop a similar 
solution for the buy-side, which quickly 
surpassed the capabilities of other 
portfolio management solutions due to 
its ability to process complex products 
and derivatives, its integrated risk 
management capabilities and its ability  
to address the speciﬁc needs of  
hedge funds.
Our goal is to position Misys Sophis as 
the de facto provider of portfolio and  
risk management solutions, recognised 
as being able to handle every part of a 
ﬁnancial institution’s needs, from both a 
functional and an asset class standpoint. 
Today, we are recognised as the  
market leading solution for equities, 
equity derivatives and commodities  
on the sell-side and the leading cross-
asset portfolio and risk management 
solution on the buy-side. With the full 
force of Misys behind us, we will be  
able to expand our solutions further, 
leveraging its development resources 
and geographical coverage to position 
ourselves to capture a larger share  
of, as well as actively expand, our 
addressable market.
A successful integration with Misys
We are very pleased to be part of  
the Misys team and the opportunities 
that this affords to our people and our 
business. Our sales teams have already 
advanced a number of cross-selling 
opportunities and we fully expect this 
activity to increase over the coming 
12 months.
Misys Sophis VALUE will be positioned 
as Misys’ ﬂagship solution for the 
buy-side and we feel conﬁdent that we 
will be able to win a larger percentage  
of the buy-side pipeline with this offering, 
further solidifying our leadership position 
in this segment.
Misys Sophis RISQUE, our solution for  
the sell-side is complementary to Misys 
Summit. By combining our research  
and development efforts, our clients  
will be able to beneﬁt from additional 
functionality currently available in the 
Misys suite of products, as well as 
improved asset class coverage in the 
areas of Forex, ﬁxed income and interest 
rate and credit derivatives. Equally, 
Summit clients will be able to beneﬁt  
from RISQUE functionality in equities, 
equity derivatives and commodities.
Expanding our penetration  
of the buy-side
The buy-side market for portfolio and  
risk management solutions is still at a 
relatively early stage of development. 
With more than 10,000 organisations 
worldwide that have a potential need  
for a system, this represents a massive 
opportunity, and as such will remain a 
ﬁrm focus for Misys Sophis. As our 
prospective customer base is widely 
dispersed across the globe, we will 
leverage Misys’ geographic footprint, 
especially outside of Europe and in the 
emerging markets of Asia Paciﬁc and 
Latin America. 
More ﬂexibility for our clients
At Misys Sophis, our philosophy  
has been to deliver our solutions in the 
way that our clients wish to use them,  
be these in-house implementations, 
hosted or leasing options, or Software-
as-a-Service (SaaS) delivery. The 
software componentisation project 
currently underway at Misys will result  
in even more ﬂexibility for our clients in 
the way in which they can select and 
consume our solutions and services. 
Strategy update
Plan
 Reinforce leadership in the buy-side
Leverage cross-selling opportunities
 Improve breadth and depth of system functionality
 Maximise integration with TCM products
Geographic expansion A long standing client, Banca Aletti (the  
investment banking arm of Banco Popolare – an 
Italian cooperative bank) has been using Misys 
Sophis RISQUE since 2005. The bank initially 
implemented RISQUE to manage its equities and 
equity derivatives business and quickly extended 
the platform to cover all of its trading activities 
including ﬁxed income, credit, inﬂation, forex  
and commodities. Today, a very relevant part of 
the bank’s portfolio is managed on the RISQUE 
platform which is its primary front-to-back ofﬁce 
trading and risk management system.
A new risk reporting challenge
The new Basel 2.5 framework requires IRC 
(Incremental Risk Charge) reporting to be in place 
by 1 January 2012. Banco Popolare wanted to 
have this in place as soon as possible for the 
whole Banco Popolare Group as part of its  
internal model for market risk and in order to be 
fully compliant with the Basel Accord and other 
regulatory requirements.
Leveraging Misys to deliver a rapid solution
The Misys Sophis team leveraged the depth of 
functionality available in the broader Misys solution 
suite to provide a fast, proven solution to Banco 
Popolare. As Misys Opics Risk Plus (ORP) already 
has the ability to calculate IRC, a new module 
integrating ORP and RISQUE will be delivered 
so that Banco Popolare can take advantage of 
this functionality within Banca Aletti’s existing 
RISQUE system.


Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 27 Leading provider to the  
capital markets
Treasury & Capital Markets (TCM) is a 
global leader in its industry and provides 
a number of fully-integrated solutions and 
services to ﬁnancial institutions, including: 
cross-asset, front-to-back portfolio and 
risk management systems, commercial 
loan trading and processing systems, 
and conﬁrmation matching systems for 
the foreign exchange, derivatives and 
precious metals markets.
TCM predominantly sells and implements 
its solutions with sell-side ﬁrms, 
corporations, government-sponsored 
entities and asset servicers. Together with 
the newly acquired Misys Sophis division, 
we are the leading provider of software 
solutions to the capital markets with more 
than 20 years’ experience and over 500 
customers globally, including 19 of the top 
20 capital markets ﬁrms, and covering all 
segments of the market, including the 
TCM markets, asset managers, hedge 
funds and life insurance companies.
Our customers use our solutions to  
enable more effective and efﬁcient trading 
performance and processing, improved 
monitoring and reporting, and risk 
management across all asset classes. 
During the past few years, ﬁnancial 
institutions have remained focused  
on improving efﬁciency and generating 
cost savings across their IT platforms. 
Many have turned to integrated solutions 
such as ours that offer the beneﬁts of 
automation via straight-through processing 
(STP) and are looking to reduce the 
number of systems that they need to 
support. This is especially true in light  
of industry consolidation, where 
organisations are less inclined to support 
multiple infrastructures across businesses 
that have merged or been acquired.
Actions and progress
We continued to win new customers
We improved our market position again 
this year, adding 25 new customers; 
signiﬁcant customers wins included a 
large tier 1 bank in the United States, 
Macquarie Bank in Australia, OSK in 
Malaysia, BEAC in the Cameroon, Hypo 
Real Estate in Germany and Mizrahi Bank 
in Israel. We continued to expand our 
presence in China with six new name 
banks, bringing our total Chinese 
customer base to 35. We also added 
three new name banks in Mexico, 
extending our position in this fast growing 
market. In general, mid-tier banks were 
less affected by the ﬁnancial crisis and 
have been active with their IT spend;  
21 out of our 25 new name wins were 
mid-tier banks, and 32 of our customers 
in this segment went live last ﬁscal year. 
We enhanced our market-leading 
solutions
Last ﬁscal year, we released new 
versions of software for each of our  
three key solutions: Summit FT v5.5, 
Opics Plus v3.1, and Loan IQ v7.1.
Summit FT v5.5
Added business intelligence,  
advanced reporting capabilities  
and functional improvements in  
FX options and equities
Added new back ofﬁce and 
reconciliation capabilities through  
our partnership with SmartStream
Commenced a major technology 
refresh with the aim of componentising 
the system in a service-oriented 
architecture (SOA) over a three year 
period. This programme will leverage 
the BankFusion platform capabilities to 
enable interoperability of functionality 
across our TCM systems
Business summary
Total revenue £185m up 3% Total order intake £108m down 3% Adjusted operating proﬁt £43m  up 2% as a result of strong cost 
controls whilst maintaining 
investment in technology and 
feature upgrades
 Adjusted operating margin maintained at 23%
 25 new name customers Ed Ho Executive Vice President  
and General Manager
Financial performance measures reported  
on a like-for-like basis. See the ﬁnancial review  
for reconciliation to as reported measures.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
28 Annual Report 2011 Opics Plus v3.1
We encountered some issues with early 
customers upgrading to Opics Plus v3.x 
software during the year. We have now 
largely worked through these issues  
but they did have a short term negative 
impact on Opics Plus’ revenue growth.
We now have: 
Added new blotters and double-byte 
capabilities (to meet requirements  
in countries such as China, where  
we have signiﬁcant market share) 
13 Opics Plus upgrades in the year  
– 15 customers are now live on an 
Opics Plus v3.x release 
We expect many more of our Opics 
customers to upgrade to version 3.x 
this coming ﬁscal year
Loan IQ v 7.1
Released the Java version of  
the software
Enhanced our bi-lateral lending 
capabilities for commercial lending, 
including signiﬁcant performance  
and scalability enhancements
Added double-byte capabilities  
for the Asia Paciﬁc market
Three customers in early adopter 
status upgrading to this release
We have built new web-based portals 
across all three key solutions enabling 
our clients to interact directly with  
their customers, and giving them a 
competitive edge through online client 
access. We have successfully sold these 
portal solutions into the Summit, Opics 
Plus and Loan IQ customer bases.
We are helping our customers respond 
to tough conditions
Regulation and compliance are high on 
everyone’s agenda as many organisations 
are compelled to upgrade their systems to 
meet regulatory requirements. Laws and 
regulations are changing rapidly (many of 
which are still being discussed) and are 
becoming more stringent. We anticipate 
that this will drive the demand for new 
solutions and will continue to shape our 
product roadmaps. We are currently 
developing new functionality for Central 
Counterparty Clearing, with the input of 
some of our customers, with the ﬁrst phase 
of delivery in September 201 1. We also 
won our ﬁrst standalone risk management 
deal in China with Shanghai Pudong Bank 
to assist them with their Basel compliance 
with Chinese regulators. We expect to 
leverage this solution and extend it to our 
other customers in China.
We are generating new revenue 
opportunities
One of our key goals for this year was  
to extend our presence in the buy-side 
market. This has been achieved with the 
acquisition and ongoing integration of the 
Misys Sophis business. Our divisions are 
working closely together on cross-selling 
opportunities and we expect to be able 
to drive deeper into this market and 
leverage Misys Sophis’ leading position 
in the buy-side, equities and equity 
derivatives. We aim to achieve signiﬁcant 
revenue synergies over the next three 
years across our existing customer base 
and prospects.
Maintaining leadership
Our priority in the coming year will be  
to maintain and build on our leadership 
position by strengthening our client and 
partner relationships, integrating the 
Misys Sophis skills and expertise with 
TCM, and continuing to invest in our 
people, our technology and the value 
propositions of our solutions. Regulation 
and compliance will drive the demand  
for our new solutions, and will continue  
to shape our product roadmaps. 
Performance and scalability, especially 
across vanilla asset classes, are 
becoming much more relevant as 
transaction volumes rise exponentially. 
Delivering further improvements in these 
areas will be of paramount importance  
to our continued success.
Strategy update
Lead: (2-4 years) Future
Extend product portfolio coverage and functionality  
Achieved with further  
developments planned
 Target needs of mid-tier banks Expand footprint in emerging economies
 Continue with STP and system consolidation opportunities
 Continue technology upgrade programme across all solutions
 Improve breadth and depth of system functionality to support 
customer needs
 Generate revenue opportunities  with Misys Sophis through cross-
sale efforts
Boost services capability  and capacity  
Achieved
Extend into higher value  service offerings 
Achieved
Increase use of partnerships  Achieved
“ Misys has been a key strategic 
vendor to our ﬁrm, with Summit, 
Misys Sophis RISQUE and Loan IQ 
as signiﬁcant systems in our IT hub. 
The acquisition of Sophis further 
strengthens the interrelationships 
between our two companies, and 
we look forward to the further 
integration of the solutions and the 
stronger value propositions that 
Misys will provide for us.”  
 
Marnix van Stiphout 
ING Bank

new name customers
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 29 Banks want to get the best out of  
new technologies
This is where Misys comes in. We are 
developing some of the most innovative 
solutions available to meet banks’ 
requirements for their core banking  
and transaction banking businesses. 
BankFusion is the newest core banking 
solution to hit the streets in the past 
decade. Embracing the latest 
developments in service-oriented 
architecture and componentisation,  
our development teams have  
created a completely new approach  
to delivering, implementing and  
upgrading a banking system.
BankFusion shows strong demand
The traction that we have experienced 
with BankFusion over the year 
demonstrates that the banking 
community is ready to rethink its 
approach to systems and technology. 
Adoption rates have been strong, 
particularly within our existing client  
base, and by the end of the year we  
had 40 BankFusion customers. 
The attraction of BankFusion is twofold. 
Firstly, it minimises the risk associated 
with a core system replacement – which 
has led many banks to maintain their 
legacy systems and customise them over 
time. Today, the cost of maintaining these 
systems and keeping them up-to-date 
with ever changing requirements is 
becoming untenable, in particular at a 
time when banks are keeping a sharp 
eye on their cost-to-income ratios. 
BankFusion takes a continuous  
migration approach to system renovation, 
enabling banks to identify and prioritise 
key functions, upgrading or replacing each 
area over time while keeping the business 
running. In this way, system upgrades or 
replacements can be implemented with  
a minimum of disruption to a bank’s 
day-to-day business operations.
Secondly, a bank has the option to take 
BankFusion as a packaged system such 
as BankFusion Universal Banking which 
they can easily add to and maintain over 
time. Both options make it signiﬁcantly 
easier for banks to upgrade or replace 
existing processes and add new 
functionality as and when required. 
A banking system for today
Today, banks face a plethora of challenges 
which their legacy banking systems were 
simply not designed to meet. For example, 
a bank’s cost-to-income ratio can be 
adversely impacted by the high cost of 
maintaining older banking systems, largely 
due to the vast multitude of interfaces 
between them, and the inability to bring 
new products to market quickly or make 
them compatible with new distribution 
channels such as mobile banking, 
affecting its proﬁtability.
The ﬂexibility inherent within BankFusion 
means that it is better able to address 
these issues, equipping banks with  
the ability to innovate and bring new 
products to market within days, not 
weeks, incorporate new regulations  
and market changes within their  
ongoing business processes, and  
realise synergies from M&A activities 
more quickly. We are helping banks  
to reduce their cost-to-income ratio, 
making them best in class.
Business summary
 Total revenue £167m up 3% including a 10% increase in  
the 2nd half 
Total order intake £93m up 12% Adjusted operating proﬁt £36m up 17% as a result of higher revenues 
and continued cost discipline
 Adjusted operating margin increased to 21%
 BankFusion adoption accelerated with 27 sales in the period and  
40 customers in total 
 26 new name customers of trade or payments solutions
Al-Noor Ramji
Executive Vice President and  
General Manager 
Financial performance measures reported  
on a like-for-like basis. See the ﬁnancial review  
for reconciliation to as reported measures.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
30 Annual Report 2011 Leading the way in transaction 
banking
Misys has continued to consolidate its 
market-leading position in transaction 
banking solutions through a winning 
combination of solution innovation, new 
customer wins and highly successful 
implementations. We are uniquely 
placed, both in the breadth of our 
transaction banking solutions portfolio 
and our ability to integrate them for 
maximum operational efﬁciency.
This year, our trade ﬁnance solutions won 
the global award for best Trade Finance 
Tech-Vendor in Trade Finance Magazine’s 
Awards for Excellence. Sales order intake 
grew by over 50% this year, including 26 
new customer wins, reinforcing Misys  
as the leader in trade services solutions. 
Misys Trade Portal has been updated  
with enhanced user-interface tools and 
improved navigation.
Misys Payment Manager has also 
established itself as a market leader, 
attracting signiﬁcant customer wins  
and demonstrating highly successful 
implementations in less than six months.
Enabling new distribution channels  
for retail banking customers
Impressive progress has been made  
by our online banking portfolio. The 
Misys personal ﬁnance solution for  
retail banking customers has enjoyed 
exceptional sales growth, winning 
customers across our territories. Misys 
Mobile has won its ﬁrst customers and  
is expanding into new areas including 
social media. 
Making life easier for banks’  
corporate clients
Online, mobile and portal solutions are 
changing the way in which banks can 
offer services to their corporate clients. 
Banks are also taking advantage of the 
efﬁciency gains and new services that 
can be delivered by combining our portal 
solutions, such as cash management, 
trade services, and money market/foreign 
exchange solutions. This ability to offer  
a consolidated view of cash and trade 
transactions is helping banks to win new 
business from corporate treasurers. At 
Misys we are using portal technology  
as well as making our solutions available 
on a single platform so that banks can 
provide new and competitive solutions  
to their customers. This uniﬁed vision for 
online banking solutions means that our 
clients are able to rationalise their banking 
infrastructure, reduce maintenance and 
management costs and automate 
previously manual processes. 
National Bank of Oman (NBO), one  
of the largest banks in Oman and the 
ﬁrst local bank in the Sultanate, has 
chosen the Misys trade ﬁnance solution 
as part of its plan to expand its trade 
ﬁnance business. The Misys solution 
will help the bank launch innovative 
trade products as well as increasing 
traditional trade volumes.
The integrated solution combines the 
power of the back-ofﬁce processing 
system, Misys TI Plus, with the award-
winning Misys Trade Portal, the 
e-business console. This will enable 
customers to connect seamlessly to 
NBO and conduct their international 
trade business at the same time as 
accessing a wide range of ﬁnancial 
supply chain services.
“ We were very impressed by the  
fully integrated front-to-back trade 
ﬁnance solution offered by Misys. 
The corporate Service Level 
Agreement-driven workﬂow and 
business dashboard incorporated 
into the system were important 
differentiating factors. We are 
conﬁdent that Misys TI Plus and 
Trade Portal will help us to meet  
our growth targets for our traditional 
products as well as newer ones, 
such as factoring.” 
 
Humayun Kabir 
General Manager Wholesale 
Banking, National Bank of Oman


Strategy update
Lead: (2-4 years) Future
Grow Misys BankFusion developer community 
Not achieved
Grow Misys BankFusion developer community
Penetrate Tier 1 and Tier 2 banks Help banks to launch new services by leveraging social networking 
channels
Maintain add-on module pipeline  for cross-sell  
Achieved
  Leader in core banking operating 
system market  
In progress – gaining traction  
with BankFusion

new Transaction Banking customers
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 31 Misys Open Source Solutions (MOSS)  
is pioneering the development and 
adoption of open source solutions in  
two key sectors – healthcare in the 
creation of health information exchanges 
(HIEs) and the carbon market in the 
development of global environmental 
registries that enable organisations to 
measure, reduce and trade their carbon 
emissions. This year has seen signiﬁcant 
progress in the development of our 
business. Our ﬁrst healthcare clients are 
live on the Misys Connect™ Exchange 
and Misys Connect™ Portal and in 
partnership with The Climate Registry 
we have developed and deployed the 
largest cloud-based voluntary carbon 
registry system in the world. 
Health Information Exchanges –  
a ripe market for open source
The US market for healthcare information 
technology is booming, thanks to the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 that has set aside more  
than $US 40 billion in incentive dollars  
to providers – provided that they use  
the technology in a meaningful way.  
2011 marks the ﬁrst year when those 
payments began to ﬂow as part of the 
Stage 1 meaningful use demonstrations. 
Stage 2 of the meaningful use payments 
is expected to be predicated on the  
use of HIEs. HIEs aim to promote 
interoperability by enabling the sharing  
of patient records between provider 
ofﬁces and hospitals, and tying together 
the related services required for end-to-
end patient care. 
In many cases, cost has been an 
impediment to the creation of community 
exchanges. MOSS led a number of 
worldwide open source development 
projects that resulted in the creation of 
core exchange components that make 
up the Misys Connect™ Exchange 
platform. Coupling the open source 
platform with the proprietary Misys 
Connect™ Portal provides users with 
cost effective, best-of-breed solutions 
that are open and standards-based.  
The Hartford Hospital exchange (in 
Connecticut) was the ﬁrst exchange  
to go live with an initial patient load of  
over 2.5 million patient records. 
eHealthConnecticut was the second 
exchange to go live and is now fully 
operational and is transferring data 
between three hospitals and two 
Federally Qualiﬁed Health Centres. 
With a proven, operational open source 
HIE in the market, we are gaining traction 
both inside the US, elsewhere in the 
Americas region, and in Europe and 
Australia. We are now focused on 
building out our distribution network  
to pursue these and other opportunities 
around portals and community  
data solutions.
Bob Barthelmes Executive Vice President  
and General Manager
Business summary
 Deployed largest cloud-based voluntary carbon registry system  
in the world
 First clients live on the Misys Connect™ Exchange and Misys 
Connect™ Portal
 Over 2.5 million patient records on Hartford Hospital exchange
 Announced partnership with iCET and The Climate Registry to deploy 
an Energy & Climate Registry for 
China
Being an emergent segment, Open Source  
is reported within Corporate & Other in the  
ﬁnancial statements.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
32 Annual Report 2011 Leading in carbon registry systems
As a result of our partnership with  
The Climate Registry, a non-proﬁt 
organisation that provides meaningful 
information to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, we have developed and 
deployed the largest cloud-based 
voluntary registry system in the world. 
More than 8,000 facilities from 850 
organisations are providing data to  
the registry making it one of the leading 
bodies involved in the monitoring, 
reporting and veriﬁcation of emissions.
At the UN Climate Summit, held in 
Mexico in late 2010, it was announced 
that we are working in partnership with 
the Innovation Center for Energy & 
Transportation (iCET) and The Climate 
Registry to deploy an Energy & Climate 
Registry for China. We are in discussions 
with several other NGOs regarding the 
deployment of our registry platform in 
other regions.
Extending our footprint
We are starting to reap the rewards  
of our investment in open source 
solutions with live platforms now  
fully operational in both of our target 
sectors. Our focus for the coming year 
will be to extend our footprint in the  
US for healthcare, as well exploring 
opportunities in Europe and Australia 
which are growth regions for HIEs;  
and to continue working with NGOs to 
expand the roll out of our environmental 
registry platforms. We are also actively 
expanding our partner relationships to 
build our distribution network.
iCET announce China’s Energy  
and Climate Registry
iCET announced that it will join  
forces with the Beijing Environmental 
Exchange, Los Angeles-based The 
Climate Registry and New York-based 
software company MOSS to promote 
the Energy and Climate Registry as 
the predominant greenhouse gas 
reporting platform in China.
The goal of the Energy and Climate 
Registry (ECR) is to produce a reliable, 
consistent and veriﬁable information 
database and reporting tool for energy 
consumption and carbon emissions 
on the corporation and local 
municipality levels. By joining to  
the ECR, multinational and domestic 
corporations will be encouraged to 
voluntarily sign up to report input 
parameters to calculate energy 
consumptions and produce GHG 
emission inventories, which will be 
veriﬁed by a certiﬁed third party.
“ Costs are less than half of what  
we would have expected if we  
had gone with a commercial HIE 
product and it is certainly meeting 
the expectations I had from a cost 
standpoint from the very beginning.” 
 
Stephan D. O’Neill 
Vice President of information 
services, Hartford Hospital and 
board member, eHealthConnecticut 
Strategy update
Lead: (2-4 years) Future
 Develop a proﬁtable Open Source 
business  
Achieved 
Extend healthcare footprint in US Explore healthcare opportunities in 
Europe and Australia
 Continue working with NGOs to 
expand roll out of environmental 
registry platforms
Build partner distribution network Integrate third-party technologies  
into our platforms  
Achieved
  Develop Connect strategy  
Achieved
 Develop carbon trading platform 
application 
Not achieved
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 33 Revenue grew 10%
Our teams engage with customers  
at each stage of their relationship  
with Misys; from solution consultancy  
at the outset of an implementation or 
upgrade through to implementation  
and integration services, product training 
and ongoing support and maintenance. 
We have streamlined the organisational 
structure to better meet customer-needs, 
concentrating non-customer-facing  
staff in our Global Service Centres in 
Bangalore, Beijing, Bucharest and Manila 
and retaining project specialists and 
consultants in customer-facing roles 
across our regions.
Building a high performance team
Operating as a high performance team  
is a strategic imperative for the success 
of our services business. Our value lies  
in our ability to unlock the full potential  
of our software efﬁciently and effectively 
so that our clients can beneﬁt from  
their investment in Misys solutions  
and expand their use within their 
organisations. To deliver the levels  
of performance that we want to  
achieve across all areas of our services 
organisation, we are basing our services 
strategy around three key components:
Creating exceptional value for our 
customers
Ensuring operational excellence
Developing unique skills and 
knowledge in our people
The main thrust over the course of the 
year has been on honing the Global 
Services teams to deliver operational 
excellence and achieving the right 
structure to focus on further developing 
our skills to meet customer needs.
Operational excellence –  
push on proﬁtable growth
We are undertaking in-depth reviews  
of our projects to better measure and 
control their timeliness, resource 
optimisation and customer satisfaction. 
By establishing clear measurements  
that can be applied to each project  
and devolving accountability to project 
managers, we have started to see a 
positive impact on project metrics. 
Localising accountability at the project 
level promotes earlier engagement with 
sales and solutions consulting, resulting 
in a more effective execution by all 
project participants. 
This is integrated into the company’s 
wider drive to devolve more decision-
making into its regional operating units 
and down to client-facing staff. The  
next step is to ‘industrialise’ the services 
process to deliver projects faster with  
the ultimate goal of being able to offer 
competitive, ﬁxed price projects for 
standard implementations. We are 
making good progress in this area by 
standardising methodologies and tools, 
developing best practices that can be 
re-used easily across different projects, 
and systematically identifying those 
project components that can be 
delivered off-shore.
Effective customer support
71% of our support staff are now based in 
our Global Service Centres in Bangalore, 
Manila, Bucharest and Beijing. Our most 
seasoned support staff remain close to 
customer locations, working on-site with 
key customers to resolve issues. 
Our support teams strive to ensure 
customer success. Successful customers 
engender loyalty, will buy more and are 
more likely to recommend Misys. This 
year, we launched the ‘Make it 10’ 
Carlos Lopez-Abadia Vice President  
Services & Support
Global Services provides:
System integration services for Misys solutions
Implementation & technical services
Training & education via the Misys Academy
Custom development Premium Support Services Application Support Business summary
Extended services and support offerings through initiatives such as 
premium support
Total revenue grew by 10% Service orders grew by 11% Global Services’ revenues are managed and 
included within business division results. Financial 
performance measures reported on a pro-forma, 
constant currency basis. See the ﬁnancial review  
for reconciliation to as reported measures.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
34 Annual Report 2011 initiative aimed at achieving 10 out of 10  
in post support case surveys. As a result 
of this initiative, ratings of 9 and above 
jumped by 45%, giving an industry 
leading Net Promoter score for case 
satisfaction.
Investing in people
We have launched a number of initiatives 
to ready our workforce to meet the 
changing requirements of our client base. 
Initiatives such as these enable our people 
to develop their skills and progress whilst 
beneﬁting our clients via more highly 
trained, motivated teams that understand 
their business better:
Recruitment – we have stepped up  
our recruitment programmes to bring  
in new skills including more extensive 
project management capabilities that  
are required in the ﬁeld. This includes 
enhanced graduate schemes that 
provide a true career path within Misys 
so that we can develop and nurture  
the leaders of tomorrow.
Skills rotation – we have embarked on  
a programme to rotate resources 
between our services and support teams 
to provide our staff with a 360° view of 
the customer. Commenced in Asia, this 
programme has already delivered more 
than 5,000 man days of services through 
our support staff and is now being rolled 
out globally. 
Certiﬁcation programmes – we are 
expanding our online-based training  
to provide self-service opportunities for 
staff to continually increase and update 
their product knowledge. In conjunction 
with this initiative, we are launching  
a 3-level certiﬁcation programme to 
measure our skills progression to 
continuously challenge ourselves and 
grow our expertise.
Misys Managed Services Asian Banker award: Best Back 
Ofﬁce Trading System 
Misys Managed Services, in particular 
Premium Support Services continued 
to grow signiﬁcantly over the year 
reﬂecting the growth potential 
highlighted in last year’s annual report. 
Revenues grew by 73% reﬂecting the 
pipeline generated over the year by the 
launch of this new service offering. 
Over 23% of our expanded customer 
base has now taken some form of 
Managed Services from Misys.
Misys won this award for the successful 
implementation of Misys Summit FT at 
Bank of Communications in Shanghai 
to support the front-to-back operations 
of the bank’s derivatives business. 
Speed of implementation, the beneﬁt to 
the bank’s entire derivatives business 
and the skilled professional services 
team that supported the bank 
throughout the project were the key 
factors in Misys’ success.
The objective was to provide Bank of 
Communications with a real-time 
straight-through-processing solution for 
its derivative products that would be up 
and running within a six month 
timeframe.
Partner relationships complement our 
unique services and support offerings 
for Misys solutions. We partner with 
HCL and everis on a global level, where 
their business consulting expertise and 
project scoping skills add signiﬁcant 
value to client engagements. We 
engage with many partners at a local 
level to help us win business and 
provide local expertise.
Next year will see us delivering the 
growth that we have lined the Global 
Services team up to achieve. We intend 
to leverage the potential for learning 
and training programmes and continue 
to drive proﬁtable growth, faster 
implementations and superior support 
for our clients.
“ Client service is of utmost importance 
to us. We continually strive to improve 
our service in every way we can, to  
all our clients, whatever their size. 
This means we have to introduce  
the best technology on the market  
to improve systems, achieve optimal 
efﬁciency and keep costs and risks  
to a minimum.  
 
With increasing trading volumes  
and new ﬁnancial instruments, we 
needed a system that could support 
our operations seamlessly from the 
front ofﬁce to the back. Misys 
Summit FT is the very best of fully 
integrated solutions on the market 
and the Misys team worked with us 
tirelessly to achieve a smooth and 
timely transition.” 
 
Shen Shaozhen 
General Manager, Bank of 
Communications Operations Centre


Strategy update
Lead: (2-4 years) Future
Extend product portfolio coverage and functionality  
Ongoing process
 Continued improvement to infrastructure, methodologies  
and processes
 Develop proprietary methodologies Drive quality and customer satisfaction
 Increase speed of delivery Extend into higher value  service offerings  
Achieved with Premium  
Support Services
Increase use of partnerships  In progress

projects went live in 2011 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 35 Our business depends on our people, 
and our people depend on a working 
environment and culture that empowers 
them to succeed, whatever their role in 
the organisation. We have reviewed our 
organisational design and streamlined 
our business to adjust to regional 
demands and new growth markets  
whilst maintaining close alignment with 
our customers. 
We have hired approximately 900 new 
employees over the course of the year, 
60% of which were for development  
and customer support roles, demonstrating 
our commitment to these areas of  
our business. Our core development  
and customer support activities are 
concentrated in our Global Development 
Centres in India, the Philippines, China, 
Romania, Ireland and France. 
Overall headcount has increased by 6% 
excluding the impacts of the divestiture  
of Allscripts and acquisition of Sophis. 
Through our recruitment programme, we 
are bringing in new expertise from both 
within and outside of our industry, as well 
as having a renewed focus on graduate 
recruitment to support our future talent 
ﬂow and drive a high performance 
culture. We are currently embarking on  
a global recruitment drive for our sales 
and pre-sales functions.
Developing talent
Identifying, nurturing and developing 
talent lies at the heart of our people 
strategy. We are continuing to invest  
in our employees to ensure that they 
have the skills needed to grow the  
Misys business and will be signiﬁcantly 
expanding our people programmes and 
learning initiatives over the coming year.
Distinguished Engineer Programme – 
launched in 2010 to recognise the 
importance of technical leadership within 
Misys. This programme was designed to 
provide additional career opportunities 
and reward outstanding technical 
performance.
Leadership & management courses –
ensure that we have consistent 
leadership skills across our global 
centres, regional hubs and local ofﬁces  
in order to provide world-class support to 
our customers. Over 400 managers have 
completed our ‘Essential Management 
Skills’ courses. Next year, we are 
launching a more advanced programme 
for senior managers to help them and 
their teams prepare for and navigate the 
next wave of growth to drive results.
Top 100 – our top performing employees 
are identiﬁed and prioritised for talent 
management, coaching and succession 
planning. We now have a strong 
management team in place which is 
positioned to take Misys to the next level.
The Top 100 underpins the Executive 
Team with their ability to communicate 
our company vision, demonstrate 
strategic agility, lead with integrity and by 
example, and inspire and develop others.
Our people programmes:
Online and classroom based learning 
Misys Academy Distinguished Engineer Programme Graduate trainees Employee engagement Employee engagement:
Improvements in overall engagement score
Enthusiasm for delivering good customer service was higher than 
the norm (+10% above benchmark)
Belief in the effectiveness of the Executive team
Nearly 75% of the organisation responded to this survey (66%  
last year)
Top down communications effective and easy to understand
Overall strategy and goal alignment is positive – people understand 
how their work contributes to the 
objectives of the organisation
Frank Douglas 
Executive Vice President  
and Group HR Director

new employees
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
36 Annual Report 2011 Graduate programmes – focus on 
developing transferable skills that 
combine business knowledge with 
functional and product training. Our 
graduate recruits balance on the job 
learning with e-learning curriculums  
and class-based training. 
We have a renewed focus on graduate 
recruitment and development in  
support of our talent mission: to improve 
business results and gain competitive 
advantage now and for the future by 
identifying and building talent across  
the organisation – growing talent from 
within. We currently have graduate 
programmes in some of our key sites, 
Manila, Bangalore, New York and a focus 
on sales in London. We will continue 
to strengthen our bench and our 
approach to an end-to-end leadership 
development framework to help us 
attract and retain the best talent in  
the market.
Safeguarding our staff
Our people are our business and 
therefore we need to ensure that we  
have adequate safeguards in place to 
ensure their safety. We have a global 
security strategy that provides all 
employees with access to medical, 
security and travel assistance. A 
dedicated Business Continuity team 
keeps all employees up-to-date with  
the latest security announcements 
worldwide via the corporate intranet  
and utilises a global notiﬁcation service 
for those travelling on business and in 
times of crisis. Our business continuity 
plans were put into action to deal with 
the Japanese tsunami and earthquake 
disaster, enabling us to provide 
immediate assistance to employees  
and their families.
Promoting equal opportunities  
and diversity
Misys is committed to a workplace  
that is free from unlawful discrimination, 
harassment, victimisation and retaliation 
where everyone will receive equal 
treatment regardless of gender, colour, 
ethnic or national origin, disability, age, 
marital status, sexual orientation or 
religion. We promote equality and work 
to the principle that all employees are 
selected and treated on the basis of their 
abilities, merits and potential and do not 
take irrelevant factors into consideration. 
Misys recognises the diversity of the local 
population within which it operates and 
embraces diversity within the workplace 
to enhance the vibrancy of culture and 
experience and encourages fairness  
and justice. 
It is our policy that people with disabilities 
should have full and fair consideration  
for all vacancies. Should an individual 
become disabled whilst employed at 
Misys we will endeavour to retain them in 
the workforce. We will actively retrain and 
adjust their working environment where 
possible to facilitate their needs and to 
allow them to maximise their potential.
We conduct an annual survey to review 
how our employees are feeling about the 
business, their role and our future. This 
feedback is essential in building business 
plans to ensure that we motivate staff 
and implement the changes necessary 
to achieve our next level of growth. 
The HR organisation is focused on 
streamlining processes, policies and 
management information to deliver 
consistent service and provide the 
information required to support  
decision-making. 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 37 Misys remains a values driven 
organisation. We are present in many 
countries around the world and recognise 
the importance of managing our impact 
in a sustainable way in all regions within 
which we operate. This includes 
environmental performance, business 
ethics, supporting local communities  
and looking after our employees. During 
the past year, we have introduced several 
company-wide initiatives to drive forward 
this agenda. These initiatives reﬂect  
our overall business strategy and the 
aspirations of our Board, our employees, 
our partners, our customers and the 
communities we serve.
Last year, we reported that we had 
established an Environment and Social 
Responsibility Committee which reports 
directly into the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary. This committee  
has met bi-monthly through the year  
and is delivering on the responsibility 
agenda. At each meeting, the committee 
considers our environmental initiatives 
and the charitable giving and 
volunteering framework. 
The Misys Charitable Foundation
2010/11 was the ﬁnal year of operation 
for the Misys Charitable Foundation  
as reported in last year’s annual report.  
The Foundation was set up in 1997  
with the primary objective of furthering 
education in IT on both a domestic  
and international level.
The achievements of the Foundation 
have only been made possible by the 
tireless work of Nigel Talbot-Rice who 
retired this year as a director of the 
Foundation. During its ﬁnal year, the 
Foundation awarded scholarships to 58 
students worth approximately £95,000. 
A further £61,000 was donated to 
schools and other organisations for the 
provision of IT equipment. Since 1997 , 
the Foundation has made grants of over 
£1.95m to its charitable causes.
The work of the Foundation has reaped 
rewards this year with 32 Misys scholars 
having graduated in the UK. Of these,  
26 achieved ﬁrst class degrees with the 
remaining 6 receiving a 2(1).
We have received many letters of  
thanks in recognition of the work of  
the Foundation and in particular Nigel 
Talbot-Rice. The Board of Misys plc 
would like to thank Nigel for his hard 
work and dedication to the Foundation 
over many years. 
The Misys Club
We have launched the Misys Club  
to harness and mobilise community  
and environment initiatives across the 
Group with support from management. 
We have site leaders in our four main 
ofﬁces that oversee and facilitate the 
organisation of local events under the 
Misys Club framework. Each site has 
selected two charities to support and 
Misys will match fund raising by staff for 
those charities up to £25,000 per site.
Tom Kilroy Executive Vice President  
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
38 Annual Report 2011 We have also introduced a framework that 
allows each member of staff to spend a 
day volunteering in their local community. 
This can be done on an individual basis or 
as a team event. This should beneﬁt not 
only the communities within which we 
operate but also our staff.
Charitable donations
Prior to the establishment of the Misys 
Club, we continued to make direct 
donations to charity throughout our 
regions totalling £18,877. We supported 
various causes from The Cystic Fibrosis 
Society to Big Brothers, Big Sisters, a 
mentoring organisation for children. In 
the future, all charitable donations will  
be made through the Misys Club. 
Social responsibility and governance
Building on the work undertaken last year, 
we have strengthened our ethics culture 
further across the business. We have 
introduced a compulsory e-learning 
course on understanding the Code of 
Conduct. You can ﬁnd a copy of the  
Code on our website, www.misys.com. 
We have also introduced compulsory 
training on bribery and corruption for 
those most likely to be exposed to 
unacceptable behaviour. Given the 
diverse markets within which we operate, 
we recognise the need to provide all our 
employees with the tools and knowledge 
to do business effectively and in an ethical 
manner to the beneﬁt of all parties. 
We operate a ‘raising concerns’ hotline 
and web reporting tool to ensure that  
all staff are able to report any concerns 
they have in respect of illegal or unethical 
behaviour, in conﬁdence, and without 
fear of reprisal. The service is run by  
an external organisation to guarantee 
conﬁdentiality. There is an established 
process for considering all matters 
reported through the hotline. A 
committee consisting of the General 
Counsel, the Head of HR, the Deputy 
Company Secretary and the Internal 
Audit Director review all matters reported 
on the line and if necessary escalate to 
the Audit Committee.
Environment
We reported our carbon footprint for  
the ﬁrst time last year. Our business  
has changed signiﬁcantly during the year  
and we have rebased our footprint to 
better reﬂect the business we are now. 
We have taken on additional buildings 
during 2010/11 to accommodate the 
growth in the business and our growing 
workforce. When ﬁtting new buildings  
or ofﬁce locations, Misys promotes 
green construction practices through  
its vendors and internal standards that 
increase Misys’ productivity while 
reducing the negative environmental 
impacts of its locations.
On a rebased basis our carbon output 
per employee for 2010/11 was 2.96.
We continue to take steps to reduce  
our CO
2
 emissions. We have 
consolidated substantial parts of our 
corporate operations to more efﬁcient 
and environmently-friendly ofﬁces. For 
example, in the UK we now occupy one 
site. Our headquarters at One Kingdom 
Street, Paddington, London has the 
highest possible BRE Environmental 
Assessment Method rating of ‘Excellent’. 
The building was constructed on re-used 
land close to a major public transport 
hub. It employs ground-source heat 
pumps, solar panels, specialist glazing 
and heat-recovery systems. We have 
taken on new premises in Bangalore  
and Beijing and we have ensured that  
the buildings are ﬁtted out in an 
environmentally responsible way.
Across our business, we operate 
recycling schemes and always use 
materials that are renewable, recycled  
or re-usable where we can. We have 
invested in enhanced tele- and video-
conferencing facilities and support the 
‘green meeting’ concept, thereby 
reducing the need for overseas travel.
Our Board is committed to monitoring 
our approach to CSR and is kept 
up-to-date on progress by the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 39 Information in this section is presented on an ‘adjusted’ basis, excluding 
exceptionals and other items. Results from Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. 
(‘Allscripts’) are excluded. These are reported in the accounts as the discontinued 
operation. Comparisons to prior year are on a pro-forma constant currency  
basis, including pre-acquisition results from Misys Sophis in the prior year’s fourth 
quarter comparatives (see notes on page 47). These measures provide more 
comparable and representative information on the trading activities of the Group 
than ‘as reported’ measures. Reconciliation to the ‘as reported’ measures is 
shown on page 41.
Group Operating Results
The corporate transactions that took place during the year 
position us well for future growth. The disposal of Allscripts 
transformed Misys into a pure play ﬁnancial services software 
business. The reﬁnancing and convertible bond issue in 
November 2010 equipped us well for future investment in  
the business. The acquisition of Sophis in February 2011 
accelerated our capital markets strategy and as a result a 
majority of the Group’s revenues and proﬁts are from the 
capital markets divisions. 
Operational progress was strong, including a strong end to the 
ﬁnancial year with an acceleration to approximately 8% revenue 
growth in the second half. Overall revenues for the year were 
£370m (2009/10: £355m), a growth of 4%. The revenues 
reﬂected a return to growth by the Banking division in the 
second half, consistent growth through the year in Treasury  
& Capital Markets (‘TCM’) and impressive growth in Misys 
Sophis in its ﬁrst quarter as part of the Misys Group. Recurring 
revenues from maintenance, ASP subscriptions, software 
leasing and transaction processing constituted 49% of revenues.
Order intake (which excludes maintenance and transaction 
processing) grew 3% to £213m (2009/10: £206m). 
Adjusted operating proﬁt was £72m. Growth on last year was 
12% and the adjusted operating margin was 1.3 percentage 
points higher as back-ofﬁce savings were made whilst 
investment was sustained in product development and  
solution implementation. 






Overall revenues for the year 

Adjusted operating proﬁt

Growth adjusted operating margin 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
40 Annual Report 2011 Group Operating Results
Operating results from continuing operations for the year ended 31 May 2011 
2009/10 2009/10
£m 2010/11
As
reported
% 
growth
Pro-forma,
constant
 currency
% 
growth
Revenue
Banking 167 162 4% 162 3%
Treasury & Capital Markets 185 179 3% 179 3%
Misys Sophis 17 –– 13 32%
Open Source 1 130% 1 35%
Revenue 370 342 8% 355 4%
Operating Proﬁt
Banking 36 32 10% 31 15%
Treasury & Capital Markets 43 42 2% 42 2%
Misys Sophis 6 –– 2 155%
Corporate & Other (12) (10) (12%) (11) (10%)
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 72 64 13% 64 12%
before:  Acquired intangible asset amortisation, embedded 
derivatives gains/(losses) and exchange differences 
transferred from reserves (15) (2)
Exceptional items (21) (8)
Operating Proﬁt 36 54 (32%)
Group Revenue Proﬁle
Continuing Operations
Pro-forma, constant 
currency
2010/11 2009/10
£m
% 
of total
% 
growth £m
% 
of total
Initial Licence Fees 102 28 8% 95 27
Application Service 
Provision & 
Software Leasing 51 1% 51
Global Services 86 23 10% 78 22
Maintenance 166 45 (1%) 167 47
Transaction 
Processing 11 3 6% 10 3
TOTAL 370 100 4% 355 100
Initial Licence Fees grew 8%, a result of greater sales of new 
solutions by the Banking division and of new customer licences 
by Misys Sophis. 
Application Service Provision and Software Leasing 
revenues were at similar levels to prior year. 
Global Services revenues grew 10% as recently sold solutions 
progressed in their implementations and customers adopted 
more of our expanded range of support services. 
Maintenance was 1% lower than last year, a result of a small 
number of contract reductions and cancellations in advance of 
recent new customers starting their maintenance contracts. 
Transaction Processing fees grew 6% from new adoption of this 
service by a number of fund managers and hedge funds and from 
greater transaction volumes generated by our existing customers. 
Stephen Wilson Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 41 Divisional Review
The information in this section is presented on an adjusted 
basis, with comparisons to prior year on a constant currency 
basis, pro-forma for the acquisition of Sophis and disposal of 
Allscripts, unless stated otherwise (see notes on page 47).
Misys Sophis
The acquisition of Sophis was completed at the end of February 
201 1 and Misys Sophis results are consolidated into the Misys 
Group results from the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Misys Sophis has continued to strengthen its market position, 
particularly in the buy-side market with sales to asset 
managers and hedge funds. During calendar year 2010, 22 
new buy-side customers were added, and so far in 2011 new 
customers have been added at a similar pace. New customers 
in the fourth quarter included specialist investment managers 
such as Aldersgate Investment Management in the UK. In 
addition, some key long-term buy-side customers such as  
ING Life extended their existing Sophis solutions.
During the fourth quarter, a new version of the buy-side solution, 
Value, was released. Improved risk features include pre-trade risk 
control, liquidity risk management and real-time risk calculations. 
New instruments covered include bond-linked contracts for 
difference and exchange-traded funds. Returns attribution has 
been incorporated into portfolio performance analysis.
Collaboration between Misys Sophis and TCM has resulted  
in the ﬁrst cross-sell success. Banca Aletti in Italy, a sell-side 
Misys Sophis Risque customer, added an Opics Plus module 
to meet Basel regulatory requirements by calculating and 
reporting a weekly ‘Incremental Risk Charge’ on ﬁxed income 
and credit derivatives positions. 
Development work began during the year on a new generation  
of consolidated cross-asset risk management solutions drawing 
on the collective expertise and software functionality within  
both Misys Sophis and TCM. The market risk solution was 
demonstrated to potential customers during June 201 1, and 
further solutions for credit and liquidity risk are intended to follow.
£m 2010/11 2009/10
%
 change
Order intake
ILF/ASP/Software Leasing 8 8 –
Global Services 3 3 3%
Total Order Intake 11 11 1%
Revenue
ILF/ASP/Software Leasing 8 5 73%
Maintenance 6 6 (1%)
Global Services 3 2 34%
Total Revenue 17 13 32%
Total costs (11) (11) 
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 6 2 155%
Adjusted Operating Margin 33% 17%
Misys Sophis revenues for the fourth quarter were £16.8m 
(2009/10: £12.7m). 32% growth on last year’s fourth quarter 
was driven by strong ILF sales from new and extending 
buy-side customers of the Value solution, and by the roll-out of 
ILF and service revenues during implementation of sales from 
the previous year. 
Order intake grew 1% as the pipeline started to build up after  
a strong end to the previous Sophis ﬁnancial year.
Adjusted operating proﬁt was £5.6m, a substantial increase on 
the previous year’s £2.2m, resulting from the higher revenues. 
Treasury & Capital Markets (‘TCM’)
TCM has continued to strengthen its market position. The 
volume of new name sales was consistent with the previous 
year at 25 and was spread across the key Summit, Opics Plus 
and Loan IQ solutions, with particular success in growth 
regions. In addition, some signiﬁcant sales of solution 
extensions have reinforced TCM’s position with key customers. 
Summit, our market-leading cross-asset solution for the 
sell-side, added new customers in both developed and growth 
regions, including Shanghai Pu Dong Development Bank for 
middle-ofﬁce risk management and Misrahi Terahot in Israel  
for foreign exchange, money markets and inﬂation-linked 
investments. Many existing customers, such as Crédit Agricole, 
extended Summit systems to replace in-house and competitor 
systems. A new Summit upgrade during the year improved 
cross-asset functionality, pricing analytics and market data 
interfaces. 
Opics Plus, our solution for the mid-market including growth 
regions, added 13 new customers, including HSBC in Mexico, 
Shinhan Bank in China and others in Thailand and Kenya. 
Existing customers such as Union Bank in the US and China 
Bohai Bank upgraded to new Opics Plus features such as the 
Opics Portal, middle-ofﬁce risk alerts and localisation features 
for China.
Our Loan IQ lending solution was the fastest-growing TCM 
solution, continuing its expansion into commercial lending with 
some large new customers in the US, Australia and Germany 
such as Bayerische Landesbank. Some existing customers, 
including WestDeutsche Landesbank in Germany, signiﬁcantly 
extended their Loan IQ systems. New commercial lending, loan 
origination and portal features were released during the year.
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
42 Annual Report 2011 £m 2010/11 2009/10
%
change
Order intake
ILF/ASP/Software Leasing 56 64 (12%)
Global Services 52 48 9%
Total Order Intake 108 112 (3%)
Revenue
ILF`/ASP/Software Leasing 51 55 (7%)
Maintenance 76 76 –
Transaction processing 11 10 6%
Global Services 47 38 22%
Total Revenue 185 180 3%
Total costs (142) (138)
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 43 42 2%
Adjusted Operating Margin 23% 23%
 
TCM revenues grew 3% to £184.9m. Services grew 22% as 
implementations progressed on recent new and upgrading 
customers, resulting in 87 go-lives during the year. 
Order intake was 3% below the prior year, reﬂecting last year’s 
very strong ﬁnish. Services orders grew 9% and included 
implementations for large new Loan IQ customers as well  
as Opics Plus upgrades. 
Adjusted operating proﬁt grew 2%, resulting from revenue 
growth and cost control, whilst investment continued in 
technology and feature upgrades. 
Banking
In Banking, our new solutions have started to generate 
signiﬁcant revenues for the ﬁrst time. New solutions, principally 
comprising BankFusion and Transaction Banking, contributed 
45% of the banking division’s ILF order intake, up signiﬁcantly 
from 22% in the previous year. 
BankFusion was adopted by 27 customers in the period, 
bringing the total number of sales to 40. These BankFusion 
sales ranged across various aspects of the BankFusion 
strategy, including new name wins, replacements of legacy 
Misys systems with BankFusion Universal Banking, and 
conversions of legacy Misys solutions to BankFusion versions. 
In addition, during the second half of the year, existing 
BankFusion customers began to extend their BankFusion 
solutions by adding new application functionality such as 
Branch Teller modules (Habib Bank and Amsterdam Trade 
Bank), and by extending their BankFusion solutions into new 
territories and operations (Nordea and BBAC). 
In Transaction Banking, there were 26 new sales of trade or 
payments solutions, many incorporating our uniﬁed portal 
technology. Trade Services sales included Pohjola Bank in 
Finland and Chinatrust Commercial Bank. Payments sales 
included Qatar International Islamic Bank and United Overseas 
Bank in Singapore, where Cash Portal was part of our biggest 
ever sale in Asia. 
£m 2010/11 2009/10
% 
change
Order intake
ILF/ASP/Software Leasing 48 43 11%
Global Services 45 40 13%
Total Order Intake 93 83 12%
Revenue
ILF/ASP/Software Leasing 48 40 19%
Maintenance 84 85 (1%)
Global Services 35 37 (3%)
Total Revenue 167 162 3%
Total costs (131) (131) 
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 36 31 15%
Adjusted Operating Margin 21% 19%
Order intake returned to growth during the year with a 12% 
increase on the prior year, including 30% growth in ILF orders 
in the second half, from accelerating sales of the new 
BankFusion and Transaction Banking solutions.
Revenues grew 3% to £167.5m, including 10% growth in the 
second half. The strong sales of new solutions in the second 
half brought ILF revenue growth of 40% for the second half 
and 19% for the full year. 
Adjusted operating proﬁt rose 15% to £35.7m as a result of 
higher revenues and continued cost discipline. 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 43 Corporate & Other
The net charge for the period was £11.9m compared with 
£10.8m in the prior year period, principally due to a rise in 
share-based payments expenses. 
Open Source
Open Source is considered an operating segment but is not  
a reportable segment required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.  
It is included in the ‘Corporate & Other’ category in the 
divisional results. 
Misys Open Source Solutions (‘MOSS’), operating in the 
healthcare and carbon markets, gained momentum in sales  
of its interoperability solutions for the free exchange of data, 
based on a services, subscription and maintenance model. 
In healthcare, MOSS Healthcare Information Exchange 
platforms generated revenues during the year from some  
key healthcare agencies such as Hartford Hospital and 
eHealthConnecticut. Over 2.5 million patient records have  
been loaded into the MOSS system in Connecticut. This early 
success has helped in building a strong pipeline of other 
healthcare opportunities, both inside the US, elsewhere in the 
Americas region and in Europe and Australia. Other healthcare 
information solutions opportunities for MOSS include portals 
and community data solutions. These will enable the adoption 
of Electronic Health Records and the co-ordination of care by 
Accountable Care Organizations under the US government’s 
healthcare IT stimulus programme.
In carbon, MOSS has developed solutions for measurement 
and reporting of carbon emissions by corporations, 
government agencies and voluntary organisations. For a large 
US utility, MOSS completed a project for identiﬁcation and 
processing of energy saving incentives and rebates. With The 
Climate Registry MOSS went live with 8,000 facilities in North 
America on the world’s largest voluntary carbon reporting 
system. This project has generated interest from government 
agencies in China, Costa Rica, Israel and Brazil which has 
resulted in a large sales pipeline.
Global Services 
Global services revenues are reported separately under each 
of the principal divisions.
In addition to activity related to the implementation of software 
solutions (professional services, consulting, education and 
training), we have extended the services and support offered 
to customers through initiatives such as premium support. 
Services orders grew 11% and revenues grew 10%. This was 
due partly to the progress in implementation and go-live of 
some large systems sold over this year and the previous year, 
particularly some of the large Loan IQ installations sold by 
TCM. These implementations include a growing proportion  
of recently-developed new solutions which are beginning to 
yield larger-scale installations than the old solutions which  
they replace. 
The growth in services was also in part due to the adoption by 
customers of additional services such as premium support.
Proﬁt and Loss
Operating proﬁt is presented in this section on an ‘as reported’ 
basis, which includes amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
gains (losses) on embedded derivatives, exchange difference 
transferred from reserves (2009/10 only) and exceptional items. 
These items are excluded from adjusted operating proﬁt.
Operating results 
Continuing operations, £m 2010/11 2009/10
%
 growth
Revenue 370 342 8%
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt 72 64 13%
Adjustments (intangibles amortisation, 
embedded derivatives, exchange 
differences transferred from reserves) (15) (2)
Operating Proﬁt before exceptional items 57 62 (8%)
Exceptional items (21) (8)
Operating Proﬁt 36 54 (32%)
Net Finance (charge) (4) (9)
Proﬁt before taxation 32 45
Taxation 2 (20)
Proﬁt after taxation 34 25
Earnings Per Share
Weighted Average Number of shares in 
issue (millions) 443.5 529.4
Basic Earnings Per Share 7.7p 4.6p
Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share 11.0p 7.6p 45%
Revenue rose by 8% due to revenue growth in the Banking 
and TCM divisions and additionally the ﬁrst post-acquisition 
revenue contribution from Misys Sophis. Currency movements 
had in aggregate no material impact.
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items fell by 8%. The principal 
positive impacts were adjusted operating proﬁt growth from the 
Banking and TCM divisions and the ﬁrst post-acquisition 
contribution from Misys Sophis. These were more than offset by 
exchange rate losses on embedded derivatives and by post-
acquisition amortisation of acquired Sophis intangible assets. 
Exceptional charges from continuing operations, before interest 
and tax, of £21.0m arose from advisory fees in relation to the 
Sophis acquisition, Misys Sophis integration costs and costs 
associated with the Misys turnaround and restructuring 
programme. Last year’s exceptional charge of £8.4m was due 
principally to advisory fees in relation to the Allscripts disposal 
and to property provisions established as part of the 
restructuring and turnaround programme. 
An exceptional proﬁt, before tax, from discontinued operations, 
of £606.2m resulted from the disposal of Allscripts shares. 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
44 Annual Report 2011 Divisional operating results
Revenue Operating proﬁt
Continuing operations, £m 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10
Banking 167 162 30 32
Treasury & Capital Markets 185 179 37 42
Misys Sophis 17 – (8) –
Corporate & Other 1 1 (23) (20)
Group 370 342 36 54
TCM operating proﬁt was impacted by exceptional costs  
of £4.5m (2009/10: no charge), principally severance from  
the rationalisation of product development as part of the 
restructuring and turnaround programme. Banking operating 
proﬁt included a £3.8m loss on embedded derivatives 
(2009/10: £1.4m gain). In Misys Sophis, the operating loss was 
due to a £9.3m charge for amortisation of acquired intangibles 
and a £4.6m exceptional charge, largely for onerous lease 
costs on vacation of certain Misys Sophis properties. The 
Corporate & Other operating loss included £10.8m of 
exceptional charges for advisory fees, principally in connection 
with the disposal of Allscripts and acquisition of Sophis.
Proﬁt before taxation
The decrease in proﬁt before taxation to £32.2m (2009/10: 
£45.0m) resulted from the higher exceptional charges, 
acquired intangibles amortisation and embedded derivatives 
charges outlined above. These were partially offset by higher 
adjusted operating proﬁts. The net ﬁnance charge was £4.1m 
(2009/10: £8.7m), including exceptional ﬁnance income of 
£4.8m associated with the Allscripts disposal and Sophis 
acquisition (2009/10: exceptional ﬁnance credit of £1.4m 
associated with a VAT refund).
Taxation
There was a tax credit for the year of £2.1m (2009/10: £20.5m 
charge). This includes an exceptional tax credit of £9.4m 
arising from a release of tax provisions following a favourable 
settlement of corporation tax liabilities for 2005/06 and earlier 
periods. In 2009/10 there was an exceptional charge of £10.8m 
relating to loss of future tax beneﬁts in connection with the 
disposal of Allscripts. 
The underlying effective tax rate of 23%, based on adjusted 
proﬁt before taxation, was 2% lower than for the previous year, 
due principally to an increase in recognised tax losses in the 
US, UK and Ireland and the impact of the lower tax rate in 
Misys Sophis. In addition, following the favourable settlement 
mentioned above, the Group now has unrecognised tax 
beneﬁts of £87.0m. 
Divestment of Allscripts
During the year Misys completed the disposal of its majority 
shareholding in Allscripts. The disposal took place through  
share sales in August 2010, November 2010 and February 201 1. 
Total disposal proceeds were £988.5m after underwriting fees. 
The disposal gave rise to an exceptional proﬁt of £606.2m after 
advisory fees and other costs associated with the transaction.
Allscripts results in the period prior to the majority disposal are 
reported as discontinued operations. Revenues were £101.7m 
and operating proﬁt before exceptionals was £12.5m.
Return of Capital to Misys shareholders
Misys shareholders beneﬁtted from the return of £670m of 
proceeds from the Allscripts disposal. The return was in  
two stages. In December 2010, £525m was returned by way  
of a purchase of shares from shareholders through a Tender 
Offer. In March and April 2011, a further £145m was returned  
in the form of a payment of 38p per share to all remaining 
shareholders together with a 7 for 8 share consolidation.  
At 31 May 2011 the issued share count (excluding Treasury 
shares) stood at 338.8m. 
The Misys Employee Share Trust received a return of capital 
income of £6.2m which was netted off in reserves against the 
return of capital expenses. Its shareholding was reduced by 
2.0m in the share consolidation and at 31 May 2011 stood  
at 14.0m. Excluding the Misys Employee Share Trust and 
Employee Share Ownership Plan, the share count at 31 May 
2011 was 324.7m and the weighted average issued share 
count for the year was 443.5m (2009/10: 529.4m).
Earnings Per Share (EPS) 
In the opinion of the Directors, adjusted basic EPS from 
continuing operations (excluding exceptional items, embedded 
derivatives gains or losses, and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets) provides the most comparable and 
representative information on continuing trading activities of the 
Group. Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations was 
11.0p (2009/10: 7.6p), based on the weighted average shares 
in issue for the respective periods. 
Pro-forma for the share count reduction from the return of 
capital, adjusted basic EPS was 15.1p (2009/10: 12.4p), 
showing 22% growth. We are pleased with this result, which 
was due to higher adjusted operating proﬁts in the Banking 
and TCM divisions, the ﬁrst post-acquisition contribution from 
Sophis, and the reduced effective tax rate.
 
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
Capital expenditure, research & development 
Research and development expenditure in continuing 
operations including capitalised expenditure was £69.3m 
(2009/10: £64.4m). Over the last ﬁve years an increasing 
proportion of this expenditure has been devoted to developing 
new products as opposed to maintaining existing products. 
During the year, as spending on old solutions was reduced, 
there was a signiﬁcant increase in development of key new 
solutions, principally BankFusion and Asian localisation 
features in Opics Plus, resulting in £21.4m of capitalised 
software development (2009/10: £18.3m). 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 45 2010/11 2009/10
£m Banking
Misys
Sophis TCM
Open
 Source Total Banking TCM
Open
 Source Total
Research & development 
expenditure (including capitalised 
expenditure) 37 2 30 1 69 34 29 1 64
Capitalisation of developed software 13 1 7 – 21 12 6 – 18
Amortisation of developed software (5) – (4) – (9) (5) (4) – (9)
Net Capitalisation 8 1 3 – 12 72 – 9
Total capital expenditure and investment was £27.0m 
(2009/10: £22.8m), the balance after software development 
being £5.8m (2009/10: £4.4m), principally investments in 
computer and systems infrastructure.
Acquisition of Sophis and Financing
The acquisition of Sophis was completed on 28 February  
2011, for an enterprise value of £380.9m (at £1:€1.171). The 
enterprise value included net debt of £145.4m and a payment 
of £2.6m to Sophis shareholders based on Sophis 
performance for the year ended 31 December 2010.
New credit facilities of £280m were agreed in November 2010, 
partly to ﬁnance the Sophis acquisition and partly for ongoing 
development of the business. The facilities comprise a £90m 
term loan and a £190m revolving credit facility, both expiring in 
August 2014. The new facilities replaced the previous £210m 
facility, which was due to expire in May 2012, and incorporate 
improved terms and lower margins over LIBOR, which will vary 
according to the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio.
In November 2010, Misys issued £100m of senior unsecured 
convertible bonds due in November 2015 and convertible into 
Misys shares at an initial conversion price of £3.69. As a result 
of the share consolidation in February the conversion price was 
adjusted to £3.75. 
The overall level of debt taken on to fund the acquisition is 
considered prudent in view of the highly cash-generative 
nature of the enlarged Misys Group, which will enable net  
debt to be reduced rapidly. At the end of the year £190m  
of the new credit facilities remained unused.
Derivatives
The Group hedges exposures to foreign exchange rates and 
interest rates arising on future foreign currency cash ﬂows and 
expected debt, using forward currency contracts and interest 
rate swaps. In addition, certain recurring licence fees priced in 
currencies other than the functional currencies of the Misys 
selling entity, or its customer, contain an embedded currency 
derivative. Including both types of derivative, the total market 
value of derivatives assets at 31 May 2011 was £3.0m 
(2009/10: £6.0m), and of derivatives liabilities was £3.9m 
(2009/10: £2.7m).
Cash Flow and Net Debt 
Trade receivables from continuing operations increased to 
£69.4m at the end of the year from £65.7m at the start of the 
ﬁnancial year. The increase was a result of the consolidation  
of Misys Sophis trade receivables, offset by better cash 
collection improving underlying trade receivables. Accrued 
income increased to £53.8m at the end of the year from 
£36.6m at the start of the year, due to the consolidation  
of acquired Misys Sophis accrued income balances and  
also a result of strong fourth quarter revenues. Days’ sales 
outstanding (based on trade receivables and accrued income 
compared with trailing quarter revenues) was 86 days at the 
end of the year compared with 89 days at the start of the year. 
Cash ﬂow from operations was positively impacted by higher 
adjusted operating proﬁt. After tax and interest, there was  
a net cash inﬂow from continuing operations of £79.5m 
(2009/10: £67.1m).
Net debt at the end of the period was £94.2m, compared  
with net debt at the start of the period of £96.1m (excluding 
Allscripts). Net cash inﬂow from continuing operations and 
Allscripts disposal proceeds were offset by the Sophis 
purchase consideration and the return of Allscripts disposal 
proceeds to shareholders. Of the convertible bond liability  
of £99.5m, net of issuance costs, at 31 May 2011, £83.4m is 
treated as debt and £16.1m is treated as equity in respect of 
the value of bondholders’ options to convert debt to equity. 
Our strong balance sheet position provides ample ﬂexibility for 
further investment in the transformation of Misys. 
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
46 Annual Report 2011 Notes
Adjusted operating results
Adjusted results are stated before exceptional items, gains or 
losses on embedded derivatives and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets. There are no adjustments for exchange 
differences transferred from reserves upon repayment of 
internal funding loans (2009/10: £2.0m in Corporate & Other), 
since these are no longer required in the income statement, 
except upon loss of control of a subsidiary, following a revision 
to International Accounting Standard 21.
The non-exceptional items excluded from adjusted results  
are losses on embedded derivatives in Banking of £3.8m 
(2009/10: gain of £1.4m) and in TCM of £0.2m (2009/10: gain 
of £0.1m), amortisation of acquired intangible assets in Banking 
of £0.8m (2009/10: £1.0m), TCM of £0.5m (2009/10: no 
charge) and in Misys Sophis of £9.3m (2009/10: no charge). 
Constant currency results
The most signiﬁcant currency impacts were from the 
movement in the US dollar and the Euro against Sterling, 
where average exchange rates during 2010/11 were US$1.58 
and €1.17 compared to US$1.59 and €1.13 in 2009/10. 
Prior year results are retranslated at 2010/11 exchange rates  
for comparative purposes. Retranslation of prior year revenues 
results in an increase of £0.4m (Banking £0.4m, TCM £0.1m 
and a decrease in Corporate & Other of £0.1m). Retranslation 
of prior year adjusted operating proﬁts results in a decrease of 
£1.7m (Banking: £1.4m, TCM: £0.1m, Corporate: £0.2m).
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 47 Mike Lawrie
John King
Philip Rowley Timothy Tuff Stephen Wilson
John Ormerod Jeff Ubben
Sir James Crosby

Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
48 Annual Report 2011 Philip Rowley
123
Non-executive Director (58)
Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2008. Philip 
Rowley was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe until February 
2007. He is a qualiﬁed chartered accountant and was Group 
Finance Director of Kingﬁsher plc from 1998 to 2000. During 
2000 and 2001 he was Deputy Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of Kingﬁsher’s General Merchandise Division. 
His previous roles included Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of EMI Music Worldwide and Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer and CFO of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the 
largest children’s book publisher in the US. He is non-executive 
Chairman of HMV Group plc and a non-executive Director of 
ARM Holdings Plc and Promethean World plc. He is also 
Chairman of Livestation Limited and Pouncer Media Limited.
Timothy Tuff
123
Non-executive Director (64)
Appointed a non-executive Director in February 2011. Timothy 
Tuff was the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
of John H. Harland Company from 1998 to 2007 . Harland  
was a leading supplier of printed and software products to the 
ﬁnancial industry and, through its subsidiary Scantron, to the 
educational industry. Timothy joined Harland after ﬁve years as 
President and CEO of Boral Industries, where he managed the 
North American and European operations of Australia-based 
Boral, Ltd., a world leader in building and construction materials. 
He also serves as a Venture Partner for Ampersand Capital 
Partners, is a Director of Printpack Inc., and of KnowledgeWorks 
Foundation and serves on the Board of Councilors for the 
Carter Center.
Stephen Wilson
5
Executive Director (51)
Stephen was appointed to the Board as an executive Director 
in October 2010 following his appointment as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer in June 2010. He joined Misys in May 2009 as Vice 
President, Group Finance, responsible for Investor Relations, 
Corporate Development, Tax, Treasury and Internal Audit.  
Prior to joining Misys Stephen worked at IBM for 25 years 
where he developed his ﬁnancial career most recently as  
Vice President and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer for IBM UK and 
Ireland. Stephen is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Mike Lawrie
4
Chief Executive (58)
Mike joined the Board in November 2006. Mike was previously 
a General Partner with ValueAct Capital. From 2004 to 2005  
he was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Siebel Systems Inc., the 
international software and solutions company. Prior to that, 
Mike spent 27 years with IBM where he rose to become  
Senior Vice President and Group Executive with responsibility 
for sales and distribution of all IBM products and services 
worldwide. Previously at IBM he had been the General 
Manager for all operations in Europe, the Middle East and 
Africa. He previously served on the US Advisory Board of  
NTT DoCoMo and as a Director of SSA Global, Inc., Symbol 
Technology, Inc., and Good Technology, Inc. Mike is the lead 
independent non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc., 
and is also a Trustee of Drexel University, Philadelphia.
Sir James Crosby
234
Chairman (55)
James joined the Board as a non-executive Director in  
January 2009 and held that role until September 2009  
when he was appointed Chairman. Thirty years in fund 
management, insurance and banking culminated in his time  
as Chief Executive of Halifax and HBOS (1999 to 2006).  
He is the Senior Independent Director of Compass Group  
plc and a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Research UK.
John King
123
Non-executive Director (72)
Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2005. John  
is Chairman of the remuneration committee. He has over 30 
years’ experience of the US healthcare industry as President 
and CEO of Legacy Health Systems until 1999. Prior to Legacy, 
John was President and CEO of Evangelical Health Systems 
(now Advocate Health Systems). He is a member of the 
American Hospital Association and a Fellow in the American 
College of Healthcare Executives. John serves on the Boards 
of the Center for Healthcare Governance, Paciﬁc University  
and AHA Services, Inc.
John Ormerod
123
Senior Independent Director (62)
Appointed a non-executive Director in October 2005 and Senior 
Independent Director in November 2005. John Ormerod is 
Chairman of the audit committee. He is a chartered accountant 
and has over 30 years’ experience in professional practice. He 
is a non-executive Director of Gemalto NV, Computacenter plc, 
ITV plc and Chairman of Tribal Group plc. John is also a Trustee 
of the Design Museum.
Jeff Ubben
4
Non-executive Director (50)
Appointed a non-executive Director in January 2007.  
Jeff Ubben is a co-founder, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and  
the Chief Investment Ofﬁcer of ValueAct Capital, a San 
Francisco based investment partnership. Prior to that, he  
was a Managing Partner at BLUM Capital Partners, a private 
investment partnership and previously spent eight years at 
Fidelity Management and Research, where he managed the 
Fidelity Value Fund. Jeff is a Director of Sara Lee Corp., and 
Gartner Group, Inc., and previously served on the Boards of 
Per-Se Technologies, Inc., and of Catalina Marketing Corp. He 
is a former Chairman and Director of Martha Stewart Living 
Omnimedia, Inc., and has served on the boards of a number  
of other public and private companies. 
Notes
1 Member of the audit committee
2 Member of the nomination committee
3 Member of the remuneration committee
4 Member of the executive committee
5 Member of the treasury and ﬁnance committee
Membership of Committees and ages are  
as at 28 July 2011.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 49 The past year has been one of signiﬁcant change for the 
business during which we have built on our governance 
process review completed last year. We have also considered 
our Board composition and made two appointments to the 
Board to ensure it is aligned to meeting the changing 
requirements of the business. 
One new executive Director and one new independent 
non-executive Director joined the Board. The appointment  
of Stephen Wilson has brought a stronger executive 
representation to the Board and we have also strengthened the 
industry and geographical representation with the appointment 
of Timothy Tuff. Their biographies are set out on page 49 and 
give more details on their respective backgrounds. We will 
continue to monitor Board composition, balance and overall 
diversity during the coming year.
Effective governance is vital to our business and our values. 
Our approach is to ensure that the governance structure 
enhances the business and supports it in achieving its strategic 
goals. We keep our governance framework under regular 
review and have made certain updates during the year to 
ensure that it remains relevant to both the external and internal 
governance environment.
As a Board, we keep our objectives under constant review  
and part of this process is to consider our responsibilities  
and delivery against our objectives. For the ﬁrst time this year, 
we appointed an external advisor, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom 
Review, to assess how the Board and its Committees are 
performing and to highlight any areas where we could improve. 
The review afﬁrmed our belief that the Board was operating 
effectively and was responsive to the needs of the business. 
Where improvements have been suggested we are taking 
steps to implement them. The Board style continues to be  
one of openness and constructive debate between Directors 
and this was reﬂected in the ﬁndings of the review. This review 
also gave us an external assessment of individual Directors, 
including myself as Chairman.
We have considered the recommendations as set out in The 
UK Corporate Governance Code. We plan to comply with all 
new aspects of the code and in particular will be putting all  
our Directors up for re-election at the AGM.
I hope the following governance report will give you a fuller and 
deeper understanding of how we are governing our Company 
and engaging with our shareholders.
James Crosby
Chairman
28 July 2011 
Sir James Crosby
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
50 Annual Report 2011 Who is on our Board?
Our Board is led by James Crosby who is also Chairman of  
the nomination committee. Mike Lawrie is our CEO. Our Senior 
Independent Director is John Ormerod who is also Chairman  
of the audit committee and John King is Chairman of our 
remuneration committee. Other Board members are Stephen 
Wilson, Philip Rowley, Timothy Tuff and Jeff Ubben. Full details 
on all our Directors can be found on page 49.
We appointed Stephen Wilson, our CFO, to the Board on  
1 October 2010 as an executive Director. Stephen brings  
with him a wealth of experience in the software sector and  
is a valuable addition to the overall balance of the Board.
Timothy Tuff was appointed as an independent non-executive 
Director on 23 February 2011. He was subsequently appointed 
as a member to each of the audit, remuneration and 
nomination committees. His strong background in ﬁnancial 
services software and international business complements  
the existing skill set of the rest of the Board members. Our 
Directors bring UK and international experience of the software 
and ﬁnancial services industries as well as the specialist skills 
needed to lead and participate in key Board committees such 
as audit and remuneration. 
Currently our articles provide that Directors may be appointed 
by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by resolution  
of the Board. At each AGM, any Director who has been 
appointed by the Board since the previous AGM, or for whom 
it is the third AGM following the AGM at which they were last 
elected or re-elected, shall retire and offer himself for election 
or re-election.
However, in line with The UK Corporate Governance Code,  
we have decided that all Directors will stand for election or 
re-election at the 2011 AGM.
Our non-executive Directors fulﬁl a vital role in corporate 
accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear 
on issues brought before the Board and its Committees. Their 
knowledge and experience gained in other areas of international 
business and public life contributes greatly to the understanding 
and decision making process of the Board. Over half our Board 
is made up of non-executive Directors with exactly half of the 
Board being independent (not including the Chairman who was 
considered independent at the time of his appointment). During 
the year, there were no signiﬁcant changes to the Chairman’s 
commitments and none which could affect his ability to devote 
sufﬁcient time to the Company’s affairs.
We do not consider Jeff Ubben to be independent under 
Provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code as a result of his  
interest in ValueAct Capital, a major shareholder in the 
Company. Mike Lawrie is a non-executive Director of  
Juniper Networks, Inc., and a Trustee of Drexel University  
and does not hold any non-executive Directorships with  
any FTSE 100 company.
Chairman
Executive Directors
Non-independent 
non-executive Directors
Independent 
non-executive Directors
James Crosby – 2 year tenure
John Ormerod – 5 year tenure
John King – 5 year tenure
Philip Rowley – 2 year tenure
Timothy Tuff – 3 month tenure
Jeff Ubben – 4 year tenure
Mike Lawrie – 4 year tenure
Stephen Wilson – 8 month tenure
How is our Board 
structured?
What is the tenure  
of the Board?
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 51 Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Director 2010 AGM Main Board
Audit
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Nomination
Committee
Sch Ad Hoc Sch Ad Hoc Sch Ad Hoc Sch
Sir James Crosby 1 (1) 8 (8) 9 (9) – – 7 (7) 4 (4) 1 (1)
M Lawrie 1 (1) 8 (8) 9 (9) – – – – –
S Wilson (app 1 Oct 2010) – 5 (5) 4 (4) – – – – –
J G King 1 (1) 8 (8) 8 (9) 7 (7) 1 (1) 7 (7) 4 (4) 1 (1)
J Ormerod 1 (1) 8 (8) 9 (9) 7 (7) 1 (1) 7 (7) 4 (4) 1 (1)
P Rowley 1 (1) 8 (8) 9 (9) 7 (7) 1 (1) 7 (7) 4 (4) 1 (1)
T Tuff (app 23 Feb 2011) – 2 (2) 1 (1) 2 (2) – 2 (2) – –
J Ubben 1 (1) 8 (8) 9 (9) – – – – –


Typically the Board meets around 8 times a year and the 
Committees up to 5 times a year. However, this year, due to 
increased corporate activity, the Board met 17 times. The 
Board aims to hold two of its meetings at Misys’ overseas 
operations. This year, the Board held meetings in New York 
and an in-depth two day strategy session in Bangalore. 
Bangalore is our fastest growing site housing much of our 
development operations as well as customer support, services 
and ﬁnance teams and has over 1,200 employees. Whilst in 
Bangalore, the Board had the opportunity to meet many of the 
local leaders, see the local teams in action and review plans to 
further develop an increasingly important centre for Misys’s 
various businesses. 
What has the Board done during the year?
Our employees
Delivery on 
our strategy
Leadership
Effectiveness
Our customers
• Consulted openly and collaboratively during 
the disposal of Allscripts
• Returned £670m to our shareholders
• Active consultation on recalibration of existing 
incentive arrangements to reﬂect major 
corporate activity
• Appointed two Board members using an external 
search agency for the non-executive Director
• Undertook a detailed review of succession 
planning and talent across the organisation
• Addressed the total reward framework throughout 
the organisation
• Reviewed and consulted with shareholders on a 
new long-term incentive arrangement for the CEO
• Introducted a new engagement survey to 
enable staff to feedback how they really 
feel achieving a 74% response rate
• Launched the ‘Misys Club’, a framework 
for employee giving and volunteering
• Refreshed and enhanced our product 
portfolio delivering new products to market 
in each division
• Listened to customer feedback and 
improved on our Satmetrix score for the 4th 
year in a row
• Made signiﬁcant strides with our new suite of 
banking products – in particular BankFusion
• Continued investment in our quality 
programmes
• Engaged an external consultant to facilitate 
the effectiveness review of the Board and 
performance review of Directors
• Delivered a full induction process for 
new Directors
• Continued to enhance our risk management 
processes with new, more focused, reports 
to the Board
• On target to deliver on internal 
business plans
• Disposal of Allscripts and creation of 
a pure play ﬁnancial services business
• Acquisition of Sophis resulting in a 
leading position within the capital 
markets industry
• Banking returned to growth through 
sales of new solutions
Commitment to 
our shareholders
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
52 Annual Report 2011 Misys plc Board
Remuneration Committee
Executive Committee
Treasury and Finance 
Committee
Management Processes
Nomination Committee Audit Committee
The Board’s role is to provide leadership, set the strategic 
direction of the business and continuously monitor 
performance against strategic objectives through oversight and 
the effective monitoring of risk. Critical to this role is the Board’s 
oversight of succession planning, particularly for the CEO and 
other senior executives, and the management of risk. Both 
have been an area of focus for the Board’s attention in 2011. 
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company 
subject to the provisions of relevant law, the Company’s 
Articles and any special resolution of the Company in the 
furtherance of their role.
How do we approach Governance?
We believe that strong governance processes and oversight  
sit at the heart of our culture, not only in the Boardroom but 
across the whole of the business, enabling it to better deliver on 
its responsibilities to all of our partners and other stakeholders.  
Our Code of Conduct sets out how we expect our Board, 
employees, partners, suppliers and others to live by our  
values and demonstrate strong ethical behaviour. 
We are also committed to operating in an environmentally 
sustainable way and to promoting community involvement. 
This year we launched the Misys Club, an initiative to support 
employee giving and volunteering, and further details can  
be found in the Social and Environmental section of the  
business review. 
Our policy is not to make political donations and we have not 
done so in this period (2010: nil).
The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the 
Board and for inﬂuencing the culture around the Board table 
and between Directors. The Misys Board has an open style  
of communication, one which encourages an environment  
of constructive debate and healthy challenge between Board 
members, both inside and outside the Boardroom. Regular 
updates between meetings ensure that Directors are always 
able to contribute to and have oversight of a fast moving 
executive agenda. 
How did we comply with the Combined Code?
Compliance with the Combined Code (which applies to  
Misys for the year ended 31 May 2011) is an important step in 
achieving good and transparent corporate governance. To that 
end we have complied with the principles and provisions of the 
2008 Combined Code during this year. In previous years we had 
highlighted that we only had one executive Director on the Board 
but the Directors considered the balance of the Board was 
compliant with the code due to the independent strengths of the 
non-executive DIrectors. The appointment of Stephen Wilson  
as an executive Director has further strengthened the Board.
How do we manage conﬂicts?
In order to make strong, good quality decisions, it is important 
that no-one involved in the decision making process is conﬂicted 
in such a way that could impair their decision making. However, 
we recognise that from time to time conﬂicts may arise and 
accordingly we have a formal system in place for the Directors to 
declare any situational conﬂict they may have. Such conﬂicts may 
be authorised by the other Directors that are not interested in the 
matter and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the 
authorisation, or subsequently, as they see ﬁt. We maintain a 
register of conﬂicts and keep this under review on an annual 
basis. In particular, the Board is mindful of the position of Jeff 
Ubben who is also an executive with ValueAct Capital, our largest 
shareholder. The process for managing and monitoring conﬂicts 
continues to operate effectively.
How is our governance framework structured?
Our governance framework provides the formal governance 
structure within which the Board and its Committees operate. 
The framework details the terms of reference for each of the 
Committees and sets out the matters that are speciﬁcally 
reserved to the Board. It also clearly deﬁnes the roles of the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent 
Director. The Board process itself, including the timely and 
relevant provision of information, conduct at meetings  
and the reporting of the each of the Committees up to the 
Board is also covered. We deliver our Board papers through  
an electronic portal that enables Directors to access Board 
papers wherever they may be in the world.
Arrangements for the induction of Directors, ongoing 
development and monitoring our effectiveness are clearly 
deﬁned in the framework.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 53 This year we have further enhanced our governance framework 
taking into consideration the FRC Report on the Effectiveness 
of Boards and the ICSA best practice guidance notes on 
Committee Terms of Reference.
We introduced a role description for the Senior Independent 
Director and updated and improved our Committee terms of 
reference where we felt it would improve the effectiveness, 
performance and oversight of the relevant Committee.
We also believe that in order for a Director to contribute at their 
most effective, an extensive and tailored induction should be 
provided to all new Directors. Furthermore, following the initial 
induction, ongoing development for all Directors is important. 
Our Committee composition is such that we have common 
membership across our Committees, thereby ensuring that 
there are no gaps in the remit or the matters considered by 
each Committee nor unnecessary duplication. 
Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference and 
reports to the Board on its activities at each Board meeting.
Effectiveness
How do we ensure effectiveness?
Our open and collaborative culture is supported by well 
organised internal processes which support the Board in 
maximising their decision making process. The Board and its 
Committees operate forward looking rolling agendas which 
are aligned to both the strategic aims of the Group and the 
Group’s risk processes. Meetings and discussions outside  
the Boardroom are also facilitated as part of this process, 
particularly during the overseas site visits where the Board 
takes full advantage of a forum that provides for detailed 
discussion, consultation and debate.
Induction process
We have appointed new Directors during the year and provided 
each with a comprehensive personalised induction. Stephen 
Wilson had been the Vice President Group Finance and CFO 
prior to his Board appointment and during that tenure had 
developed a good understanding of the business. Upon his 
appointment as a Director, he was provided with a detailed 
review of his additional responsibilities and the obligations 
placed upon him as a Director. Timothy Tuff was new to the 
business and his induction was more comprehensive and 
included a detailed overview of the Company including its 
Governance practices, constitutional make-up and culture. He 
also met with key personnel across the business to help build 
his understanding of the business, its strategy, our shareholder 
expectations and the strategic priorities in each area. He has 
visited various sites including Bangalore, London and New 
York. He also met with one of our strategic partners, HCL,  
and ﬁnally with our external advisors. 
The governance structure is designed to deliver an effective 
two way ﬂow of information from the business up to the Board 
and from the Board back to the business. The CEO reports 
directly to the Board and provides a regular update to the 
Directors on business performance and opportunities. He is 
supported in the management of the business and on the 
delivery of strategy by a management team made up of the 
senior business leaders and the CFO. The CEO meets with the 
management team on a bi-weekly basis to review and discuss 
operational performance and other matters. The management 
team, and other senior managers as appropriate, are provided 
with opportunities to report directly to the Board on their 
progress. Through the CEO updates, the Board monitors what 
management is doing within the framework of delivering on the 
strategy and probes their thinking to ensure they are on the 
right path.
On an ongoing basis the non-executive Directors are provided 
with targeted development sessions which are built into the 
rolling agenda. These sessions are developed to address the 
needs of the Directors as they arise or in response to particular 
requests. During the year we covered updates in respect of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code, recent and prospective 
changes to accounting practices, the impact of the Bribery Act 
and aspects of crisis management.
How do we measure our effectiveness?
Despite all of the above, it is important that we monitor how  
we are performing. During January 2011 Dr Tracy Long of 
Boardroom Review carried out a full assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, the 
performance of each individual Director and in particular the 
Chairman. Boardroom Review has substantial experience of 
such reviews in the UK so were able to test the Board’s 
effectiveness in a comparative context.
During her review Dr Long highlighted the strengths of the  
Board as including a ﬂexible approach to strategic shifts and 
challenges, a continually improving risk management and control 
environment, an open relationship between Board members and 
the CEO and ﬁnally, strong Board dynamics. This endorsed the 
feeling that already existed among the individual Board members.
Critically, she also identiﬁed ways in which the Board could 
improve its effectiveness. For example, it was felt that the Board 
collectively should discuss updates on the competitive context in 
each of our businesses more frequently. Whilst this had always 
been considered as part of our strategy away day, more regular 
updates will now be provided. Whilst the non-executive Directors 
receive opportunities to meet with our advisors and key 
management on a regular basis, it was recommended that they 
could beneﬁt from more regular invitations to attend relevant 
industry conferences and customer advisory groups.


Summary of responsibilities of our Board and Committees
Board
Responsible for setting the strategic direction of the Company and monitoring performance against the strategic plan in a manner that is 
most likely to promote the long-term success of the business.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
  Supports the Board in reviewing the 
integrity of the ﬁnancial statements  
and the effectiveness of the system  
of internal control. 
  Keeps under review the relationship and 
performance of the external auditors.
  Determines the framework and broad 
remuneration strategy and policy for  
executive Directors and other senior 
employees. In doing so keeps under  
review the alignment of our remuneration 
strategy to the wider environment.
  Reviews the composition of the Board  
and makes recommendations for Board 
appointments. 
  Monitors ongoing succession planning for 
Directors and senior executives.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
54 Annual Report 2011 Highlights of what our Committees have achieved during the year?
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
  Reviewed and received reports from 
the auditors on the annual ﬁnancial 
statements and other published 
ﬁnancial information.
 Monitored the work of internal audit.
  Reviewed the Group’s approach to risk 
and oversaw improvements in the 
Enterprise Risk Management System 
and linkages to the Board’s risk 
appetite.
  Oversaw the audit and disclosure 
process during the disposal of 
Allscripts and the subsequent return 
of capital to shareholders.
  Reviewed foreign currency hedging 
and accounting policies.
  Maintained ﬁnancial oversight during 
the acquisition of Sophis.
  Closely monitored the external 
auditors’ independence and non-audit 
fees during the year.
  Engaged with investors on the impact of 
the disposal of Allscripts on the Company’s 
share plans.
  Agreed retention incentive arrangements 
with the CEO having consulted with our 
largest shareholders.
  Oversaw the re-alignment of our share plan 
targets for the Omnibus Share Scheme 
arising due to the capital return and 
acquisition of Sophis.
  Engaged an external search agency on the 
non-executive Director search resulting in 
the appointment of Timothy Tuff.
  Reviewed the succession planning of the 
Company’s leadership team.
  Kept under review the composition of the 
Board.
Accountability – Board Committees
Audit Committee
Our audit committee is chaired by John Ormerod and  
both he and Philip Rowley have recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience. Following his appointment to the Board, Timothy 
Tuff was appointed to the Committee on 23 March 2011. John 
King is also a member of the Committee. An environment of 
open communication and dialogue is vital to the Committee’s 
effectiveness and as such the CFO, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors 
have a standing invitation to attend meetings.
To ensure integrity is maintained and to allow individuals to 
highlight any speciﬁc matters to the members of the audit 
committee, they met in private with the CFO three times,  
the Head of Internal Audit twice and the external auditors, 
PwC, twice during the year. There is also an open line of 
communication between the Committee Chairman and all 
senior management as and when required. The Committee 
receives detailed reports from the external auditor and from  
the Head of Internal Audit regularly.
The audit committee has detailed terms of reference which 
facilitate its oversight of the ﬁnancial reporting process, the 
Group’s risk management processes, the external auditor, the 
Group’s system of internal control, the internal audit function, 
changes in ﬁnancial reporting requirements and matters arising 
from the annual audit. In addition to the Committee highlights 
set out above, the Committee met its obligations under its 
terms of reference during the year. 
We operate an independent conﬁdential ‘raising concerns’ line. 
All matters reported via the line are considered by a committee 
comprised of the EVP General Counsel, the EVP Group HR 
Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the Deputy Company 
Secretary. Matters are investigated and where necessary 
escalated to the audit committee. The Committee reviews 
annually the number of matters reported and the outcome  
of any investigations.
The External Auditor
The effectiveness and independence of the external auditor  
is vital to ensuring that the Committee has conﬁdence in the 
Group’s published ﬁnancial information as well as providing 
insight on risks and controls. We judge the external auditor not 
only on their understanding of the Company’s business and 
the quality of the relationship across Misys but on the quality of 
their audit ﬁndings, the degree of challenge and management’s 
response and, ﬁnally, their independence. As part of this 
process, the Committee seeks feedback from management, 
the business areas the external auditor has visited and reviews 
reports of the Audit Inspection Unit. 
Before the commencement of each audit the Committee 
discusses and approves the audit plan. PwC explain the 
programme of work they plan to undertake to address the  
risks they have identiﬁed to ensure that these risks do not lead 
to a material mis-statement in the ﬁnancial statements. The 
Committee receives updates on the audit as it progresses  
and discusses any risks identiﬁed during the audit.
The Committee monitors closely the auditors’ independence. 
We have reviewed in the year the policy which limits the scope 
of non-audit assignments for which the auditors may be 
engaged and the policy for recruitment of staff from the audit 
ﬁrm. This policy prohibits using the auditors for example to 
implement ﬁnancial reporting systems or undertake asset 
valuations. Where the auditors are considered for non-audit 
assignments, in the absence of overriding reasons to use our 
audit ﬁrm, competitive proposals are obtained. The Committee 
closely monitors the amount the Company spends with PwC 
on non-audit fees. We have a detailed policy in place that 
requires that any permitted non-audit work must have the 
scope of work and fees approved in advance by the CFO  
and the Committee Secretary if less than £50,000 and, if over 
this amount, pre-approval must be sought from the Committee 
itself. Rotation of the audit partner and the audit team is also 
important and a new lead audit partner was appointed during 
2009 and a new audit senior manager in 2010 thus providing a 
fresh approach to the audit and to the level of challenge.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 55 Having completed the review of the external auditor we are 
satisﬁed that they have carried out their obligations in an effective 
and appropriate manner and continue to remain independent. 
On that basis we will be recommending their re-appointment at 
the 2011 AGM. We are conscious that PwC have been auditors 
to the Company for 12 years and whilst we are content with their 
performance and the degree of rigour they bring to the audit 
process the Committee feels it would be appropriate to conduct 
a market appraisal during the course of the next year.
The internal audit function has continued to develop during the 
year. The detailed audit plan is developed as part of the risk 
management process that is overseen by the Head of Internal 
Audit and which the Board approves. The programme of audits 
provide objective assurance over the processes and controls. 
Actions are agreed in response to recommendations made 
and these are followed up by the internal audit function to 
ensure that the required actions are implemented.
Nomination Committee
Our nomination committee is chaired by James Crosby and  
all other independent Directors are members. 
The Committee leads deliberations around Board succession 
and the procedure for the appointment of Directors to the 
Board. Timothy Tuff was appointed to the Board following a 
comprehensive search conducted by an independent external 
search agency and a rigorous interview process. The agency 
was provided with a detailed brief that included consideration 
of the existing Directors’ mix of skills and the overall diversity of 
the Board. We have also increased the executive representation 
with the appointment of Stephen Wilson, our CFO, to the Board.
We review our Board succession on a continual basis and will 
continue to make recommendations to the Board as and when 
appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by John King. Details 
of the how the Committee operates, its membership, and our 
remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report on 
pages 63 to 65.
The Executive Committee 
Our executive committee is made up of three or more Directors 
including the CEO and the Chairman. Mike Lawrie is the 
Committee Chairman. The aim of the Committee is to facilitate 
the CEO in making decisions on how best to progress the 
strategy or objectives set by the Board of Directors between 
meetings of the Board. It focuses in particular, but not 
exclusively, on business development opportunities which 
enhance value for shareholders. However, it has no authority  
to change strategy or objectives set by the Board.
Treasury and Finance Committee
Our treasury and ﬁnance committee is chaired by the CFO  
and is a management Committee that reports directly into the 
Board. This Committee maintains oversight of the treasury 
policy and operations, monitors pension plan funding and, 
reviews and approves the insurance arrangements for the 
Group with the exception of the Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ 
Insurance which is approved by the Board.
Risk Management
How do we monitor our risks?
The Board is ultimately accountable for ensuring that we have 
a robust approach to risk management and have appropriate 
internal controls in place. The Board is also responsible for  
monitoring the effectiveness of the agreed approach.
Taking risks is an inherent part of entrepreneurial activity and 
the assessment of risk is part of our culture. Speciﬁcally, we 
give careful consideration to the key risks in our business and 
how we can best mitigate those risks to meet our business 
objectives. 
Over the last year we have continued to improve risk 
management throughout the Group embedding a process 
which aligns strategy and risk management, actively considers 
high impact but low likelihood risks and maintains the Board 
focus on the key risks facing the Group.


Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
56 Annual Report 2011 Risk Management Process
The risk management process includes a review by the Board  
of the Group’s risk proﬁle on a semi-annual basis, facilitated  
by internal audit. The effectiveness of the risk management 
process is monitored by the audit committee. The process 
involves identifying, prioritising and allocating ownership for risks 
and developing and implementing appropriate mitigation plans 
to address those risks. Each key risk identiﬁed through the 
process is owned by a member of the executive team. 
We review our risks in terms of potential likelihood and  
impact. Our analysis also includes both ‘gross’ and ‘net’  
risk assessments so that we can identify the extent to which 
management has addressed the key risks through appropriate 
controls and mitigation activity. The Group Internal Audit Plan  
is based on the results of the risk management process and 
therefore tests the effectiveness of the most important controls 
of the Group.
Risk management at Misys is dynamic and ongoing. For 
example, a key risk included in last year’s annual report  
related to the disposal of our US healthcare business, 
Allscripts. This disposal was successfully managed in the  
ﬁrst half of this ﬁnancial year and, therefore, the risk has been 
removed from the analysis. Meanwhile, a new risk related to 
the effective integration of our recent Sophis acquisition has 
been added to the analysis.
A summary of the risks that we currently see as important to 
our business, together with associated key mitigation activities, 
is shown overleaf. This summary also shows the alignment  
of the risks with the key strategic imperatives of the Group. 
Risk 
assessment, 
prioritise risk 
and ownership
Risk 
identification
Existing controls, 
new mitigation and 
action plans
Execute
action 
plans
Reporting 
and 
performance
Monitoring 
and assurance
Board evaluation of risk 
with a particular focus 
on significant risks
Management actions with Board oversight
Management actions
Misys Risk Management Process 
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 57 Develop a focused strategy and integrated portfolio for each of the business units
Business strategy, market and product development risks Mitigation 

to regulatory review and concerns related to 
economic factors (e.g. Eurozone sovereign 
indebtedness). This could lead customers to 
reduce expenditures. 

diversiﬁed with customers in 120 countries; it has a wide range of products 
across the capital markets and banking sectors and it has a large installed base 
with approximately 50% of revenues recurring. 

revenue and cost synergy projections which 
may not be captured. 

detailed synergy targets and regular executive/Board reviews. 

collaboration.

products based on our new BankFusion 
technology, need to be developed in line  
with product roadmaps and need to succeed  
in the market.

processes.


and product/regional user groups) to support market acceptance of products.
Build a solution orientation
Contract implementation and service level risks Mitigation

solutions at customer sites requires effective 
management to deliver value on time and  
to budget.
 
be met.




Continuously innovate to capture market opportunities
Intellectual property (IP) risks Mitigation

of our IP rights and/or the inadvertent 
infringement by us of third party IP rights.

 
BankFusion technology.


Develop winning partnerships and collaborations
Partnerships, acquisitions and disposals risks Mitigation

product/services portfolio, build a partner 
ecosystem and/or streamline operations  
may not be identiﬁed and captured.


 Revitalise the organisation
People risks Mitigation 

emerging markets may mean that the supply  
of people with the required skills is limited.

in competitive markets.
 programmes in key emerging markets.



Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
58 Annual Report 2011 What Internal Controls do we have in place?
Our system of internal control is designed to support the 
achievement of the Group’s objectives and to manage the 
related risks. We recognise that the system is designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and  
not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
As mentioned elsewhere in the governance report, the Board had 
a two day strategy meeting in March 201 1 at which the Directors 
challenged and questioned the senior management around their 
strategic priorities and performance. A detailed ﬁnancial and 
operational budget is produced which is reviewed and approved 
by the Board in April, in advance of the new ﬁnancial year. In 
November 2010 the Board completed a detailed review of the 
management team and the associated succession planning. 
Together, these provide the overall framework for business 
planning and the resources required to deliver on the  
Group’s plans.
We operate a control framework which provides a comprehensive 
system of delegated authorities from the Board and its 
Committees to the business units of the organisation. All major 
development projects, contractual and other commitments 
relating to revenue and capital expenditure require appropriate 
approvals. Authority levels under the framework are reviewed 
periodically and are updated as necessary.
We also have a system of policies and procedures that 
underpin our internal control and cover areas such as ﬁnancial 
reporting and planning, capital expenditure, business 
continuity, IT controls, treasury and cash management.
With speciﬁc regard to preparing consolidated accounts,  
we operate rigorous controls including detailed policies and 
formal processes for business units, ﬁnance functions, Group 
consolidation reviews and analyses of material variances, 
technical reviews and other controls. These controls are 
monitored and assessed during the year by internal audit.
We have strengthened our system of internal controls by 
continuing to centralise our transaction processing in Bangalore. 
We have also developed our Group analysis and reporting 
function and continue to review and enhance our processes 
around working capital, cash management and compliance.  
The new requirements such as the Bribery Act and the Senior 
Accounting Ofﬁcer Certiﬁcation are also being addressed  
We have introduced a suite of new policies and processes  
to underpin our anti-bribery programme and strengthen our 
bribery controls. We have introduced a new tax reporting tool 
during the year.  
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s  
system of internal controls. This is principally carried out 
through the work of the audit committee. This Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of internal controls principally  
through discussions with management on signiﬁcant risks,  
the review of both the internal and external audit plans  
and subsequent ﬁndings and other relevant reports. If any 
signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses are identiﬁed that need to  
be addressed these are highlighted to the Board who ensure 
that appropriate action is taken.
Other key imperatives
IT and business continuity risks Mitigation

support our geographically distributed business 
and to protect our information assets.
 
and network infrastructure reviews across key sites.
 
social instability needs to be effectively 
managed. This is particularly important given the 
location of many of our key sites in emerging 
markets with, for example, key development 
sites and customer support sites located in  
India and the Philippines.

by a dedicated business continuity team.


and to reduce our dependence on third-party providers.
Legal and regulatory risks Mitigation

the UK Bribery Act needs to be maintained.



implemented. 
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 59 Shareholders
How do we engage with our shareholders?
We strongly believe in regular engagement with our shareholders 
and schedule a quarterly pattern of presentations and 
conference calls with our investors. We also engage with them 
on an ad hoc basis in order to respond to any speciﬁc questions 
that they may have at any time between scheduled events. 
In addition, in reporting to shareholders on the corporate 
transactions that we undertook during the year, we provided  
a high degree of transparency on the ﬁnancial details of the 
transactions, on the underlying strategic rationales and on the 
impact of these transactions upon the ﬁnancial targets and 
ﬁnancial statements of the Group. During all stages of the 
transactions we clearly stated our expectations for progress 
towards their completion.
About the 2011 Annual General Meeting
This year the AGM will be held on 28 September 2011 at The 
Lincoln Centre, Lincoln Inn Fields, London at midday. The 
Notice of AGM accompanies this annual report and explains 
the business to be considered at the meeting. Both this annual 
report and the Notice of AGM are available on our website 
www.misys.com.
Share capital
Our share capital comprises ordinary shares of 1
1
/7 pence each 
which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The issued share capital of the Company, together with details 
of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital during 
the year, are shown in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements.  
At close of business on 28 July 2011, the Company held 
362,505,513 ordinary shares in issue of which 23,225,756  
were held in treasury.
We completed a tender offer on 16 December 2010 under 
which we bought back and cancelled 169,354,057 ordinary 
shares of one pence each. On 14 February 2011 we completed 
a share capital consolidation of 7 new ordinary shares of 1
1
/7 
pence in the Company for every 8 ordinary shares held on 
11 February 2011. Further details on the impact of these 
We actively seek the views of our major shareholders, not only 
in respect of our ﬁnancial results and strategic progress, but 
also in a consultative manner. Accordingly, we consulted with 
our major shareholders on several occasions during the year 
on speciﬁc matters arising as a result of the disposal of 
Allscripts and the subsequent return of capital. We also 
consulted with major shareholders during the year on directors’ 
remuneration.
We engage with our other shareholders through the AGM, 
other general meetings and our website www.misys.com.
Who are our substantial shareholders?
The voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the 
Company of our substantial shareholders as have been  
notiﬁed to the Company as at 28 July 2011 are shown below
changes on our share capital is given in Note 31 on page 113  
of the ﬁnancial statements. Shares held in treasury were 
consolidated in the same way as all other shares. During the 
year, 6,415,383 shares were transferred out of treasury to meet 
the Company’s obligations under its employee share plans. 
The rights and obligations of our shareholders are contained  
in our articles. Shareholders are entitled to receive the annual 
report, to attend and speak at general meetings, to appoint 
proxies and exercise voting rights. No shares carry any special 
control or ﬁnancial rights.
In accordance with the authority granted at a general meeting 
held on 11 February 2011, the Company may make market 
purchases of up to 33,563,163 of its own shares (representing 
approximately 10% of its issued share capital). This authority 
expires at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM and remained in 
force at 31 May 2011.
Other disclosures that we are required to make
Principal activities and business review
Our principal activities are the development, management  
and licensing of a variety of software products and solutions  
to customers in the ﬁnancial services industry. We also partner 
with other world class companies to sell and distribute Misys 
products and solutions.
Holder % issued share capital No. of ordinary shares Nature of holding 
ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P. 20.21 77,500,319 Total 
VA Partners I, LLC, ValueAct Capital Management, L.P., 
ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, ValueAct Holdings, L.P ., 20.21 77 ,500,319 Indirect 
ValueAct Holdings, L.P. and ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC
1
 
Schroders plc 11.94 51,417,864 Direct
45,783,197 Indirect 
Crédit Agricole Cheureux International Limited 5.19 17,603,724 Direct
FMR LLC and its Group 5.14 25,890,800 Indirect 
Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 5.06 27,677,470 Total 
Comprising: Thereadneedle Asset Management Ltd 0.14 745,317 Direct 
4.81 26,298,748 Indirect
0.12 633,405 CFD’s
Standard Life Investment Ltd 4.99 19,140,585 Total
Comprising: Vidacos Nominees Limited 2.81 10,784,422 Direct
2.18 8,356,163 Indirect
Lloyds TSB Group plc on behalf of various nominees 3.02 16,492,181 Indirect 
1 This notiﬁcation has been reported on an aggregated basis and includes the 20.21 % holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P. shown above.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
60 Annual Report 2011 The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review  
of the business performance and development of the Group. A 
review of the activities of the Group, its ﬁnancial performance and 
likely future business developments is provided in the Chairman’s 
statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the business review, the 
ﬁnancial review on pages 18 to 47 , all of which are incorporated 
into this report by reference. A description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties is included in this report.
Going concern
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors have considered the business 
activities as set out on pages 26 to 35 as well as the Group’s 
principle risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 56 to 59. 
After making due enquiries and embracing the normal 
forecasting process, the Directors consider that the Group  
and the Company have adequate resources and committed 
borrowing facilities to continue in operation for the foreseeable 
future and accordingly have continued to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date
On 21 June 2011 the Board announced that it had received a 
preliminary approval that may or may not lead to an offer being 
made for the Company
On 23 June 2011 Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 
conﬁrmed that it had made a preliminary approach regarding  
a possible cash offer for Misys plc.
Financial instruments
Information on ﬁnancial instruments is disclosed in the notes  
to the ﬁnancial statements.
Dividends
The Board continues to believe that shareholder interests  
are being best served by re-investing cash ﬂow into the 
development and future growth of each of the Group’s 
businesses. The Directors do not therefore propose to 
recommend payment of a ﬁnal dividend for the year (2010: nil).
People
We are dependent on the skills and commitment of all our 
employees in order to achieve our organisational goals. Further 
information on our approach to employee engagement, equal 
opportunities and training and development can be found in 
the People section of the business review on pages 36 and 37.
Research and development
In the markets in which we operate, effective research and 
development is vital to maintaining competitive advantage and 
securing future business and income streams. Our approach 
to research and development is detailed throughout the 
business review.
Signiﬁcant agreements and change of control
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan 
agreements, property lease arrangements and employee  
share plans. With the exception of the bank loan agreements 
noted above, there is no individual contractual arrangement 
that is considered to be essential to the continuing operation  
of the Group.
In addition, there exist agreements between the Company,  
its Chief Executive, its Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and certain other 
senior employees which provide for compensation of loss of 
ofﬁce or employment due to a takeover. Further information 
can be found in the remuneration report.
Signiﬁcant contracts
ValueAct Capital Master Fund L.P . (ValueAct Capital) has a 
holding of approximately 20.21% in the Company on an 
aggregated basis. Jeff Ubben who is a non-executive Director of 
the Company, is Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Investment Ofﬁcer 
and a principal investor in ValueAct Captial and accordingly  
has an interest in all contracts between the Company and 
undertakings which are part of the ValueAct Group.
During the year and up to the date of this report, no other Director 
has had any interest in any material contract with the Company.
Creditor payment policy
It is our policy to agree terms and conditions with our suppliers 
in advance of conducting business. We seek to abide by the 
payment terms that we agree with our suppliers whenever we 
are happy that the contractual obligations have been met.
The trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2011 represent 34 
days (2010: 31 days) and of the Company represent nil days 
(2010: nil days) as a proportion of the total amount invoiced  
by suppliers during the year. The Company had delegated its 
trade to other Group subsidiaries.
Articles
The articles of the Company may be amended by a special 
resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of  
the Company.
Indemnities and insurance
We provide our Directors and ofﬁcers with insurance cover  
to cover their costs in defending themselves in civil legal 
proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect 
of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any 
proceedings. We have also granted qualifying third party 
indemnities (for the purposes of s.234 of the Companies Act 
2006) to our Directors in their capacity as Directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. Neither the insurance nor  
the indemnity provide cover where the Director has acted 
fraudulently or deceitfully.
Provision of information to the auditors
Each Director that holds ofﬁce as at the date of this report 
conﬁrms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and 
that he has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a 
Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This annual report has been prepared for, and only for, the 
members of the Company and no other persons. By their 
nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group in this annual report are affected by future 
events and circumstances which can cause results and 
developments to differ materially from those anticipated and 
which are beyond our control. The forward-looking statements 
reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of 
preparation and we have no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. Nothing in this annual report 
should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Tom Kilroy
Company Secretary
28 July 2011
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 61 Misys has experienced signiﬁcant change in the past year with 
the disposal of Allscripts and the subsequent return of capital, 
followed soon thereafter by the acquisition of Sophis in early 
2011. Individually, these transactions were so signiﬁcant in 
relation to Misys’ capital base that in each case the Committee 
was required to review very carefully their implications for share 
based rewards. In doing so the Committee had to ensure that 
achievements were fairly rewarded and that for the future, 
incentive arrangements were adjusted so as to be no more  
or less stretching than before.
The Committee reviewed our reward strategy to ensure that it 
reﬂects our growing needs to attract and retain talent in Asia 
and other emerging markets and that it remained aligned to  
a key principle: that management should be focused on 
delivering value to our shareholders.
Throughout the year we actively consulted with and secured 
the support of our largest shareholders; most speciﬁcally  
on recalibrating our EPS based incentives, re-setting dilution 
limits and establishing a new bespoke incentive for our CEO. 
Shareholders overwhelmingly approved speciﬁc proposals 
put to them at the general meeting held in August 2010 to 
approve the Allscripts sale and capital return.
Accordingly, for the years impacted by the changes to the 
capital structure of the Company, the base EPS used to 
calculate performance measures in the Omnibus Plan  
was increased. This ensured that our Omnibus Plan EPS 
performance measures continued to be stretching and  
fulﬁlled a commitment made to shareholders when the 
Allscripts transaction was approved.
Shareholders also approved new dilution targets under our 
share plans to take account of the reduction in our issued 
share capital through the Tender Offer and Share Capital 
Consolidation. If we had taken no action in this regard we 
would have immediately breached our existing limits and 
severely impacted our ability to attract and retain talent  
within the organisation. 
The Board believes that Mike Lawrie continues to provide 
exceptional leadership to the Company. Therefore, in 
recognition of the importance of the CEO to ensuring a 
continued focus on performance, we approved the CEO 
Incentive Plan, a bespoke arrangement that is designed  
to secure the tenure of the CEO beyond the expiry of the 
Transformation Incentive Plan on 1 November 2011.
Finally we looked at ways to further improve the effectiveness 
of the Committee. We reviewed and enhanced our rolling 
agenda to better align it to the business and to provide the 
Committee with a clear structure to its work during the year.
I hope that you will agree with our approach to the various 
challenges that have faced us during the year and I am 
conﬁdent that we have taken the right steps to secure and 
reward the management team in a way that will allow the 
business to move to the next stage of its journey. The 
remuneration report has been prepared by the remuneration 
committee and approved by the Board for submission to 
shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
John King
Chairman, remuneration committee
28 July 2011
John King
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
62 Annual Report 2011 Who is on our Committee?
Committee Members
John King (Chairman) Independent Director
James Crosby
Independent on 
appointment to the Board
John Ormerod Independent Director
Timothy Tuff (appointed to the 
Committee on 23 March) Independent Director
Philip Rowley Independent Director
Deloitte LLP were retained to provide independent advice to 
the Committee. Deloitte LLP and Hewitt New Bridge Street Ltd 
also advised the Committee on the performance monitoring of 
the Group’s share plans. In addition, Pinsent Masons LLP 
provided legal advice to both the Company and the Committee 
on share plans, other general employment matters and certain 
commercial matters. Towers Watson advises the Company on 
its UK pension arrangements. 
The Committee also received support from an independent 
consultant, Paul Williams, on various matters including a review 
of the Company’s approach to pay and beneﬁts. 
The Committee also consults with the EVP of HR, the EVP 
General Counsel and Company Secretary, the CEO and  
the CFO on a regular basis. No member of the Committee,  
nor any party from whom advice was sought, participated  
in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee met 11 times during 2010/11 with Committee 
members attending 100% of meetings. Full details of the 
attendance at meetings is shown in the corporate governance 
report on page 52.
What responsibilities does the Committee have?
The Committee is responsible for agreeing the framework  
and broad remuneration strategy and policy for the executive 
Directors and other senior executives, both of which are 
designed to support the business growth agenda and attract, 
retain and motivate talented leaders. In doing so we determine 
the individual remuneration and beneﬁts packages for the 
executive Directors and EVP’s and other direct reports to the 
CEO, ensuring that they are structured to reward performance 
and not failure. 
The Committee also reviews and determines the fees of the 
Chairman of the Board, although the Chairman is not present 
during any discussion in relation to his remuneration.
The Committee approves the design and targets for all 
incentive schemes, including annual bonus plans and share 
incentive plans that include the executive Directors and the 
EVPs. The totality of all awards and option grants made under 
each of the Company’s share incentive plans is considered  
and approved by the Committee having due regard for the 
Company’s dilution limits. Vesting under many of the awards 
made is subject to achievement against performance targets 
which are monitored by the Committee.
The Committee keeps under review the appropriateness of  
the remuneration strategy as aligned to business strategy and 
against business performance with respect to its peers in order 
to ensure that the overall objective of attracting leading talent  
is achieved.
We have prepared this report in accordance with the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Group (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority 
Listing Rules. We will be asking you to approve an advisory 
resolution on the report at the 2011 AGM, which we hope you 
will support.
The auditors are required to report on the Directors’ 
emoluments table and the tables of share options and awards 
along with all associated footnotes. Accordingly, these tables 
and footnotes form the audited section of this report.
How does the Committee ensure it delivers on its 
responsibilities?
The Committee reviewed and amended the annual rolling 
calendar of business in order to improve the effectiveness of 
the Committee. It now ﬂows from a review of remuneration 
strategy at the start of the year, through consideration of 
speciﬁc policy matters leading ﬁnally to approvals. It is 
designed to deliver a complete and holistic review by the 
Committee on all aspects of remuneration. In addition, at each 
meeting the Committee receives any relevant industry updates 
and reviews the share dilution limit schedule to ensure it 
remains fully informed on all matters that may impact its 
decision making.
The annual rolling calendar is set out below:
Date Purpose Matters considered
January Strategic outlook
Trends in reward and governance
Reward issues
March
Committee 
effectiveness
Past performance
Future objectives/goals
April Policy setting
Review of reward principles
Benchmarking review
July Approval
Salary reviews
Bonus reviews
Share awards
Directors’ remuneration report
September AGM
Investor engagement
CEO scorecard
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 63 What has the Committee done during the year?
The matters considered by the Committee in 2010/11 in addition to those as set out in the annual rolling calendar are shown  
in the chart below:
General reward principles For executive Directors
  to support the development of Misys as a global employer  
of choice 
  a signiﬁcant proportion of total compensation is performance-
related
  that total remuneration opportunity is targeted at market-
competitive levels 
  performance-linked incentive awards are designed to 
encourage executive Directors to create long-term shareholder 
value and align their personal interests with those of the 
Company
 reward is based on performance   business performance measures are based on targets that are 
relevant to the business and aligned with shareholders’ interests
  employees have the opportunity to participate in ownership  
of Misys shares 
  executive Directors are expected to build and maintain a 
meaningful shareholding in the Company to provide further 
alignment of their interests with those of shareholders
  employees are eligible to participate in employee beneﬁts  
which are a portion of total reward
  business performance measures are established and executive 
Directors are paid for performance
Our remuneration philosophy
The remuneration philosophy is designed to align with the business and its growth strategy. It recognises that in order to deliver on 
the growth strategy the Company needs to be able to attract, and keep, the best available global talent in the markets within which 
it operates. This means offering competitive remuneration that is delivered through performance-driven compensation. 
Exceptional remuneration will only be awarded for exceptional performance.
Engaged with 
shareholders
Secured CEO 
retention
Reviewed performance 
measures following the 
disposal of Allscripts
Benchmarked 
against our peers
• We engaged with our 
shareholders over the impact on 
the Company’s share plans 
resulting from the disposal of 
Allscripts, the return of capital and 
the acquisition of Sophis. Due to 
the reduction of our issued share 
capital, we renewed our Dilution 
Limits under our plans to 10% in 
10 years and introduced a new 
2% per annum ﬂow rate. The EPS 
performance measure was 
re-based to remove the volatility 
caused following the disposal of 
Allscripts and the acquisition of 
Sophis. This ensured that 
management was rewarded for 
performance but that the targets 
in future years remained 
stretching.
• We reviewed the ongoing mechanism in place 
for the CEO having due regard to the Board’s 
view that his continued service of the 
Company is vital to achieving its objectives.
• The CEO Incentive Plan is a one-off 3 year 
incentive plan subject to stretching 
performance measures that align his 
interests to those of shareholders.
• Completed a benchmarking review 
against our peers for executive 
Directors and senior management.
Completed 
a full review of the 
Committee’s remit 
and effectiveness
•  Engaged Boardroom Review to 
complete an external effectiveness 
review of the Committee.
• Updated its annual rolling calendar.
• Improved the interface with 
management and information 
provided to the Committee.
• Ensured retention of key staff by 
rewarding them for delivering value 
to our shareholders under the 
return of capital following the 
Allscripts disposal.
• Made certain other adjustments 
to the baseline EPS to reﬂect the 
changed capital structure of the 
Company including the impact of 
the convertible on EPS.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
64 Annual Report 2011 In applying its remuneration principles during the year, the Committee considered data on recent changes in pay and conditions 
for other senior executives throughout the Group. The Company’s policy is to pay an appropriate market rate for each employee’s 
function and location. EVPs are also expected to build and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company over time. The 
Committee was satisﬁed that Directors’ pay and conditions have, on average, not improved more than those of other employees  
in the ﬁnancial year.
How is our remuneration policy structured?
The table below summarises the Company’s policies in respect of each of the key elements of executive Directors’ and EVPs’ 
remuneration.
What do our Directors receive?
In each year, a signiﬁcant portion of each executive Director’s total remuneration is performance based and is dependent upon 
the achievement of stretching annual and longer term targets. The chart below shows the proportion of ﬁxed and variable pay for 
the Chief Executive, the CFO and an average for the EVP population.
Element Policy Details 
Base salary   Provides the ﬁxed element of the  
remuneration package 
  Reviewed annually and normally set for the  
12 months commencing 1 August 
Annual bonus   Incentivises the achievement of speciﬁc  
goals in the short term 
  Targets based on Group operating proﬁt and 
speciﬁc operational and individual objectives 
  Element of deferral aids retention and  
provides alignment with shareholders 
  50% of bonus is normally deferred into 
shares 
Medium and long-term incentives   Incentivises executives to achieve medium  
and long-term ﬁnancial performance 
improvement 
  Aligns the interests of executives and 
shareholders
  Provides for the retention of key individuals
  The Misys Omnibus Plan is designed to  
deliver a combination of matching shares, 
performance shares and share options
Pension and beneﬁts   Provides post-retirement beneﬁts for 
participants in a cost-efﬁcient manner 
  Pension contributions are on a deﬁned 
contribution basis
Shareholding guidelines   Executive Directors to build up a holding 
equivalent to 100% of base salary 
  Supports alignment with shareholders’ 
interests 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
CEO
CFO
30% 40% 30%
35% 35% 30%
35% 35% 30%
Salary Bonus Long-term incentives
EVPs
The above pay mix chart has been calculated on the basis of ﬁxed remuneration delivered to the executive Directors’ through 
salary. Annual bonuses have been valued at target, and long-term incentives have been calculated on an expected value basis. 
(An expected value calculation provides a single valuation for a long-term incentive award, based upon the probability of 
achieving the performance conditions associated with the award).
How does Misys compensation compare?
We commissioned Deloitte LLP to perform an in-depth benchmarking exercise in respect of our executive Directors and EVPs 
against global practices of global companies of a similar size and complexity in both the UK and US markets. The benchmarking 
results were considered by the Committee when considering the total reward packages for the executive Directors and other 
senior management at the level immediately below the Board.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 65 Executive Directors’ remuneration
Salary
The Committee reviews the salaries of executive Directors on 
an annual basis. When considering the ﬁxed element of the 
remuneration packages, full regard is given to the total 
remuneration package including variable and deferred pay.
The Chief Executive is domiciled in the United States and  
his annual base salary is paid in US dollars. 
Base salary is the only element of remuneration which is 
pensionable for executive Directors.
Annual bonus
The Misys Senior Executive Bonus Plan (MSEBP) provides 
incentives in both the short and medium-term for executive 
Directors based on stretching ﬁnancial, operational and 
personal objectives. At least half of any annual award will 
normally be deferred into shares for a period of one year.
The targets for the annual bonus are established by the 
Committee at the commencement of each ﬁnancial year.  
For 2010/11, the overall annual bonus potential for the 
executive Directors is dependent upon their meeting or 
exceeding a threshold Group operating proﬁt target with the 
actual level of payment then dependent upon the extent to 
which targets are met in respect of Group operating proﬁt, 
revenue, cost savings, customer satisfaction scores and 
personal objectives.
The potential bonus achievements for the executive Directors 
are as follows:
On target annual bonus Maximum bonus
Mike Lawrie 100% – 120% of base salary
200% of base 
salary
Stephen Wilson 100% of base salary
150% of base 
salary
For the year just ended, the Committee determined the annual 
bonus payment for the executive Directors by reference to 
speciﬁc targets set at the beginning of the year:
 Group ﬁnancial targets are met or exceeded 
 customer satisfaction levels are met or exceeded 
 personal performance targets are met or exceeded 
Taking into account the extent to which performance 
objectives were met, the Committee approved an annual 
bonus payment of 190% of base salary for the Chief Executive 
and 147% for the CFO, half of which will be satisﬁed in cash  
and half of which will be deferred into shares for a period  
of one year.
Beneﬁts
The Chief Executive is eligible to receive certain beneﬁts 
including private health insurance, life assurance cover, UK 
accommodation and expatriate tax advice. The CFO receives  
a car cash allowance and private medical insurance for himself 
and his family. The executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in the savings-related SAYE share option plan 
operated in the UK on the same terms as other employees.
Pensions
The Company’s pension policy is to provide deﬁned 
contributions to executive Directors, either through the 
Company’s deﬁned contribution pension plan or as an 
allowance for use in their personal pension plans. The CFO 
participates in the Company’s deﬁned contribution pension 
plan. The Chief Executive receives a contribution equivalent  
to 20% of his base salary to a deferred compensation plan 
established in the US. For UK purposes this plan is treated  
as an employer ﬁnanced retirement beneﬁt scheme.
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Chairman and non-executive Directors
The Chairman and non-executive Directors all have letters of 
appointment for a three-year term, which may be extended by 
mutual agreement.
The Board considered the level of fees paid to non-executive 
Directors (unchanged since 2007). Taking advice from Deloitte 
LLP and considering other independent market data, the 
Board felt that the fees for non-executive Directors should  
be adjusted in order to bring them in line with market levels. 
Accordingly, with effect from 1 March 2011, the base fee for  
a non-executive Director was increased from £40,000 to 
£45,000. The fee for acting as the senior independent Director 
was reduced from £20,000 to £15,000 per annum. All other 
fees remained unchanged.
The current fee levels for the non-executive Directors are as set 
out below:
£m Fees
Chairman
1
£180,000
Basic fee £45,000
Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director £15,000
Additional fee for chairing the audit committee £8,000
Additional fee for chairing the remuneration committee £8,000
Additional fee for chairing the nomination committee £5,000
1  The Chairman does not receive any additional fees in respect of his 
appointment to any of the committees.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
66 Annual Report 2011 Medium and Long-Term Share Incentives
Share awards
Our share plans provide medium and long-term incentives  
for executive Directors and other key members of staff and  
are designed to achieve medium and long-term growth.  
A description of each of the plans and the performance 
conditions for each are set out below. 
The Misys Omnibus Share Plan (the Omnibus Plan)
The Omnibus Plan is the primary plan operated by the 
Company and is designed to deliver maximum ﬂexibility  
for the award of share incentives.
Three types of award, all of which are subject to performance 
conditions, may be granted under the Omnibus Plan:
  performance shares – awards to acquire shares for no 
cost;
 share options – traditional market value share options; and
  matching shares – awards to acquire shares at no cost to 
the participant and which are linked to the award of deferred 
shares under the MSEBP .
All of these awards are subject to performance conditions as 
set out below.
Shares awarded as performance shares or share options 
must meet the following targets in order to be satisﬁed.
Compound annual growth rate (CAGR)
of Misys adjusted EPS over performance period
Percentage of total award 
shares that will vest
Less than 10% nil
From 10% to 12.5%
From 25% to 100%  
on a straight-line basis
12.5% or more 100%
During the year, the Committee implemented adjustments to 
the EPS performance targets for performance shares and 
share options on the basis of the principles approved by 
shareholders at the general meeting held in August 2010. The 
adjustments were designed to recognise the value returned  
to shareholders on the disposal of Allscripts and to align the 
interests of shareholders and award holders. In summary:
  There was no adjustment to the number of shares in 
outstanding awards and no acceleration of vesting; and
  The performance targets for a proportion of awards (50%) 
have been treated as satisﬁed in full. 
The remaining portion of awards have been treated as follows:
  The original EPS performance targets for Misys (including 
Allscripts) were measured to the end of 2009/10 to determine 
vesting for a time pro-rated element (17% of awards for 
2009/10; 33% for 2008/09 awards); and
  Performance targets have been increased for the remaining 
proportion of awards based on the performance of the 
remaining Misys businesses (excluding Allscripts) ensuring 
that they are no less stretching than before. 
The performance targets for these remaining portions are  
as follows:
   2008/09 awards – the performance target requires growth 
in operating proﬁts of the Banking and TCM divisions over 
the 3 year period 2008/09 to 2010/11. The target is 
measured from a base ﬁgure of £42.4 million and requires  
a CAGR of 11.4% for any vesting and 12.5% CAGR for  
full vesting.
   2009/10 awards – the performance target requires EPS 
growth of between 10% CAGR and 12.5% CAGR in 
2010/11 and 2011/12. The EPS base ﬁgure for 2009/10 has 
been raised from 10.3 pence to 15.1 pence to reﬂect the 
Company’s altered capital structure following the return  
of capital.
   2010/11 awards – none of the awards made in 2010/11 
were adjusted. The performance targets for the whole of 
these awards requires EPS growth of between 10% CAGR 
and 12.5% CAGR. The EPS base ﬁgure is 15.1 pence.
Vesting is further subject to the Committee being satisﬁed 
regarding the overall results of the Company over the 
performance period, taking into account such factors it 
determines appropriate including the Company’s business  
and shareholder value performance.
Shares awarded as matching shares in respect of the bonus 
deferral arrangements of the MSEBP are subject to further 
performance conditions that utilise a matrix of operating proﬁt 
and revenue targets as shown in the following table. If speciﬁc 
revenue and operating proﬁt targets are met, up to 50% of the 
award shares may vest one year after grant. The remaining 
50% of the award will be tested against the second year’s 
targets.
Adjusted Operating Proﬁt
120%  
of target 
37.5% 56.25% 75% 87.5% 100% 
110%  
of target 
25% 43.75% 62.5% 75% 87.5% 
100%  
of target 
12.5% 31.25% 50% 62.5% 75% 
90%  
of target 
0% 0% 31.25% 43.75% 56.25% 
80%  
of target 
0% 0% 12.5% 25% 37.5% 
80%  
of target 
90%  
of target 
100%  
of target 
110%  
of target 
120%  
of target 
Revenue
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 67 The Transformation Incentive Plan (TIP)
The TIP was established in 2006, at the start of the turn-
around programme and is a one time plan speciﬁcally 
designed to drive execution of the turnaround strategy by 
the leadership team at the time. As a condition of receiving  
an award, participants were required to make a personal 
investment in the business equal to the value of one quarter  
of the award received. The performance targets applied to this 
award are based on share price growth over a ﬁve year period 
as set out in the following table, measuring share price as an 
average over 20 dealing days with straight line vesting between 
each point. In addition the Misys share price on the vesting 
date must also be higher than the price on the grant date for 
any portion of the award to vest. 
Vesting opportunities are on the third, fourth and ﬁfth 
anniversaries of the grant. The second testing date for this award 
was 1 November 2010, as a result of which 19% of the award 
vested. The ﬁnal vesting opportunity will be in November 2011. 
Share price % of award that vests
<£2.25 0%
£2.25 12.5%
£2.50 25%
£3.00 50%
£3.50 75%
£4.00 100%
No further awards will be made under this plan.
As was disclosed to shareholders in the circular relating to  
the disposal of Allscripts and the proposed Tender Offer, the 
Committee considered the impact of these events on the 
performance conditions for the TIP . The Committee concluded 
that it would:
  not adjust the originally speciﬁed share price targets nor 
accelerate vesting of awards; 
  treat the Tender Offer price as a measurement share price  
for the TIP; and 
  regard the underpin performance condition relating to the 
initial share price as satisﬁed in relation to shares that vested 
on the basis of measuring the performance target using the 
Tender Offer price.
CEO Incentive Plan
With the imminent expiry of the TIP and in recognition of the 
importance of the CEO in ensuring a continued focus on 
performance, the Committee introduced the CEO Incentive 
Plan. The CEO Incentive Plan is a one-off 3 year incentive 
arrangement designed solely for Mike Lawrie, which was 
entered into on 28 February 2011 following discussions  
with major shareholders. The Plan is bespoke and therefore a 
relatively unusual plan but the Committee and the Board is of 
the opinion that it is a natural continuation of the TIP plan which 
expires later this year.
The plan has been designed to incentivise the CEO to remain  
with the Company to extract further value for shareholders  
and directly aligns his interests with shareholders as any  
award under this scheme requires a signiﬁcant increase in 
shareholder value. In addition, and in order to receive beneﬁts 
under the plan, he is also required to maintain a minimum 
shareholding in the Company of 6 times salary and  
to not reduce his shareholding from its February 2011 level. 
The Committee believes that this plan offers a very signiﬁcant 
incentive for Mike to remain with Misys and to continue to 
deliver on the strategy for the beneﬁt of all of the Company’s 
shareholders. The Board also believes that the scale and 
duration of the ﬁnancial commitment that Mike is prepared  
to make for the 3 year life of the Plan should be of great 
reassurance to shareholders.
All shares awarded under the plan are subject to stretching 
performance targets measured over a three year period. Only 
8.3% of the award shares will vest upon achievement of the 
lowest threshold with 100% vesting for maximum performance. 
Vesting between each point will be measured by calculating, 
on a straight line basis, performance between each target 
point. The maximum number of share awards under the plan is 
1,600,000. Performance targets are measured over a period of 
any 60 consecutive trading days in the performance period, 
and will vest according to the schedule below:
Share price threshold achieved  
in the performance period
Maximum number of  
shares which will vest
£3.75 133,333
£4.00 426,667
£4.25 720,000
£4.50 1,013,333
£4.75 1,306,667
£5.00 1,600,000
In addition no award shares will vest unless the Committee is 
satisﬁed regarding the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial 
performance in the performance period.
In the event of a change of control of Misys, or if he leaves  
in circumstances of death or ill health, awards only vest to the 
extent performance conditions were achieved. If he left Misys 
for any other reason (other than dismissal for misconduct),  
Mike could keep performance vested award shares subject  
to time pro-rated reductions and the delayed release of such 
shares until the original three year vesting date and provided 
that the personal shareholding requirements are maintained 
until vesting.
The plan will be available for inspection for 15 minutes before 
and until the close of the 2011 AGM since it has not been 
approved by shareholders. Awards under the plan will be 
satisﬁed using shares held in the Employee Beneﬁt Trust. 
Beneﬁts under the plan are not pensionable. 
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
68 Annual Report 2011 1998 Unapproved Plan
The 1998 Unapproved Plan is an unapproved share option 
scheme. Whilst there are awards outstanding under the plan, 
there is no intention to use the plan in the future. Mike Lawrie 
has one award outstanding under the Plan which was granted 
in August 2007 , the details of which are set out in the share 
option table on page 72.
The performance targets applied to this award are based on 
compound annual growth in adjusted EPS over a ﬁxed three 
year period in excess of growth in the UK Retail Price Index 
(RPI) as follows:
Annual compound growth rate in adjusted EPS % of salary that vests
RPI + 3% p.a. Up to 50%
RPI + 3% to 6% p.a. 51% to 100%
RPI + 6% to 9% p.a. 100% to 200%
Sharesave (SAYE)
The Company operates a savings related SAYE share option 
plan which all employees are eligible to participate in, including 
executive Directors. Participants make monthly savings (up to a 
maximum of £250 per month) over a three year period. At the 
end of the savings period, the funds are used to purchase 
shares under option. Shares awarded under this scheme are 
not subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
Dilution limits
As a result of the return of capital made to our shareholders 
during the year, the number of shares in issue was signiﬁcantly 
reduced. This required us to review our dilution limits under  
our share plans in order that we could continue to incentivise 
executives and employees to continue delivering returns to  
our shareholders in the future.
Accordingly, at the General Meeting held on 15 August 2010, 
shareholders approved the amendment of the Company’s 
share plans to adopt a new share plans dilution limit of 10%  
of the Company’s issued share capital over 10 years. This limit 
applies only to new awards made after the Tender Offer. In line 
with the Company’s previous grant policy, an additional formal 
limit was added within the rules such that in any one year 
awards over new issue or treasury shares would not exceed 
more than 2% of issued share capital. The Committee receives 
regular updates on the dilution position under the Company’s 
share plans and carefully considers the impact on dilution of 
any awards made.
The Company sources shares for share awards through a mixture 
of newly issued shares, shares held in treasury and shares 
acquired and held in the Company’s employee share trust.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are required to build and maintain over time 
a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 100% of 
base salary. The Chief Executive maintains a shareholding well 
in excess of this target.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Mike Lawrie’s contract provides that he may terminate his 
employment with the Company by giving three months’ written 
notice and the Company may terminate his employment by 
giving 12 months’ written notice. On termination, Misys has  
a contractual obligation to pay in lieu of at least six months of 
the notice period other than in the case of summary dismissal. 
In the event of a change of control, if the contract is terminated 
either directly or indirectly as a result within the following 
12 month period, he will be entitled to receive a sum equal to 
12 months’ salary, on-target bonus, pension contribution and 
health insurance. Change of control would also bring forward 
the vesting date for the Chief Executive’s Transformation 
Incentive Plan at which point performance conditions would  
be applied to the outstanding award with no time pro-rating.
Stephen Wilson’s contract provides that he may terminate  
his employment by giving six months’ written notice and the 
Company may terminate his employment by giving six months’ 
written notice. On termination, Misys has an absolute discretion 
to make a payment in lieu of notice for the six month notice 
period other than in the case of summary dismissal. In the 
event of a change of control, if the contract is terminated either 
directly or indirectly as a result within the following 12 month 
period, he will be entitled to receive a sum equal to 12 months’ 
salary and on target bonus.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 69 Directors’ contracts
The contractual arrangements with each executive and non- 
executive Director who served in the year are summarised 
below. Stephen Wilson and Timothy Tuff who were appointed 
during the year will be put forward for election at the 2011 
AGM. In order to align ourselves with The UK Corporate 
Governance Code and best practice in this area all other 
Directors will put themselves forward for re-election at the  
2011 AGM.
Date of current contract/
letter of appointment Notice period
M Lawrie 13 October 2006 12 months – re-elected 
at 2010 AGM
S Wilson 16 July 2010 6 months – to  
be elected at the  
2011 AGM
Sir James Crosby 30 January 2009 1 month – elected  
at the 2009 AGM
J Ormerod 21 September 2005 1 month – re-elected 
at the 2009 AGM
J King 2 November 2005 1 month – re-elected 
at the 2009 AGM
P Rowley 5 November 2008 1 month – elected  
at the 2009 AGM
T Tuff 23 February 2011 1 month – to be 
elected at the  
2011 AGM
J Ubben 16 January 2007 1 month – re-elected 
at the 2010 AGM
Performance graph
The following graph measures the Company’s Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a ﬁve year period 
as required by the Companies Act 2006. This is compared 
against the TSR performance of the FTSE TechMark All-Share 
Index. The Directors do not believe that this is the ideal group 
of comparator companies. It is however the most appropriate 
broad equity market index available against which TSR can be 
measured as it is made up of companies in similar markets and 
geographic locations to Misys.
This graph shows the value at 31 May 2011 of £100 invested in 
Misys plc on 31 May 2006 compared with the value of £100 
invested in the FTSE TechMark All-Share Index plotted over  
the ﬁve year period.
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
 May 06 May 07 May 08 May 09 May 10 May 11
Value (£)
Misys
FTSE TechMark All-Share Index
External directorships
The Company recognises that executive Directors may 
broaden their experience by serving as non-executive Directors 
of other companies and they are permitted to accept such 
appointments by prior agreement with the Board. It is normal 
practice for executive Directors to retain fees received for 
non-executive appointments. During the year, Mike Lawrie 
served as a non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc., 
for which he received a fee of US $65,000. In addition, he  
also participates in its share option plan under which he  
holds 78,764 share options. He also sits on the Board of 
Trustees of Drexel University, for which he does not receive  
any compensation. Stephen Wilson does not hold any  
external directorships.
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of Directors in the ordinary shares of the 
Company are set out below. All interests are beneﬁcial and 
have been adjusted to account for the 7 for 8 consolidation 
completed on 14 February 2011.
Number of shares
At 1 June 2010  
(or date of 
appointment  
if later)
1 June 2010  
(adjusted for 7 for 
8 consolidation)
At 31 May 2011  
(or date ceased  
to be a Director  
if earlier)
M Lawrie
1,3
1,303,41 1 1, 140,485 1, 160,628
S Wilson 35,000 30,625 30,625
Sir James Crosby 53,912 47,173 47,173
J Ormerod 50,000 43,750 43,750
J King
3
150,000 131,250 131,250
P Rowley 27,305 23,891 23,891
T Tuff – – 18,000
J Ubben
1,2
146,756,217 128,411,690 70,744,050
1  Mike Lawrie and Jeff Ubben are investors in ValueAct Capital Partners, L.P., 
which has an interest in ValueAct Capital Master Fund L.P. and as such have 
an interest in respectively 97,757 and 2,889,122 ordinary shares, being their 
proportionate interest in the total number of ordinary shares held by ValueAct 
Capital Master Fund L.P. These ordinary shares are shown in their interests in 
the table above. 
2  67,812,779 shares are owned directly by ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P. 
and may be deemed to be beneﬁcially owned by (i) VA Partners I, LLC as 
General Partner of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P., (ii) ValueAct Capital 
Management, L.P. as the manager of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P., (iii) 
ValueAct Capital Management, LLC as General Partner of ValueAct Capital 
Management, L.P., (iv) ValueAct Holdings, L.P. as the sole owner of the limited 
partnership interests of ValueAct Capital Management, L.P. and the 
membership interests of ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, and as the 
majority owner of the membership interests of VA Partners I, LLC and (v) 
ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC as General Partner of ValueAct Holdings, L.P.  
Jeff Ubben disclaims beneﬁcial ownership of the reported stock except to  
the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
3  Mike Lawrie resigned as a Director of Allscripts on 20 August 2010 and John 
King resigned on 17 November 2010. At their dates of resignation, they both 
held an interest in 70,000 and 10,000 shares of common stock in Allscripts 
respectively.
There have been no changes in Directors’ interests in shares of 
the Company between 31 May 2011 and 28 July 2011.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
70 Annual Report 2011 Directors’ emoluments
Audited information
The amounts payable by the Company to each Director in respect of qualifying services for the ﬁnancial year 2010/11 are set out 
below. These ﬁgures exclude share beneﬁts, which are shown separately. No Director has waived any emoluments other than in 
respect of serving on the Allscripts Board for part of the year.
Base
salary/fee Bonus
1
Beneﬁts
in kind
2
Car
allowances
Other
payments
Total 2011 (or 
from date of 
appointment)
Total
2010
Pension
 contributions
2011
3
2010
Executive 
Directors
M Lawrie
4
$1,088,700 $2,068,530 $61,988 – – $3,219,218 $3,336,089 $217,740 $217,740
S Wilson
6
£216,667 £318,500 £967 £7 ,333 – £543,467 – £26,000 –
Non-executive 
Directors
James Crosby £180,000 – – – – £180,000 £153,316 – –
J Ormerod £68,000 – – – – £68,000 £68,000 – –
J King
5
£71,901 – – – – £71,901 £98,160 – –
P Rowley £41,250 – – – – £41,250 £40,000 – –
T Tuff
6
£11,942 – – – – £11,942 – – –
J Ubben £41,250 – – – – £41,250 £40,000 – –
1 Half of the bonus payment was deferred into shares. 
2  Beneﬁts in kind include those beneﬁts that are normally taxable in the UK. For Mike Lawrie, this includes accommodation whilst working in the UK. This amount 
has been converted to US dollars at an exchange rate of 1.58 dollars to the UK pound, being the average rate for the ﬁnancial year 2010/11. The amount for Mike 
Lawrie also includes his US-based private medical and dental insurance with a value of US $13,989. 
3  The amount contributed for Mike Lawrie is paid into a deferred compensation plan in the US. 
4  Mike Lawrie’s contractual salary is denominated in sterling and paid in US dollars at a ﬁxed exchange rate of 1.91 dollars to the pound (being the exchange rate at 
the time he was appointed in 2006) giving a dollar salary of US $1,088,700. 
5  The fee ﬁgure for John King includes £41,250 for sitting on the Misys Board, £8,000 for his Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and US $35,790 for  
the period to 17 November for sitting on the Board of Directors of Allscripts (of which US $16,393 was paid to him by Allscripts). He resigned from the Allscripts 
Board on 17 November 2010. The US dollar amounts are converted at an exchange rate of 1.58 dollar to the UK pound being the average rate for the ﬁnancial 
year 2010/11. 
6  Stephen Wilson and Timothy Tuff were appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010 and 23 February 2011 respectively.
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 71 At 1 June 
2010
Awarded 
during the 
year
Vested/
Released 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At
 31 May
 2011
Market
 price
at date of
 allocation
Market 
price 
at date of 
release
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Vesting 
date
Expiry 
date
M Lawrie CEO
TIP
Share option 
contract
2
1,013,069 – 192,483 – – 1,013,069 –– 208.00
03 Nov
 2009
03 Nov
 2016
TIP Share 
award contract
5
753,724 – 192,483 192,483 – 561,241 –286.00 –
01 Nov
 2011
01 Nov
 2011
Misys 
Omnibus 
Share Plan
Share Options 696,538 – – – – 696,538 –– 122.75
02 Oct
 2011
02 Oct
 2018
Share Options 464,673 – – – – 464,673 –– 184.00
13 Aug 
2012
13 Aug
 2019
Share Options – 318,554 – – – 318,554 268.40 – 268.40
18 Aug 
2013
18 Aug
 2020
Performance 
Shares 348,269 – – – – 348,269 –– –
02 Oct 
2011
02 Oct
 2011
Performance 
Shares 232,336 – – – – 232,336 –– –
13 Aug 
2012
13 Aug
 2012
Performance 
Shares – 159,227 – – – 159,277 266.00 – –
18 Aug 
2013
18 Aug
 2013
Matching 
Shares
5
309,782 – – 68,880 86,011 154,891 –– –
13 Aug 
2011
13 Aug
 2011
Matching 
Shares – 212,369 – – – 212,369 266.00 – –
18 Aug 
2011
18 Aug
 2012
MSEBP
5
309,782 – – 309,782 – 0 –256.40 –
13 Aug 
2010
13 Aug
 2010
MSEBP –212,369 ––– 212,369 266.00 – –
18 Aug 
2011
18 Aug
 2012
LTIP
4
242,725 – – – 242,725 0 –– –
10 Aug 
2010
10 Aug
 2010
1998 
Unapproved 
Plan
3
485,451 – 485,451 – – 485,451 –– 241.00
10 Aug 
2010
10 Aug
 2017
SAYE – 2007
5
989 – 989 989 – 0 –– 191.00
01 Oct 
2010
01 Apr
 2011
2008 1,372 – ––– 1,372 –– 137.00
01 Oct 
2011
01 Apr 
2012
2009 1,269 – ––– 1,269 –– 143.00
01 Oct 
2012
01 Apr 
2013
2010 – 882 ––– 882 271.70 – 204.00
01 Oct 
2013
01 Apr
 2014
CEO Incentive 
Plan – 1,600,000 – – – 1,600,000 328.60 – –
28 Feb 
2014
28 Feb
 2014
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
72 Annual Report 2011 At 1 June 
2010 (or  
date of 
appointment)
Awarded  
during the  
year
Vested/
Released 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At 31 May 
2011
Market price  
at date of 
allocation
Market 
price 
at date of 
release
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Vesting 
date
Expiry 
date
S Wilson CFO
Misys 
Omnibus 
Share Plan
Share Options 64,412 – 16,103 – – 64,412 –– 155.00
11 May 
2010,  

12 May
 2019
Share Options – 90,815 – – – 90,815 268.40 – 268.40
18 Aug 
2013
18 Aug
 2020
Performance 
Shares 28,161–––– 28,161 –– –
20 Aug 
2012
20 Aug
 2019
Performance 
Shares 144,927–––– 144,927 –– –
11 May 
2012
13 Oct
 2019
Performance 
Shares 10,514–––– 10,514 –– –
20 Nov 
2012
20 Nov
 2019
Performance 
Shares – 90,815 – – – 90,815 266.00 – –
18 Aug 
2013
18 Aug
 2020
 SAYE – 822 – – – 882 271.70 – 204.00
01 Oct 
2013
01 April
 2014
1  The closing share price on 31 May 2011 was 361.8 pence. The highest and lowest closing prices during the year were 368.9 pence and 227.01 pence 
respectively. No amounts were paid in respect of the awards of any share options. 
2  The value of the award is equal to £2m based on the Misys share price at the time of grant.
3 Granted on 10 August 2007 at a value of 200% of base salary. 
4  Awards made to Mike Lawrie under the Misys Long Term Incentive Plan on 10 August 2007 were in the form of contingent share awards. 
5 Aggregate gains on exercise of options and awards were £615,101 (2010: £672,089).
Approved by the Board
John King
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
28 July 2011 
 
Governance
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 73 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ remuneration report and the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law, the Directors 
have prepared the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and the Parent Company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements 
unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those 
ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to: 
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
  state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union  
and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements respectively; and
  prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group  
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any  
time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group  
and to enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements and 
the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible  
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group  
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed  
in Board of Directors section, conﬁrm that, to the best of  
their knowledge:
  the Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and 
proﬁt of the Group; 
  the Financial Review and Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
sections include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces;
  so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
  they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
74 Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Misys plc 
Introduction 
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Misys plc 
for the year ended 31 May 2011 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of  
cash ﬂows, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the accounting policies and the 
related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements and for being 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility  
is to audit and express an opinion on the Group ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s  
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept 
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or  
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial 
statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements 
In our opinion, the Group ﬁnancial statements: 
  give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as 
at 31 May 2011 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year 
then ended; 
  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and 
  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ Report  
for the ﬁnancial year for which the Group ﬁnancial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by 
law are not made; or 
  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: 
  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 74, in relation  
to going concern;
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for our review; and
  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on Directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2011 and 
on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that  
is described as having been audited.
Giles Hannam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
28 July 2011
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 75 All ﬁgures in £ millions Note 2011 2010
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 370.0 341.9
Adjusted operating proﬁt before: 1 71.9 63.6
  – Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1 (10.6) (1.0)
  – (Losses) gains on embedded derivatives 1 (4.0) 1.5
  – Translation exchange differences recycled from reserves 1 – (2.0)
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items 57.3 62.1
Exceptional gains – 5.2
Exceptional losses (21.0) (13.6)
Net exceptional items 2 (21.0) (8.4)
Operating proﬁt 1 36.3 53.7
Finance costs (10.5) (10.4)
Exceptional ﬁnance income 2 4.8 1.4
Finance income 1.6 0.3
Net ﬁnance costs 7 (4.1) (8.7)
Proﬁt before taxation 32.2 45.0
Taxation before exceptional items 8 (11.5) (12.5)
Taxation on exceptional items and exceptional ﬁnance income 2 4.2 2.8
Exceptional tax credit (charge) 2 9.4 (10.8)
Taxation 8 2.1 (20.5)
Proﬁt after taxation from continuing operations 34.3 24.5
Discontinued operation
Proﬁt after taxation and before exceptional items 7.8 43.2
Exceptional items after taxation 2 606.9 (6.3)
Proﬁt after taxation from discontinued operation 3 614.7 36.9
Proﬁt for the year 649.0 61.4
Proﬁt for the year – attributable to equity holders of Misys plc 649.0 44.3
Proﬁt for the year – attributable to non controlling interest – 17 . 1
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 9 146.3 8.4
Diluted earnings per share 9 143.2 8.2


All ﬁgures in £ millions Note 2011 2010
Proﬁt for the year 649.0 61.4
Other comprehensive income:
– Exchange difference on the translation of foreign operations (7.3) 62.4
– Actuarial losses recognised 27 (0.9) (1.3)
– Tax (charge) credit on items taken directly to equity (4.3) 0.3
Other comprehensive income for the period (net of tax) (12.5) 61.4
Total comprehensive income for the year 636.5 122.8
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
– Equity holders of Misys plc 645.9 82.1
– Non controlling interest (9.4) 40.7
Total income recognised in the year 636.5 122.8
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
76 Annual Report 2011 All ﬁgures in £ millions Note 2011 2010
Operating activities
Net cash ﬂow generated from operations 79.1 168.7
Net interest paid 10 (3.9) (10.6)
Net taxation paid (7.3) (6.3)
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 67.9 151.8
Investing activities
Acquisitions and disposals of businesses 11 464.5 (2.9)
Expenditure on developed software (28.0) (31.8)
Other capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment 12 215.1 (10.9)
Net cash ﬂow from (used in) investing activities 651.6 (45.6)
Net cash ﬂow used in ﬁnancing activities 13 (771.5) (66.2)
(Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (52.0) 40.0
Net cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 114.9 63.1
Differences on exchange (6.1) 11.8
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 56.8 114.9
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Continuing operations
Proﬁt after taxation 34.3 24.6
Net ﬁnance costs 4.1 8.7
Taxation (credit) charge (2.1) 20.5
Amortisation of other intangible assets 22.3 11.8
Depreciation and impairment charge of property, plant and equipment 6.5 4.5
Share-based payment charges 7.4 6.3
Differences between pension charge and cash contributions 1.4 1.2
Increase in trade and other receivables (6.0) (12.8)
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (3.0) (5.9)
Increase in deferred income 9.1 10.6
Movement in derivative receivables and payables 4.1 (1.6)
Other non-cash movements 1.4 (0.8)
Net cash ﬂow generated from continuing operations 79.5 67 .1
Discontinued operation
Proﬁt after taxation 614.7 36.8
Net ﬁnance costs 0.1 1.0
Taxation charge 3.9 22.8
Amortisation of other intangible assets 5.0 19.6
Depreciation and impairment charge of property, plant and equipment 1.1 4.8
Share-based payment charges 2.3 12.0
Net proﬁt on disposal of businesses (603.8) –
Loss on disposal of available for sale asset 1.3 –
Proﬁt on disposal of available for sale asset (11.6) –
Increase (decrease) in inventories 0.1 (0.3)
Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables 2.7 (25.9)
(Decrease) increase in trade and other payables and provisions (4.5) 18.9
(Decrease) increase in deferred income (11.7) 11.3
Other non-cash movements – 0.6
Net cash ﬂow (used in) generated from discontinued operation (0.4) 101.6
Net cash ﬂow generated from operations 79.1 168.7
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 77 All ﬁgures in £ millions Note 2011 2010
Non current assets
Goodwill 16 231.1 315.5
Other intangible assets 17 275.9 224.4
Property, plant and equipment 18 14.5 30.8
Investments 19 5.5 7. 1
Trade and other receivables 20 8.7 1.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 2.0 4.9
Deferred tax assets 25 35.6 19.5
573.3 603.8
Current assets
Inventories – 2.1
Trade and other receivables 20 134.4 285.7
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 1.0 1. 1
Current tax asset – 5.0
Cash and cash equivalents 15 56.8 120.3
192.2 414.2
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (88.8) (142.9)
Loans and overdrafts 22 (17.9) (46.3)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 (1.6) (0.7)
Current tax liabilities (24.3) (31.2)
Provisions 24 (8.0) (7.7)
Deferred income 26 (105.3) (166.5)
(245.9) (395.3)
Net current (liabilities) assets (53.7) 18.9
Total assets less current liabilities 519.6 622.7
Non current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (3.9) (5.9)
Loans and overdrafts 22 (133.1) (73.1)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 (2.3) (2.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (27.6) (11.1)
Provisions 24 (11.3) (18.0)
Deferred income 26 (5.2) (6.6)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 27 (6.2) (4.3)
(189.6) (121.0)
Net assets 330.0 501.7
Equity
Share capital 4.3 5.9
Share premium account 12.7 151.9
Capital redemption reserve 147.7 0.3
Other reserves 32 165.3 193.8
Shareholders' funds 330.0 351.9
Non controlling interest – 149.8
Total equity 330.0 501.7
Approved by the Board
Mike Lawrie
28 July 2011
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
78 Annual Report 2011 All ﬁgures in £ millions
Share
 capital
Share
 premium
Capital
 redemption
 reserve
Other 
reserves
Attributable
to the
owners of
the parent
Non
 controlling
 interest
Total 
equity
At 1 June 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 193.8 351.9 149.8 501.7
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 645.9 645.9 (9.4) 636.5
Shares issued in the year to  
 purchase Sophis 0.1 5.5 – – 5.6 – 5.6
Transactions with owners
Share options settled from own shares – 1.0 – 6.1 7.1 – 7.1
Business disposed – – – (39.9) (39.9) (140.4) (180.3)
Convertible debt – equity component – – – 16.1 16.1 – 16.1
Shares repurchased for cancellation (1.7) 1.7 (525.0) (525.0) – (525.0)
B share scheme – shares issued 145.7 (145.7) – – – – –
B share scheme – redemption of B shares (111.8) – 111.8 (105.6) (105.6) – (105.6)
B share scheme – dividends paid (33.9) 33.9 (33.9) (33.9) (33.9)
Expenses incurred on transactions  
 with owners – – – (5.5) (5.5) – (5.5)
Share-based payments – – – 9.7 9.7 – 9.7
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – 3.6 3.6 – 3.6
At 31 May 2011 4.3 12.7 147.7 165.3 330.0 – 330.0
No ordinary shares were purchased by the Misys Employee Share Trust during the current or preceding year.
for the year ended 31 May 2010
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Share
 capital
Share
 premium
Capital
 redemption
 reserve
Other 
reserves
Attributable
to the
owners of
the parent
Non
 controlling
 interest
Total 
equity
At 1 June 2009 5.9 151.9 0.3 85.2 243.3 92.5 335.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 82.1 82.1 40.7 122.8
Transactions with owners
Shares options settled from own shares – – – 2.9 2.9 – 2.9
Exercise of Allscripts share options – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Conversion of Allscripts 3.5% senior  
 convertible debentures – – – 3.5 3.5 5.7 9.2
Share-based payments – – – 12.9 12.9 5.4 18.3
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – 7.2 7.2 4.7 11.9
At 31 May 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 193.8 351.9 149.8 501.7
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 79 The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations as adopted by the European 
Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
The Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation  
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also 
applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board.
Going concern
As a result of the funding activities undertaken the Group  
has improved both its short-term and medium-term liquidity 
position and diversiﬁed its funding sources through the 
issuance of a convertible bond. Interest cover and debt to 
EBITDA ratios are comfortably within the targets set by the 
Board and banking covenants. The Group’s forecasts and 
projections, taking account of reasonable potential variations  
in trading performance, show that the Group should be able  
to operate within the level of its current ﬁnancing for the 
foreseeable future.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing its consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IASs 
and IFRSs as of 1 June 2010:
–  IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business combinations’, and consequential 
amendments to IAS 27 , ‘Consolidated and separate ﬁnancial 
statements’, IAS 28, ‘Investments in associates’, and IAS 31, 
‘Interests in joint ventures’, are effective prospectively to 
business combinations for which the acquisition date is on  
or after the beginning of the ﬁrst annual reporting period 
beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition 
method to business combinations but with some signiﬁcant 
changes compared with IFRS 3. For example, all payments  
to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the 
acquisition date, with contingent payments classiﬁed as debt 
subsequently re-measured through the income statement. 
There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to 
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share 
of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs are 
expensed.
The revised standard was applied to the acquisition of the 
controlling interest in Sophis Management GP (Luxembourg) 
Sarl and Sophis Holding GP (Luxembourg) Sarl (together 
‘Sophis’) on 28 February 2011. Acquisition-related costs  
of £7.7m have been expensed in the consolidated income 
statement, which previously would have been included in  
the consideration for the business combination. See note 16 
for further details of the business combination that occurred  
in 2011.
–  IAS 27 (revised) requires the effects of all transactions with 
non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is  
no change in control and these transactions will no longer 
result in goodwill or gains and losses. The standard also 
speciﬁes the accounting when control is lost. Any remaining 
interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or 
loss is recognised in proﬁt or loss.
The following IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations and 
amendments have been adopted by the Group but none had 
any material impact on the Group results or ﬁnancial position:
–  Annual improvements to IFRSs (2009) and (2010) –  
As required by the amendments to IAS 21 ‘The effects of 
changes in foreign exchange rates’ the Group has opted  
to recycle cumulative translation reserves, arising from 
differences on quasi-equity long-term intra-group loans,  
on loss of control of subsidiaries
– Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Classiﬁcation of right issues’
– Amendment to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’
–  Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition 
and measurement’, on eligible hedged items 
–  Amendment to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments –  
Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions’ 
(effective 1 January 2010)
–  IFRIC 17 ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments 
to existing standards have been published and are mandatory 
for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2011 or later periods but the Group has not early 
adopted them:
–  IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ (not yet endorsed by the EU) 
–  IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated ﬁnancial statements’ (not yet 
endorsed by the EU)
–  IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ (not yet endorsed by the EU)
–  IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of involvement with other entities’  
(not yet endorsed by the EU)
–  IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ (not yet endorsed by  
the EU)
–  IAS 24 (revised) ‘Related party disclosures’
–  IAS 27 (further revision) ‘Separate ﬁnancial statements’  
(not yet endorsed by the EU)
–  IAS 28 (further revision) ‘Investment in associates and joint 
ventures (not yet endorsed by the EU)
–  IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement’
–  IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing ﬁnancial liabilities with equity 
instruments’
The Group has undertaken an initial review of the impact of 
these new standards, interpretations and amendments and 
has concluded that they are unlikely to be material.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
80 Annual Report 2011 A summary of the Group’s accounting policies is given below.
Accounting convention
The consolidated ﬁnancial information has been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, except for certain  
items which are measured at fair value, as disclosed in the 
accounting policies below. These accounting policies have 
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements consolidate the ﬁnancial 
statements of Misys plc (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiary 
undertakings. On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their  
fair value at the date of acquisition.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to 
account for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value  
of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity 
interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from  
a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related 
costs are expensed as incurred. Identiﬁable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the 
Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date 
fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over  
the fair value of the Group’s share of the identiﬁable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair 
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of 
a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the 
statement of comprehensive income. Prior to the adoption of 
IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisition was taken to reserves in 
accordance with UK GAAP . 
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period  
are included in the ﬁnancial statements from the date  
of acquisition. Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are 
included in the ﬁnancial statements up to the date of  
disposal. Accordingly, the consolidated income statement,  
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and  
the consolidated statement of cash ﬂow include the results  
and cash ﬂows for the period of ownership.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the 
power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the 
voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights 
that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered 
when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains  
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered as an 
impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting 
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. Due to inherent uncertainty involved 
in making estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could 
differ from those assumptions and estimates. The critical 
judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts 
recognised in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements and the key 
sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signiﬁcant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets 
and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition
The recognition of Initial Licence Fees is dependent upon  
there being no signiﬁcant vendor obligations outstanding. 
Management exercises judgement in assessing whether such 
obligations are signiﬁcant and if necessary the value of the 
revenue to be deferred.
The revenue and proﬁt of ﬁxed price global services contracts 
is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the 
outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. Management 
exercises judgement in determining whether a contract’s 
outcome can be estimated reliably. Management also makes 
some estimates in the calculation of future contract costs, fair 
values of contracts, the value of discounts given, the value of 
upgrade clauses in contracts which are used in determining 
the value of amounts recoverable on contracts and timing of 
revenue recognition. Estimates are continually revised based 
on changes in the facts relating to each contract.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and other 
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. An impairment review requires an 
estimate to be made of the ‘value in use’ or the ‘fair value less 
costs to sell’ as appropriate. The value in use calculation 
includes estimates about the future ﬁnancial performance of 
the cash generating units, including management’s estimates 
of long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates.
Capitalisation of development costs
Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the 
Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical 
feasibility of the resulting asset; the ability (and intention) to 
complete the development and use or sell it; how the asset  
will generate probable future economic beneﬁts; and the ability 
to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset 
during its development. Management estimates the future 
sales and long-term operating margins of the asset.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 81 Onerous property contracts
Property provisions require an estimate to be made of the  
net present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet 
properties. The calculation includes estimates of future cost 
involved, including management’s estimates of the long-term 
letting potential of the properties.
Taxation
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous 
jurisdictions. Management is required to exercise signiﬁcant 
judgement in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. Certain transactions require the use of estimates and 
judgements to determine the ﬁnancial effect where the ultimate 
tax determination is uncertain. When the ﬁnal outcome of such 
matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous 
estimates, such differences will impact income tax in the 
period in which the determination is made.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on temporary 
differences where it is probable that future proﬁts will be 
available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised. 
Where the future results differ from expectations, such 
differences will impact the deferred tax asset recognised  
in the period in which the determination is made.
Segmental reporting
The Group’s segmental analysis is by business sector which 
reﬂects the basis on which operations are reported to the  
Chief Operating Decision Maker. The business sectors are 
deﬁned by distinctly separate product offerings or markets. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be  
allocated on a reasonable basis.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received  
or receivable from clients for goods and services provided  
by the Group, net of discounts and sales taxes. Revenue is 
recognised when a valid contract exists, delivery to a customer 
has occurred with no signiﬁcant vendor obligations remaining 
and where the collection of the resulting receivable is 
considered probable.
Where these circumstances exist but no invoice to the 
customer has been raised, under the terms of the contracts 
revenue is recognised as normal but the corresponding 
receivable is shown as accrued income on the balance sheet.
Initial licence fees (‘ILF’) are the revenue generated when Misys 
sells the right to use a software product, including signiﬁcant 
upgrades, and when a fee is payable for a signiﬁcant variation 
of an existing product. ILF from sales of standard, unmodiﬁed 
software are recognised when a valid contract exists, delivery 
to a customer has occurred with no signiﬁcant vendor 
obligations remaining and where the collection of the resulting 
receivable is considered probable. In instances where a 
signiﬁcant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is 
delayed until the obligation has been satisﬁed. No revenue is 
recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element products 
if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is 
essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
Licence and installation fees from sales of standard software 
sold on an Application Service Provider (ASP) model are 
recognised over the expected life of the contract.
Revenue from global services, such as implementation, training 
and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed. 
In certain circumstances, the percentage of completion 
method is used to determine the degree of completion of  
a contract. This involves a comparison of the costs incurred  
on the contract to date with the total expected costs of  
the contract. Losses on contracts are recognised as soon  
as a loss is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs  
of completion.
Initial licence fees on sales of bespoke or heavily customised 
software, together with revenue from the associated 
professional services contract, are recognised on a percentage 
of completion basis over the period from the commencement 
of performance on the contract to customer acceptance. 
Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period  
of the contract. Revenue from Electronic Data Interchange 
(EDI) and remote processing services (transaction processing) 
is recognised as the services are performed. 
Share incentive schemes
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based 
compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised 
as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the options 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions (for example, proﬁtability and sales growth targets). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the 
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.  
If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the 
charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining 
vesting period of the options.
The social security contributions payable in connection with  
the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of 
the grant itself and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled 
transaction.
Pensions
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution pension 
schemes covering the majority of its employees. The costs of 
these pension schemes are charged to the income statement 
as incurred. In addition, the Group has a closed funded deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme in the UK, as well as a number of  
other smaller deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements outside the UK.
The remaining active members of the closed UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt scheme now contribute to a deﬁned contribution 
section of the scheme and do not accrue further beneﬁts 
under the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. Full independent actuarial 
valuations are carried out on a regular basis and updated to 
each balance sheet date. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
82 Annual Report 2011 Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected  
unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on  
a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency 
to the liability. The pension scheme surplus (to the extent that  
it is recoverable) or deﬁcit is recognised in full on the balance 
sheet. Any current or past service cost is recognised in the 
income statement. The net of the expected increase in the 
present value of the schemes’ liabilities, and the Group’s 
long-term expected return on its schemes’ assets, are included 
in the income statement.
Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes 
and differences between the expected return on assets  
and those actually achieved are charged or credited to  
the statement of comprehensive income and expense  
as they arise.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms  
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards  
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed  
as operating leases.
Property, plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases is 
capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present 
value of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over 
its useful life. The capital elements of future obligations under 
leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a 
constant rate of return on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income  
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Taxation
Taxation comprises the amount chargeable on the proﬁts for 
the period, together with deferred taxation. Deferred taxation  
is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of all 
temporary differences that have originated but not reversed  
at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have 
occurred at that date that may result in an obligation to pay 
more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that there will be sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts from which 
the underlying temporary differences can be deducted or 
where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets 
can be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the 
related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability 
is settled based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that  
it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient proﬁts will be available. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each 
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that future proﬁts will allow the deferred tax asset  
to be recovered. 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income 
statement except when the tax relates to items charged 
 or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also 
recognised in equity.
Foreign currencies
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of Group companies 
are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which each entity operates (their functional 
currency). The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented 
in sterling. 
Each subsidiary translates foreign currency transactions into  
its own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each 
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 
are retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date and 
currency translation differences are recognised in the income 
statement.
On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are 
translated to sterling at the average exchange rate for the 
period. Assets and liabilities of overseas operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet 
date. The currency translation differences arising on both 
elements are recognised in the translation reserve.
Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings 
used to ﬁnance an equity investment in an overseas operation 
are offset in reserves against the exchange differences arising 
on the retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of  
the investment. The exchange differences on any ineffective 
portion are recognised in the income statement. Cumulative 
translation reserves are recycled to the income statement on 
loss of control of subsidiaries.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative 
translation differences that relate to it, including changes to any 
long-term intra-Group borrowing, are removed from equity and 
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss 
on disposal.
The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange 
risks using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings. 
Details of the accounting policies in respect of these items  
are given in the derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge 
accounting section.
Business combinations
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition 
over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identiﬁable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset. It is not 
amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually and 
whenever there is a potential indicator of impairment.  
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income 
statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 83 On acquisition, speciﬁc intangible assets are identiﬁed and 
recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over 
their estimated useful lives. These include such items as brand 
names, customer relationships and complete technology,  
to which value is ﬁrst attributed at the time of acquisition. The 
capitalisation of these assets and related amortisation charges 
are based on judgments about the value and economic life  
of such items. These economic lives for intangible assets  
are estimated at between four and ﬁfteen years for acquisition 
intangibles. 
On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the 
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of the gain or loss on disposal.
Transaction costs
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 
Contingent consideration
Where part or the entire amount of purchase consideration  
is contingent on future events, it is classiﬁed as debt  
and recognised at fair value at acquisition date. This is 
subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a 
group of assets through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable at the 
balance sheet date, the assets are classiﬁed as held for sale 
and measured at lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell. 
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non 
current assets classiﬁed as held for sale.
If the group of assets constitutes a separate major line  
of business, it is classiﬁed as a discontinued operation. 
Other intangible assets and research and development 
expenditure
Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software 
research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the 
Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical 
feasibility of the resulting asset; the ability (and intention) to 
complete the development and use or sell it; how the asset  
will generate probable future economic beneﬁts; and the ability 
to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset 
during its development.
Development costs which do not meet these criteria are 
recognised in the income statement as incurred and are not 
subsequently capitalised. 
Capitalised expenditure on developed software is amortised 
over its useful economic life in line with expected future 
economic beneﬁts, once the related software product is 
available for use.
Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software 
licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, 
are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful 
economic lives. Intangible assets acquired through a business 
combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised 
on a systematic basis that reﬂects the pattern of beneﬁts 
expected over their useful economic lives. If the pattern of 
future beneﬁts cannot be determined reliably, the intangible 
assets are amortised on a straight line basis. The amortisation 
period is reviewed annually.
Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows:
Acquired intangibles 4-15 years
Developed software 3-7 years
Third party software 3-7 years
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and the cost attributable to bringing the asset 
to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is 
calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the cost, 
less estimated residual value of each asset, over its expected 
useful life. 
The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant 
and equipment are reviewed annually. The useful lives by major 
class of asset applied from the date of purchase are:
Leasehold improvements 
5-15 years or the period of 
the lease if shorter
Computer and other equipment 4-10 years
Impairment of assets
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are 
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not  
be recoverable and at each reporting date.
Goodwill and developed software not yet brought into use  
are reviewed for impairment annually. An impairment loss  
is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable 
cash ﬂows (cash generating units).
An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future 
economic beneﬁts are expected from its future use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is 
included in the income statement in the year the asset is 
derecognised.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
84 Annual Report 2011 Financial assets
Financial assets are classiﬁed in the following categories:  
‘at fair value through proﬁt or loss’, ‘loans and receivables’  
and ‘available for sale’.
‘Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss’ are ﬁnancial 
assets held for trading. Derivatives are also classiﬁed as held 
for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Gains and 
losses arising from changes in fair value of ‘ﬁnancial assets  
at fair value through proﬁt or loss’ are included in the income 
statement in the period in which they arise. Financial assets  
at fair value through proﬁt or loss are subsequently held at  
fair value. 
‘Loans and receivables’ are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets  
with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in  
an active market and are carried at amortised cost. 
‘Available for sale’ ﬁnancial assets are measured at fair value. 
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except  
for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from  
those assets which are recognised in the consolidated  
income statement.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. 
Where there is objective evidence that there is an impairment 
loss, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between 
the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated 
future cash ﬂows discounted at the effective interest rate.  
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement 
within administrative and other operating charges. The carrying 
amount of a receivable is reduced by appropriate allowances 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts through the use of an 
allowance account for trade receivables. Amounts charged  
to the allowance account are written off when there is no 
expectation of further recovery. Subsequent recoveries  
of amounts previously written off are credited against 
administrative and other operating charges in the income 
statement. 
Investments
Equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price  
in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably 
measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁed 
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group  
after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
Bank loans and overdrafts
Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair  
value less directly attributable transaction costs and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. The difference between the proceeds  
(net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the income statement, within ﬁnance costs,  
over the period of the borrowings. Borrowings are classiﬁed  
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right 
to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 
the balance sheet date.
Equity instruments
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity 
share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid including 
any directly attributable costs (net of income taxes) is deducted 
from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until 
the shares are cancelled or re-issued. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at  
fair value on the date a derivative is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the 
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the 
nature of the item being hedged. Changes in the fair value of 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments, where they are not designated 
as hedging instruments, are recognised in the income 
statement as operating costs.
Certain ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, which are denominated 
in currencies other than those of the functional currencies of 
the entities concerned, are hedged using forward currency 
contracts. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded  
in operating costs together with offsetting gains and losses on 
the underlying items. 
Expected future non-sterling cash ﬂows of the Group are also 
hedged with forward currency contracts. Hedge accounting  
is not applied and the gains and losses are recorded in the 
income statement under ﬁnance income/cost. 
Hedge accounting
The business activities of the Group expose it to ﬁnancial risks 
that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and 
interest rates. The Group uses forward currency contracts and 
interest rate swaps to hedge these exposures. In accordance 
with its treasury policy, the Group does not enter into 
derivatives for speculative purposes.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
(a)  hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities  
or a ﬁrm commitment (fair value hedges);
(b)  hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised 
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction  
(cash ﬂow hedge); or
(c)  hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. 
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 85 Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows  
are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. 
If the item being hedged is a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, the 
gains or losses on the associated derivative that had previously 
been recognised in equity are included in the measurement of 
the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
Conversely, if the item being hedged is a ﬁnancial asset or 
liability, any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are 
deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the income 
statement in the same accounting period in which the hedged 
item affects net income.
Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the 
hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised or when 
the hedging instrument no longer qualiﬁes for hedge 
accounting.
Under these circumstances, any cumulative gain or loss on  
the hedging instrument, which has already been recognised  
in equity, is retained in equity until the transaction occurs. 
However, if a hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been 
recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income 
statement.
Embedded derivatives
Certain long-term software licensing contracts are priced in 
currencies (usually US dollars, sterling or euros) which are  
not the functional currencies of the entities entering into the 
contracts. Under IAS 39, such contracts are considered to 
contain an embedded foreign currency derivative which must 
be extracted from the host contract and measured separately 
at each balance sheet date except where the currency of the 
contract is recognised as a common means of exchange in the 
country concerned. Gains or losses on these derivatives are 
charged or credited to the income statement. The contracts 
are generally of up to 10 years’ duration and this is therefore 
the period over which the assets and liabilities recognised in 
the balance sheet are expected to crystallise.
Quasi-equity loans
Intercompany loans which are considered to be part of the 
long-term capital structure of subsidiary undertakings are 
deemed to be quasi-equity loans. As allowed by IAS 21,  
foreign exchange gains and losses on these loans are taken  
to reserves. If the subsidiary undertaking is subsequently sold, 
cumulative gains or losses taken to reserves are recycled to  
the income statement as part of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Research and development tax credits
Research and development tax credits are claimed against 
qualifying development spend in certain territories. These  
are recognised on an accruals basis in line with the related 
development costs. As permissible under IAS 20, the income 
statement impact of the credits is offset against development 
costs.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal 
or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is 
probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation and if this amount is capable of being reliably 
estimated. If such an obligation is not capable of being reliably 
estimated, no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed 
as a contingent liability where material.
Onerous property contracts
Provision for onerous lease commitments on property 
contracts is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease 
and other payments in respect of these properties including 
dilapidation costs. These comprise rental and other property 
costs payable, plus any termination costs, less any income 
expected to be derived from the properties being sublet. The 
provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to take into 
account the effect of the time value of money.
Exceptional items
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period 
are material by their nature, size or incidence, these are 
disclosed as exceptional within a separate line on the income 
statement. Examples of items classiﬁed as ‘exceptional’ 
include: 
a)  proﬁt or loss on the disposal of a business;
b)  restructuring costs including those associated with the 
turnaround programme;
c)  acquisition integration costs; and
d)  transaction costs relating to business combinations  
or disposals.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in 
hand together with short-term highly liquid investments with  
an original maturity of less than three months that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an 
insigniﬁcant change in value.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
86 Annual Report 2011 1. Segmental analysis
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been identiﬁed as the Misys Operations Team, comprising the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer and all Executive Vice Presidents. The Misys Operations Team is responsible for resource allocation and assessing the 
performance of the operating segments. The operating segments are deﬁned by distinctly separate product offerings or markets. 
The operating segments consist of Banking, Treasury & Capital Markets (TCM), Misys Sophis and Open Source. The Corporate 
& Other category includes Open Source and corporate costs as these operations are not reportable segments as required to be 
disclosed under IFRS 8. Global Services is considered as a horizontal function with performance assessed by the CODM in each 
of the deﬁned operating segments.
Allscripts was previously reported as an operating segment but was disposed of in the year and hence is now reported under 
discontinued operation. Similarly, Misys Sophis has been reported as a new segment after its acquisition from 1 March 2011.
Certain costs within the Corporate & Other segment are allocated to the other reportable segments based on revenue.
Revenue, operating proﬁt (loss) by business
All ﬁgures in £ millions Banking TCM
Misys
Sophis
Corporate 
& Other
2011
Total
Revenue 167.4 184.9 16.8 0.9 370.0
Adjusted operating proﬁt 35.6 42.6 5.6 (11.9) 71.9
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.8) (0.5) (9.3) – (10.6)
Losses on embedded derivatives (3.8) (0.2) – – (4.0)
Operating proﬁt (loss) before exceptional items 31.0 41.9 (3.7) (11.9) 57.3
Exceptional items (1.1) (4.5) (4.6) (10.8) (21.0)
Operating proﬁt (loss) 29.9 37.4 (8.3) (22.7) 36.3
Exceptional ﬁnance income 4.8
Net ﬁnance costs (8.9)
Proﬁt before taxation 32.2
Taxation before exceptional items (11.5)
Taxation on exceptional items and exceptional ﬁnance income 4.2
Exceptional tax credit 9.4
Taxation 2.1
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 34.3
Proﬁt for the period from discontinued operation 614.7
Proﬁt for the year 649.0
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 87 1. Segmental analysis continued
All ﬁgures in £ millions Banking TCM
Misys
Sophis
Corporate 
& Other
2010
Total
Revenue 161.7 179.5 – 0.7 341.9
Adjusted operating proﬁt 32.3 42.0 – (10.7) 63.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.0) – – – (1.0)
Gains on embedded derivatives 1.4 0.1 – – 1.5
Translation exchange differences recycled from reserves – – – (2.0) (2.0)
Operating proﬁt (loss) before exceptional items 32.7 42.1 – (12.7) 62.1
Exceptional items (1.4) – – (7.0) (8.4)
Operating proﬁt (loss) 31.3 42.1 – (19.7) 53.7
Exceptional ﬁnance income 1.4
Net ﬁnance costs (10.1)
Proﬁt before taxation 45.0
Taxation before exceptional items (12.5)
Taxation on exceptional items and exceptional ﬁnance cost 2.8
Exceptional tax charge (10.8)
Taxation (20.5)
Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 24.5
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operation 36.9
Proﬁt for the year 61.4
Excluded from the above are the following items relating to the discontinued operation (Allscripts): revenue £101.7m (2010: 
£440.4m); operating proﬁt before exceptional items £12.5m (2010: £68.7m) and proﬁt before tax £618.6m (2010: £59.7m).
All revenue is derived from external customers. No individual customer contributed more than 10% of total Group revenue in the 
current or prior year.
Revenue
The table below gives a list of the revenue streams by segment.
All ﬁgures in  
£ millions Banking TCM
Misys
Sophis
Corporate 
& Other
2011
Total Banking TCM
Corporate 
& Other
2010
Total
Initial licence 
fees 48.0 48.1 6.0 – 102.1 40.3 51.3 – 91.6
ASP 
subscriptions 
revenue 0.1 3.0 2.2 0.1 5.4 0.2 3.5 – 3.7
Maintenance 83.8 76.3 5.7 0.2 166.0 84.7 76.3 – 161.0
Transaction 
processing – 10.8 – – 10.8 –10.2 – 10.2
Global services 35.5 46.7 2.9 0.6 85.7 36.5 38.2 0.7 75.4
167 .4 184.9 16.8 0.9 370.0 161.7 179.5 0.7 341.9
Sophis was acquired on 28 February 2011 and so contributed no revenue in the preceding year.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
88 Annual Report 2011 Other segmental information
All ﬁgures in £ millions Banking TCM
Misys
Sophis
Corporate 
& Other
Continuing
 operations
Discontinued
 operation
2011
Total
Net assets (liabilities)
Assets 129.0 121.0 415.2 100.3 765.5 – 765.5
Liabilities (100.1) (98.6) (24.1) (212.7) (435.5) – (435.5)
28.9 22.4 391.1 (112.4) 330.0 – 330.0
Capital investment
Goodwill and acquired intangibles 0.5 2.0 389.7 (0.9) 391.3 – 391.3
Developed software 13.4 7.2 1.1 (0.3) 21.4 6.6 28.0
Other 2.2 3.0 0.2 0.4 5.8 1.9 7.7
16. 1 12.2 391.0 (0.8) 418.5 8.5 427.0
Depreciation, amortisation, impairment 
 and derecognition
Acquired intangibles 0.8 0.5 9.3 – 10.6 3.5 14.1
Developed software 5.5 3.6 0.5 0.1 9.7 1.1 10.8
Other 3.4 2.7 0.5 1.9 8.5 1.5 10.0
9.7 6.8 10.3 2.0 28.8 6.1 34.9
Share-based payment charge 3.2 1.9 0.1 4.6 9.8 2.3 12.1
Employees (average number) 2,075 1,285 100 307 3,767 640 4,407
All ﬁgures in £ millions Banking TCM
Misys
Sophis
Corporate 
& Other
Continuing
 operations
Discontinued
 operation
2010
Total
Net assets (liabilities)
Assets 1 18. 1 137 .3 – 51.3 306.7 71 1.3 1,018.0
Liabilities (103.0) (87 .3) – (169.1) (359.4) (156.9) (516.3)
15.1 50.0 – (11 7 .8) (52.7) 554.4 501.7
Capital investment
Developed software 11.6 6.5 – 0.3 18.4 13.4 31.8
Other 1.7 1. 1 – 1.6 4.4 10.5 14.9
13.3 7 .6 – 1.9 22.8 23.9 46.7
Depreciation, amortisation, impairment  
 and derecognition
Acquired intangibles 1.0 – – – 1.0 14.8 15.8
Developed software 5.0 3.9 – – 8.9 3.0 11.9
Other 3.2 2.6 – 0.8 6.6 7.0 13.6
9.2 6.5 – 0.8 16.5 24.8 41.3
Share-based payment charge 1.0 1.0 – 4.0 6.0 13.7 19.7
Employees (average number) 1,525 1,029 – 1,164 3,718 2,412 6,130
Capital investment comprises expenditure on investments, goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Banking and TCM assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and trade and other 
receivables and exclude cash balances, corporation tax recoverable and deferred tax assets which are included within Corporate as 
these are managed centrally. Misys Sophis assets include all of the above items, including cash and taxation assets.
Banking and TCM liabilities consist primarily of trade and other payables and provisions and exclude bank overdrafts, loans, 
corporation tax payable, deferred tax liabilities and retirement beneﬁt obligations, which are included within Corporate as  
these are managed centrally. Misys Sophis liabilities include all of the above items including taxation liabilities.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 89 1. Segmental analysis continued
Misys plc is domiciled in the UK. The total revenue from external customers in the UK and United States of America is included  
in the table below. The total revenue from external customers from other countries is shown under the regional headings below.
All ﬁgures in £ millions
United
 Kingdom
Rest of 
Europe Asia Paciﬁc
United 
States of 
America
Middle East 
and Africa Other
2011
Total
Revenue by destination 40.6 141.8 62.9 67.7 47.5 9.5 370.0
Assets by location of operations 112.6 497.4 26.2 94.5 26.3 8.5 765.5
Non-current assets by location  
 of operations 32.0 443.3 – 54.9 3.5 2.0 535.7
Capital investment by location  
 of operations 4.6 397.3 – 13.4 2.3 0.9 418.5
Employees by location of operations  
 (average number) 535 537 2,130 454 111 – 3,767
All ﬁgures in £ millions
United
 Kingdom
Rest of 
Europe Asia Paciﬁc
United 
States of 
America
Middle East 
and Africa Other
2010
Total
Revenue by destination 47.7 131.8 50.1 59.6 46.5 6.2 341.9
Assets by location of operations 90.5 63.2 28.1 92.8 24.3 7.8 306.7
Non-current assets by location  
 of operations 36.5 39.2 1.7 57.6 0.4 2.2 137.6
Capital investment by location  
 of operations 7.2 6.5 0.6 7.5 – 1.0 22.8
Employees by location of operations  
 (average number) 402 543 2,077 490 111 95 3,718
Excluded from the above are the following items relating to the discounted operation (Allscripts) all of which relate to the United 
States of America: revenue £101.7m (2010: £440.4m): assets nil (2010: £711.3m); non-current assets nil (2010: £441.8m); capital 
investment £8.5m (2010: £23.4m); and average number of employees 640 (2010: 2,412).
2. Exceptional items
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Restructuring activities and turnaround programme (A) (4.4) (8.7)
Advisory and professional fees related to corporate activities (B) (8.9) (4.9)
Integration costs (C) (7.7) –
Receipt from sale of legal claim (D) – 3.9
Exceptional refund of VAT (E) – 1.3
Exceptional items within continuing operations (21.0) (8.4)
Exceptional ﬁnance income within continuing operations (F) 4.8 1.4
Taxation credit on exceptional items within continuing operations 4.2 2.8
Exceptional tax credit (charge) (G) 9.4 (10.8)
Exceptional items after taxation within continuing operations (2.6) (15.0)
Loss on disposal of Medication Services Group – (0.3)
Proﬁt on disposal of businesses (H) 603.8 –
Advisory and professional fees (7.9) (7.8)
Net proﬁt on disposal of available for sale asset (I) 10.3 –
Exceptional items within discontinued operation 606.2 (8.1)
Taxation credit on exceptional items within discontinued operation 0.7 1.8
Exceptional items after taxation within discontinued operation 606.9 (6.3)
Exceptional items after taxation 604.3 (21.3)
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
90 Annual Report 2011 (A) Restructuring activities and turnaround programme
A total charge of £4.4m (2010: £8.7m) has been recognised  
as an exceptional item in relation to costs incurred in the 
Group-wide restructuring and turnaround programme.  
In the current year, these costs primarily relate to:
   severance costs £5.9m (2010: £3.4m) in relation to the 
relocation of development activities for the USA and  
Western Europe and other restructuring programmes; and
  net property credit of £1.5m (2010: cost of £5.3m) being  
a provision release in respect of vacant properties which 
have been sublet of £3.8m (2010: cost of £7.6m) offset by  
a charge of £2.3m (2010: credit of £2.3m) on the surrender  
of a property lease.
These costs are analysed by business as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Banking 1.2 1.4
TCM 4.4 –
Corporate & Other (1.2) 7.3
4.4 8.7
There was a related cash outﬂow of £6.0m in the current year 
(2010: £4.6m).
(B) Advisory and professional fees relating to corporate activities
Included within the current year costs are £7.7m (2010: £nil) 
regarding the acquisition of Sophis, comprised of consultancy, 
legal and tax fees regarding the acquisition. Costs incurred for 
other corporate activities are £1.2m (2010: £4.9m).
(C) Integration costs
The current year costs comprise £3.1m relating to a write-off  
of software held by Misys which is no longer required following 
the merger with Sophis, £3.0m being provision for onerous 
lease costs created on the exit of Sophis properties, £0.4m 
being write-off of ﬁxtures and ﬁttings in these properties and 
£1.2m (2010: £nil) provision for management retention bonuses 
agreed as part of the acquisition.
(D) Receipt from sale of legal claim
On 27 May 2010, an offer of $6m from a third party was 
accepted to sell an outstanding claim against Lehman Brothers 
arising from its administration in 2009. The original claim by 
Misys arose as a result of the failure to complete funding for  
the Allscripts acquisition. This cash was received before  
31 May 2010.
(E) Exceptional refund of VAT
Agreement was reached with HMRC relating to the repayment 
of VAT incurred between years 1988 to 1995 relating to 
acquisition costs. A total of £2.7m including interest (see F)  
was credited in 2010.
(F) Exceptional ﬁnance income
A net credit of £4.8m has arisen as a result of exceptional items 
in relation to the disposal of Allscripts and acquisition of Sophis 
(see note 7). Last year, a credit of £1.4m had arisen as a result 
of supplemental interest on the refund of VAT (see E above).
(G) Taxation
The exceptional current tax credit of £9.4m included within UK 
prior year items relates to the successful settlement of historical 
UK tax issues arising in 2002 to 2006 resulting in the release of 
the related provisions. In 2010, the exceptional tax charge of 
£10.8m relates to the loss of future tax beneﬁts in continuing 
operations following the restructuring of the US group due to 
the disposal of Allscripts recognised as a £2.7m charge within 
current taxation and a £8.1m charge within deferred taxation.
(H) Proﬁt on disposal of business
A proﬁt of £603.8m has been realised as a result of the sale  
of the Group’s majority stake in Allscripts in August 2010. The 
proﬁt on disposal is exempt from tax in the relevant taxing 
jurisdiction. In addition, Allscripts incurred £7.9m of exceptional 
costs in the period to the date of disposal relating to the 
separation from Misys and merger with Eclipsys. 
(I) Net proﬁt on available for sale assets
Following the disposal of Allscripts (note H above) in August 
2010, there was a further disposal of 12.5m shares of the 
residual shareholding in November 2010. Misys received 
proceeds of £139.4m which gave rise to a loss of £1.3m 
compared to the carrying value calculated as at August 2010. 
In February 2011, there was a further disposal of 6.5m shares 
of the residual shareholding. Misys received proceeds of 
£84.9m which gave rise to a proﬁt of £11.6m compared to the 
carrying value calculated as at November 2010. This proﬁt from 
disposal is also exempt from tax.
3. Discontinued operation
The results of the Group’s discontinued operation (Allscripts), 
which have been included in the consolidated income 
statement, were as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Revenue 101.7 440.4
Operating costs (89.2) (371.7)
Operating proﬁt for the period 12.5 68.7
Exceptional items (note 2) 606.2 (8.1)
Net ﬁnance costs (0.1) (1.0)
Proﬁt before tax from discontinued  
 operation 618.6 59.6
Taxation (note 8) (3.9) (22.7)
Proﬁt after tax from discontinued  
 operation 614.7 36.9
Employees costs related to Allscripts include:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Wages and salaries 34.4 133.9
Social security costs – 10.4
Share-based payment beneﬁts 2.4 13.8
36.8 158. 1
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities (1.4) 93.9
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities (8.5) (20.8)
Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities – (26.9)
(9.9) 46.2
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 91 3. Discontinued operation continued
A proﬁt of £603.8m arose on disposal of Allscripts, being the 
proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of the Allscripts 
net assets and attributable goodwill.
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Proceeds on disposal, net of underwriting expenses 764.2
Fair value of investment retained 214.1
Net assets at disposal less non-controlling interest (137.3)
Goodwill disposed (note 16) (240.0)
Disposal costs (9.4)
Foreign exchange recycling from reserves 12.2
Proﬁt on disposal 603.8
After the disposal in August 2010, Misys retained a 10.3% 
interest in Allscripts. This holding was reduced to 3.5% as  
a result of a further disposal in November 2010 with the ﬁnal 
disposal of Allscripts stock taking place in February 2011.  
In addition, Allscripts incurred £7.9m of exceptional costs  
in the period from 1 June 2010 to disposal in August 2010.
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Advisory and professional fees (7.9) (7.8)
Loss on disposal of Medication  
 Services Group – (0.3)
Net proﬁt on disposal of available  
 for sale asset 10.3 –
2.4 (8.1)
4. Operating costs
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Cost of sales 194.2 178.9
Sales and marketing costs 41.2 37 .8
Administrative and other  
 operating charges 77.3 63.1
Exceptional items (note 2) 21.0 8.4
333.7 288.2
Included within operating costs are the following items:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Research and development expenditure 69.3 64.4
Capitalisation of developed software (21.4) (18.4)
47.9 46.0
Amortisation of developed software 9.7 8.9
Amortisation of other intangible assets 12.6 2.8
Impairment and depreciation of 
property, plant and equipment 6.5 4.5
Foreign exchange differences 0.8 1.9
Operating lease costs
  – and buildings 13.8 15.3
  – plant and equipment 0.2 0.3
Amortisation of other intangible assets includes £9.8m  
(2010: £nil) in respect of intangible assets acquired with Sophis.
Details of employee costs are provided in note 6.
During the year, the Group obtained the following services from 
the Company’s auditor and its associates:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Fees payable to  
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the 
 audit of the consolidated ﬁnancial 
 statements 0.6 0.6
Statutory audit fees payable  
 to associate members of 
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 0.4 0.9
Other fees in respect of assurance  
 services required by legislation  
 and regulation 0.8 1.6
1.8 3.1
Tax services 0.7 2.4
Other services 0.2 0.6
2.7 6.1
Tax fees in 2010 include £1.7m relating to the disposal of 
Allscripts.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
92 Annual Report 2011 5. Share-based payments
This note summarises IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ disclosure requirements for Misys plc share option schemes. During  
the year, the share-based payment charge including accrued social security expense was £9.8m (2010: £6.0m) related  
to continuing operations and £2.3m (2010: £13.7m) related to the discontinued operation. Excluding social security expense,  
the share-based payment charge was £7.4m (2010: £6.3m) related to continuing operations and £2.3m (2010: £12.0m) related  
to the discontinued operation.
The following material share-based payment arrangements existed at the end of the year:
Type of arrangement
No. 
of options
 granted in
 2011
‘000
No. 
of options
 granted in 
2010
‘000
Fair value 
per share of
 2011 grant
1
£
Fair value 
per share of 
2010 grant
1
£
Contractual 
life
years
Long-Term Incentive Plan – – – –8
Misys 1998 Unapproved Share Option Plan (Type 1) – – – –10
Misys Share Award Plan 15 15 2.71 1.84 10
Misys Senior Executive Bonus Plan 1,112 1,766 1.11 0.67 5
Sharesave (UK) 178 312 1.20 0.79 3
Sharesave (non UK) 122 413 1.17 1.11 3
Transformation Incentive Plan:
– TIP (nil cost) – – –  – 10
– TIP (market value) – – –  – 10
Restricted stock units contract – – –  – 2
Trustee Share Award 441 – 2.85  – 10
CEO Incentive Plan 1,600 – 1.96  – 3
Omnibus Share Plan 4,915 6,464 2.09 1.66 3
1 Where several grants were made in the year, the weighted average fair value has been provided.
Details of the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the Misys Senior Executive Bonus Plan (MSEBP) and the Transformation Incentive 
Plan (TIP) are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report.
In the years ended 31 May 2009, 2010 and 2011, grants under the Misys Share Award Plan (MSAP) were made to senior 
managers at nil cost.
The Sharesave Schemes provide for a yearly award of options at a discount to the market price and are available to all Group 
employees.
 
In the tables below, similar share-based payment arrangements have been aggregated as follows:
  Share option schemes – nil cost: includes LTIP, MSAP, MSEBP, TIP (nil cost) CEO Incentive Plan and Trustee Share Award;
  Share option schemes – market value: includes Type 1, TIP (market value) and Omnibus Share Plan; and 
  Savings-related share option schemes: includes the Sharesave (UK) and Sharesave (non UK) schemes.
Modiﬁcation of share option schemes
The non-market performance conditions of certain share option schemes were modiﬁed during the year to reﬂect the impact of 
the return of cash to shareholders following the disposal of Allscripts via a tender offer and B share scheme. This modiﬁcation 
has not resulted in a change to the fair value of the schemes and no additional charge has been expensed during the year as  
a result of the modiﬁcation. The schemes modiﬁed were the Omnibus Share Plan, Transformation Incentive Plan, MSEBP,  
Share Options, MSAP and Sharesave. 
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 93 5. Share-based payments continued
Share-based payment charges
Share-based payment charges are calculated by spreading the fair value of an option over the vesting period having taken into 
account any performance conditions when estimating the number of options expected to vest. The vesting period is typically 
three years from date of grant or the beginning of the bonus year in respect of grants under the MSEBP .
All options are valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model except grants under the LTIP and TIP which use the  
Monte Carlo option pricing model as they have market performance conditions which are included in the fair value calculation.
The following assumptions have been used in the option pricing models:
Type of arrangement 2011 2010 2009
Risk-free interest rate % 0.6-1.99 0.6-2.2 0.5-5.0
Dividend yield % nil nil nil
Volatility
1
 of Misys plc ordinary shares %
  – Share option schemes – nil cost 32-47 41-57 39-65
  – Share option schemes – market value 39-47 42-46 41-61
  – Savings-related share option schemes 44-46 45-46 38-46
Expected lives (years) of options granted under:
  – Share option schemes – nil cost 1-6.5 1.0-6.5 0.4-6.5
  – Share option schemes – market value 6.5-6.5 3.0-6.5 3.0-6.5
  – Savings-related share option schemes 3.1-3.3 3.1-3.3 3.1-3.3
1 Expected volatility was calculated using the share price history for the period equivalent to the expected life.
The following additional assumptions have been used for the Monte Carlo option pricing models:
LTIP – Total Shareholder Return 2011 2010* 2009
Volatility of the top 30 TechMark companies % –  – 42
Volatility1 of Misys plc ordinary shares % 45  – –
Correlation coefﬁcient –  – 0.30
* There were no options granted during the year that required use of the Monte Carlo option pricing model.
All models incorporate the share price at the date of grant. The weighted average share price of options granted during the year 
was £2.86 (2010: £1.87; 2009: £1.27).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
94 Annual Report 2011 Options outstanding
At 31 May 2011, options and awards outstanding and a reconciliation of movements between balance sheet dates are shown in 
respect of the Company’s ordinary shares of 1p each under the following schemes:
Share option schemes
 – nil cost
Share option schemes
 – market value
Savings-related share
 option schemes
Number
‘000
Weighted 
fair value
£
Number
‘000
Weighted
 exercise 
price
£
Weighted 
fair value
£
Number
‘000
Weighted 
exercise 
price
£
Weighted 
fair value
£
At 1 June 2008 10,018 – 18,156 2.79 – 1,060 1.81 –
Options granted 8,871 1.05 2,765 1.23 0.51 688 1.13 0.61
Options exercised (1,259) –––––––
Options lapsed or expired (3,134) – (6,149) 2.65 – (512) 1.84 –
At 31 May 2009 14,496 14,772 2.55 1,236 1.42
Options granted 7,062 1.76 1,183 1.84 0.64 725 1.44 0.97
Options exercised (2,895) – (838) 1.97 – (75) 1.90 – 
Options lapsed or expired (3,921) – (4,310) 2.50 – (269) 1.57 – 
At 31 May 2010 14,742 10,807 2.55 1,617 1.38
Options granted 5,909 2.35 2,174 3.02 1.29 300 2.34 1.18
Options exercised (4,277) (3,034) 2.23 (213) 1.87
Options lapsed or expired (4,340) (2,322) 3.85 (185) 1.39
At 31 May 2011 12,034 7,625 2.40 1,519 1.50
Range of exercise prices – £1.23-£3.43 £0.94-£2.78
Weighted average  
 remaining life 4.16 Years 4.65 Years 1.92 Years
The average share price during the year ended 31 May 2011 was £2.99 (2010: £2.08).
Weighted average exercise information is excluded for nil cost schemes.
Options outstanding at 31 May 2011 are further analysed as follows:
Share option schemes
 – nil cost
Share option schemes
 – market value
Savings-related share
 option schemes
Number
‘000
Latest
exercise
date
Number
‘000
Weighted
 exercise 
price
£
Latest
exercise
date
Number
‘000
Weighted 
exercise 
price
£
Latest
exercise
date
2002 – – 725 3.40 14/11/2011 – – –
2003 – – 173 2.04 25/07/2011 – – –
2004 – – 480 2.53 08/03/2012 – – –
2005 – – 511 2.04 09/05/2015 – – –
2006 10 28/07/2015 ––––––
2007 797 17/05/2017 1,403 2.18 17/05/2017 – – –
2008 245 19/03/2018 485 2.41 10/08/2017 126 1.32 01/01/2012
2009 1,541 28/10/2018 1,010 1.25 12/05/2019 503 1.12 31/12/2012
2010 3,959 10/02/2020 759 1.84 13/08/2019 600 1.46 01/01/2014
2011 5,482 02/09/2020 2,079 3.03 18/08/2020 290 2.35 31/12/2014
12,034 7,625 2.40 1,519 1.50
Options exerciseable
At the balance sheet date, the following options and awards had vested:
Share option schemes
 – nil cost
Share option schemes
 – market value
Savings-related share
 option schemes
Number
‘000
Number
‘000
Weighted
 exercise price
£
Number
‘000
Weighted
 exercise price
£
2009 305 8,812 3.01 24 1.89
2010 4,204 8,249 2.80 – –
2011 1,182 3,842 2.45 1 1.91
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 95 6. Directors and employees
Directors’ remuneration
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
Employee costs
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Wages and salaries 166.1 162.0
Social security costs 16.0 15.2
Pension costs 5.3 5.1
Share-based payment beneﬁts 9.8 6.0
197.2 188.3
The above analysis represents information regarding continuing 
operations only. Information regarding the discontinued 
operation is given in note 3.
7. Net ﬁnance costs
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Bank loans and overdraft interest 
 payable (4.2) (6.7)
Interest payable on convertible bond (2.9) –
Amortisation of ﬁnancing facility costs (1.3) (2.0)
Expected return on pension scheme  
 assets (note 27) 2.4 2.4
Interest cost on pension scheme 
 liabilities (note 27) (2.6) (2.4)
Realised loss on forward currency  
 exchange contracts (0.9) (0.4)
Unwinding of discount on provisions 
 (note 24) (1.0) (1.3)
Finance costs (10.5) (10.4)
Exceptional ﬁnance income 4.8 1.4
Interest receivable 1.6 0.3
Net ﬁnance costs (4.1) (8.7)
An element of the Group’s derivatives is ineligible for hedge 
accounting under IFRS. Gains or losses on these derivatives 
arising from market movements are credited or charged to 
ﬁnancing fair value re-measurements within ﬁnance income 
and ﬁnance expense in the Group income statement. These 
gains or losses are not regarded as part of operating proﬁt as 
they relate to ﬁnancing activities of the Group.
Details of exceptional ﬁnance income are given below:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011
Foreign exchange gains and net proﬁts on options  
 and forward contracts taken out to hedge the  
 proceeds received from the sale of the Allscripts 
 stake 11.3
Fair value loss on currency forward contracts and 
 options taken out to hedge the costs of the 
 proposed Sophis acquisition (2.5)
Arrangement fees written off relating to term loans 
 repaid in the period (note 22) (2.7)
Unconditional arrangement fees for new credit  
 facilities to fund Sophis acquisition incurred prior  
 to shareholder approval (note 22) (1.3)
Total exceptional ﬁnance income 4.8
In the prior year, a credit of £1.4m arose as a result of 
supplemental interest on the refund of a VAT claim (see note 2) 
which was treated as exceptional.
8. Taxation
Taxation on ordinary activities
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Current taxation
UK corporation tax (4.9) (0.2)
UK prior year items (note 2G) 10.7 (0.3)
Overseas taxation (13.3) (10.4)
Overseas prior year items 1.1 3.6
Irrecoverable withholding taxes (2.2) (2.1)
Current taxation (including tax relating  
 to continuing operations' exceptional 
 items) (8.6) (9.4)
Deferred taxation (note 25) 10.7 (11.1)
Tax credit (charge) – continuing 
 operations 2.1 (20.5)
The taxation charge before exceptional items was £11.5m 
(2010: £12.5m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
96 Annual Report 2011 Included within current taxation are credits of £5.7m (2010: £2.8m) in respect of tax on exceptional items, a charge of £1.5m 
(2010: £0.4m) in respect of tax on exceptional interest and a credit of £9.4m (2010: charge of £10.8m) in respect of exceptional 
tax items (see note 2).
The taxation charge for the current year based on proﬁt before taxation is lower (2010: higher) than the standard rate of  
UK corporation tax for the following reasons:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 32.2 45.0
Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities at the standard rate of UK tax of 27.8% (2010: 28%) (8.9) (12.6)
Effects of:
Permanent differences (5.6) (11.7)
Proﬁts arising overseas which are subject to rates of tax other than the UK standard rate (4.4) 3.5
Impact of changes in tax rates (1.5) 0.6
Adjustments to UK taxation charge in respect of prior periods (note 2G) 10.7 (0.3)
Adjustments to overseas taxationcharge in respect of prior periods 1.1 3.6
Effects of deferred tax recognition in respect of temporary differences 15.4 (2.1)
Deferred tax effect of prior periods (2.5) 0.5
Irrecoverable withholding tax (2.2) (2.0)
Total tax credit (charge) 2.1 (20.5)
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Total tax credit (charge)
Continuing operations 2.1 (20.5)
Discontinued operation (3.9) (22.7)
(1.8) (43.2)
The total tax charge for the year includes UK prior year adjustments of £10.7m credit (2010: £0.3m charge) which comprises  
an exceptional tax credit for £9.4m (2010: £nil) (see note 2G) and a non exceptional credit of £1.3m (2010: £0.3m). The charge 
also includes a credit for the ﬁrst time recognition of deferred tax assets of £15.4m (2010: £2.1m charge). This covers a numbers 
of countries where deferred tax assets are now considered likely to be utilised against future proﬁts arising in the corresponding 
tax jurisdiction.
A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the March 2011 UK Budget Statement. 
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012 is expected to be included in the 
Finance Act 2011. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. 
These further changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are not therefore included in these 
ﬁnancial statements. 
The effect of the changes expected to be enacted in the Finance Act 2011 would be to reduce the deferred tax asset provided at 
the balance sheet date by £1.0m. This £1.0m decrease in the deferred tax asset would decrease proﬁt by £0.9m and decrease 
other comprehensive income by £0.1m. This decrease in the deferred tax asset is due to the reduction in the corporation tax rate 
from 26 per cent to 25 per cent with effect from 1 April 2012. 
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 23% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted 
separately each year. The overall effect of the further changes from 25% to 23%, if applied to the deferred tax balance at the 
balance sheet date, would be to further reduce the deferred tax asset by an additional £1.9m (being £0.9m decrease in proﬁt 
and £0.1m decrease in other comprehensive income in 2013 and a further £0.9m decrease in proﬁt in 2014).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 97 9. Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (‘EPS’) have been calculated by dividing proﬁt attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the period. Diluted EPS includes the dilutive effect of outstanding share options.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS are presented to provide more comparable and representative information. Accordingly, 
the adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS ﬁgures exclude exceptional items, gains and losses on embedded derivatives, 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and translation exchange differences recycled from reserves.
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Continuing
operations
Discontinued
operation 2011
Continuing
operations
Discontinued
operation 2010
Proﬁt for the period after tax 34.3 614.7 649.0 24.5 36.9 61.4
Non controlling interest ––– – (17.1) (17.1)
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders 34.3 614.7 649.0 24.5 19.8 44.3
Add back:
  Exceptional items after taxation (note 2) 2.6 (606.9) (604.3) 15.0 6.3 21.3
  (Losses) gains on embedded derivatives (after tax) 3.0 – 3.0 (1.0) – (1.0)
  Amortisation of acquired intangibles (after tax) 9.0 3.5 12.5 1.0 9.7 10.7
   Translation exchange differences recycled  
 from reserves (after tax) ––– 0.7 – 0.7
   Adjusted proﬁt items attributable to  
 non controlling interest –(5.1) (5.1) – (6.8) (6.8)
Adjusted proﬁt attributable to shareholders 48.9 6.2 55.1 40.2 29.0 69.2
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 7.7 138.6 146.3 4.6 3.8 8.4
Diluted earnings per share 7.6 135.7 143.2 4.6 3.6 8.2
Adjusted basic earnings per share 11.0 1.4 12.4 7.6 5.5 13.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 10.8 1.4 12.2 7.5 5.3 12.8
The weighted average numbers of basic and diluted shares in issue during the year were 443.5m and 453.1m respectively  
(2010: 529.4m and 537.4m).
10. Net interest paid
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Interest received 1.7 0.4
Bank loans and overdraft interest paid (5.6) (11.0)
Net cash ﬂow from interest paid (3.9) (10.6)
Net interest paid and recognised within the discontinued operation during the period included in the above was £0.2m (2010: £1.2m).
11. Acquisitions and disposals of businesses
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Cash consideration paid in respect of current year acquisitions (211.9) –
Cash consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions – (2.4)
Cash consideration received in respect of current year disposals (net of expenses) 676.4 –
Cash consideration paid in respect of prior year disposals – (0.5)
Net cash ﬂow from acquisitions and disposals 464.5 (2.9)
Net cash outﬂow on current year acquisitions represents the cash consideration paid for the equity interest on the acquisition of 
Sophis of £229.9m offset by cash acquired of £18.0m (see note 16).
Cash consideration received in respect of current year disposals represents proceeds on disposal of Allscripts of £764.2m  
net of cash held by Allscripts at the time of disposal of £78.4m and disposal costs of £9.4m (see note 3).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
98 Annual Report 2011 12. Other capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Purchase of third party software (2.7) (3.8)
Purchase of acquired intangibles (0.5) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5.0) (8.2)
Purchase of investments (1.4) (1.3)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4
Proceeds on sale of investments 224.3 2.0
Net cash ﬂow from other capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment 215.1 (10.9)
Other capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment recognised within the discontinued operation during the period included in the 
above was an outﬂow of £1.9m (2010: £7.4m).
Sale of investment relates to the disposal of the remaining stakes in Allscripts in November 2010 and February 2011.
13. Financing activities
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
(Decrease) increase in bank borrowings (note 14) (212.2) (68.9)
Capital element of ﬁnance leases (0.2) (0.9)
Share options exercised 7.1 3.6
Convertible debt (net of costs) 81.8 –
Convertible debt – equity component 16.1 –
Premium paid for foreign exchange options regarding Sophis acquisition (6.5) –
Sale of hedge option 11.7 –
Foreign exchange gains on settled transactions 2.0 –
Arrangement fees for new facility (1.3) –
B share scheme – redemption of B shares (105.6) –
B share scheme – dividends paid (33.9) –
Return of cash to shareholders (525.0) –
Advisory costs and stamp duty on tender offer and B share scheme (5.5) –
Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities (771.5) (66.2)
14. Movement in bank borrowings
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Repayment of bank loans (250.0) (99.8)
Repayment of Sophis bank loans post acquisition (163.4) –
Draw-down of bank facilities 204.0 58.1
Capitalised fees in respect of bank facilities (2.8) (0.2)
Receipt of other loans – 0.1
Repayment of other loans – (27.1)
Decrease in bank borrowings (212.2) (68.9)
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 99 15. Analysis of net funds (debt)
All ﬁgures in £ millions
At 
1 June 2010 Cash ﬂow Acquisition Disposals
Non cash 
movements
Differences 
on exchange
At 
31 May 2011
Cash 120.3 3.0 18.0 (78.4) – (6.1) 56.8
Bank overdraft (5.4) 5.4 – – – – –
114.9 8.4 18.0 (78.4) – (6.1) 56.8
Bank loans (note 22) (112.3) 212.2 (163.4) – (4.1) – (67.6)
Convertible bond (note 22) – (97.9) – – 14.5 – (83.4)
Finance leases (1.7) 0.2 – 1.4 – 0.1 –
Net funds (debt) 0.9 122.9 (145.4) (77.0) 10.4 (6.0) (94.2)
Included in the above amounts are cash balances of £33.9m (2010: £4.3m) not available for the general use of the Group which 
include £27.4m (US$ 45.0m) cash collateral for a guarantee relating to potential tax liabilities. This guarantee was put in place as 
part of the Allscripts disposal. Prior year balances also include £98.7m related to the discontinued operation which were not 
available for general use of the Group due to the sizeable non-controlling interest in Allscripts.
16. Goodwill
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Opening cost and net book value 315.5 289.8
Differences on exchange (16.0) 29.1
Acquisition of Sophis 171.6 –
Disposal of Allscripts (note 3) (240.0) –
Adjustment to goodwill – (3.4)
Cost and net book value at 31 May 231.1 315.5
Included within the cost and net book value at 31 May 2010 is £256.6m related to the discontinued operation.
Cash generating units
Goodwill relating to the Banking £20.3m (2010: £19.9m), TCM £35.2m (2010: £39.0m) and Misys Sophis £175.6m (2010: £nil)  
groups of cash generating units (CGUs) are considered signiﬁcant in comparison to the total carrying amount of goodwill assets 
at 31 May 2011. The recoverable amounts of the Banking, TCM and Misys Sophis CGUs were determined based on value-in-use 
calculations and no impairment was identiﬁed during the year. Misys Sophis was acquired on 28 February 2011. Management 
has reviewed post acquisition trading which was in line with expectation. 
Where the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations, these calculations use pre-tax cash 
ﬂows for each CGU based on approved budgets and management forecasts which are consistent with the recent ﬁnancial 
performance of the relevant CGU. For Banking and TCM value-in-use calculations, it was not necessary to look at cash ﬂows 
beyond ﬁve years as cash ﬂows within this time horizon were signiﬁcantly in excess of the carrying amounts of the CGUs and 
hence no terminal value was assigned. The value-in-use calculation for Misys Sophis includes long term cash ﬂow growth of 2%.
Direct and indirect costs and corporate overheads have been calculated using the same percentage of revenue as for the  
recent budget and incorporates planned margin improvement. Management determined budgeted operating margin based  
on past performance and its expectations of market development as outlined in the business review section. 
Sensitivity analyses have been performed around the base case assumptions with the conclusion that no reasonably possible 
changes in key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to be less than the carrying amount.
For the value-in-use calculations, the ﬁrst three years’ cash ﬂows were based on budget and management forecasts and 
thereafter growth rates based on current and expected future performance as reﬂected in the table below.
The following assumptions have been used in order to determine recoverable amounts based on value-in-use calculations:
CGU
Growth rates
for cash ﬂows
years 1-3
Growth rates 
for cash ﬂows
years 4-5
Pre-tax 
discount rate
2011
Pre-tax
 discount rate
2010
Banking 8% 3% 10% 10%
TCM 10% 9% 12% 12%
Misys Sophis 15% 13% 13% – 
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
100 Annual Report 2011 Acquisition of Sophis
On 28 February 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sophis for consideration of £235.5m. As a result 
of this acquisition, the Group has established its position as the number one application software and services provider in capital 
markets as Misys Sophis’ buy-side solutions are complementary to the Group’s sell-side strengths.
An analysis of the net assets acquired is shown below:
All ﬁgures in £ millions Book value
Provisional 
fair value
 adjustments
Provisional 
fair value at 
28 Feb 2011
Intangible assets –212.2 212.2
Property, plant and equipment 1.2 – 1.2
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) 8.0 (26.5) (18.5)
Cash 18.0 – 18.0
Other assets 29.5 (1.0) 28.5
External debt (161.8) (1.6) (163.4)
Other liabilities (10.7) (3.4) (14.1)
Net assets acquired (115.8) 179.7 63.9
Goodwill 171.6
Total consideration 235.5
An analysis of the enterprise value of Sophis is shown below:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011
Consideration paid in cash 208.6
Consideration held in escrow 21.3
External debt net of cash acquired 145.4
Net cash outﬂow on acquisition of subsidiaries 375.3
Equity consideration – shares issued 5.6
Enterprise value of Sophis 380.9
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Sophis is principally attributable to the anticipated proﬁtability achieved through 
perceived cost and revenue synergies. The fair value adjustments are based on an independent valuation at the time of 
acquisition and primarily relate to identiﬁed intangible assets (technology, customer relationships and brand name) and related 
deferred tax and other taxation.
Acquisition costs of £7.7m have been recognised as an exceptional expense in the current year.
Included in the proﬁt for the year is an £8.6m loss attributable to the additional business generated by the Sophis Group. Had 
this business combination been effected at 1 June 2010, the results of the combined Group from continuing operations would 
have been revenue of £417.3m, operating proﬁt of £22.2m, adjusted operating proﬁt of £84.4m and proﬁt after tax of £11.0m. The 
directors consider these ‘pro-forma’ numbers to represent an approximate measure of the performance of the combined Group 
on an annualised basis and to provide a reference point for comparison in future periods.
In determining the ‘pro-forma’ revenue and proﬁt of the Group had Sophis been acquired at the beginning of the current 
reporting period, the directors have:
  calculated depreciation of plant and equipment and intangibles acquired on the basis of the fair values arising in the initial 
accounting for the business combination rather than the carrying amounts recognised in the pre-acquisition ﬁnancial 
statements;
  calculated borrowing costs based on the funding levels, credit ratings and debt/equity position of the Group after the business 
combination; and
 calculated the effect of alignment of accounting policies from 1 June 2010.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 101 17. Other intangible assets
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Complete
 technology
Customer 
relationships
Trade names 
and brands
Total 
acquired 
intangibles
Developed 
software
Third party 
software Total
Cost
At 1 June 2010 79.1 73.7 36.2 189.0 95.9 32.6 317.5
Differences on exchange 0.1 (3.8) (1.9) (5.6) (4.2) (1.5) (11.3)
On disposal of Allscripts (58.1) (67.6) (33.9) (159.6) (29.0) (16.8) (205.4)
On acquisition of Sophis 157.0 35.7 19.5 212.2 5.7 0.1 218.0
Transfers 2.6 – – 2.6 –(2.6) –
Disposals – – – – (3.0) (0.4) (3.4)
Additions 0.5 – – 0.5 28.0 2.7 31.2
At 31 May 2011 181.2 38.0 19.9 239.1 93.4 14.1 346.6
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 June 2010 (31.1) (13.3) (3.3) (47.7) (28.4) (17.0) (93.1)
Differences on exchange 0.6 0.9 0.2 1.7 1.6 0.8 4.1
Charge for the year (10.5) (2.9) (0.7) (14.1) (10.8) (2.4) (27.3)
Transfers (1.2) – – (1.2) –1.2 –
On disposal of Allscripts 16.1 13.0 3.5 32.6 4.5 8.2 45.3
Disposals – – – – 0.1 0.2 0.3
At 31 May 2011 (26.1) (2.3) (0.3) (28.7) (33.0) (9.0) (70.7)
Net book value
At 31 May 2011 155.1 35.7 19.6 210.4 60.4 5.1 275.9
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Complete
 technology
Customer 
relationships
Trade names 
and brands
Total 
acquired 
intangibles
Developed 
software
Third party 
software Total
Cost
At 1 June 2009 73.3 66.4 32.5 172.2 76.1 27.6 275.9
Differences on exchange 5.8 7.3 3.7 16.8 5.5 2.0 24.3
Derecognised –––– (17.5) – (17.5)
Disposals – –––– (0.8) (0.8)
Additions – – – – 31.8 3.8 35.6
At 31 May 2010 79.1 73.7 36.2 189.0 95.9 32.6 317 .5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 June 2009 (22.3) (5.8) (1.3) (29.4) (31.4) (13.0) (73.8)
Differences on exchange (1.0) (1.2) (0.3) (2.5) (2.6) (1.0) (6.1)
Charge for the year (7.8) (6.3) (1.7) (15.8) (11.9) (3.7) (31.4)
Derecognised –––– 17.5 – 17.5
Disposals – –––– 0.7 0.7
At 31 May 2010 (31.1) (13.3) (3.3) (47.7) (28.4) (17.0) (93.1)
Net book value
At 31 May 2010 48.0 60.4 32.9 141.3 67 .5 15.6 224.4
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
102 Annual Report 2011 The following prior year balances relate to the discontinued operation:
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Complete
 technology
Customer 
relationships
Trade names 
and brands
Total 
acquired 
intangibles
Developed 
software
Third party 
software Total
At 31 May 2010
Cost 62.1 72.2 36.2 170.5 24.2 17.9 212.6
Accumulated amortisation (15.5) (12.4) (3.4) (31.3) (3.6) (8.5) (43.4)
Net book value 46.6 59.8 32.8 139.2 20.6 9.4 169.2
Derecognition of £17.5m developed software in the prior year relates to software which has been assessed as having no further 
commercial value.
Trade names and brands relate principally to the Sophis brand which is being amortised over 15 years from the date of 
acquisition on 28 February 2011. Complete technology relates principally to the core technology underlying the Sophis portfolio 
of products and is being amortised over a period of 8 years from the date of acquisition. The fair value of the intangible assets 
acquired during the year is based on an independent valuation at the time of acquisition.
18. Property, plant and equipment
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Leasehold
 property
 improvements
Computer 
and other
equipment Total
Cost
At 1 June 2010 18.2 55.9 74.1
Differences on exchange (0.9) (3.5) (4.4)
On acquisition of Sophis –1.2 1.2
On disposal of Allscripts (3.9) (25.3) (29.2)
Additions 0.9 4.1 5.0
Disposals (0.5) (2.2) (2.7)
At 31 May 2011 13.8 30.2 44.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 June 2010 (6.7) (36.6) (43.3)
Differences on exchange 0.4 2.3 2.7
Charge for the period (1.1) (4.5) (5.6)
On disposal of Allscripts 2.0 14.4 16.4
Impairment (1.6) (0.4) (2.0)
Disposals 0.5 1.8 2.3
At 31 May 2011 (6.5) (23.0) (29.5)
Net book value
At 31 May 2011 7.3 7 .2 14.5
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 103 18. Property, plant and equipment continued
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Freehold
 properties
Leasehold
 property
 improvements
Computer 
and other
equipment Total
Cost
At 1 June 2009 1.5 16.9 47.8 66.2
Differences on exchange – 1.1 4.9 6.0
Additions –0.6 9.2 9.8
Disposals (1.5) (0.4) (6.0) (7 .9)
At 31 May 2010 –18.2 55.9 74.1
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 June 2009 (0.8) (5.0) (31.4) (37.2)
Differences on exchange – (0.6) (3.4) (4.0)
Charge for the year – (1.5) (7.8) (9.3)
Disposals 0.8 0.4 6.0 7 .2
At 31 May 2010 – (6.7) (36.6) (43.3)
Net book value
At 31 May 2010 –11.5 19.3 30.8
The following prior year balances relate to the discontinued operation:
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Leasehold
 property
 improvements
Computer 
and other
equipment Total
At 31 May 2010
Cost 4.1 25.5 29.6
Accumulated depreciation (2.1) (14.3) (16.4)
Net book value 2.0 11.2 13.2
Included in the above analysis is plant and equipment acquired under ﬁnance leases with a net book value of £nil (2010: £1.6m) 
after accumulated depreciation of £0.2m (2010: £3.8m). Prior year balances include net book value of £1.5m after accumulated 
depreciation of £3.7m related to the discontinued operation. The net book value of leasehold properties comprised of short 
leasehold amounting to £6.5m (2010: £11.5m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
104 Annual Report 2011 19. Investments
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
At 1 June 7.1 6.1
Differences on exchange – 0.2
Additions 1.4 1.3
Disposal – (0.7)
Impairment and other fair value 
movements (0.8) 0.2
On disposal of business (2.2) –
Transfer from subsidiary investment 214.1 –
Fair value movements in Allscripts 
investment (0.1) –
Disposal of Allscripts investment (214.0) –
At 31 May 5.5 7. 1
Included within investments at 31 May 2010 is £2.2m related  
to the discontinued operation.
The Group’s investments comprise investments in US and 
European Technology Funds and marketable securities, which 
are classiﬁed as ‘fair value through proﬁt or loss’. Fair value 
gains and losses are recognised within operating costs. The 
investments are denominated in US dollars and Euros and are 
non interest bearing.
Transfer from subsidiary investment relates to the remaining 
investment in Allscripts after the disposal in August 2010  
(see note 3).
20. Trade and other receivables
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Trade receivables 69.4 177 .5
Less: provision for impairment  
 of receivables (4.6) (8.0)
64.8 169.5
Other receivables 10.7 20.4
Prepayments 8.7 27 .6
Accrued income 50.2 68.2
Current trade and other receivables 134.4 285.7
Other receivables 5.1 0.8
Prepayments – 0.6
Accrued income 3.6 0.2
Non current trade and other receivables 8.7 1.6
Total trade and other receivables 143.1 287 .3
The following prior year balances relate to the discontinued 
operation:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2010
Trade receivables 111.8
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (5.9)
105.9
Other receivables 7.9
Prepayments 19.6
Accrued income 31.8
165.2
The quality of trade receivables can be assessed by reference 
to the historical default rate of £1.3m (2010: £5.0m) for the 
preceding 365 days at 0.8% of the opening net trade 
receivables balance (2010: 3.7%).
The carrying value of trade receivables that would otherwise  
be past due or impaired but whose terms were renegotiated 
were £0.2m (2010: £nil). 
The amount of provision against receivables as at 31 May 2011 
was £4.6m (2010: £8.0m). The individually impaired 
receivables relate to receivables over 365 days, customers in 
ﬁnancial difﬁculty, customer acceptance issues and cancelled 
contracts.
As at 31 May 2011, trade receivables of £31.2m (2010: £91.0m) 
were past due but not impaired. In the table below, these are 
the receivables over 30 days. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history  
of default. The ageing analysis of net trade receivables is  
as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
0-30 days 33.6 78.5
30-60 days 8.0 26.7
60-90 days 8.3 16.2
90-120 days 3.6 16.2
Over 120 days 11.3 31.9
64.8 169.5
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is 
the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.  
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Movements in the Group’s provision for impairment of trade 
receivables are as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
At 1 June (8.0) (7.4)
Provision for impairment of receivables (2.7) (7.2)
Receivables written off during the year 
as uncollectible 1.3 5.0
Unused amounts reversed 1.8 2.2
On acquisition of business (2.2) –
On disposal of business 5.2 –
Foreign exchange and other – (0.6)
At 31 May (4.6) (8.0)
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 105 21. Trade and other payables
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Trade payables 13.4 28.5
Other taxation and social security 8.6 12.7
Other payables 5.4 5.4
Accruals 61.4 96.3
Current trade and other payables 88.8 142.9
Other payables 0.1 1.2
Accruals 3.8 4.7
Non current trade and other payables 3.9 5.9
Total trade and other payables 92.7 148.8
Accruals comprise:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Cost of sales (excluding staff  
 related costs) 15.4 48.8
Staff related costs (including sales 
 commissions and bonuses) 35.9 48.4
Other 13.9 3.8
Total accruals 65.2 101.0
Other accruals include £10.1m (2010: £nil) payable to  
Allscripts for historical tax matters relating to US Banking  
and TCM tax liabilities.
The following prior year balances relate to discontinued 
operation:    
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2010
Trade payables 21.1
Other taxation and social security 4.5
Other payables 1.0
Accruals 45.8
72.4
22. Loans and overdrafts
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Bank overdrafts – 5.4
Bank loans 17.9 40.0
Finance leases – 0.9
Current loans and overdrafts 17.9 46.3
Bank loans 49.7 72.3
Convertible bond 83.4 –
Finance leases – 0.8
Non current loans and overdrafts 133.1 73.1
Total loans and overdrafts 151.0 119.4
Included within total loans and overdrafts at 31 May 2010 is 
£1.6m related to the discontinued operation.
Bank overdrafts
This relates to GBP and Euro overdraft facilities. 
Bank loans
In November 2010, a new credit facility was agreed comprising 
a £90m term loan and a £190m multicurrency credit facility. 
The term loan is repayable in installments between May 2011 
and August 2014. The revolving facility expires in August 2014. 
Initial arrangement fees relating to this facility of £1.3m have 
been expensed as an exceptional item being unconditional 
arrangement fees for new credit facilities to fund the Sophis 
acquisition. The remaining arrangement fees of £2.8m paid  
on drawdown are carried on the balance sheet. These costs 
are being amortised over the expected term of the facility.  
At 31 May 2011, £20m of the term loan had been repaid and 
none of the revolving credit facility was being used. 
At 31 May 2010, the Group had a £210m credit facility 
comprised of an £80m term loan and £130m revolving credit 
facility. Both of these were fully repaid by November 2010.  
Fees of £2.7m relating to the expired credit facility have been 
expensed as an exceptional item as the facility no longer  
exists (note 7).
The Group is subject to certain ﬁnancial covenants under  
the term loan and revolving credit facility agreement. These 
include a minimum ratio of operating proﬁt before depreciation, 
amortisation and exceptional items to net interest charged  
and a maximum ratio of net borrowings to operating proﬁt, 
before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.  
These covenants have not been breached during the year  
nor are they forecast to be breached in the foreseeable future.
Convertible bonds
The Company issued 1,000 2.5% convertible bonds at a par 
value of £100m on 22 November 2010. The bonds mature  
ﬁve years from the issue date at their nominal value of £100m 
or can be converted into shares at the holder’s option from  
4 January 2011 until 15 November 2015 at the prevailing 
conversion price. 
If not previously converted or redeemed, the bonds will be 
redeemed at par ﬁve years from the settlement date. The 
Company will have the option to call all outstanding bonds  
at any time on or after 7 December 2013 if the parity value  
on each of at least 20 dealing days in any period of  
30 consecutive dealing days on the London Stock Exchange 
exceeds 127% of the principal amount.
The values of the liability component and the equity conversion 
component were determined at issuance of the bond. The fair 
value of the liability component, included in non-current 
borrowings, was calculated using a market interest rate for  
an equivalent non-convertible bond. The residual amount, 
representing the value of the equity conversion option,  
is included in shareholders’ equity in other reserves.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
106 Annual Report 2011 The amounts charged in the accounts relating to the convertible bonds can be reconciled as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011
Cash received from issue of bonds 100.0
Less: Cost of issue (2.1)
Proceeds received (note 13) 97.9
Interest accrued on convertible bonds 2.9
Coupon payment made in May 2011 (1.3)
99.5
Disclosed as:
Debt 83.4
Equity 16.1
99.5
23. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are measured at their fair value and are calculated by reference to the net present value of future 
cash ﬂows, based on exchange rates and interest rates quoted on international ﬁnancial markets, at the balance sheet date.
2011 2010
All ﬁgures in £ millions Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.6 (0.8) 0.2 (0.3)
Embedded derivatives 2.4 (3.1) 5.8 (2.4)
3.0 (3.9) 6.0 (2.7)
Analysed as follows:
  Current 1.0 (1.6) 1. 1 (0.7)
  Non current 2.0 (2.3) 4.9 (2.0)
3.0 (3.9) 6.0 (2.7)
Forward currency contracts used to economically hedge fair value and cash ﬂow risks
Certain ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, which are denominated in currencies other than those of the functional currencies of  
the entities concerned, are hedged using forward currency contracts. Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded as 
operating costs in the income statement together with offsetting gains and losses on the underlying items. 
Expected future non-sterling cash ﬂows of the Group are also hedged with forward currency contracts. Hedge accounting is  
not applied and the gains and losses are recorded in the income statement under ﬁnance income/cost.
Embedded derivatives
Certain long-term software licensing contracts are priced in currencies (usually US dollars, sterling or euros) other than those of 
the functional currencies of the customer and IPR holder entering into the contracts or the commonly used functional currency  
of that market. Under IAS 39, such contracts may contain an embedded foreign currency derivative which must be extracted 
from the host contract and measured separately at each balance sheet date. Gains or losses on these derivatives are charged  
or credited to the income statement in operating costs. The contracts are generally of up to 10 years’ duration and this is 
therefore the period over which the assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet are expected to crystallise.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 107 24. Provisions
All ﬁgures in £ millions Property
Contingent
consideration Other Total
At 1 June 2010 22.0 0.2 3.5 25.7
Net provisions (credited) charged to the income statement (1.1) (0.2) 2.1 0.8
Business disposed (0.8) – – (0.8)
Unwinding of discount 1.0 – – 1.0
Utilisation of provisions (4.6) – (2.8) (7.4)
Foreign exchange movements 0.3 – (0.3) –
At 31 May 2011 16.8 – 2.5 19.3
Analysis of total provision:
Current 5.5 – 2.5 8.0
Non current 11.3 – – 11.3
16.8 – 2.5 19.3
Included within the property provision at 31 May 2010 is £0.8m related to the discontinued operation.
The property provisions comprise the net present value of the estimated future costs of vacant and sublet properties and  
the excess rent over market value for occupied properties of subsidiaries acquired in previous years after taking into account 
dilapidations. The provision relating to vacant and sublet properties is expected to be utilised on average over the next ﬁve years 
and the excess over market value provision over the next one year. During the year, the discount rate applicable to all new 
property provisions was 2.75% representing the ﬁve year corporate bond rate (2010: 2.75%).
Included in contingent consideration are amounts relating to various acquisitions. Included in other provisions are amounts 
principally in respect of professional fees, maintenance costs and restructuring costs for the current year and non property 
related onerous contracts.
25. Deferred taxation
All ﬁgures in £ millions Losses
Other
 deductible 
temporary
 differences Total
At 1 June 2010 36.3 (27.9) 8.4
Credited to the income statement – continuing operations (note 8) 10.2 2.0 12.2
Impact of change in tax rates taken to the income statement (note 8) (1.3) (0.2) (1.5)
On disposal of business (23.1) 33.4 10.3
Charged to equity in respect of share-based payments 0.7 2.9 3.6
Credit to equity in respect of IAS 21 movement – (4.7) (4.7)
Deferred tax arising on pension –0.4 0.4
Arising on acquisition of business 4.6 (23.1) (18.5)
Currency translation differences 0.2 (2.4) (2.2)
At 31 May 2011 27.6 (19.6) 8.0
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
108 Annual Report 2011 All ﬁgures in £ millions Losses
Other
 deductible 
temporary
 differences Total
At 1 June 2009 49.1 (25.5) 23.6
Charged to the income statement (17.0) (11.9) (28.9)
Impact of change in tax rates taken to the income statement (0.3) 0.9 0.6
Charged to equity in respect of share-based payments – 11.9 11.9
Credit to equity in respect of IAS 21 movement – (0.1) (0.1)
Currency translation differences 4.5 (3.2) 1.3
At 31 May 2010 36.3 (27.9) 8.4
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for ﬁnancial reporting purposes:
2011 2010
Losses
Other 
deductible
 temporary 
differences Total Losses
Other 
deductible
 temporary 
differences Total
Deferred tax assets 26.2 9.4 35.6 15.7 3.8 19.5
Deferred tax liabilities 1.4 (29.0) (27.6) 20.6 (31.7) (1 1. 1)
As shown above 27.6 (19.6) 8.0 36.3 (27.9) 8.4
Included within deferred tax liabilities at 31 May 2010 is £10.3m related to the discontinued operation.
Deferred tax assets of £27.6m (2010: £36.3m) have been recognised in respect of carried forward tax losses where latest 
forecasts show that these are expected to be recovered against future proﬁt streams. Deferred tax liabilities of £29.0m  
(2010: £31.7m) offset by deferred tax assets of £9.4m (2010: £3.8m) have been recognised in respect of other taxable temporary 
differences, including £0.1m (2010: £nil) in respect of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries of the UK and £26.5m (2010: £0.6m) 
relating to intangibles arising on the acquisition of Sophis.
Deferred tax assets recoverable within one year are £7.4m (2010: £1.0m).
Deferred tax assets of £86.8m (2010: £43.2m) relating to tax losses and £0.2m (2010: £6.6m) relating to other deductible 
temporary differences have not been recognised on the basis that they are unlikely to be recovered against future proﬁt streams. 
In addition, £250.0m (2010: £494.0m) of UK capital losses have been agreed with the UK tax authorities but have not been 
recognised as these can only be utilised against speciﬁc types of future gains.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 109 26. Deferred income
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Current
Maintenance fees 87.2 115.2
Other income 18.1 51.3
105.3 166.5
Non current
Maintenance fees 2.2 2.2
Other income 3.0 4.4
5.2 6.6
Included within deferred income at 31 May 2010 is £71.6m 
related to the discontinued operation.
Deferred maintenance fees represent amounts invoiced in 
advance for contracts which provide technical support and 
trouble-shooting assistance (helpdesk, etc.) in addition to 
upgrades and enhancements to the Group’s software products 
and hardware maintenance.
Maintenance fees are recognised as revenue rateably as the 
services are provided over the period of the contract. Other 
deferred income represents amounts invoiced, including 
deposits, primarily in respect of initial licence fees for software 
products and professional services for which the revenue 
recognition criteria have yet to be satisﬁed.
27. Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Deﬁned contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution  
pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.  
The cost of these pension schemes including £0.5m relating  
to Sophis was £4.7m (2010: £4.7m) and was charged to the 
income statement as incurred. There were no outstanding or 
prepaid contributions at either the beginning or the end of the 
ﬁnancial year.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
In 2003/04, the active members of the UK ﬁnal salary scheme 
ceased to accrue beneﬁts on the basis of their ﬁnal salary 
during the year. Thereafter the beneﬁts of the active members 
accrue on a money purchase (deﬁned contribution) basis.
In addition, the Group operates a number of other smaller 
deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was carried 
out as at 31 May 2008; the assumptions of which have been 
updated to 31 May 2011 by qualiﬁed independent actuaries. 
The last full actuarial valuations of the other Group schemes 
were carried out on a number of different dates; these 
assumptions have been updated to 31 May 2011 by qualiﬁed 
independent actuaries. A new full actuarial valuation of the  
UK scheme is in progress.
The principal assumptions used in the valuations of the  
UK scheme only are:
2011
%
2010
%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment:
Fixed 3% 3.0 3.0
Fixed 3.5% 3.5 3.5
RPI max 5% min 3% 3.8 3.9
RPI max 5% min 3.5% 4.1 4.1
Post 1988 Guaranteed minimum pension 2.2 2.6
Discount rate 5.4 5.5
Inﬂation assumption 3.6 3.7
Mortality rates (age) Years Years
Current pensioner – male 87 89
Current pensioner – female 89 91
Future retiree – male 89 91
Future retiree – female 91 92
The Group employs a building block approach in determining 
the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical 
markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are 
assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely 
accepted capital market principles. The overall expected rate  
of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected 
return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for 
the Plan at 31 May 2011. 
Mortality assumptions are based on 100% of standard S1PxA 
year of use tables with allowance for future improvements to be 
in line with CMI_2010 Core Projections assuming a long term 
rate of future improvement of 1.25% per annum for both males 
and females. Mortality assumptions in the prior year were 
based on the PxA00 year of use tables. We believe that the 
underlying population of the S1PxA tables better reﬂect the 
membership of the UK scheme.
The year-end assets and liabilities in the schemes were:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Equities 9.6 5.1
Government bonds 23.0 23.0
Corporate bonds 16.3 17 .4
Insurance policies 0.2 0.2
Other 0.1 0.3
Market value of assets 49.2 46.0
Adjustment for unrecoverable surplus (3.5) –
Total market value of assets 45.7 46.0
Actuarial value of liabilities (51.9) (50.3)
Deﬁcit in the schemes (6.2) (4.3)
Related deferred tax asset 1.6 1.2
Net pension liability (4.6) (3.1)
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
110 Annual Report 2011 Movement in the plan assets and obligations during the year:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Plan assets:
Fair value at 1 June 46.0 39.3
Expected return on plan assets (note 7) 2.4 2.4
Actuarial gain (loss) (1.1) 4.9
Contributions paid by employer 0.6 0.5
Net beneﬁts paid out (2.0) (1.3)
Foreign exchange (0.2) 0.2
Fair value at 31 May 45.7 46.0
Beneﬁt obligations:
Present value at 1 June (50.3) (41.0)
Current service cost (2.0) (1.7)
Interest cost (note 7) (2.6) (2.4)
Actuarial gain (loss) 0.2 (6.2)
Net beneﬁts paid out 2.0 1.3
Business disposals 0.2 –
Gains arising from curtailments or 
settlements 0.2 –
Foreign exchange 0.4 (0.3)
Present value at 31 May (51.9) (50.3)
Net liability (6.2) (4.3)
An asset of £3.5m (2010: £nil) in respect of the UK ﬁnal salary 
scheme has not been recognised as the Group would not be 
able to derive future economic beneﬁt from it.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income are as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Current service cost (included in  
 employee costs) (0.6) (0.4)
Deferred pension costs (included 
 in investments) (1.4) (1.3)
Interest cost on pension scheme  
 liabilities (2.6) (2.4)
Expected return on plan assets 2.4 2.4
Included in ﬁnance income (0.2) –
Gains arising from curtailments  
 or settlements 0.2 –
Total income statement expense (0.6) (0.4)
The long term expected rate of return on the UK scheme 
assets is 5.1% (2010: 5.1%) and on overseas scheme assets 
7.8% (2010: 8.3%).
The actual return on the schemes’ assets was a gain of £4.7m 
(2010: £4.9m).
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income are as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Total actuarial gains/(losses) 2.6 (3.7)
Change in irrecoverable surplus (3.5) 2.4
Total loss (0.9) (1.3)
Cumulative amount of actuarial  
 losses recognised (2.2) (1.3)
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 111 27. Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses in the UK scheme:
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Experience gains (losses) on schemes’ assets
Amounts (£m) 2.3 2.5 (2.2) (4.5) 3.2
Percentage of schemes’ assets 4.9% 5.7% 5.5% 10.9% 8.3%
Experience (losses) gains on schemes’ liabilities
Amounts (£m) (0.3) (0.1) 1.6 (2.3) –
Percentage of schemes’ liabilities 0.7% 0.2% 4.3% 5.6% –
History of asset values, beneﬁt obligation and deﬁcit in schemes:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Fair value of plan assets 45.7 46.0 39.3 42.3 38.2
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (51.9) (50.3) (41.0) (43.8) (39.3)
Deﬁcit in scheme (6.2) (4.3) (1.7) (1.5) (1. 1)
The expected contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes for the next ﬁnancial year beginning 1st June 2011 are £0.5m  
(2010: £0.5m).
28. Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities that are quantiﬁable arise from property rental guarantees that have been issued in the normal course  
of business, from letters of credit and also from bonds that have been issued in support of tenders submitted to prospective 
customers. These amount to £3.2m (2010: £19.7m). Included within contingent liabilities at 31 May 2010 is £17.0m related to the 
discontinued operation.
The Group’s subsidiaries and the Company can be parties to legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. 
Whilst the outcome of current outstanding actions and claims remains uncertain, it is expected that they will be resolved without 
a material impact to the Group’s ﬁnancial position.
At year-end, there was a $45m guarantee in place relating to potential tax liabilities arising as a result of the disposal of Allscripts, 
which Misys would be responsible for covering if they were to become payable.
29. Commitments
Commitments of the Group under non cancellable operating leases at 31 May:
2011 2010
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Land and
 buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Land and
 buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Rental payments due within one year 15.6 0.1 19.7 0.8
Rental payments due between one and ﬁve years 48.8 – 64.5 0.9
Rental payments due after ﬁve years 33.5 – 55.6 –
Total 97.9 0.1 139.8 1.7
Included within commitments at 31 May 2010 is £30.5m for land and buildings and £1.1m for plant and equipment related to the 
discontinued operation.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment committed by the Group at 31 May 2011 was £0.4m (2010: £0.2m).


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
112 Annual Report 2011 30. Related party transactions
Transactions between Misys plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and  
are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group comprise the Company Directors and other senior management. Their 
remuneration is set out below in aggregate.
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Short-term employment beneﬁts 6.8 8.3
Post employment beneﬁts 0.2 0.2
Termination beneﬁts 0.2 –
Share-based payments beneﬁts 6.6 9.0
Included with in the above disclosure at 31 May 2010 is £1.5m in short-term employment beneﬁts and £4.3m in share-based 
payments beneﬁts related to the discontinued operation.
ValueAct Capital has a holding of 67 ,812,779 shares representing 20.21% (2010: 25.7%) in the Company on an aggregated basis, 
which reduced as result of the tender offer on 15 December 2010. Jeff Ubben, who is a non-executive Director of the Company, 
is Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Investment Ofﬁcer of ValueAct Capital. The Company has also considered whether Mike 
Lawrie is a related party to ValueAct Capital through his equity shareholding interest, as disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report. As he does not hold a management position within ValueAct Capital nor does his equity shareholding give the right to 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence over ValueAct Capital, it has been concluded that he is not a related party to ValueAct Capital as deﬁned  
by IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosure”.
31. Called up share capital
The table below reconciles the allotted and fully paid share capital to those shares not held by the Company.
Number of Shares
Allotted, fully 
paid share 
capital Treasury MEST ESOP Net
At 1 June 2010 594,584,179 (46,477,433) (17,133,515) (103,272) 530,869,959
Shares cancelled during the year (182,150,609) 12,796,552 – – (169,354,057)
Share consolidation (51,554,197) 3,606,820 2,012,467 12,909 (45,922,001)
Sophis consideration stock 1,626,140 – – – 1,626,140
Share options exercised – 6,415,383 1,108,687 – 7,524,070
At 31 May 2011 362,505,513 (23,658,678) (14,012,361) (90,363) 324,744,111
Par value of each share is 1.14 pence. During the year, 6,415,383 (2010: 1,049,481) treasury shares, with a cost of £6.8m  
(2010: £0.8m), were utilised to satisfy share awards. 
Shareholders approved the return of capital via a Tender Offer of the proceeds of disposal of Allscripts on 13 August 2010.  
On 16 December 2010, 169,354,057 ordinary shares were tendered and were repurchased for cancellation at a strike price  
of 310 pence per ordinary share, for a total cost of £525 million.
To enable the Company to return the balance of the proceeds from the Allscripts disposal shareholders approved a £146 million 
return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Company’s General Meeting on 11 February 2011. 383,579,014  
B shares were issued on 14 February 2011. Shareholders owning 89,266,979 B shares elected to receive the initial dividend 
payment of 38 pence each and these shares were subsequently converted to deferred shares. The remaining shares were 
redeemed at a later date for 38 pence each. The ﬁnal redemption date for B shares was 7 April 2011 and all transactions relating 
to the B share scheme have now been completed.
The share consolidation, approved as part of the B share scheme, took place on 14 February 2011, when shareholders 
exchanged 8 existing ordinary shares of 1p each for 7 new ordinary shares of 1
1
/7 pence each (1.14p).
The Misys Employee Share Trust (MEST) purchases shares in the market using funds contributed by the respective Group 
employing companies. These shares are used to satisfy awards made under the Group’s share incentive arrangements. At 31 May 
2011, the MEST held 14,012,361 (2010: 17 ,133,515) shares purchased for a cost of £37 .9m (2010: £40.6m) and with a market value 
of £50.7m (2010: £38.6m). During the year, it utilised shares with a cost of £2.6m (2010: £6.6m) to satisfy share awards.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) purchases shares in the market using funds loaned by the Company. Share 
purchases are timed to ensure that the ESOP has sufﬁcient shares to satisfy its requirements as and when its obligations fall due. 
The Trustees of the ESOP have waived its rights to dividends. At 31 May 2011, the ESOP held 90,363 (2010: 103,272) shares, 
purchased for a cost of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m) and with a market value of £0.3m (2010: £0.2m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 113 32. Other reserves
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Retained
 earnings
Convertible
 bond reserve
Treasury 
shares Own shares
Translation
 reserve Total
At 1 June 2010 285.1 – (94.1) (40.7) 43.5 193.8
Total comprehensive income for the period 643.8 – – – 2.1 645.9
Transactions with owners:
Share options settled from own shares (10.1) – 13.5 2.7 – 6.1
Convertible bond – equity component – 16.1 – – – 16.1
Business disposed – – – – (39.9) (39.9)
Shares repurchased for cancellation (525.0) – – – – (525.0)
B share scheme – dividends paid (33.9) – – – – (33.9)
B share scheme – redemption of B shares (105.6) – – – – (105.6)
Expenses incurred on transactions with owners (5.5) – – – – (5.5)
Share-based payments 9.7 – – – – 9.7
Deferred tax on share-based payments 3.6 – – – – 3.6
At 31 May 2011 262.1 16.1 (80.6) (38.0) 5.7 165.3
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Retained
 earnings
Convertible
 bond reserve
Treasury 
shares Own shares
Translation
 reserve Total
At 1 June 2009 224.1 – (96.3) (47.3) 4.7 85.2
Total comprehensive income for the period 43.3 – – – 38.8 82.1
Share options settled from own shares (5.9) – 2.2 6.6 – 2.9
Conversion of Allscripts 3.5% senior convertible 
debentures 3.5 – – – – 3.5
Share-based payments 12.9 – – – – 12.9
Deferred tax on share-based payments 7.2 – – – – 7.2
At 31 May 2010 285.1 – (94.1) (40.7) 43.5 193.8
Own shares reserve relates to Misys Employee Share Trust and Employee Share Ownership Plan (see note 31).
The Misys Employee Share Trust was a beneﬁciary of the B share scheme and received funds of £6.2m. This income in MEST 
has been netted against the redemption of B shares expense within retained earnings.


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
114 Annual Report 2011 33. Financial instruments: risk management
Misys operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing the liquidity, interest and foreign currency  
risks associated with the Group’s activities under policies approved by the Board of Directors. As part of its strategy for the 
management of these risks, the Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments. In accordance with the Group’s treasury policy, 
derivative instruments are not entered into for speculative purposes. Treasury policy is reviewed and approved by the Board and 
speciﬁes the parameters within which treasury operations must be conducted, including authorised counterparties, instrument 
types, transaction limits and principles governing the management of liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks. 
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments, other than derivatives, are cash, short term deposits, bank loans, overdrafts, trade 
and other receivables and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to raise ﬁnance for the 
Group’s operations. 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. Foreign 
exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investment in foreign 
operations. 
Management has established a policy requiring Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional 
currency. Group companies are required to hedge on a monthly basis. Group Treasury nets and consolidates the global 
prescribed hedges in the market with external forward contracts. Additionally, Group Treasury reviews the actual non-sterling 
exposure cushion of the Group and hedges those exceeding the levels set by the Group foreign exchange policy with external 
forward contracts.
The Group’s net exposure to foreign currency risk is illustrated by the sensitivity analysis in note 37.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to cash ﬂow interest rate risk on ﬂoating rate bank loans, overdrafts and cash held on deposit. The 
Group’s borrowings are primarily at variable interest rates set for periods of six months or less. Based on the various scenarios, 
the Group manages its cash ﬂow interest rate risk by using interest rate hedging instruments such as caps or swaps which  
are used to protect the Group against signiﬁcant increases in interest rates. Under the interest rate swap, the Group agrees  
with other parties to exchange, at speciﬁed intervals, the difference between the speciﬁed swap rate and ﬂoating rate interest 
amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The Group’s cash balances are kept in interest bearing current accounts and on short-term deposit to maximise the level of 
return while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity. The Group does not generally invest surplus funds in long-term ﬁxed 
interest securities and therefore its exposure to fair value interest rate risk is not generally signiﬁcant.
The Group’s net exposure to interest rate risk is illustrated by the sensitivity analysis in note 37.
Credit risk 
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative ﬁnancial instruments and deposits with banks and ﬁnancial 
institutions but primarily from outstanding trade receivables and committed transactions. The Group has policies in place  
to ensure that sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative and cash transactions are limited to high-quality ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount  
of credit exposure to any ﬁnancial institution. For customer contracts, the Group and each reporting subsidiary have speciﬁed 
risk control and authorisation procedures in place to assess the credit quality of a customer. Where there is no independent  
risk rating for a customer, such an assessment takes into account ﬁnancial position, past experience and other factors. 
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk, with exposures spread over a large number of customers and 
counterparties. 
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements centrally to minimise net interest expense within risk parameters  
set by the Board, whilst ensuring that the Group has sufﬁcient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of the business.  
The long-term forecast cash and borrowings proﬁle of the Group is monitored to ensure that adequate headroom remains  
under current and projected committed borrowing facilities.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 115 33. Financial instruments: risk management continued
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash ﬂows of the Group’s non-derivative 
ﬁnancial liabilities.
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Less than
one year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years
2011
Total
Bank loans and overdrafts 23.3 22.9 32.9 – 79.1
Convertible bond 2.5 2.5 106.2 – 111.2
Trade and other payables 74.8 0.4 1.1 2.4 78.7
Other liabilities 4.2 – – 0.3 4.5
Total cash ﬂows 104.8 25.8 140.2 2.7 273.5
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Less than
one year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years
2010
Total
Bank loans and overdrafts 49.4 78.5 – – 127.9
Trade and other payables 124.9 0.6 1.3 2.7 129.5
Finance lease liabilities 0.9 0.4 0.4 – 1.7
Other liabilities 4.7 1.2 – – 5.9
Total cash ﬂows 179.9 80.7 1.7 2.7 265.0
The table below analyses the Group’s outﬂow and inﬂow from derivative ﬁnancial instruments into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining contractual maturity period at the balance sheet date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the 
contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows.
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Less than
one year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years
2011
Total
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (gross settled)
– inﬂows (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) – (3.0)
– outﬂows 1.6 1.6 0.7 – 3.9
Total cash ﬂows 0.6 0.6 (0.3) – 0.9
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Less than
one year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years
2010
Total
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (gross settled)
– inﬂows (1.1) (1.1) (3.8) – (6.0)
– outﬂows 0.7 0.6 1.4 – 2.7
Total cash ﬂows (0.4) (0.5) (2.4) – (3.3)
Capital risk 
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising issued 
capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and note 32. The Group 
manages its capital with the objective that all entities within the Group continue as a going concern while maintaining an efﬁcient 
structure to minimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders,  
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. During the year a return of capital was made  
to shareholders as described in note 31.
The Group is subject to certain ﬁnancial covenants on its funding facility and monitors capital largely on this basis. This includes 
a maximum ratio of net borrowings to operating proﬁt before depreciation, amortisation and exceptionals (EBITDA) of 3 times 
and a minimum ratio of EBITDA to net interest of 5.0 times. At 31 May 2011, the net borrowings to adjusted EBITDA ratio was  
1.3 (2010: 1.2) times and EBITDA to net interest payable ratio (as deﬁned in the loan agreement) was 15.4 (2010: 9.6). The 
covenants were met throughout the year.


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
116 Annual Report 2011 34. Financial instruments
The Group uses derivative instruments in order to manage foreign currency exchange risk arising from future commercial 
transactions, recognised assets and liabilities. The Group is also exposed to cash ﬂow interest rate risk from ﬂoating rate  
bank loans, overdrafts and cash held on deposit. 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
The fair value of foreign exchange derivatives at 31 May 2011 was a net liability of £0.2m (2010: £0.1m).
35. Financial instruments: categories
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Fair value
 hierarchy
1
Fair value
 through P&L
Loans &
 receivables
Amortised
cost
Not a
ﬁnancial
instrument
2
Current Non-current
At 31 May 2011
Financial assets
Investments Level 1 3.9 – – – –3.9
Investments Level 2 1.6 – – – –1.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Level 2 3.0 – – – 1.0 2.0
Trade and other receivables – 134.4 – 8.7 134.4 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents – 56.8 – – 56.8 –
8.5 191.2 – 8.7 192.2 16.2
Financial liabilities
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Level 2 (3.9) – – – (1.6) (2.3)
Borrowings – – (151.0) – (17.9) (133.1)
Trade and other payables – – (83.1) (9.6) (88.8) (3.9)
(3.9) – (234.1) (9.6) (108.3) (139.3)
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Fair value
 hierarchy
1
Fair value
 through P&L
Loans &
 receivables
Amortised
cost
Not a
ﬁnancial
instrument
2
Current Non-current
At 31 May 2010
Financial assets
Investments Level 1 3.8 –––– 3.8
Investments Level 2 3.3 –––– 3.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Level 2 6.0 – – – 1.1 4.9
Trade and other receivables – 259.0 – 28.3 285.7 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents – 120.3 – – 120.3 –
13.1 379.3 – 28.3 407 .1 13.6
Financial liabilities
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Level 2 (2.7) – – – (0.7) (2.0)
Borrowings – – (119.4) – (46.3) (73.1)
Trade and other payables – – (135.5) (13.3) (142.9) (5.9)
(2.7) – (254.9) (13.3) (189.9) (81.0)
1   Fair value hierarchy shows the fair value measurement categories as described below.
2  Assets that do not qualify as a ﬁnancial instrument include prepayments of £8.7m (2010: £28.3m). Liabilities that do not qualify as ﬁnancial instruments are  
tax and other social security payments of £9.6m (2010: £13.3m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 117 35. Financial instruments: categories continued
Fair value measurement hierarchy
Fair value measurements of ﬁnancial instruments (where 
relevant) are classiﬁed using the following fair value hierarchy 
which reﬂects the signiﬁcance of the inputs used in making  
the measurements:
Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2 – input other than quoted prices included within  
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments traded in active markets 
is based on quoted market prices at the close of business  
on the balance sheet date. A market is regarded as active  
if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an 
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or 
regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length 
basis. The quoted market price used for ﬁnancial assets  
held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments 
are included in Level 1 and comprise investments in quoted 
marketable securities.
The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments that are not traded in  
an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives)  
is determined by using valuation techniques. The valuation 
techniques maximise the use of observable market data  
where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity 
speciﬁc estimates. If all signiﬁcant inputs required to fair  
value an instrument are observable, the instrument is  
included in Level 2.
Speciﬁc valuation techniques used to value ﬁnancial 
instruments include:
– Quoted market prices;
– Forward exchange rates; and
– External consultants’ valuations.
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents primarily comprise cash deposits 
and investments. Cash which bears interest at nominal rates 
comprises £13.5m (2010: £6.1m) denominated in sterling, 
£32.4m (2010: £103.8m) in US dollars, £1.8m (2010: £16.0m) 
in euros and £9.1m (2010: £6.8m) in other currencies.
36. Financial instruments: fair values
The fair values of each category of the Group’s ﬁnancial 
instruments approximate to their carrying values in the Group’s 
balance sheet.
37. Financial instruments: sensitivity analysis
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
The Group’s principal foreign currency exposures are to  
the US Dollar and the Euro. The table below illustrates the 
hypothetical sensitivity of the Group’s reported proﬁt and equity 
to a 10% increase and decrease in the US Dollar/Sterling and 
Euro/Sterling exchange rates at the year-end date, assuming  
all other variables remain unchanged. The sensitivity rate of 
10% represents the Directors’ assessment of a reasonably 
possible change for the foreseeable future.
Income statement
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Sterling strengthens by 10%
US Dollar (2.8) 0.4
Euro 2.5 (2.0)
Sterling weakens by 10%
US Dollar 2.8 (0.4)
Euro (2.5) 2.0
Year-end exchange rates applied in the above analysis  
are US Dollar 1.64 (2010: 1.45) and Euro 1.14 (2010: 1.18).
Interest rate sensitivity analysis 
The table below illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity of the 
Group’s reported proﬁt to a 0.5% increase or decrease in 
interest rates, assuming all other variables were unchanged. 
The sensitivity rate of 0.5% represents the Directors’ 
assessment of a reasonably possible change for the 
foreseeable future.
Income statement
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Interest rate increase of 0.5% (0.3) (0.6)
Interest rate decrease of 0.5% 0.3 0.6
38. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Information on the principal subsidiary undertakings included in 
the consolidated accounts at 31 May 2011 is provided in note E 
of the Company accounts.
39. Events after the reporting period
On 21 June 2011, the Board announced that it had received  
a preliminary approach that may or may not lead to an offer 
being made for the Company.
On 23 June 2011, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 
conﬁrmed that it had made a preliminary approach regarding  
a possible cash offer for Misys plc.


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
118 Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Misys plc
Introduction
We have audited the Company ﬁnancial statements of Misys 
plc for the year ended 31 May 2011 which comprise the 
Company balance sheet and the related notes. The ﬁnancial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Company ﬁnancial statements and  
for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept 
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial 
statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements 
In our opinion, the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements: 
  give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 May 2011;
  have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the  
ﬁnancial year for which the Company ﬁnancial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the Company ﬁnancial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by  
the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
   the Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by 
law are not made; or 
  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements 
of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2011.
Giles Hannam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
28 July 2011
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 119 All ﬁgures in £ millions Note 2011 2010
Non current assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets D 4.7 6.5
Investments in subsidiary undertakings E 460.0 89.2
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 750.8 758.7
Deferred tax asset F 5.9 –
1,221.4 854.4
Current assets
Debtors G 50.2 67 .3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments H 0.9 0.4
Cash at bank and in hand 39.6 12.6
90.7 80.3
Creditors falling due within one year
Loans and overdrafts I (17.9) (45.4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments H (1.1) (0.4)
Other creditors J (99.0) (62.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges K (0.7) (1.2)
(118.7) (109.2)
Net current liabilities (28.0) (28.9)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,193.4 825.5
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Bank loans I (133.1) (72.3)
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (812.0) (450.4)
Accruals (3.6) (4.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges K (0.8) (3.0)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations M – (0.2)
Net assets 243.9 295.5
Equity
Called up share capital O 4.3 5.9
Share premium account O 12.7 151.9
Capital redemption reserve O 147.7 0.3
Other reserves P 79.2 137 .4
Equity shareholders' funds 243.9 295.5
Approved by the Board
Mike Lawrie
28 July 2011
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
120 Annual Report 2011 A. Accounting convention and policies
Accounting convention
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis which the Directors believe to be appropriate. 
The Company is in a net asset position and has net current 
assets after excluding intercompany balances. The ﬁnancial 
position and resources of the Misys Group are sufﬁcient to 
support the going concern basis for the Company.
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, except as described under the 
headings share incentive schemes and derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments and hedge accounting, and in accordance with 
the applicable UK Accounting Standards, the Companies Act 
2006 and the accounting policies set out below.
Share incentive schemes
The Group operates several equity settled, share-based 
compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised 
as an expense. 
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period  
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions (for example, proﬁtability and sales growth targets). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the 
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.  
If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the 
charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining 
vesting period of the options.
The social security contributions payable in connection with  
the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of 
the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled 
transaction.
The share-based payment charge is recharged as an expense 
to the relevant employing subsidiary. Full details of the share 
incentive schemes are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report and note 5 of the Group accounts.
Leases
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income  
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Taxation
Taxation that is chargeable on the proﬁts for the period, 
together with deferred taxation using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred 
taxation is provided in full on timing differences which result  
in obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax or  
the right to pay less tax at a future date. Timing differences 
arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure  
in taxation computations in periods different from those in 
which they are included in the ﬁnancial statements. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are likely  
to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
discounted.
Fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the 
cost attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition 
for its intended use. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line 
basis so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value 
of each asset, over its expected useful life. The residual values 
and useful economic lives of ﬁxed assets are reviewed annually. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. The useful lives by major 
class of asset applied from the date of purchase are:
 5-15 years or the period  
Leasehold improvements of the lease if shorter
Computer and other equipment 4-10 years
Investments
Investments are shown at cost less any provision considered 
necessary for impairment. The need for any impairment 
write-down is assessed by comparison of the carrying value  
of the asset against the higher of net realisable value or value in 
use. The value in use is determined from estimated discounted 
future cash ﬂows. Discount rates used are based on the cost 
of capital of the Company.
Bank loans and overdrafts
Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair  
value less directly attributable transaction costs and are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. The difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in 
the proﬁt and loss account over the period of the borrowings.
Foreign currencies
The Company translates foreign currency transactions into  
its own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each 
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 
are retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date  
and currency translation differences are recognised in the 
income statement.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date  
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. The method of recognising the 
resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of  
the item being hedged. Changes in the fair value of derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments, where they are not designated as hedging 
instruments, are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
Pensions
The Company has a closed funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme in the UK, as well as a number of other smaller deﬁned 
beneﬁt arrangements outside the UK.
The remaining active members of the closed UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt scheme now contribute to a deﬁned contribution 
section of the scheme and do not accrue further beneﬁts 
under the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. Full independent actuarial 
valuations are carried out on a regular basis and updated to 
each balance sheet date. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 121 A. Accounting convention and policies continued
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected  
unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a 
high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency  
to the liability. The pension scheme surplus (to the extent that  
it is recoverable) or deﬁcit is recognised in full on the balance 
sheet. Any current or past service cost is recognised in the 
income statement. The net of the expected increase in the 
present value of the schemes’ liabilities, and the Company’s 
long-term expected return on its schemes’ assets, are included 
in the income statement.
Hedge accounting
The business activities of the Group expose it to ﬁnancial risks 
that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and 
interest rates. The Company, on behalf of the Group, uses 
forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
these exposures. In accordance with its treasury policy, the 
Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. 
The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
a)  hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities  
or a ﬁrm commitment (fair value hedges); or
b)  hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised 
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction  
(cash ﬂow hedge).
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows  
are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion  
is recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account.
Conversely, if the item being hedged is a ﬁnancial asset or 
liability, any amounts arising from changes in fair value that  
are deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the  
proﬁt and loss account in the same accounting period in  
which the hedged item affects net income.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments, 
where they are not designated as effective hedges of future 
cash ﬂows, are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. Any 
changes in the fair value of the underlying transaction are also 
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. Where a ﬁnancial 
instrument does not qualify for hedge accounting, any changes 
in the fair value are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account  
as it arises.
Under these circumstances, any cumulative gain or loss on  
the hedging instrument, which has already been recognised  
in equity, is retained in equity until the transaction occurs. 
However, if a hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been 
recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the proﬁt  
and loss account.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and  
it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required  
to settle the obligation and if this amount is capable of being 
reliably estimated. If such an obligation is not capable of being 
reliably estimated, no provision is recognised and the item is 
disclosed as a contingent liability where material.
Onerous property contracts
Provision for onerous lease commitments on property 
contracts is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease 
and other payments in respect of these properties including 
dilapidation costs. These comprise rental and other property 
costs payable, plus any termination costs, less any income 
expected to be derived from the properties being sublet.  
The provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to  
take into account the effect of the time value of money.
Cash ﬂow disclosure
The Company is included within the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements of Misys plc, which are publicly available. 
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption from preparing a cash ﬂow statement under  
the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash ﬂow statements’.
B. Proﬁt for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006,  
the proﬁt and loss account of the Company is not presented  
as part of these ﬁnancial statements. The proﬁt attributable  
to shareholders for the year is £582.9m (2010: £19.3m loss), 
which includes auditors’ remuneration of £0.2m (2009: £0.1m). 
Included within the current year gain is £607.0m of dividends 
received from Group companies as part of the corporate 
restructuring programme.
C. Commitments
Commitments of the Company under non cancellable 
operating leases at 31 May:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Annual payments expiring after 5 years 4.1 4.1
All operating lease commitments relate to land and buildings. The 
Company has no capital commitments at 31 May 201 1 (2010: £nil).
D. Tangible ﬁxed assets
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Cost
At 1 June 7.5 8.8
Additions 0.1 0.2
Disposals (0.3) (1.5)
At 31 May 7.3 7.5
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 June (1.0) (1.3)
Charge for the year (1.9) (0.5)
Disposals 0.3 0.8
At 31 May (2.6) (1.0)
Net book value
At 31 May 4.7 6.5
Included in the above analysis are disposals of £nil (2010: 
£1.5m) relating to freehold land and properties; costs of  
£6.3m (2010: £6.3m), additions of £0.1m (2010: £0.2m) and 
accumulated depreciation of £2.4m (2010: £0.8m) relating  
to leasehold improvements; and cost of £1.0m (2010: £1.2m), 
disposals of £0.3m (2010: £nil) and accumulated depreciation 
of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m) relating to ﬁxtures and ﬁttings.


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
122 Annual Report 2011 E. Tangible ﬁxed assets
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Cost
At 1 June 93.4 93.8
Additions 376.3 0.1
Disposals (5.5) –
Transfer to other Group company – (0.5)
At 31 May 464.2 93.4
Provisions for impairment
At 1 June and 31 May (4.2) (4.2)
Net book value
At 31 May 460.0 89.2
Principal subsidiary undertakings
The Company is the beneﬁcial owner of and has 100% of the nominal value and voting rights over all the equity share capital, 
through subsidiary undertakings, of the following principal operating subsidiary undertakings within Banking, TCM and Misys 
Sophis. These develop and licence application software products to customers in well deﬁned vertical markets together with 
undertaking transaction processing, professional services and e-commerce activities:
Company name
Country of incorporation 
and operation Markets served
Banking and TCM
Misys International Banking Systems GmbH Germany Global products and services
Misys International Banking Systems Inc USA in the following areas:
Misys International Banking Systems Limited England and Wales Retail and international branch banking
Misys International Banking Systems Limited Republic of Ireland Transaction banking
Misys International Banking Systems Limited Hong Kong Treasury and capital markets
Misys International Financial Systems Pte Limited Singapore Enterprise-wide market and credit risk management
Misys International Banking Systems SA France Software integration technology
Misys International Banking Systems SA Luxembourg
Misys Software Solutions (India) Private Limited India
Summit Systems SA France
Summit Systems Inc USA
Summit Systems International Limited England and Wales
Kapiti Limited England and Wales
Misys IQ Limited England and Wales
Misys Philippines Inc Philippines
Sophis
Sophis Technology (Ireland) Limited Republic of Ireland Portfolio and risk management services in the 
following areas:
 Investment banks
 Treasury and capital markets
 Hedge funds
 Asset managers
 Pension funds
In addition to the companies shown above, the Group also holds investments in a number of other subsidiary undertakings, 
which in the Directors’ opinion do not signiﬁcantly affect the ﬁgures in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Details of all Group 
companies will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return in compliance with section 409 and 410 and Parts I and II of 
Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 123 F. Deferred tax assets
In the current year, there is a deferred tax asset of £5.9m 
(2010: £nil) relating to tax losses (£4.9m) and other timing 
differences (£1.0m). The amount of £5.9m was credited  
to the proﬁt and loss account. Deferred tax assets have been 
recognised in respect of carried forward tax losses where 
latest forecasts show that these are expected to be recovered 
against future proﬁt streams.
G. Debtors falling due within one year
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Amounts due from subsidiary  
 undertakings 48.7  56.2 
Other debtors 0.3  3.4 
Corporation tax –  7.3 
Prepayments 1.2  0.4 
Total 50.2  67.3 
H. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
all ﬁgures in £ millions Assets
2011
Liabilities Assets
2010
Liabilities
Forward foreign  
 currency contracts 0.9  (1.1) 0.4 (0.4)
I. Loans and overdrafts
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Bank loans  17.9  45.4 
Total falling due within one year 17.9  45.4 
Bank loans payable within two  
 to ﬁve years 49.7  72.3
Convertible bond 83.4 –
Total falling due after more  
 than one year 133.1 72.3
Total 151.0  117.7 
Bank loans
In November 2010, a new credit facility was agreed comprising 
a £90m term loan and a £190m multicurrency credit facility. 
The term loan is repayable in installments between May 2011 
and August 2014. The revolving facility expires in August 2014. 
Initial arrangement fees relating to this facility of £1.3m have 
been expensed as an exceptional item being unconditional 
arrangement fees for new credit facilities to fund the Sophis 
acquisition. The remaining arrangement fees of £2.8m paid  
on drawdown are carried on the balance sheet. These costs 
are being amortised over the expected term of the facility.  
At 31 May 2011, £20m of the term loan had been repaid  
and none of the revolving credit facility was being used. 
At 31 May 2010, the Group had a £210m credit facility 
comprised of an £80m term loan and £130m revolving credit 
facility. Both of these were fully repaid by November 2010.  
Fees of £2.7m relating to the expired credit facility have been 
expensed as an exceptional item as the facility no longer exists.
Convertible bonds
The Company issued 1,000 2.5% convertible bonds at a par 
value of £100m on 22 November 2010. The bonds mature  
ﬁve years from the issue date at their nominal value of £100m 
or can be converted into shares at the holder’s option from  
4 January 2011 until 15 November 2015 at the prevailing 
conversion price. 
If not previously converted or redeemed, the bonds will  
be redeemed at par ﬁve years from the settlement date.  
The Company will have the option to call all outstanding  
bonds at any time on or after 7 December 2013 if the parity  
value on each of at least 20 dealing days in any period of  
30 consecutive dealing days on the London Stock Exchange 
exceeds 127% of the principal amount. 
The values of the liability component and the equity conversion 
component were determined at issuance of the bond. The  
fair value of the liability component, included in non-current 
borrowings, was calculated using a market interest rate  
for an equivalent non-convertible bond. The residual amount, 
representing the value of the equity conversion option,  
is included in shareholders’ equity in other reserves.
J. Other creditors falling due within one year
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Amounts due to subsidiary  
 undertakings 84.9 58.4 
Other creditors 0.2 0.2 
Accruals 13.9 3.6 
Total 99.0 62.2 
K. Provisions for liabilities and charges
All ﬁgures in £ millions
2011
Property
2010
Property
At 1 June 4.2 7.9
Net provisions (credited)  
 charged to the income statement (1.2) 2.2
Unwinding of discount – 0.3
Utilisation of provisions (1.5) (6.2)
At 31 May 1.5 4.2
Analysis of total provision:
Current 0.7 1.2
Non current 0.8 3.0
Total 1.5 4.2
The property provisions comprise the net present value of  
the estimated future costs of vacant and sublet properties  
and the excess rent over market value for occupied properties 
after taking into account dilapidations.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
124 Annual Report 2011 L. Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities that are quantiﬁable arise from property 
rental guarantees that have been issued in the normal course 
of business and also from bonds that have been issued in 
support of tenders submitted to prospective customers.  
These amount to £0.3m (2010: £0.3m).
There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course  
of business in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries. 
These are not expected to result in a material gain or loss to 
the Company.
At year-end, there was a $45m guarantee in place relating  
to potential tax liabilities arising as a result of the disposal  
of Allscripts, which Misys would be responsible for covering  
if they were to become payable.
M. Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
In 2003/04, the active members of the UK ﬁnal salary scheme 
ceased to accrue beneﬁts on the basis of their ﬁnal salary 
during the year. Thereafter, the beneﬁts of the active members 
accrue on a money purchase (deﬁned contribution) basis.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was carried 
out as at 31 May 2008; the assumptions of which have been 
updated to 31 May 2011 by qualiﬁed independent actuaries.  
A new full actuarial valuation of the UK scheme is in progress.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the  
UK scheme only are:
2011
%
2010
%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment:
Fixed 3% 3.0 3.0
Fixed 3.5% 3.5 3.5
RPI max 5% min 3% 3.8 3.9
RPI max 5% min 3.5% 4.1 4.1
Post 1988 Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension 2.2 2.6
Discount rate 5.4 5.5
Inﬂation assumption 3.6 3.7
Mortality rates (age) Years Years
Current pensioner – male 87 89
Current pensioner – female 89 91
Future retiree – male 89 91
Future retiree – female 91 92
The Company employs a building block approach in 
determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan 
assets. Historical markets are studied and assets with higher 
volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent 
with widely accepted capital market principles. The overall 
expected rate of return on assets is then derived by 
aggregating the expected return for each asset class  
over the actual asset allocation for the Plan at 31 May 2011.
Mortality assumptions are based on 100% of standard S1PxA 
year of use tables with allowance for future improvements to be 
in line with CMI_2010 Core Projections assuming a long term 
rate of future improvement of 1.25% per annum for both males 
and females. Mortality assumptions in the prior year were 
based on the PxA00 year of use tables. We believe that the 
underlying population of the S1PxA tables better reﬂect the 
membership of the UK scheme.
The year-end assets in the schemes were:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Equities 9.4 4.9
Government bonds 21.2 21.3
Corporate bonds 16.2 17 .3
Other – 0.2
Market value of assets 46.8 43.7
Adjustment for unrecoverable surplus (3.5) –
Total market value of assets 43.3 43.7
Actuarial value of liabilities (43.3) (43.9)
Deﬁcit in the schemes – (0.2)
Net pension liability – (0.2)
Movement in deﬁcit during the year:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Plan assets:
Fair value at 1 June 43.7 37 .3
Expected return on plan assets 2.2 2.2
Actuarial gain 2.3 4.9
Contributions paid by employer 0.5 0.5
Net beneﬁts paid out (1.9) (1.2)
Fair value at 31 May 46.8 43.7
Beneﬁt obligations:
Present value at 1 June (43.9) (37.3)
Current service cost – –
Interest cost (2.4) (2.3)
Actuarial gain (loss) 1.1 (5.5)
Net beneﬁts paid out 1.9 1.2
Present value at 31 May (43.3) (43.9)
Net Asset (liability) 3.5 (0.2)
An asset of £3.5m (2010: £nil) in respect of the UK ﬁnal  
salary scheme has not been recognised as the Company 
would not be able to derive future economic beneﬁt from it.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 125 M. Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement are  
as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Current service cost (included  
 in employee costs) – –
Interest cost on pension  
 scheme liabilities (2.4) (2.3)
Expected return on plan assets 2.2 2.2
Included in ﬁnance cost (0.2) (0.1)
Total income statement expense (0.2) (0.1)
The long term expected rate of return on the UK scheme 
assets is 5.1% (2010: 5.1%).
The actual return on the schemes’ assets was a gain of £4.5m 
(2010: £4.7m).
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income are as follows:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010
Total actuarial gains (losses) 3.4 (3.0)
Change in irrecoverable surplus, 
 effect of limit in para 58(b) (3.5) 2.4
Total losses (0.1) (0.6)
Cumulative amount of actuarial  
 losses recognised (1.9) (1.8)
History of experience gains and losses in the UK scheme:
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Experience  
 gains (losses) on  
 schemes’ assets
Amounts (£m) 2.3 2.5 (2.2) (4.5) 3.2
Percentage of  
 schemes’ assets 4.9% 5.7% 5.5% 10.9% 8.3%
Experience  
 (losses) gains  
 on schemes’ 
 liabilities
Amounts (£m) (0.3) (0.1) 1.6 (2.3) –
Percentage of  
 schemes’ liabilities 0.7% 0.2% 4.3% 5.6% –
History of asset values, beneﬁt obligation and deﬁcit in schemes:
All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Fair value of  
 plan assets 46.8 43.7 39.7 41.2 44.3
Deﬁned beneﬁt  
 obligation (43.3) (43.9) (37.3) (41.1) (37.3)
Surplus (deﬁcit) 
 in scheme 3.5 (0.2) 2.4 0.1 7.0
The expected contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme  
for the next ﬁnancial year beginning 1 June 2011 are £0.5m 
(2010: £0.5m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
126 Annual Report 2011 N. Called up share capital
Number of shares
Allotted,
 fully paid
 share capital Treasury MEST ESOP Net
At 1 June 2010  594,584,179 (46,477,433) (17,133,515) (103,272) 530,869,959 
Shares cancelled during the year (182,150,609) 12,796,552 – – (169,354,057)
Share consolidation  (51,554,197) 3,606,820  2,012,467  12,909  (45,922,001)
Sophis consideration stock 1,626,140 – – – 1,626,140 
Share options exercised –  6,415,383  1,108,687 – 7,524,070 
At 31 May 2011 362,505,513 (23,658,678) (14,012,361) (90,363) 324,744,111
Par value of each share is 1.14 pence. During the year, 6,415,383 (2010: 1,049,481) treasury shares, with a cost of £6.8m  
(2010: £0.8m), were utilised to satisfy share awards. 
Shareholders approved the return of capital via a Tender Offer of the proceeds of disposal of Allscripts on 13 August 2010.  
On 16 December 2010, 169,354,057 ordinary shares were tendered and were repurchased for cancellation at a strike price  
of 310 pence per ordinary share, for a total cost of £525 million.
To enable the Company to return the balance of the proceeds from the Allscripts disposal shareholders approved a £146 million 
return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Company’s General Meeting on 11 February 2011. 383,579,014  
B shares were issued on 14 February 2011. Shareholders owning 89,266,979 B shares elected to receive the initial dividend 
payment of 38 pence each and these shares were subsequently converted to deferred shares. The remaining shares were 
redeemed at a later date for 38 pence each. The ﬁnal redemption date for B shares was 7 April 2011 and all transactions relating 
to the B share scheme have now been completed.
The share consolidation, approved as part of the B share scheme, took place on 14 February 2011, when shareholders 
exchanged 8 existing ordinary shares of 1p each for 7 new ordinary shares of 1
1
/7 pence each (1.14p).
The Misys Employee Share Trust (MEST) purchases shares in the market using funds contributed by the respective Group 
employing companies. These shares are used to satisfy awards made under the Group’s share incentive arrangements.  
At 31 May 2011, the MEST held 14,012,361 (2010: 17 ,133,515) shares purchased for a cost of £37.9m (2010: £40.6m) and  
with a market value of £50.7m (2010: £38.6m). During the year, it utilised shares with a cost of £2.6m (2010: £6.6m) to satisfy 
share awards.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) purchases shares in the market using funds loaned by the Company. Share 
purchases are timed to ensure that the ESOP has sufﬁcient shares to satisfy its requirements as and when its obligations fall due. 
The Trustees of the ESOP have waived its rights to dividends. At 31 May 2011, the ESOP held 90,363 (2010: 103,272) shares, 
purchased for a cost of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m) and with a market value of £0.3m (2010: £0.2m).
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 127 O. Share capital and reserves
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Share
capital
Share
premium
account
Capital
redemption
reserve
Other
reserves
At 1 June 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 137.4 
Proﬁt retained for the year – – – 582.9 
Shares issued 0.1 5.5 – – 
Shares repurchased for cancellation (1.7) – 1.7 (525.0)
Convertible bond – equity component – – – 16.1 
B share scheme – shares issued 145.7 (145.7) – – 
B share scheme – redemption of shares (111.8) – 111.8 (105.6)
B share scheme – dividends paid (33.9) – 33.9 (33.9)
Expenses incurred on transactions with owners – – – (5.5)
Actuarial loss – – – (0.1)
Share options exercised – 1.0 – 5.5 
Share-based payments – – – 7.4 
At 31 May 2011 4.3 12.7 147.7 79.2 
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Share
capital
Share
premium
account
Capital
redemption
reserve
Other
reserves
At 1 June 2009 5.9 151.9 0.3 149.1 
Loss retained for the year – – – (19.3)
Actuarial loss – – – (0.6)
Share options exercised – – – 1.8 
Share-based payments – – – 6.4 
At 31 May 2010 5.9 151.9 0.3 137.4 
P. Other reserves
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Retained
 earnings
Convertible
 bond reserve
Treasury
shares
Own
shares Total
At 1 June 2010 272.2 –  (94.1) (40.7) 137.4 
Total recognised income and expense for the period 582.9 – – –  582.9 
Purchase of and other movement in own shares (525.0) –  – –  (525.0)
Convertible bond – equity component – 16.1 – – 16.1 
B shares – redemption of shares (105.6) –  – –  (105.6)
B share scheme – dividends paid (33.9) – – –  (33.9)
Expenses incurred on transactions with owners (5.5) – –  –  (5.5)
Actuarial loss (0.1) –  –  –  (0.1)
Share options settled from own shares (10.7) –  13.5  2.7  5.5 
Share-based payments 7.4  –  –  –  7.4 
At 31 May 2011 181.7  16.1 (80.6) (38.0) 79.2 
All ﬁgures in £ millions
Retained
 earnings
Convertible
 bond reserve
Treasury
shares
Own
shares Total
At 1 June 2009 292.7  –  (96.3) (47.3) 149.1 
Total recognised income and expense for the period (19.3) –  –  –  (19.3)
Actuarial loss (0.6) –  –  –  (0.6)
Share options settled from own shares (7.0) –  2.2  6.6  1.8 
Share-based payments 6.4  –  –  –  6.4 
At 31 May 2010 272.2  –  (94.1) (40.7) 137.4 


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
128 Annual Report 2011 Q. Events after the reporting period
On 21 June 2011, the Board announced that it had received a preliminary approach that may or may not lead to an offer being 
made for the Company.
On 23 June 2011, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. conﬁrmed that it had made a preliminary approach regarding a 
possible cash offer for Misys plc.
R. Related party transactions
The company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with other 100% owned subsidiaries 
of Misys plc Group.
ValueAct Capital has a holding of 67 ,812,779 shares representing 20.21% (2010: 25.7%) in the Company on an aggregated basis, 
which reduced as result of the tender offer on 15 December 2010. Jeff Ubben, who is a non-executive Director of the Company, 
is Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Investment Ofﬁcer of ValueAct Capital.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 129 All ﬁgures in £ millions 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Revenue
Banking 167.4  161.7  183.0  159.8  148.6 
TCM 184.9  179.5  161.1  141.7  125.1 
Misys Sophis 16.8  –  –  – – 
Corporate & Other 0.9  0.7  – – – 
Continuing operations 370.0 341.9 344.1 301.5 273.7 
Operating proﬁt (loss)
Banking 31.0 32.7 38.5 17.2 16.3 
TCM 41.9 42.1 36.5 32.1 28.4 
Misys Sophis (3.7) –  –  –  – 
Corporate & Other (11.9) (12.7) (21.6) (11.0) (9.5)
Continuing operations excluding exceptional items 57.3 62.1 53.4 38.3 35.2 
Exceptional items (21.0) (8.4) 31.1 (14.6) (24.3)
 36.3 53.7 84.5 23.7 10.9 
Interest and other ﬁnance costs (4.1) (8.7) (14.0) (3.4) (13.9)
Proﬁt (loss) before taxation 32.2 45.0 70.5 20.3 (3.0)
Taxation 2.1 (20.5) 3.0 (11.4) (1.9)
Proﬁt (loss) after taxation from continuing operations 34.3  24.5 73.5  8.9 (4.9)
Proﬁt after taxation from the discontinued operation 614.7 36.9 16.1 104.4 19.9 
Proﬁt for the year – attributable to non-controlling interest – (17.1) (7.6) – – 
Proﬁt for the year – attributable to equity holders of Misys plc 649.0 44.3 82.0 113.3 15.0 
Net funds (debt) (94.2) 0.9  (128.9) 25.5 (91.1)
 Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 12.4 13.1  9.8 14.0 14.6 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  12.2 12.8  9.7 14.0 14.5 
Dividends per share – – – 7.91 7.53 
 Number  Number  Number  Number  Number 
Average number of employees
Banking 2,075 1,525 1,375 1,788 1,790 
TCM 1,285 1,029 1,044 1,066 892 
Misys Sophis 100 – – – – 
Corporate & Other 307 1,164 971  81  70 
Continuing operations 3,767 3,718 3,390 2,935 2,752 
Discontinued operation 640 2,412 2,021 1,601 1,597 
4,407 6,130 5,411 4,536 4,349 
Adjusted earnings per share includes continuing and discontinued operations.
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
130 Annual Report 2011 Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting 28 September 2011
Announcement of 2011 interim results
 (provisional) 
January 2012
Preliminary announcement of 2012 results (provisional) July 2012
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday 28 
September 2011 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, 
London WC2A 3ED. The Notice of AGM accompanies this 
Report and will also be displayed on the Company’s website.
Electronic Communications
Changes in legislation have provided companies with greater 
ﬂexibility when communicating with their shareholders. By 
using electronic communication Misys is able to distribute 
messages to all its shareholders instantaneously, reduce costs 
and its environmental impact. Only those shareholders who 
have elected to receive shareholder documents in hard copy 
will receive documents in this form. If in future you would like to 
receive the annual report electronically rather than by post, 
please register online at www.misys.com 
Shareholders who have not elected to receive documents  
in hard copy will receive a notiﬁcation at the time of their 
publication advising that they are available electronically  
and how to access them.
Company Website
Whether you are looking for information about our activities, 
ﬁnancial information, social, environmental and ethical 
responsibilities, our approach to governance, latest press 
releases, this report and further information about the 
Company is available on our corporate website at  
www.misys.com. 
Misys Share Price
The Misys share price is quoted in most UK daily national 
newspapers under ‘Software & Computer Services’, ‘Support 
Services’ or ‘Information Technology’ sections. 
Company Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce
Tom Kilroy, Misys plc, One Kingdom Street, Paddington, 
London W2 6BL Tel: +44 (0) 20 3320 5000. The Company  
is registered and domiciled in England No. 1360027.
Registrar
Our registrar is Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Telephone: (from UK)  
*0871 384 2070; (from outside UK) +44 (0) 121 415 7047  
www.shareview.co.uk. Please direct any enquiries about 
holdings of Misys plc shares to the registrar.
*Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a 
BT landline. Charges from other telephony providers may vary. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, 
excluding bank holidays.
Share Register Fraud: Protecting your investment
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports 
about the Company. If you receive any unsolicited advice make 
sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation 
and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FSA by 
visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/register. More information can 
be found at www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Tips on protecting your shares
  Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder 
reference number in a safe place and destroy any 
documentation which you no longer need by shredding it.
 Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address.
  Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST 
account via a nominee.
Sharedealing services
Shareholders can make use of the Equiniti share dealing 
facilities either by telephoning Equiniti on 08456 037 037  
(UK only) or by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Sharegift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a purely voluntary 
charity share donation scheme for shareholders who wish to 
dispose of small numbers of shares when the dealing costs or 
minimum fee makes it uneconomical to sell them. Details of the 
scheme are available from ShareGift at www.sharegift.org or 
can be obtained from Equiniti.
Combined Code
A copy of the Combined Code can be found at www.fsa.gov.uk 
Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 131 Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
135 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 3UR, UK
Legal Advisers
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London,  
E1 6AD, UK
Allen & Overy LLP
1221 Avenue of the Americas 
New York,  
NY 10020, USA
Joint Corporate Brokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 
20 Moorgate 
London 
EC2R 6DA, UK 
Deutsche Bank AG  
1 Great Winchester Street 
London  
EC2N 2DB, UK
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
One Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH, UK


Financial statements
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
132 Annual Report 2011 Misys would like to thank all those who participated in producing  
this report, particularly the members of staff for their contributions.
This document has been printed on Heaven 42, which is produced  
using virgin wood ﬁbre from fully sustainable forests. All pulps used  
are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and manufactured at a mill that  
has been awarded the ISO 14001 and EMAS certiﬁcates for environmental 
management. The use of the FSC logo identiﬁes products which contain 
wood from well-managed forests certiﬁed in accordance with the rules  
of the Forest Stewardship Council. The paper is also completely 
bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have ﬁnished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it,  
please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your 
recycled paper waste.
An online version of this report is available on our website at  
www.misys.com/report2011
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com 
