 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
o2.com
O2 plc
Wellington Street
Slough
Berkshire SL1 1YP
Registered No. 5310128
The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental 
Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Paufﬂey Ltd
Printed in England by St Ives Financial Limited.
O2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
ARep_Covers.qxd  2/6/05  10:34  Page FC1 o2.com   1
Contents Financial highlights
1
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive Officer’s review
6 Business review
19 Corporate responsibility
21 Operating and financial review and prospects
39 Risk factors
41 Board of directors
42 Report of the directors
44 Statement of directors’ responsibility
45 Report on corporate governance
51 Report on directors’ remuneration
65 Report of the auditors
66 Financial statements
68 Notes to the financial statements
90 Non-financial metrics
91 Five year summary
92 Additional information for shareholders
94 Definitions
Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking 
statements on page 92.
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group turnover 6,683 5,646 4,611
EBITDA
2
1,768 1,367 858
Exceptional operating charges (45) (75) (8,300)
Group operating profit/(loss) 341 159 (8,658)
Capital expenditure 1,415 1,213 885
Year end net debt 78 366 549
1
Continuing operations.
2
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of the operating profits and
losses of our joint ventures and associates. EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under UK GAAP and may not be comparable
to similarly titled measures of other companies, because EBITDA is not uniformly defined. EBITDA should not be considered by investors as
an alternative to Group operating profit/(loss) or profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation as an indication of operating performance,
or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities as an indication of cash flows. EBITDA is one of the key financial measures used by
the Group for evaluating financial performance, and is discussed in the operating and financial review and prospects on page 23.
Group turnover
1
 £m Group EBITDA
1
 £m
02
4,076
03
4,611
04
5,646
05
6,683
02
484
03
858
04
1,367
05
1,768
Across the Group:
• Record number of customer additions – 3.26 million 
• Customer base reached almost 24 million
• Group turnover increased by over £1 billion
• Pre-tax profit trebled over previous year
• Inaugural final dividend of 2.25 pence per share proposed
O2_AR_pp001.qxd  6/1/05  7:58 PM  Page 1 o2.com   2
Chairman’s statement
• Strong ﬁnancial performance
• First dividend earlier than planned
• Capital reorganisation approved
• New company name – O2 plc
• In shape for next phase of development 
I would like to welcome you to this, the ﬁrst annual report since our change of name to O2 plc and my
ﬁrst since I was appointed Chairman of your Company. 
In 2004/05, all of O2’s businesses performed well and the Group delivered another year of strong revenue
and proﬁt growth, with turnover from continuing operations up more than 18 per cent and underlying
earnings per share 63 per cent ahead of last year. Since our demerger from BT in November 2001, there
has been a transformation in the Group’s operational and ﬁnancial performance. We have been delighted,
as a result, to be able to establish a policy of sustainable dividends earlier than originally expected. The
Group has produced both earnings growth and a positive cash ﬂow. We believe strongly that shareholders
should beneﬁt directly from this and, accordingly, we are very pleased to be able to propose an inaugural
ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 pence per share.
The payment of a dividend for 2004/05 and our new policy of sustainable dividends reﬂect our conﬁdence
in the Company’s future prospects, and our commitment to deliver returns for shareholders. 
As you will know, a capital reorganisation, announced in November 2004, was required to enable us to
make the dividend payment. I am pleased that shareholders overwhelmingly approved the Company's
proposals at an Extraordinary General Meeting, following Court approval of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The Scheme became effective on 14 March 2005 when dealings in new O2 plc shares began on the
London Stock Exchange.
We also recognised that, as a legacy of the demerger from BT, the former mmO2 share register included 
a large number of very small shareholders. The cost of servicing such a large number of shareholders was
signiﬁcant and was set to rise further with the payment of dividends. Therefore, shareholders had the
option of electing to receive, in exchange for their existing shares in mmO2 plc, either new shares in O2 plc
or a cash consideration. In the event, some 833,000 holders, owning up to 1,000 shares each, received the
cash alternative. This has allowed the Company to secure a long-term reduction in the costs of servicing its
shareholders, whilst remaining one of the ten most widely held public companies in the UK with more
than nine out of ten shareholders being retail investors.
As part of the reorganisation proposals, mmO2’s American Depositary Receipts were delisted from 
the New York Stock Exchange. There is no intention to seek a US listing for O2 shares. In view of the
disproportionate costs arising from continued registration with the US SEC, we intend also to deregister
from the SEC.
Board changes
I joined the Company as a non-executive Director in April 2003 and became Chairman of mmO2 plc at 
the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in July 2004, when David Varney stood down. 
I would like to thank David Varney for handing over the Company in such good shape. Having successfully
led the Company since demerger, David has now taken up the new and challenging position of executive
chairman of HM Revenue & Customs.
There have been other important changes in the Board over the past year.
David McGlade, CEO of O2 UK, stepped down from the Board and left the Company at the end of the
ﬁnancial year in March 2005. He has returned to America to become CEO of Intelsat. David led the
turnaround in O2 UK’s performance since demerger, and the successful establishment of the O 2 brand in
the UK. He has been succeeded as CEO of O2 UK by the former UK Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Matthew Key,
who has also been appointed to the Executive Committee of O2 plc.
During the year, the Board was further strengthened with the appointment of Patrick Lupo, Kathleen
O’Donovan and Rudolf Lamprecht as non-executive Directors. Previously chief executive and then executive
chairman of DHL Worldwide Express, Patrick brings with him a wealth of experience in international sales,
service and distribution. Kathleen has joined the Audit Committee reﬂecting her expertise in the capital
and ﬁnancial markets, having been Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at Invensys plc and chair of the audit committee
of the Court of the Bank of England. She also brings relevant experience from a number of non-executive
directorships, which includes the music recording and publishing group, EMI. Rudolf’s deep understanding
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 2 o2.com   3
of sales, marketing and customer segmentation as a Board member at Siemens AG, as well as his
knowledge of the German market, mean that all three will make a major contribution to our strategy 
of focusing on improving the customer experience and organic growth as we continue to drive the
Company forward.
Three non-executive Directors – Paul Myners, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins – stepped down from the 
Board. Paul Myners decided to become chairman of Marks & Spencer, Neelie Kroes left following her
nomination by the Dutch Government as its new EU Commissioner, and Ian Meakins wished to devote
himself to his new role as chief executive ofﬁcer of Alliance UniChem. I would like to thank Paul, Neelie 
and Ian, all of whom have contributed to the successful establishment of O2 as a FTSE 100 company with 
a strong balance sheet and a powerful O
2
brand.
Andrew Sukawaty, who has made an outstanding contribution as senior independent Director and Deputy
Chairman since the demerger, has elected to stand down from these roles owing to an increase in other
business commitments. He remains a key non-executive Director and shareholders will continue to beneﬁt
from his close involvement in the business. Stephen Hodge was appointed Deputy Chairman and senior
independent Director, and joined the Nomination and Governance Committee. Patrick Lupo became
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in place of Andrew Sukawaty, who remained a member of 
that committee.
Corporate Responsibility
We take seriously our responsibility to the communities in which we operate. We strongly believe that
companies who respond to the needs of the communities in which they work, and of the wider world, are
more likely to succeed on a sustainable basis. I am pleased that our efforts in these areas were recognised
last year. O2 was the top scoring mobile phone operator in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. We were
included in the FTSE4Good, the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility (CR) Index and the Top
100 Global Sustainability Reporters list. 
Under our Can Do in the Community programme, we have successfully developed a number of community
projects across our territories, while measures to support employee fund-raising and giving to charity
through payroll have been launched. In total we contributed £1.7 million in charitable donations across the
Group, of which over £600,000 came from UK-based companies, and a further £500,000 to the Tsunami
appeal. Most importantly, our employees continued to give their time and imagination to a wide range of
fund-raising schemes.
At O2 we are sensitive to public concerns over issues such as health and the use of mobile phones, the
siting of masts, and the protection of the vulnerable. To help parents and others make informed choices, we
have introduced measures such as age veriﬁcation, parental controls, ﬁlters and barring. In addition, we help
fund on-going research and are committed to effective, responsible communications, producing leaﬂets on
subjects ranging from health issues to advice to parents on personal safety, bullying and internet grooming.
All of this information is available in our retail outlets and online. A separate Corporate Responsibility report
will be published in July 2005.
The excellent performance of our individual businesses also won independent recognition in the form of 
a number of important awards. I am particularly proud that O2 was voted “Best Large Company to Work
For” in Ireland and placed in the top 15 medium-sized employers in Germany. One of our key objectives 
at O2 is to improve the day-to-day working lives of our employees and to ensure that work is an
environment that they enjoy. We are in the process of introducing Balance – a new ﬂexible approach 
to employee beneﬁts designed to help with the management of work/life choices. It would allow, for
example, our staff to substitute extra payments for life insurance or additional child-care vouchers for
unwanted holiday time.
Looking ahead
We are ﬁnancially strong and have built a powerful, iconic O
2
brand. Revenue is growing fast, the Company
has modest debt and, with a strong management team led by Peter Erskine, our CEO, we have so far
outperformed most City expectations. O2 is in a good position. Taking the Company forward to the next
phase of its development and further strengthening its position in Germany, the United Kingdom and Ireland
will be challenging but achievable.
I believe that Germany represents the most signiﬁcant new opportunity for O2 and it is for this reason that
the Board has authorised a substantial extra capital investment into our German business. Its performance
has substantially exceeded our expectations and the impressive momentum and growth in revenue and
proﬁtability that O2 Germany has achieved over recent years is continuing apace.
Improving customer satisfaction and reducing churn are the greatest challenges that the mobile industry
faces. Ownership of mobile phones is now so widespread, and the degree of competitiveness so intense,
that we must change our emphasis from striving to acquire new customers towards retaining those we
already have. I am determined that O2 will take a lead in these areas. We will focus on gaining a closer
understanding of our customers’ needs and behaviour, to ﬁnd the best way in which we can reward their
loyalty. We will work even harder to differentiate our business by delivering intuitive, easy-to-use and fairly
priced products and services – particularly in the data ﬁeld – that our customers value highly, based on
proven technology. And we will continue to ensure that we work to make a difference to the communities
in which we operate, building a sustainable business for the future.
We aim to grow the dividend towards our medium-term target pay-out ratio of 50 per cent of underlying
earnings, reﬂecting our confidence in the Company’s ability to continue to grow revenue, earnings and cash
ﬂow, and our commitment to deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
David Arculus
Chairman
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 3 o2.com   4
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
In 2004/05, O2 has delivered further strong revenue and proﬁt growth across all our businesses. In the face
of determined competition, we had a record year for customer additions and achieved a signiﬁcant increase
in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items (EBITDA), and operating
proﬁt. Group revenue from continuing operations grew by over £1 billion and pre-tax proﬁt more than
trebled to £309 million. Underlying earnings per share were 63 per cent ahead of last year and net debt 
was reduced by £288 million to £78 million.
The uptake of data services accelerated. These now generate revenues of over £1.4 billion per annum and
account for more than 23 per cent of our gross service revenues. During the year, we launched our business
and consumer 3G services in the UK and Germany, with Ireland to follow later this year. Our data offering
will be signiﬁcantly enhanced in the second half of 2005 by our agreement with NTT DoCoMo to provide its
mobile internet service in all our key markets. 
O2 UK
In a highly competitive market with ten players, O2 UK showed good momentum, adding 1.1 million new
customers – made up of 785,000 pre-pay and 335,000 contract additions – taking its customer base to
14.4 million. We have reduced the number of pre-pay net additions to allow for an element of double
counting when existing pre-pay customers buy a new handset or SIM card. Despite the impact of the
termination rate cut imposed by Ofcom in September 2004, service revenue showed further growth, due 
to strong voice and increasing data usage. Texting grew by 34 per cent, reinforcing our market-leading
position. Data is not just about texting – more than one-third of customers used a non-text data service
during the year. Our Tesco Mobile joint venture, which is reported separately from O2 UK, also continued to
perform well, with its active customer base reaching 500,000 shortly after Christmas 2004. In such a
competitive market, the cost of customer churn is an issue, but at O2 UK EBITDA rose by 14 per cent 
to £1,183 million on a 14 per cent increase in service revenues.
We plan to deploy signiﬁcant new resources into the customer-facing areas of our UK operations – including
the creation of 2,000 new jobs, opening a fourth major UK customer service centre and further expanding
our shop network. By delivering a better customer experience, we aim to improve customer loyalty and
develop a sustainable basis for enhanced long-term returns. The cost of this expansion has been offset 
by efﬁciencies in non customer-facing activities, resulting in a reduction of some 500 positions and an 
exceptional operating charge of £45 million recognised in 2004/05.
O2 Germany
The performance of O2 Germany last year was outstanding. The business is now recognised as the most
dynamic and innovative in the German market. After what was, by any measure, an extremely strong 
ﬁrst half, growth continued over the rest of the year. Service revenue increased by 28 per cent to
€2,474 million and EBITDA increased to €500 million. Our momentum in Germany has been driven by a
rapid increase in the customer base – O2 Germany has a very attractive range of products and services and
markets them aggressively. We added nearly 2 million new customers, approaching one-third of net new
additions in the German marketplace. These are high-value customers. O2 Germany has market-leading
ARPU thanks largely to our unique O
2
Genion Homezone service. In October 2004, we launched a new joint
venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk, which had attracted more than 250,000 pre-pay customers by the end of the
ﬁnancial year. We are now aiming to continue this growth in what is Europe’s largest telecoms market. Over
a ﬁve-year period starting in April 2004, we aim to spend between €3billion and €3.5 billion on increasing
our investment in network quality and population coverage – this is €1 billion to €1.5 billion more than
previously planned. By the end of the period, we will be able to offer high-quality mobile services across our
own 3G network, underpinning further growth and also higher proﬁtability as we reduce our reliance on
roaming agreements with other operators. 
O2 Ireland
Innovative and competitive services and tariffs, together with the strength of the O
2
brand, have continued
to drive growth in customers at O2 Ireland, together with an on-going rise in usage levels. Customers in
Ireland consistently use their mobile phones over 50 per cent more than in our other territories. This growth
in customer numbers, to over 1.5 million, led to another year of strong ﬁnancial performance with service
revenue increasing by 13 per cent to €816 million and EBITDA 9 per cent higher at €327 million. The Irish
• Strong revenue and proﬁt growth
• Accelerated investment in Germany
• Focus on enhanced customer experience
• Airwave service fully operational
• Increased take-up of data services
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 4 o2.com   5
market is becoming increasingly competitive. Four network operators are now active and others are
expressing an interest, following proposed measures to allow mobile virtual network operators access to the
networks of existing players.
O2 Airwave
The roll-out of our Airwave network for the emergency services was completed, on time and on budget,
at the end of March 2005. Airwave, which makes communities safer by providing communication where
and when it matters most, has now been delivered to all police forces in England, Scotland and Wales.
Over 150,000 police ofﬁcers will have access to the service, together with more than 78 other public safety
agencies that have also signed up to Airwave. The system has already contributed to a reduction in crime,
improved ofﬁcer safety and, in the case of Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust, saved over 150 lives. 
O2 Airwave has been shortlisted for similar contracts to provide nationwide communications for the
Ambulance and Fire Services. We see many opportunities to provide secure and reliable communications to
a wide range of new users.
Manx Telecom
Manx Telecom, our subsidiary on the Isle of Man, was the ﬁrst company in Europe to launch a live 3G
service, in December 2001, providing O2 with a valuable learning experience and hands-on knowledge 
of the potential of 3G. Building on this success, Manx Telecom is now set to run Europe’s ﬁrst super-fast 
3G service, using HSDPA technology. This offers communication speeds up to three times those of current
3G services. Once again we expect that this will provide other O2 businesses with vital insights into future
mobile services. The technology will be rolled out across all of our territories from 2006.
Strategy
Our strategic framework for the coming year is driven by the same high but realistic aspirations that have
delivered such strong growth to our business since demerger. To continue to meet those aspirations we will
be addressing some key priorities in 2005/06.
Superior revenue and proﬁt growth despite the competitive landscape: O2 UK continues to focus on
winning and retaining more high-value customers in order to drive further revenue improvements. In
Germany, there is signiﬁcant room for growth at recent rates and our accelerated investment programme
will provide a springboard to achieve this. O2 Airwave will be making a strong ﬁnancial contribution in its
ﬁrst full year of operation.
Best customer experience to give substance to our iconic O
2
brand: quality, value and innovation are the
keys to maintaining the strength of the O
2
brand and differentiating us from our competitors. To keep the
loyalty and trust of our customers, we must give them the service that they want and products that work –
which is why we have been cautious in the timing of our 3G launch. We do not necessarily want to be the
ﬁrst to market but we do want to be the best. Our aim is to keep the O
2
brand fresh, with fewer, better
services, all designed to enhance the customer experience – we are investing in the platforms and people 
to achieve this.
Operationally efﬁcient, agile and innovative organisation: we will be driving our businesses to realise
efﬁciency gains, using our growing insight into our customers’ needs and behaviour to align our costs more
closely to what customers value most. We have innovative joint ventures with Tchibo in Germany and Tesco
in the UK, and other multi-territory partnerships.
Mobile data services that our customers really value: “texting” has become a way of life, whether in 
person-to-person messages, texting questions to the Prime Minister or voting off Big Brother contestants.
We carried a record 50 million texts on Christmas Day 2004 and texting continues to grow in all markets.
Driven by O
2
Active, our award-winning mobile internet portal, we are also starting to see signiﬁcant growth
in non-text data usage, revenues from which have increased by 50 per cent over the past 12 months. The
mobile sector is poised for even more dramatic growth as we focus on developing 
new mobile data products and value-added services.
A high-speed network, as provided by 3G, is the key to future mobile data services, enabling customers to
migrate to advanced, content-rich applications. We believe there will be a mass market for these services
starting in late 2005 and building over the next few years.
We are rolling out the 3G network in all of our territories, matching capacity to known mobile data demand.
We have invested in training and billing systems and we have highly speciﬁed and well-functioning devices.
To complete the picture, we signed a long-term agreement with NTT DoCoMo Inc, Japan’s largest mobile
communications provider, to launch a mobile internet service under the i-mode
®
brand in the UK and Ireland
in Autumn 2005. A similar service will be available in Germany from Spring 2006. This service, which will
complement O
2
Active, has a proven track record in Western Europe of lifting uptake, usage and revenue
from data services, due to its ease of use and huge breadth and depth of tailored internet content.
The appeal of these services will be signiﬁcantly enhanced through the progressive introduction of HSDPA
technology. This offers speeds signiﬁcantly better than 3G and will, in effect, provide a true mobile
broadband experience. In addition, we are engaged in the UK’s ﬁrst trial of multi-channel mobile TV.
Looking ahead
In the UK, we are expecting revenues to grow at a mid-single digit rate, reﬂecting the impact of the
remaining ﬁve months of the call termination rate cut in September 2004 and continuing competition in 
a highly penetrated market. Competitive forces, coupled with O2 UK’s substantial investment in customer-
facing capabilities to attract and retain long-term customers, are expected to lead to a broadly stable EBITDA
margin. We are expecting further strong revenue growth in Germany, driven mainly by a continued rapid
growth in our customer base there. On the back of strong revenue growth, O2 Germany’s EBITDA margin 
is expected to rise further, to around 20 per cent, after absorbing the impact of UMTS network running
costs and on-going national roaming costs. Capital expenditure overall should be broadly in line with last
year. Higher investment in our UMTS network, particularly in Germany, will be offset by a reduction in
spending at O2 Airwave, following completion of its network roll-out.
Peter Erskine
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
O2_AR_pp002-005.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 5 Business review  
History and development of the Company
On 14 February 2005, the shareholders of mmO2 approved the proposals for a capital reorganisation 
to create distributable reserves through a Court-approved Scheme of Arrangement (the Scheme). The
reorganisation was required in order that the Company could implement a sustainable dividend policy and
make distributions to shareholders. Following shareholder approval, mmO2 was acquired by a new company,
O2, which effected a reduction of its share capital to create distributable reserves. The Scheme became
effective on 14 March 2005, on which date dealings in O2 shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the Scheme, mmO2 shareholders exchanged their existing shares in mmO2 for new shares in O2 on 
a one-for-one basis. mmO2 shareholders also had the option of electing to receive, in exchange for 
their existing shares in mmO2, either new shares in O2 or cash consideration under a cash alternative.
Shareholders who took no action were deemed to have elected for the cash alternative. This cash
consideration consisted of the amount received through a placing in the market of the new shares on behalf
of the shareholders electing for the cash alternative. The value of the cash alternative was £1.30 including
the premium of 5 pence per share. The cash alternative (and therefore the size of the placing) was limited 
to 300,000,000 O2 shares. 
The Board has also reviewed the US listing and the associated ADR programme which is a legacy of the
demerger from BT. As part of the reorganisation, mmO2’s ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock
Exchange on 11 March 2005 and O2 has not established an ADR programme nor a US listing for the 
new shares in O2. The Board is currently pursuing deregistration of O2 shares from the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
During the second half of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2004, mmO2 transferred O2 Online, Products
O2 and certain other central functions to the operating businesses, to simplify lines of management, reduce
costs, and improve speed of execution. This restructuring, which reduced headcount by 200, led to an
exceptional operating charge of £75 million being incurred in the second half of the year ended 31 March
2004. As a consequence of this streamlining, as from 1 April 2004, O2 Online and Products O2 are no
longer being operated as separate businesses.
On 20 February 2004, we announced that our Board of Directors had received and considered a proposal by
Royal K.P .N. N.V., the Dutch telecommunications group. The Board carefully considered the proposal but
rejected it as not being in the best interests of our shareholders.
On 14 April 2003, we announced that we had agreed the sale of O2 Netherlands to Greenﬁeld Capital
Partners, an independent private equity and ﬁnance group with interests in the telecoms sector, for
€25 million in cash, which was paid on completion of the transaction on 3 June 2003.
Our Group
We are a leading provider of mobile communications services in Europe, with wholly owned businesses in
the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man. 
We have almost 24 million customers and approximately 15,000 employees. We reported revenues for the
year ended 31 March 2005 of £6,683 million. Data represented 23.3 per cent of gross service revenues for
the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005. 
The businesses in the UK and Ireland are both established and proﬁtable, with a track record of revenue and
customer growth and a strong presence in high-value markets, such as business and mobile data services. 
In the UK, our Tesco Mobile joint venture performed well, reporting that its active customer base reached
500,000 shortly after Christmas. In Ireland, the growth in customer numbers led to another year of strong
ﬁnancial performance.
O2 Germany remains the fastest growing operator in Germany. It experienced strong service revenue growth
for the full ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005, driven by the continuing rapid growth in the customer
base. Performance in Germany has exceeded expectations thanks largely to our unique Genion service.
We announced on 1 April 2005 that O2 Airwave had completed the nationwide network – on time and on
budget – to provide every police force in England, Scotland and Wales with state of the art, secure digital
communications. The completion of the ﬁve-year programme that has rolled out the largest public safety
mobile communications network of its kind in Europe is a milestone in the efforts being made to cut
bureaucracy and improve safety for the police and the general public. Over 100,000 police ofﬁcers are 
now using Airwave.
Manx Telecom is unique within the Group, providing mobile, ﬁxed line and internet services in the Isle of
Man. It was also the pioneer of UMTS networks, the platform on which we, in measured stages, will supply
services Europe-wide. We chose Manx Telecom to run Europe’s ﬁrst superfast 3G trial, in partnership with
Lucent Technologies, using HSDPA technology. HSDPA offers the possibility of communication speeds up to
three times faster than current commercial UMTS services.
As we reported last year, we became a founding member of Starmap Mobile Alliance in October 2003, a
group of independent mobile phone operators who are joining forces in readiness for the international roll-
out of UMTS services. Starmap aims to provide a “home-away-from-home” experience by introducing
seamless roaming and multimedia connectivity to more than 46 million customers in ten European countries.
In addition, we have established the Tesco Mobile and Tchibo Mobilfunk joint venture businesses in the UK
and Germany respectively.
o2.com   6
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 6 Our technology
Our success in Germany has encouraged us to accelerate the growth of the business by means of increased
network investment to deliver a high-quality customer experience from our own UMTS platform. At the
same time we have launched our consumer UMTS service in the UK, a move that will be signiﬁcantly
enhanced in the second half of 2005 by our strategic agreement with NTT DoCoMo to provide its mobile
internet service in our key markets. 
We signed a long-term strategic agreement with NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s largest mobile communications
provider under which we will launch a mobile internet service using i-mode
®
capability in the UK, Germany
and Ireland. This partnership will complement our existing expertise in data services with NTT DoCoMo’s
experience in non-SMS data and its extensive research and development capabilities. Customers will beneﬁt
from easy-to-use services, rich content applications and messaging across a range of advanced handsets.
Under the terms of the agreement, we are licensed by NTT DoCoMo to offer the i-mode
®
capability to our 
24 million customers. Already the world’s most popular mobile internet platform with more than 
48 million subscribers using over 6,100 ofﬁcial content sites in ten countries and regions, we will make the
i-mode
®
capability available on an extensive selection of advanced multimedia handsets and devices from
major Asian, European and US manufacturers. These currently include NEC, Panasonic, Siemens, Motorola
and Samsung, amongst others.
O2 UK and O2 Ireland will have exclusive use of the i-mode
®
brand and technology in their respective
markets. O2 Germany will launch a service based on i-mode
®
technology under its own brand.
The appeal of these services will be signiﬁcantly enhanced as we roll out HSDPA with speeds of up to 
1Mbps (compared with UMTS with speeds of 384kbps) to all our customers, offering a true mobile
broadband experience.
Our products and services
On 27 January 2005, we announced that we would introduce a range of attractive new handsets and an
enhanced O
2
Active portal over our UMTS network. The move builds on our leadership in non-voice services
and unique O
2
branded handsets. In the UK, UMTS services have been available for our business users since
October 2004 and our consumers since 1 February 2005, and in Germany to our business users since April
2004 and all consumers shortly thereafter.
Consumers who purchase UMTS devices from us will enjoy a wider range of new and original content,
including: ﬁlm from Warner Bros Online (previews, behind the scenes and interviews); lifestyle from titles
such as GQ, FHM and Glamour; the latest music videos and tracks from major recording artists and MTV;
news from ITN; and sports, including England Rugby and Arsenal Football. They will also beneﬁt from faster
download speeds and video calling. The launch also marks the arrival of a new and improved version of the
innovative O
2
Active portal, which has been re-designed to take advantage of richer, faster, more capable
UMTS-based features. 
To mark the introduction of our UMTS service for consumers, we launched the only own-branded UMTS
handset in the UK market to date – the competitively priced O
2
X4.
Based on the highly successful design principles of our existing X-range of handsets, which includes the
popular O
2
Xda II
®
, the O
2
X4 sports a sleek clamshell design with a high-quality 262,000-colour main screen
display. The O
2
X4 is equipped with a 1.3 megapixel camera with an 8x zoom lens and advanced “ﬂash
mechanic”; it also includes an MP3 music player, video downloading and streaming capabilities, 10Mb of
phone memory and 64Mb of additional capacity via a removable memory card.
In addition to the O
2
X4, we will offer UMTS customers a range of handsets from leading manufacturers,
including the Nokia 6630, Samsung Z107, Motorola V975 and the Sony Erickson V800. This will be expanded
going forward through existing handset procurement channels and the NTT DoCoMo partnership.
In Germany we recently launched an innovative, high-speed offering, O
2
surf@home, a service that directly
complements O
2
Genion. Using this innovative UMTS data service, O2 customers are able to connect to 
the internet from their homes at ﬁxed line rates. The combination of O
2
Genion with O
2
surf@home will
enable complete ﬁxed line substitution and increase customer value and loyalty.
Our strategy
Our primary goal is to create shareholder value by becoming the fastest growing major European mobile
operator in revenue and proﬁtability. We have a number of speciﬁc growth opportunities including further
investment in our networks in Germany, improving the customer experience in the UK and Ireland, O2
Airwave moving into full operations, and maximising the potential of key partnerships such as Tesco Mobile
and Tchibo Mobilfunk.
We will continue to build on the momentum created by our successful brand, ensuring that, whenever
customers come into contact with us, the expectations created by the brand are met. In this way, 
we aim to become an integral part of customers’ lives and improve our ability to attract and retain 
higher-value customers.
We plan to deploy signiﬁcant additional resources into the customer-facing areas of our UK operations –
including the creation of 2,000 new retail and customer service staff over the next two years, opening a
fourth major UK customer service centre and further expanding our retail network. By delivering a better
customer experience, we aim to improve customer loyalty and develop a sustainable basis for enhanced
long-term returns. The cost of this expansion has been offset by efﬁciencies in non customer-facing
activities, resulting in a reduction of some 500 positions and an exceptional operating charge of £45 million
recognised in the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005.
o2.com   7
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 7 Business review continued
The following table represents the turnover for each of our continuing operating businesses for the three
ﬁnancial years ended 31 March:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Continuing operations
O2 UK 4,030 3,451 3,025
O2 Germany 1,865 1,508 1,060
O2 Ireland 585 529 442
O2 Airwave 169 89 16
Manx Telecom 53 50 48
O2 Online – 140 93
Intragroup eliminations (19) (121) (73)
Total 6,683 5,646 4,611
Operations (by country)
O2 UK
Operational performance
O2 UK delivered a strong operating and ﬁnancial performance during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March
2005. Customer numbers, service revenue, ARPU and EBITDA all showed continued growth. Success was
driven by innovative new services and customer propositions, a series of successful marketing campaigns 
and further improvements in network quality. All of these aided the continued development of the “iconic”
O
2
brand.
Total customer numbers grew by 1.1 million to 14.4 million helping to drive a 14 per cent growth in net
service revenue to £3,627 million. The quality of our customer base also continued to improve. This was
evidenced by post-pay ARPU for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005 rising £17 compared with the
previous year to £542, while pre-pay ARPU rose £2 on the previous year to £143. On a blended basis, ARPU
was £281 at year end, an increase of £9. Rising ARPU occurred despite the impact of the regulatory price
cut in September reduced our rolling ARPU by £11 by the end of the year (see “Regulation In The United
Kingdom” on page 16). EBITDA, one of our key indicators of proﬁtability, reached £1,183 million, 
a 14 per cent year on year increase. 
We retained our focus on mobile “data” (non-voice services). The volume of text messages carried 
on our network hit 1 billion texts per month by the end of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005. 
This continued focus on text and other messaging services such as e-mail and picture messages, as well as
non-voice services like music, content downloads and information services helped data services revenue
reach 24.2 per cent of O2 UK service revenue, an increase of 3.8 per cent over last year. 
Further development of O
2
Active, the simple-to-use portal for news, information and downloads, helped
drive this success. A revamped, more intuitive homepage, including a scrolling ticker of news headlines,
received positive customer feedback and drove higher usage. As at 31 March 2005, O
2
Active was available
on 100 different handsets.
A number of innovative O
2
sourced and branded devices helped us build increased brand differentiation and
drive service usage. We extended our O
2
Xda signature range of wireless personal digital assistants with the
launch of the O
2
Xda II, the O
2 
Xda IIs and the O
2 
Xda IIi. Features include web browsing, e-mail, LAN/WAN
access, camera and video functionality, and a range of ofﬁce applications. The O
2 
Xda II’s integrated digital
music player also allows customers to download and play music tracks making it appealing to high-spending
consumers who are amongst the most intensive mobile users. We also added three new phones to our “X”
range of O
2
branded handsets, the O
2
X2, the O
2
X3 and the O
2
X4, our ﬁrst own branded UMTS phone. All
are unique to O2 and have a wide range of multimedia functions.
As part of our on-going investment in service capability, we rolled out the ﬁrst phase of our UMTS network
in the UK, launching initial services to business customers in October 2004 and consumers in February 2005.
The launch of our UMTS service is an evolution of our successful services strategy. Because UMTS technology
offers faster data speeds, it allows customers with UMTS-enabled devices to enjoy richer information and
entertainment content, and new interactive services. For example, O
2
Active can now be accessed at faster
speeds, provides 3D interactive and multiplayer games, and has greater video capability and content such as
film and music videos. As it is a new technology, we believe UMTS services will initially appeal to early adopters,
building towards mass-market adoption in the latter part of the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2006.
In the mass consumer market, we continued to develop innovative propositions and promotions that proved
appealing to our customers. For example, we introduced O
2 
Friends for pre-pay customers (half-price calls
and messages to three chosen numbers) and “Happy Hour” (offering free messaging between 7 p.m. and
8p.m.) for both pre-pay and post-pay customers. 
In the business market, we grew our direct sales force and introduced new pricing and service propositions.
These included the O
2
Welcome service for larger corporate customers, designed to make switching from
other networks trouble-free by giving dedicated support, advice and information at the customer’s premises.
O
2
Network Manager, another innovation for corporate customers, was also launched.  Network Manager
measures the service level given to corporate customers to an agreed standard to enable us to improve their
network experience. The O
2
for Business marketing campaign promoted the quality of O2’s network.
These initiatives helped us acquire many new corporate customers such as DHL as well as growing business
with customers such as Superdrug and West Yorkshire Police.
In the market for small and medium sized businesses (SME), we launched O
2 
Business Zones which offered
40 per cent off calls to two chosen area codes. This was introduced in response to customer feedback that
many small businesses make most of their calls within their local area. We also introduced a new set of
o2.com   8
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 8 tariffs providing “shared minutes” and “shared bundles” (for example, data minutes) for small businesses 
to use across all mobile phones on their account. Demand from businesses of all sizes for the BlackBerry
™
mobile e-mail service increased.
In October 2004, O2 UK launched O
2
Connection Manager. The service provides business customers on the
move with a simple way to connect their laptop computer to the O2 data network using whichever
of our UMTS, GPRS or WLAN network best suits. WLAN is a relatively new technology, appealing to early
adopters from which we expect to see growth over time. Following agreements signed with WLAN
operators, O2 now provides WLAN access in over 6,700 UK locations including hotels, airports, coffee 
shops, bars and pubs.
The percentage of total sales delivered through O2’s own channels (O2 stores, O2 Online store and O2’s
direct sales force) continued to increase and we expect the proportion of sales through our own channels to
continue to rise during the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2006. We believe this will enable us to deliver a
better customer relationship. The number of O2 retail stores grew by 26 to reach 257 by the year end.
A key element of our strategy is to differentiate O2 by delivering a better overall customer experience
through, amongst other things, higher service quality. Improvements in overall service quality last year
focused on two main areas – improvements in our network performance and enhancements to our 
customer service capabilities. 
Our main indicator of network performance and quality is minutes per drop (MPD) – the number of minutes
between dropped voice calls. This improved through the year and is now at its highest ever level.
In the area of customer service, we continued to make signiﬁcant investment in our single billing and
customer relationship management system across all O2 UK operations. Work already completed on 
the project has, for example, enabled on-line customers to view their bills online. Also a new web-based tool
in retail stores allows new customers’ mobile phones to be set up and activated on the spot. As we
implemented these during the year, we encountered a number of challenges around service and billing
communications. We have now tackled these and put increased focus on managing service and billing quality.
The strong appeal and distinctiveness of the O
2
brand also continued to help us differentiate from our
competitors. Brand awareness continued to climb last year and brand consideration is at an all time high.
This has been assisted by O2 UK’s sponsorships of the World Cup winning England rugby team, the 2004 
Football Association Premiership champions Arsenal, and Capital Radio’s drive-time and a host of music
events, as well as the strong appeal of our market propositions. Recognising the contribution made by the
O
2
brand to its business performance, O2 UK won the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising’s (IPA)
prestigious Grand Prix award for 2004. This award recognises companies that have marketed their brand
most effectively with the best return on investment. We also won the Mobile Data Association’s “Best
Network of the Decade” award for being the most innovative in “encouraging the uptake of mobile data
over the past ten years.”
Market dynamics
Our performance was achieved against the backdrop of stiff and increasing competition. Traditional
competitors including Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile continue to grow. 3, the newest network operator
with a purely UMTS network, has built strong momentum. 3 has been growing through a mixture of
aggressive tariffs and high handset subsidies and we expect them to continue this strategy. Tesco Mobile,
our 50/50 joint venture with Tesco, has delivered sustained growth. In December 2004, 14 months after its
launch, Tesco Mobile had attracted over half a million customers. The joint venture addresses sections 
of the family market that we do not currently target with the O
2
brand through Tesco’s network of
supermarkets and “Metro” stores. We expect competition to intensify again this year with several new
MVNOs entering the market, which coincides with slowing overall growth in new customers.
Corporate responsibility
We believe that companies who respond to the needs of the communities in which they work are more
likely to deliver good business results. We look in particular to support initiatives where mobile services can
be used to tackle social needs, where our employees can become involved, and where we can raise the
proﬁle of O2 as well.
In July 2004, O2 UK launched its new charity partnership with Weston Spirit, the charity co-founded 
by Simon Weston OBE to help young people at risk of social exclusion reach their full potential. Over the 
next two years, our new partnership aims to deliver a ground-breaking mentoring programme to support
personal development of young people. We have already recruited more than 70 O2 UK mentors who have
been trained to provide advice, support and encouragement to young people assigned to them through a
series of local school partners. Elsewhere, we are supporting HM Prison Service’s “Prison Me No Way”
campaign. O2 UK employees have joined forces with the emergency services to provide crime and safety
awareness workshops to schools throughout the UK. Following the successful “Teach UR Mum 2 Text”
campaign during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2004, O2 UK last year supported Milly’s Fund’s
“Summer Textin’ Tips” campaign which provides personal safety advice to young people while they are
travelling. We are also funding the development of medical devices using mobile technology to monitor
asthma and cystic ﬁbrosis patients remotely. Trials with asthma patients have already proved a success with
many more patients monitoring their breathing on a regular basis compared with conventional methods. 
We are aware that mobile phone masts are not always popular and we work hard to address people’s
concerns. Opposition to masts, does, however, have to be balanced with the strong demand from over
50 million UK users of mobile services and extensive research showing no known health risks. 
We have consistently taken a proactive approach to the issue of child safety and mobile phones. As the ﬁrst
mobile operator in the UK to join the Internet Watch Foundation, and a signatory to the industry’s Code 
of Practice for the self-regulation of new forms of content, O2 UK has introduced controls to allow parents
to manage their children’s access to inappropriate content or experiences. In addition, we have sought to
provide customers with advice on the nature and use of mobile services and have also published a series of
o2.com   9
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 9 Business review continued
leaﬂets giving advice to children on issues such as the sensible use of camera phones, safety in chatrooms,
and dealing with nuisance calls and bullying.
Regulatory issues
In January 2005, Ofcom began consultations on the release of future mobile spectrum over the next ﬁve
years. Of particular importance will be the UMTS expansion band (2500MHz-2690MHz). There is likely to 
be a protracted public debate on the timing and terms for future spectrum releases. 
Looking ahead
We will continue our focus on improving proﬁtability by growing our base of high-value customers and
improving business efﬁciency. A key priority will be customer retention as more intense competition has
increased pressure on the rate of churn. In order to deliver an enhanced customer experience and strengthen
customer loyalty, we plan to redeploy signiﬁcant additional resources into customer-facing areas including
the opening of a fourth major call centre in the UK, and further expanding the O2 retail network. To support
these initiatives, we plan to hire over 2,000 new retail and customer service staff over the next two years,
offsetting the cost of this expansion by targeting efﬁciencies across a wide range of managerial and
administrative functions. This is expected to result in a reduction of up to 500 permanent non-customer
facing positions in the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2006.
Investment in our UMTS network will continue as we expand the network across the UK, initially focusing 
on the areas of greatest demand. The range of UMTS capable phones in our handset portfolio will increase
as will the content offered through our O
2
Active portal.
We plan to launch a mobile internet service based on i-mode
®
capability later this year in an exclusive
agreement with the Japanese operator NTT DoCoMo. This will give us competitive differentiation by
providing our customers with access to the most comprehensive and ﬂexible internet service available on
mobile phones, on a wide range of handsets from several vendors. The i-mode
®
capability is a mature
service that has been proved to generate higher ARPUs in other countries than any other competing
technology or platform. Already the world’s most popular mobile internet platform, it has more than
48 million subscribers using over 6,100 ofﬁcial content sites in ten countries. We believe this will be a
compelling mobile internet service.
O2 Germany
Operational performance
O2 Germany has established itself as the most dynamic and innovative operator in the German market, 
which is the largest in Europe. In the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005, both revenues and customer
numbers grew at an accelerating pace throughout the year, outstripping both our expectations and the
growth of other competitors, leading to further improvements in market share. By attracting a signiﬁcant
proportion of high-value customers and tightly controlling operating costs, O2 Germany has translated this
rapid growth in subscribers into a substantial improvement in proﬁtability. Overall customer numbers grew
by 33 per cent. Blended ARPU decreased by €3, for two reasons. Firstly, ARPU (especially postpaid)
decreased in the ﬁnal quarter of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005 due to termination rate cuts in the
German mobile market. Secondly, O2 acquired a higher share of prepaid customers, which had an effect on
overall blended ARPU despite an increase in prepaid ARPU. Service revenues at constant exchange rates
were 28 per cent higher at £1,687 million and EBITDA reached £341 million with a margin of 18.3 per cent.
In the light of this accelerating growth, over the next ﬁve years the business will step up the rate of investment
in its UMTS network to reduce national roaming costs, enhance customer experience and secure population
coverage that is competitive with the market leaders.
Our customers’ experience of the O
2
brand is central to our growth strategy. In addition to our increasing
focus on customer segmentation, and on identifying and meeting the needs of our various customers, we
have directed a stronger focus towards direct sales channels. O2 has increased the number of O2 shops to
119 and other points of sale to more than 9,000. Our O2 Online shop has continued to show a strong
performance with a high rate of net new additions as well as low SACs, and good ARPU. Our customers
also value a real face-to-face presence. To enhance customer experience and further build brand image, the
ﬁrst ﬂagship O2 store was opened in Munich in December 2004. 
In October 2004, O2 Germany launched the Tchibo Mobilfunk offer jointly with Tchibo, a well-established
consumer brand known for its value-for-money offers, as branded reseller managed by a 50:50 joint
venture. This additional and exclusive sales channel complements O2’s target segments and has been very
successful. The product proposition was unique in Germany at launch: a Tchibo branded, transparent ﬂat
pre-paid tariff on very attractive terms. Tchibo Mobilfunk has so far attracted in excess of 250,000 pre-pay
customers. In December 2004, Mobilcom was the ﬁrst service provider in the German market to offer O2
pre-paid products – at ﬁrst on a dealer basis. New O2 offers through service provider channels will become
available in the current year.
Our unique O
2
Genion product, which continues to be a key driver of gross additions, underpins our
strategic focus on more proﬁtable customers, generating higher ARPU and a considerably lower churn rate
than other mobile products. Customers attracted from other operators usually generate a higher ARPU
because they change their patterns of usage with O
2
Genion. Thanks to its advanced technology, O
2
Genion
offers innovative services in combination with reduced tariffs in a geographical area chosen by the customer,
usually near the home or workplace. This is a unique service in the German – and also European – market.
In our target business market, we have been winning major new customers with an expanded Business Unit
team and forging new partnerships with sales channels and software suppliers. We also extended our range
of tariff packages and services, both tailored to the speciﬁc needs of our business customers. During the
year, O2 Germany acquired a number of new high-proﬁle customers, including MTU Aero Engines, Tchibo
and Christian Dior. Partnerships with our long-standing customers, such as BMW, have been strengthened.
For example, we have equipped the world’s most modern automobile manufacturing plant – the BMW
production site in Leipzig – with our O
2
Genion Campus solution.
o2.com   10
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 10 O2 Germany seeks to bring solutions to its customers rather than just transmission capacity. To this end, 
we have stepped up our co-operation agreements with around 20 partner companies, including Siemens
SBS, UNISYS, Tobit Software, Sun Microsystems and Extended Systems, to offer our business customers
mobile solutions in such areas as ﬁeld service control and mobile data security. Customers can use our 
O
2
Xda, the laptop card UMTS/GPRS as well as BlackBerry
™
, among other platforms. 
Internationally, our business customers beneﬁt from products and services for mobile communication in
more than 150 countries and the networks of over 300 roaming partners. In our partner networks within
the Starmap Mobile Alliance, we are offering uniform and especially cost attractive conditions for mobile
work and telephony.
Revenues from mobile data products also grew strongly with non-SMS text data usage making an
increasingly important contribution. The volume of SMS text messages sent during the year increased 
by 33 per cent and data as a proportion of service revenue rose from 19.5 per cent to 21.8 per cent in the
ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005. Some 24 per cent of our customers now use non-SMS data services.
The launch of high-speed UMTS services in the current ﬁnancial year should add increasing momentum 
to our mobile data revenues. O2 began its UMTS service in April 2004 offering a UMTS laptop card to its
business users, and followed this with laptop and UMTS handset surﬁng for consumers. In addition to
mobile internet access, which offers download speeds of up to 384kbps, O2 customers on UMTS have been
able to make video calls and make use of a broad range of video streams.
In July 2004, we launched our ﬁrst UMTS-enabled tariff – O
2
Active. In a complementary way to O
2
Genion, 
O
2
Active enables us to target high-value customer groups, attracted by O
2
Active’s simplicity and value-
for-money attributes. Minute bundles include calls to all networks, ﬁxed line and voicemail at anytime 
and anywhere. Extra minutes always have the same price. As well as the usual O
2
surf@home (WAP ﬂat rate)
and O
2
Music packs, O
2
Active customers can also book SMS and voice packs including the O
2
Afterwork
Pack, allowing unlimited calls in the evening to ﬁxed and other O2 numbers and the O
2
Weekend Pack, with
a 1,000 minute bundle.
The high quality and appeal of our O
2
Active portal service has already gained external recognition. Europe´s
best selling telecom magazine “Connect” gave O
2
Active two awards – from both readers and experts – as
the best mobile portal in Germany – ahead of Vodafone live! and other competitors’ services. In November 
2004, this advanced version of the O
2
Active portal was also rolled out to most GPRS phones – with a speed
option giving the users the choice of a faster version of that portal without losing any information. Our
strategy has been vindicated by the subsequent strong growth in the number of monthly portal users who
bring us higher trafﬁc and premium content income.
Market dynamics
The German mobile phone market grew by 9 per cent last year and market penetration rose to 83 per cent
in March 2005 compared with 76 per cent in March 2004. About 7 million customers were acquired during
the ﬁnancial year leading to about 73 million mobile connections. There are currently four mobile network
operators in Germany – T-Mobile, Vodafone, E-Plus and O2 Germany. Competitiveness in the German
market has increased as a result of high penetration levels and increasing market saturation. During the 
year, high-speed UMTS services were introduced by all operators based on combined GPRS/UMTS data 
cards and, since Christmas, UMTS handsets.
Corporate responsibility
O2 continued its engagement with the German Children and Youth Foundation and the SCHOLA-21
project. Following the launch of a new internet platform in English, O2 developed ﬂyers, handbooks and
contacts to international networks and schools. O2 began a schools competition in partnership with the
German Olympic Association with the topic: “Olympia – more than Olympic Games”. We also supported
another GOA project – “Kinder bewegen” – that aims to improve the movement of children, making
donations to ten “Kindergartens” for a three-year period. O2 is supporting new learning software, “Polly
and Fred”, that enables schoolchildren to learn how to handle their handsets properly in a play environment.
Looking ahead
For the coming year, O2 will adhere to its target of proﬁtable growth supported by the extension of 
sales channels, including service providers and Tchibo. At CeBIT in March 2005, we launched an innovative,
high-speed offering, O
2
surf@home, a service that directly complements O
2
Genion. Using this innovative
UMTS data service, O2 customers are able to connect to the internet from their homes at ﬁxed line rates.
The combination of O
2
Genion with O
2
surf@home enables complete ﬁxed line substitution and increase
customer value and loyalty. Innovative tariff models such as bundle tariffs or tariffs driving prepaid/postpaid
convergence (e.g. prepaid top-up vouchers) will further help to increase cost control for the customer, 
but also drive ARPU for O2.
There will be a renewed focus on customer retention (due to slower market growth and high market churn)
backed by further initiatives to improve the quality of our sales channels, products and customer service. Our
customer segmentation strategy will aim to drive up customer satisfaction by meeting the expectations of
those asking for more simplicity on the one hand and the increasing number of customers starting to use
advanced data services on the other.
In response to our success, we have launched an initiative to enable us to operate as a sustainable business
in the medium term. We are stepping up the rate of capital spending with the aim of becoming a full
network operator by extending and accelerating the roll-out of our UMTS network and reducing national
roaming. This will enhance the customer experience by delivering higher coverage and improved download
rates while, at the same time, reducing our operating costs. We will seek more aggressive growth with new
products, for example by extending our unique O
2
Genion offering, and continue to attract and retain high
value customers, backed by superior quality at the point of sale and customer service. We aim in the
medium term to match the proﬁtability of similarly positioned network operators in other markets.
o2.com   11
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 11 Business review continued
O2 Ireland
Operational performance
The focus for O2 Ireland over the past year has been to excel in offering our customers the best possible
experience each and every time they interact with O2. This focus has meant a renewed effort in improving
all areas where we are in contact with our customers, from a commitment to “walk out working” products,
to a superior customer care service and an efﬁcient and customer friendly high-street presence through 
O2 Retail.
Throughout the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005, O2 Ireland has continued to improve its business
performance, maintain current market share, and build upon the strength of the O
2
brand.
With regard to customer acquisition up to March 2005, O2 Ireland had a particularly successful year. We
announced the addition of 142,000 net new customers to the O2 network, representing a 10 per cent
increase from the same period the previous year. This was largely driven by a very strong Christmas period
with over 91,000 new customers joining the O2 network, ahead of our competitors’ performance. In
addition to gaining new customers, we also succeeded in retaining our customers despite a range of
competitive tariffs in the market, and despite the ease of mobile portability (changing networks without
changing one’s number).
With blended ARPU rising 1 per cent to €565, service revenue at constant exchange rates was
13 per cent higher at £556 million and EBITDA was £223 million, a 7 per cent increase with 
a margin of 38.1 per cent.
Bolstered by one of the most “iconic” advertising campaigns ever conducted in Ireland, Network Powered
Ireland, the O
2
brand has continued to strengthen apace. In the third quarter of 2004, Total Spontaneous
Awareness of the O
2
brand stood at 91 per cent. We were pleased that the Network Powered Campaign
was named Best Integrated Campaign by Marketing Magazine.
Brand awareness was further supported by high level sponsorships and associations. These included O2 
in the Park, the Smurﬁt European Open and our association with golf and rugby sporting stars such as
Padraig Harrington and Brian O’Driscoll respectively. In the business arena, last year saw joint initiatives 
with Dublin Chamber of Commerce through our sponsorship of E-Week to mark the accession of 15 new
member States to the European Union and our on-going support of regional Chambers of Commerce
around the country.
Driven by our focus on improving our customer experience, O2 Ireland continues to excel in customer
service. Customer Care satisfaction scores improved throughout the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2005
and O2 Retail excelled among its peers, proven by high scores in mystery shop activity. We communicated
the beneﬁts to our customers of certain services, for example music, through innovative new initiatives such
as the opening of the Experience Zone at Dublin’s Point Theatre in September 2004.
A signiﬁcant new development last year was the introduction of a new retail concept called O
2
Experience.
Three O
2
Experience Stores were opened – two in Dublin and one in Cork – which give customers the
chance to view live demonstrations of all our products. Reaction to the stores has been very positive.
We are constantly seeking to make life and business easier for both our consumer and business customers.
To this end, we introduced an exciting range of new products and services. For business customers, these
included the Fujitsu Siemens – O
2
Work Everywhere Package, O
2
Instant and the O
2
Connection Manager.
These products, all of which are aimed at saving time and money, have been well received in the business
and corporate markets. Our consumer customers beneﬁted from the introduction of reduced tariffs in 2004
and an exciting range of handsets and devices including the new BlackBerry
™
.
Maintaining the highest-quality network in order to maximise customer satisfaction remains a key focus 
of our business. Central to the success of our business is the maintenance and development of our 
GSM and UMTS networks, which are rated among the best in the world. Last year, we invested almost
€3million a week in our network infrastructure. We continue to build our network in a cost efﬁcient 
and environmentally friendly way and continue, where possible, to share existing sites of other mobile
operators and utilities providers.
We made progress in the building of our UMTS network, now extending to over 35 per cent of the
population. Limited trials of our UMTS service began in mid-2004 and plans are in place to bring commercial
UMTS services to Ireland in mid-2005. 
Market dynamics 
The Irish market continues to be a highly challenging one for the mobile industry with penetration levels 
of mobile phones in the population now standing at over 90 per cent. O2 Ireland holds the second 
biggest share of the market with around 40 per cent. 2004 saw continued momentum by Meteor Mobile
Communications with further gains in market share. 3 entered the market in January 2004 and has begun
to roll-out its UMTS network. Meanwhile, potential competitors in the telecommunications sector have
expressed an interest in the mobile market following the proposed measures by ComReg (the Irish
communications regulator) in December 2004 to encourage and allow MVNOs to access the networks of
both O2 Ireland and Vodafone Ireland.
Corporate responsibility 
2004 saw an expansion of our CSR programme with the introduction of a range of exciting initiatives. 
The O2 Ability Awards, run in conjunction with The Aisling Foundation, is the ﬁrst awards programme to
recognise Irish businesses that demonstrate best practice in the employment of people with disabilities. Our
support of the O2 Ability Awards has associated O2 in a positive way with a topical issue that is currently
high on the Irish social agenda.
o2.com   12
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 12 O2 Ireland has continued to acknowledge those of its employees who work with charities outside their
working days through our Can Do in the Community Awards. These awards recognise the contribution
made by employees to their local communities or selected charities outside working hours.
In June 2004, O2, working closely with the Irish Cellular Industry Association (ICIA), launched the ﬁrst 
ever Irish Code of Practice for the responsible and secure use of mobile services. The ICIA also published 
a Parents’ Guide and announced a joint industry trial on content ﬁltering, led by O2 Ireland.
We are in our second year of sponsoring National Tree Week in conjunction with the Tree Council of Ireland
and Coillte (the Irish Forestry Board). During National Tree Week in March 2004, over 300 events such as
forest walks, talks and tree planting ceremonies took place.
2004 saw the launch of our participation in the phone-recycling scheme, Fonebak
®
, that enables customers
to deposit their unused or broken mobile phones in recycle bins in all our O2 Retail stores throughout
Ireland. The scheme also provides funding for environmental charities such as National Tree Council of
Ireland and the international charity, Rainforest Concern.
Looking ahead
O2 Ireland will concentrate on maintaining a competitive edge in a highly competitive market and in a 
more onerous regulatory environment. We will maintain our focus on putting the needs of our customers
ﬁrst and offering them a superior service while ensuring that our products and services meet their
requirements. We will continue to drive demand for data services and to increase revenue from this 
part of our business, building on the momentum gained in 2004.
O2 Ireland will be the ﬁrst and only mobile operator in Ireland to bring a mobile internet service based on
the i-mode
®
capability to customers from autumn 2005. This will bring a completely new customer
experience to Irish consumers in terms of higher quality and fast access to content and an exciting range of
handsets. Progress on our UMTS network continues and we are on target to bring commercial UMTS services
to the market later in 2005.
Along with maintaining and improving the customer experience, we will aim to lift our operational
performance again, building on last year’s success by meeting our growth targets for revenue, EBIDTA 
and customer numbers.
O2 Airwave
Operational performance
The Airwave network was completed, on time and on budget, at the end of March 2005. The Airwave
service, with its commitment to making communities safer by providing communication where and when it
matters most, has now been delivered to all 51 police forces in England, Scotland and Wales and the British
Transport Police. The network, under the terms of a £2.9 billion, 19-year contract with the Home Ofﬁce
signed in 2000, has been built in fewer than ﬁve years, during which some 3,300 masts have been erected
and over 1 million miles of road driven to test the service. It is arguably one of the most successful PFI
projects to date. Over 99 per cent of mainland Great Britain is now covered by the service with 100 per cent
population coverage.
By the end of March 2005, O2 Airwave had more than 100,000 users, double the level of a year previously.
In addition to the police, O2 Airwave has won 38 new customers outside the main Police Information
Technology Organisation contract, taking the total number of additional public service customers to 78. They
include the Ministry of Defence police, the Prison Service, British Energy, Mersey Regional Ambulance
Service, Harley Street Ambulance Service, RAF Cranwell Police, the Highways Agency, the UK Atomic Energy
Authority Constabulary and Norfolk Local Authority. Completion of the network roll-out led to a near doubling
of revenues and, with tight control of costs, this led to an EBITDA of £72 million compared with £1 million
in the previous year. We invested a further £218 million in the network last year but, with completion
achieved, this ﬁgure will fall signiﬁcantly in the coming 12 months.
Airwave is a sophisticated, fully encrypted digital radio system, which cannot be scanned or monitored by
outsiders. It allows the police to communicate seamlessly and securely throughout England, Scotland and
Wales. Airwave’s multifunctional handsets, combining a digital radio and mobile phone, also operate 
as data terminals – enabling ofﬁcers in the ﬁeld to access local and national databases. In addition, Airwave
provides a common platform for Public Safety Users, giving them true interoperability and comprehensive
geographical coverage. Using Airwave, police ofﬁcers from different forces can talk to one another or to
ofﬁcers from other emergency services, whatever their location, who can in turn communicate directly with
one another. For the ﬁrst time, Airwave will allow effective, and potentially life-saving, co-ordination of
rescue efforts by the emergency services. The ability of networks to keep working in times of emergency is
critical. The Airwave response to incidents caused by bad weather like Boscastle in Cornwall in August 2004,
and Carlisle in Cumbria in January 2005, proved the network’s innate resilience – the service kept going
when other communications networks failed and was used by all the emergency services dealing with these
major incidents.
Growth opportunities
The continued threat of terrorism, the incidence of major accidents and heightened awareness of the impact
of natural disasters all demonstrate the increasing importance of secure and “joined- up” communications in
both urban and more remote areas. Against this background, there are signiﬁcant opportunities for growth
in the Airwave service.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 is likely to have a signiﬁcant impact on all public safety organisations in their
need to comply with the new legislation as ﬁrst or second line responders and will present Airwave with a
wider target audience. We will also continue to market the service to other public safety users, including the
utility companies, the Ministry of Defence, Health organisations, Fire Service, CCTV operators, Ports Police,
and other Government organisations such as the Department of Works and Pensions, Customs & Excise, the
Inland Revenue, the Immigration Service, the Environment Agency, HM Prisons, and local authorities.
o2.com   13
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 13 Business review continued
Mobile data represents a signiﬁcant opportunity for O2 Airwave. In December 2004, O2 Airwave began the
Lancashire Police data trial with the Lancashire Constabulary, the largest ever mobile data trial in the UK,
involving 280 users. Using the O2 Airwave Mobile Applications Gateway, Lancashire police ofﬁcers are able
to gain secure, continuous access to databases while on the move. O2 Airwave is uniquely placed to develop
its market through the expansion of relevant mobile data applications for the police and other public safety
customers. Currently 45 police forces have direct access from their handsets over the Airwave network to
the Police National Computer, allowing interrogation of vehicle registration and peoples’ names in seconds.
Scottish police forces also have access to the Scottish Criminal Records Ofﬁce.
In the coming year, we will be offering a portfolio of mobile data products and services for deployment in
our key markets. Helping to meet the demand for greater visibility of the police within communities, our
portfolio will consist of a range of data devices to meet both in-vehicle and hand-held needs. It will include a
suite of mobile applications designed to reduce police bureaucracy and eliminate unnecessary paperwork –
both Home Ofﬁce priorities. Network-based gateways that enable feature-rich applications will be backed by
the touchstones of unmatched technology and customer service for which O2 Airwave is renowned. Much
of this portfolio of services has been developed from the successful experience gained from working with
trial customers such as the Lancashire Police Force.
In the case of Ambulance and Fire Services, much of their day-to-day work makes use of mobile data
capabilities to deliver information to where it is needed the most. Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust
has been using a patient telemetry service over the Airwave network since May 2002. Patients’ vital data can
be monitored by ambulance crews and transmitted over the Airwave network directly to hospital Accident &
Emergency units, enabling life-saving treatment to begin at the scene of an incident, for example the use of
clot-removing drugs which dramatically improve the chances of survival and recovery. Every minute saved in
the treatment of heart attack patients adds about 11 days to life expectancy. One hundred interventions
were made by Hereford and Worcester Ambulance Trust using the Airwave service in the ﬁrst six months of
service, leading to patients’ lives being saved and extended.
Airwave need not be restricted to Great Britain. Opportunities also exist to repeat our success overseas. Any
venture, whether approached directly or with partners, would, however, be carefully assessed for viability
and would have to ﬁt with O2 Airwave’s strategy before it went ahead.
Corporate responsibility
O2 Airwave assesses its responsibility to its customers against key performance indicators created by those
customers, which we strive to meet or exceed. We have also established a reporting structure to conform
with key indices developed by the Group in areas including the environment, waste management, employee
satisfaction and treatment of our supply chain. In November 2004, we achieved our key target of complying
with the ISO 14001 international standard for environmental management. In May 2004, O2 Airwave
participated in the Corporate Responsibility audit carried out by Ernst & Young.
O2 Airwave seeks to be an active participant in the community. As part of our Community Involvement
programme, we have sponsored two police dogs, the Lancashire Fire and Rescue safety help line, a
Sportsmobile project with Bolton Lads and Girls Club, an Airwave Charity Golf Day, Middlesbrough Under
14s rugby club, and an anti-bullying campaign run by South Wales Police. Money has also been raised for 
a variety of good causes ranging from Milly’s Fund to the Tsunami appeal. In September 2004, an O2
Airwave team climbed England’s highest mountain and rowed England’s longest lake in under 12 hours,
raising £15,000 for a Mini for Milly’s Fund. O2 Airwave will continue to provide a secondee to the London
Resilience Team, set up to ensure London and the regions keep working at times of disaster.
Looking ahead
Increasing government funding into crime prevention, detection and improving public safety is leading to
increased police numbers and a greater reliance on new technology as services such as Ambulance and Fire
modernise and replace existing technology. All these developments provide opportunities for O2 Airwave to
deliver new services and allow safety organisations to improve their services to the public.
As emergency services customers start to take up mobile data, there is likely to be increased competition in
the mobile data market, from the traditional mobile operators as well as niche players. However, we believe 
O2 Airwave is well placed to penetrate the mobile data market with our unique proposition based on the
Airwave network and the Mobile Applications Gateway (MAG). The MAG delivers fast access to numerous
databases and the intelligence to link these together, providing safety ofﬁcers with on the job remote access
to critical information. O2 Airwave will become a true data solutions provider offering a unique range of
mobile data services to the customers it serves.
The priorities for O2 Airwave going forward are to grow the business by meeting the needs of existing and 
new customers through developing propositions that improve the safety of the nation. We will enhance 
our service to customers through the way we manage them on a daily basis and ensure that we deliver
benchmark standards for our network and service. We will invest in our operational support systems and 
the capabilities of our people to strengthen our business as we grow.
Manx Telecom
Operational performances
Manx Telecom is a wholly owned subsidiary of O2 on the Isle of Man, holding licences to run ﬁxed and
mobile telephony and internet services. Manx Telecom is an ISP in its own right with a portfolio of quality
internet access and hosting products and services.
Because of its successful track record as the ﬁrst company in Europe to launch a live UMTS service back in
December 2001, Manx Telecom was chosen by O2 to run Europe’s ﬁrst superfast 3G trial, in partnership
with Lucent Technologies, using HSDPA technology. HSDPA offers the possibility of communication speeds
up to three times faster than current commercial UMTS services.
o2.com   14
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 14 The installation of a Prepay Intelligent Network (IN) platform in November 2004 is enabling the company to
offer a range of new services to its pre-pay mobile customers. MMS on pre-pay was launched in December
2004, WAP and full web access over GPRS was made available to pre-pay customers in March 2005, and
the launch of outbound pre-pay roaming is planned for early in the next financial year. The average number
of SMS (texts) sent per month increased to over 3.5 million by 31 March 2005.
On 1 March 2005, Manx Telecom introduced the ﬁrst in a series of planned new tariff packages for its
ﬁxed line customers. Called Choice, the new tariff offers free calls to local ﬁxed line phones at evenings 
and weekends, plus a 30 per cent reduction in local daytime call charges, for a monthly line rental charge 
of £13.00.
Manx Telecom has continued with its major investment programme to make broadband available to as 
many customers on the Isle of Man as possible. The installation of a number of “mini DSLAM” sites in more
remote areas around the Island has increased coverage to around 99 per cent of local homes and businesses
and take-up is currently around 19 per cent.
Work is well under way on a major contract, announced last year, to design, supply, implement and 
support, in partnership with Dimension Data, a new island-wide network infrastructure for the Isle of Man
Government. A requirement of this contract was that Manx Telecom should become certiﬁed to BS7799
Security standard, and the company became the ﬁrst company on the Isle of Man to achieve this in
December 2004.
Capital spending during the year was £10 million compared with £9 million in the previous ﬁnancial 
year. We constantly monitor how well we are performing in the view of our customers. Regular surveys
throughout the year measuring customer satisfaction showed that 85 per cent of customers were “Very
Satisﬁed” with the service they had received.
Market dynamics 
Manx Telecom is the only provider of mobile and ﬁxed telephony on the island.
Corporate responsibility
Manx Telecom, in association with the Isle of Man Government, has provided a number of wireless (WiFi)
hotspots at key locations around the Island, including at Isle of Man Airport. As part of the Isle of Man
Government’s E-Island strategy to encourage the use of Internet technology on the island, Internet access 
at these sites is being provided free to users for the first year.
In December 2004, Manx Telecom completed its certiﬁcation to ISO 14001, the international standard for
environmental management.
Manx Telecom continues to sponsor the Manx Telecomputer Bus and a number of other local charities,
organisations and events, especially those involving young people, information technology and sport. 
These include the Road to Wimbledon junior tennis tournament, the Isle of Man junior cricket team tour 
of Holland, a junior cricket coaching programme and a local cycling Time Trial League. The company also
provided mobile phone equipment for a new college course relating to mobile technology for students with
learning difﬁculties. 
Looking ahead 
We are looking forward to offering our customers the chance to trial the new superfast 3G services which
will make available exciting new, video-based applications and services. We will also continue our active
support of the Isle of Man Government in offering a world-class telecommunications infrastructure to help
attract new companies and inward investment to the island in support of the Island’s e-business strategy.
Regulation
We conduct most of our business in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man. We are
therefore subject to national regulation in each of those countries as well as European Union-wide regulation. 
Regulation in the EU
Regulation in the EU is governed by the EU regulatory framework for the electronic communications sector
(the EU Framework). The EU Framework comprises four principal Directives. Amongst other things, the
Directives set out policy objectives and regulatory principles that National Regulatory Authorities (NRAs) must
follow: they provide for a new authorisation system for companies which provide electronic communications
networks and services, contain measures to ensure the universal provision of basic services to consumers,
and set out the terms on which providers may access each other’s networks and services. Importantly, 
the EU Framework also harmonises the rules for deciding when regulation may be imposed on electronic
communications providers. In particular, it provides that electronic communications providers can usually only
be subject to speciﬁc regulation in markets in which they have SMP. SMP , for these purposes, is aligned to
the competition law concept of dominance, which essentially means an ability to act independently of
customers, suppliers and competitors. 
The European Commission (the Commission) identiﬁed in a Recommendation (published in February 2003) a 
list of markets which may be such as to justify the application of speciﬁc regulation (the Recommendation).
The Recommendation includes the following mobile markets: (i) access and call origination on public mobile
telephone networks; (ii) voice call termination on individual mobile networks; and (iii) wholesale national
market for international roaming on public mobile networks. 
NRAs must conduct market reviews in order to determine whether any companies have SMP in any of the
markets identiﬁed in the Recommendation. NRAs may also, with the Commission’s consent, review markets
that are not listed in the Recommendation. Where a company is found to have SMP in any market, the
regulator must impose one or more of the following SMP conditions on it: transparency; non-discrimination;
o2.com   15
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 15 Business review continued
accounting separation; access; price control and cost accounting. In exceptional circumstances, a regulator
may impose additional or alternative obligations, but these have to be approved by the Commission. If a
company is found not to have SMP in a market, then SMP conditions cannot be imposed on it, and existing
regulation must be removed.
Regulation in the United Kingdom
Implementation of the New EU Regulatory Framework
The EU Framework was implemented in the UK by the Communications Act 2003 (Communications Act) on
25 July 2003. Under the Communications Act, responsibility for the regulation of electronic communications
networks and services lies with the Ofﬁce of Communications (Ofcom).
Market reviews
In the UK, the regulator concluded in November 2003 that no mobile network operator (either individually
or jointly) had SMP in the market for access and call origination on public mobile telephone networks. 
This meant that various regulatory obligations which had previously been imposed on us and Vodafone 
were lifted. 
In June 2004, Ofcom completed its review of voice call termination on individual mobile networks. As a
result of that review, Ofcom concluded that the charges we made to other operators for terminating calls on
our network (call termination) had to be cut. From 1 September 2004, Ofcom required us to lower our call
termination charges from an average of 8.03 pence per minute to an average of 5.63 pence per minute.
Ofcom recently indicated its intention to apply the charge control until March 2007, and to conduct a wide-
ranging review of voice call termination regulation with a view to determining the regulatory regime with
effect from April 2007.
Ofcom has also commenced a review of the wholesale international roaming market in the UK. This review
is being co-ordinated with a number of regulators in other EEA member states, all of which sent
questionnaires to operators in their respective countries in December 2004. On conclusion of the review,
regulators will decide whether it is necessary to regulate wholesale roaming.
National roaming
O2 UK and Vodafone are subject to an obligation to negotiate a national roaming agreement with the new
entrant mobile network operator, 3 (the National Roaming Condition). In accordance with this obligation,
we entered into an agreement with 3 to permit it to use our second generation network to originate and
terminate calls to and from its subscribers while it builds its own UMTS network. On 22 December 2004, 
3 invited mobile operators to tender for the supply of second generation roaming services to 3 when the
exclusivity period in their agreement with O2 expires. Although Ofcom proposed discontinuing the National
Roaming Condition in July 2004, its decision on this issue has been postponed pending the outcome of 3’s
tendering exercise.
Regulation in Germany 
The EU Framework was implemented in Germany at the end of June 2004 by the Telecommunication 
Act (TKG). Responsibility for regulation of electronic communications networks and services lies with the
telecommunications regulator, RegTP .
RegTP is currently reviewing the three relevant mobile markets (access and call origination, voice call
termination and wholesale international roaming), and is not expected to conclude these reviews before the
second quarter of 2005. As part of its review of voice call termination, RegTP has reached the preliminary
conclusion that all mobile operators have SMP in the market for call termination on their own networks.
RegTP is currently consulting with third parties on this preliminary position.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, we agreed with the German ﬁxed network operator (T-Com) to reduce
our wholesale termination charges in Germany. However, at the end of 2004 a ﬁxed operator known as
“01051 ” asked us to offer them a lower termination charge. The matter was referred to RegTP , which
approved our German termination charges. 01051 has appealed RegTP’s decision.
Regulation in Ireland
The EU Framework was implemented into Irish law on 25 July 2003. Responsibility for regulation of the
communications industry in Ireland lies with a three-person regulatory body, known as the Commission for
Communications Regulation (ComReg).
Following its market review, on 22 February 2005 ComReg issued a decision designating us and Vodafone
with SMP in the wholesale mobile access and call origination market in Ireland.
On 9 December 2004, ComReg also issued a consultation on appropriate remedies in the wholesale mobile
access and call origination market. It proposed to place obligations on us and Vodafone to provide access 
to our networks on reasonable request (and not to withdraw access services already provided, such as the
national roaming services provided by O2 Ireland to Meteor), as well as certain non-discrimination, cost-
orientation, accounting separation and cost accounting obligations. ComReg proposes to issue a further
consultation on the detailed draft measures relating to price control and cost accounting issues.  
On 21 March 2005, we notiﬁed the Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources, and
ComReg of our intention to appeal ComReg’s SMP decision. We expect the Minister to convene an Appeal
Panel, which must endeavour to determine the appeal within four months. 
In July 2003, we agreed with ComReg to reduce mobile termination rates by Retail Price Index minus 
8 per cent per annum for the period 31 August 2003 to 31 August 2005. In 2004, ComReg found that 
all four mobile operators in Ireland have SMP on the market for call termination on their own networks. 
This decision has been appealed by 3 to the national Appeal Panel, which has yet to reach a decision on 
the matter. ComReg has yet to publish its decision on the remedies to be imposed.
o2.com   16
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 16 ComReg has also commenced its review of the national market for wholesale international roaming. This
review is being co-ordinated with a number of regulators in other EEA member states, including Ofcom in
the UK. On conclusion of the review, regulators will decide whether it is necessary to regulate national
markets for wholesale international roaming.
Regulation in the Isle of Man 
The Isle of Man is a self-governing Crown Dependency with its own parliament and is not part of the United
Kingdom or the EU. Accordingly, Manx legislation and regulations predominantly govern our operations in
the Isle of Man.
On 1 January 2004, our new licence extension, awarded by the Isle of Man Government for 15 years, came
into force. 
Competition law
EU competition law
We are subject to the general competition law of the EU and, in particular, Articles 81 and 82 of the EC
Treaty (Article 81 and Article 82), which prohibit anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the
abuse of a dominant position respectively where there is an effect on trade between EU Member States. 
EU competition law is enforced by the Commission and, since 1 May 2004, has also been enforced by
national competition authorities and national courts. Companies which breach EU competition law can be
subjected to ﬁnes of up to 10 per cent of a group’s worldwide annual turnover. They may also be sued in
national courts by third parties which suffer loss as a result of the breach.
We are also subject to the national competition law of the countries in which we operate. In the UK,
Germany and Ireland, national competition law broadly mirrors the provisions of EU competition law,
prohibiting anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the abuse of a dominant position.
International roaming charges
The Commission has been investigating the price of wholesale international mobile roaming services in the
UK and Germany. In the context of this investigation, on 26 July 2004 the Commission sent us and
Vodafone two separate “statements of objections” in the UK. The statements of objections allege that our
wholesale international roaming charges were excessive from 1998 until September 2003 and that this
amounted to an infringement of Article 82. However, the Commission has not yet reached a ﬁnal decision
on whether there was an infringement. O2 is currently responding to the statement of objections.
Infrastructure sharing and national roaming
We have a UMTS infrastructure-sharing and national roaming agreement with T-Mobile in Germany. The
agreement was formally notiﬁed to the Commission for negative clearance or exemption under Article 81
and cleared by Decision of 16 July 2003.
The Commission took the view that the infrastructure sharing aspects of the agreements did not restrict
competition. National roaming, on the other hand, was considered restrictive of competition, but was
granted exemption from Article 81 for certain speciﬁed time periods. We lodged an appeal with the
European Court of First Instance on 25 September 2003. 
We also have a 2G national roaming agreement with T-Mobile in Germany. The German competition
authority indicated in August 1999 that national roaming agreements may infringe competition laws 
but that, in the case of our agreement with T-Mobile, this was unlikely to be the case at that time. 
However, it reserved the right to review this position. 
Key markets
Europe includes some of the most advanced markets for mobile services in the world. These markets are
characterised by relatively high mobile penetration rates and high GDP per capita. Across Western Europe,
the proportion of total voice trafﬁc carried over mobile rather than ﬁxed-line networks continues to increase.
These markets are also seeing an increasing proportion of mobile revenues attributable to mobile data services
and we expect this trend to continue.
Our mobile businesses cover two of the largest markets in Europe, with the UK and German markets giving
us access to a total population of approximately 148 million people. All our markets have seen growth over
the last few years in the number of mobile telephone users, in large part reﬂecting strong demand for
competitively priced pre-pay offerings. Our markets are seeing the emergence of additional wholesale
opportunities for network operators. Through wholesale agreements, network operators are able to sell
capacity and services on a large scale to other service providers and mobile virtual network operators.
Historically, the number of customer connections to mobile telephone networks in the markets where we
are present has been greater during the second half of the ﬁnancial year than during the ﬁrst half, primarily
due to increased sales during the Christmas period. See “Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects –
Factors affecting our business”.
o2.com   17
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 17 Business review continued
The table below presents selected data regarding the principal countries in Europe in which our businesses
operate.
Active mobile
1
customers’ O2
penetration customers
at 31 March at 31 March
Population
1
2005 2005
Country (in millions) (per cent) (in 000’s)
Germany 84 83 7,976
United Kingdom 60 103 14,384
Ireland 497 1,533
Total 148 23,893
1
Source: EMC Worldwide Cellular Database, May 2005.
Note: The number of customers shown in the table above is equivalent to the number of active SIM cards. Hence, where some people
have more than one active SIM card, it is possible for penetration to exceed 100 per cent.
Employees
The Group had the full time equivalent of 14,914 employees at 31 March 2005, as set forth by country in
the table below:
Country Number of employees
United Kingdom 9,141
Germany 3,919
Ireland 1,577
Isle of Man 277
Total 14,914
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the aggregate number of temporary staff employed by our businesses
was 1,686.
In the United Kingdom, a number of our employees are represented by two recognised unions: Connect,
which has representation rights in respect of junior management employees, and the Communications
Workers Union, which has representation rights in respect of clerical, engineering and technical employees.
Membership of these unions is individual and voluntary. In addition, a non-unionised employee
representative body represents certain managers. Our other operating businesses also meet with their
employee representative bodies, or works councils, regularly. We believe that our businesses have a good
relationship with our employees and their representatives.
Network and service platform technology
Transforming our networks to mobile broadband has continued with the build out of UMTS across the UK,
Germany and Ireland to give data speeds up to 384kbps. This is being extended into the Isle of Man later
this year (Lucent core & radio) with an upgraded UMTS deployment that will incorporate HSDPA technology
with customer speeds up to 1Mbps and IMS (Internet Protocol Multimedia services) that provides richer
services. As this is rolled out to all our customers it will enable them to quickly and easily download DVD-
quality ﬁlm clips, audio and video, interactive multiplayer games, multimedia music tracks, “push-to-watch”
services as well as access large email attachments – three times faster than today’s commercial UMTS
networks. These speeds have already been extended this year by giving access to our customers to public
WLANs in transit areas. This has been added to in Germany with O
2
surf@home to give home internet access
via our UMTS network. All these enhanced capabilities require an easy-to-use customer experience for the
ever increasing array of internet services. Therefore, we are adding Japan’s successful NTT DoCoMo i-mode
®
technology to give superior performance from a tightly speciﬁed device to network service. This will be
launched in UK and Ireland second half of 2005 and under our own brand in Germany next year. 
Information technology
The information technology deployed in the Group is critical to the efﬁcient and effective operation of the
businesses. The focus for each business has been to:
• continually raise the standard of our service to our customers and the processes within our organisation;
• maintain tight cost controls;
• exploit investment in new systems, with development aimed at increasing our agility; and
• work together to leverage cross-Group beneﬁts.
IT systems are fundamental to the delivery of high standards of service to our customers, in our shops, in
billing, in customer care and in use of our services. It remains a priority to ensure these systems operate
effectively and there have been a number of initiatives to ensure they perform as well as the best in the
industry. Additionally, improvements in internal processes and reporting are being strengthened through the
Group’s compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
While we have ensured that our IT costs are competitive within the industry, increased competition within
our geography is driving tighter controls, and greater effectiveness. Recent strategic investments are now
on-stream and are being exploited. Investment in new systems will continue where this is required to
support our business priorities.
The IT community from each of the operating businesses has continued to work together where beneﬁts
have been clearly identiﬁed. This has enabled us to improve our common infrastructure, use common
products and to deploy Group-wide systems where a common approach is required. Additional framework
contracts with key suppliers have been agreed including HP , Sun and Oracle.
o2.com   18
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 18 Looking ahead, our businesses have major IT projects to underpin the business strategy. These include
initiatives to improve our agility and time-to-market, which are expected to impact the coming year, 
and projects to further enhance billing and care, and to ensure a consistently high-quality end-to-end
customer experience. 
Intellectual property
We have actively taken steps to protect our brand, including the acquisition of core trade mark registrations
for the O
2
brand and related brand materials. In addition, we have other pending trade mark applications in
ancillary classes in the UK, the European Community and other countries worldwide.
In the last year we have also strengthened the monitoring procedures in respect of the use of our brand and
have increased the amount of enforcement action we take in response to infringement.
The steps we are taking to protect our brand include litigation and we are currently pursuing two signiﬁcant
trade mark infringement actions through the courts: one in the UK for infringement of our “bubble”
imagery and one in Europe for infringement of “O
2
”.
Insurance
We maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which our
Group operates, including coverage for employee-related accidents and injuries and property damage. 
We consider our insurance coverage and that of our operating businesses to be adequate both as to the
nature of the risks covered and amounts insured for the business conducted by us.
Mobile communications are an everyday part of people’s lives, offering exciting new ways to keep in touch
both socially and in business. We focus on ﬁnding new ways to reward customer loyalty and go to great
lengths to understand their individual needs and concerns. To achieve this, we recognise that customers
sometimes have contrasting attitudes to their mobile phone. They may see it as a vital accessory to their
lives, but also have concerns about the technology and the way we behave as a company. We are engaging
with a wide variety of interest groups to understand better what is expected from our business. Our aim is
to match our market offering with responsible and accountable policies and bring the beneﬁts of mobile
communications to society at large.
We are determined to take full account of the social, environmental and ethical (SEE) impacts of 
our business. We approach this as a daily challenge requiring processes, measurement and stretching
performance targets. Our key SEE risks are covered in this section of the report and in more detail in 
our separate corporate responsibility report.
Our corporate responsibility achievements have received wide external recognition. We are represented in
the main sustainability indices and funds: the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, the Business in the
Community Corporate Responsibility index as the highest scoring mobile operator, the FTSE4Good Index,
and as members of the Ethibel investment and sustainability registers. During 2004/05, we received the
Association of Chartered and Certiﬁed Accountants’ Sustainability Reporting commendation for “innovative
reporting”, the Charities Aid Foundation “Corporates and Communities Awards for Online CSR Reporting”
and the European Strategic Risk Management Award for “Best CSR Programme of the Year”.
Governance and management of corporate responsibility issues
To cope with constant change requires a commitment to risk management and we use it to identify,
measure and control uncertain future events that could threaten the assets, revenue, brand, reputation or
shareholder value of the Company.
We adhere to the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility set out by the Association of British Insurers
to manage the signiﬁcant SEE risks that may affect us. We manage these risks by assessing their potential
impact, likelihood and our appetite to manage them, and develop strategies to mitigate them. We update 
a Group-wide risk register every month with the key risks we face, supported by separate registers in each 
of our operating businesses. The Combined Code (Turnbull Guidance section) guides our risk management
policy and procedures. Controls are scrutinised as part of a cyclical risk-based audit approach, overseen by
our Audit Committee.
Our corporate responsibility activities are managed by full-time practitioners in each of our operating
businesses. Their work is co-ordinated through the monthly Corporate Responsibility Forum – chaired by
Corporate Affairs Director Richard Poston. Signiﬁcant issues are reported to our Executive Committee at least
every six months and through quarterly corporate responsibility updates. An executive Director or senior
o2.com   19
Corporate responsibility
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 19 Corporate responsibility continued
manager champions each key SEE aspect and reports regularly to the Group Board. Their remuneration is
partly linked to their success in meeting key SEE objectives. 
In 2004/05, the Board was briefed on a range of SEE issues through six-monthly corporate responsibility
reports as well as through speciﬁc reports on issues including community investment, health and safety, 
mast siting, privacy, adult content, child protection, environmental management, diversity and general
employment issues. A summary report on our conﬁdential help facility – set up to enable our employees 
to report ethical concerns, in conﬁdence – was also presented at each Audit Committee meeting.
Our environmental and health and safety practices are monitored through third party audits carried out by
certiﬁcation agencies for our ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001 registrations. An external party assesses all SEE
risks and this newly established risk review underpins our insurance arrangements. UK compliance to the
industry-agreed Ten Commitments on responsible mast siting is independently reviewed by Deloitte &
Touche on behalf of the Mobile Operators Association. Assurance for our separate corporate responsibility
report is provided by Ernst & Young. 
Business Principles
We have developed our own set of Business Principles which dictate the high standards of behaviour we set
ourselves as a company. Everyone within O2 is made aware of our Business Principles and encouraged to
take responsibility for living by them in their work. Uptake of mandatory training has increased in this area.
During the year, we issued a new compliance leaﬂet to our employees. They are encouraged to report any
potential breaches of our principles in conﬁdence and we maintain a register of any concerns.
Marketplace
New mobile services and devices are transforming the way we live and interact. But the technology poses
some important social challenges. Crucial among these is the protection of children and ethical sourcing.
We have proactively raised awareness about child protection and helped develop industry codes of practice
on the responsible use of mobile services. We do not market mobile phones to under-16s, we monitor our
chat rooms and offer call barring and age veriﬁcation processes to ensure proper controls. We have
published a series of consumer leaﬂets on the safe and responsible use of mobile services. We have also
taken part in the “Prison Me No Way” awareness workshops in schools in the UK and have helped fund and
develop a module on the responsible use of mobiles to be included in the German curriculum. O2 Ireland
led Europe’s ﬁrst trial in conjunction with the Irish mobile industry to test the capability of software for
ﬁltering mobile camera phone images and offensive websites.
We undertook our ﬁrst supplier audits in 2004/05 to assess ethical practices in our supply chain. We
encourage our suppliers to adopt high-level working practices and materials sourcing, and refer to our
Business Principles in all Group-wide contracts. We are working through the Global e-Sustainability Initiative
to establish a common framework for supplier audits and to promote ethical practices across the industry.
Health
Although research has found no evidence of health risks from mobile technology operating below the
scientiﬁcally based exposure guidelines, we respond to public concerns about handsets, masts 
and cell sites. O2 is committed to funding independent research in this area, and helps to fund the joint 
UK industry/government Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research programme, and the German
Deutsches Mobilfunk Forschungsprogramm, as well as contributes to the World Health Organisation’s
International EMF Project on radio frequency emissions. We participate in and help fund a number of
industry groups, including the UK Mobile Operators Association (MOA) and GSM Europe (GSME) within
which we are chairing the Health and Environment Working Group. The MOA champions the Ten
Commitments on responsible mast siting. O2 Airwave and O2 UK are working openly to meet these. 
Our other operating companies have committed to comply with similar guidelines by GSME.
We have restated our commitment to providing health and safety information to the public and published 
a new O2 advisory leaﬂet on these issues, available in O2 stores and online on www.o2.com/cr.
Environment and sustainability
The direct environmental impact of our business activities is relatively small but environmental protection is a
critical element of our operations. We have set targets for each area of potential impact which we describe
in our separate corporate responsibility report. 
Our participation in the Fonebak
®
initiative enables the recovery and recycling of mobile phones in the UK,
Ireland and the Isle of Man through our ofﬁces, retail and online outlets. Since its launch in 2002, we have
recovered nearly 170,000 phones and a growing number of corporate customers are now involved. In
Germany, we use a similar scheme by Greener Solutions.
During 2004/05, all of our operating businesses achieved registration to the international environmental
standard ISO14001, a ﬁrst in our industry. We continue to review and control our environmental
performance through the O2 Environmental Forum. During 2004/05, our energy consumption reached
239,359 tonnes of CO
2
. We initiated a number of programmes reducing our carbon footprint and establishing
alternative power sources. These initiatives are important to help us minimise our increasing energy
consumption following the uptake of 3G services. By the end of March 2005, we were procuring 17 per
cent of our electricity from renewable sources. We have reduced our waste to landﬁll by recycling and
segregating our waste streams, and established a new measure for reusing and recycling IT equipment. 
We support a number of bio-diversity projects, including the work of our charity partners Rainforest Concern,
and the National Tree Council of Ireland, and by establishing conservation areas around our ofﬁce facilities 
in Germany.
Workplace
We nurture a high-performance workplace culture in which diverse people can thrive, offering competitive
rewards, opportunities for personal development, a modern working environment and ﬂexible working
arrangements.
o2.com   20
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 20 The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organisation
Declarations continue to guide our employment policies. The well-being of our employees is safeguarded 
by our Group-wide health and safety strategy promoted by our Group health, safety and environmental
champion, Peter Richardson, O2 Airwave Managing Director. 
The Executive Committee has endorsed an action plan to meet our aspirations for diversity and inclusion
across O2. In the UK we are working with the Employers’ Forum on Disability, the Two Ticks scheme and
Remploy for the employment of disabled people. O2 Ireland sponsored the ﬁrst ever O2 Ability Awards
which promote the recruitment and employment of people with disabilities. Reﬂect O2 continues as a
channel for employee feedback and assessment of engagement levels throughout O2. 79 per cent of our
employees took part in the latest survey on how people view their leaders, the way they are managed, the
O2 spirit and O2’s customer focus.
We negotiate with employees through trade unions, works councils or representative bodies. We continue
to give some of our people limited paid time off to fulﬁl community roles such as business mentors, school
governors and special constables. During the year, O2 UK won one of The Guardian newspaper’s Good
Employer awards. O2 Ireland won the Best Company to Work For (with over 1,000 employees) Award by
the Great Place to Work Institute and ranked in the top five places to work in Europe. O2 Germany was
eleventh in the Great Place to Work ranking published by business magazine Capital.
Community
Investment in the communities we serve is an essential part of our approach to corporate responsibility. 
In 2004/05, we made cash donations worth £2.2 million to our chosen charities and community projects, 
of which £636,266 was made from UK-based companies. In 2004, we held the inaugural O2 Community 
Awards to recognise people across the business who give their time and ideas to charity. 
Our “Can Do Giving” give-as-you-earn scheme continues to grow. Can Do Matching is our scheme to top-
up employee charitable fund raising.
Community Investment activities are devolved to our operating businesses. Last year, we established a
mentoring partnership with Weston Spirit in the UK. In Germany, we worked with SCHOLA-21 and the
German Olympic Association. O2 Ireland engaged in a number of initiatives including the CITY youth and
technology project in Dublin. Manx Telecom helped employees raise funds for a new hospice, while O2
Airwave supported the LookAlive road safety programme.
Further information can be found online in our independently veriﬁed corporate responsibility report at:
www.o2.com/cr/report05, or on request from the O2 plc Corporate Responsibility function (cr@o2.com).
This commentary discusses, and is based on, the audited consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP), included on pages 66
to 89. This commentary should be read in conjunction with those ﬁnancial statements.
Deﬁnitions of the non-ﬁnancial operating metrics (including ARPU, churn, subscriber acquisition costs 
(SACs), pre-pay customers and post-pay customers) used in this commentary can be found in the non-
ﬁnancial metrics section on page 90 of this document.
Composition of our Group
Throughout the year, we provided voice and data mobile communications services and products in the
United Kingdom, Germany and Ireland through our wholly-owned mobile businesses, O2 UK, O2 Germany
and O2 Ireland, respectively. We also supplied ﬁxed and mobile communications services in the Isle of Man
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Manx Telecom, and we operate a secure national digital radio service
for the police forces of England, Scotland and Wales through our O2 Airwave business.
All our businesses have been included throughout the periods covered by the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements with the exception of O2 Netherlands which was included up to 3 June 2003, the date at which
our disposal of this business completed and control passed to the purchaser. O2 Online, our internet portal
business, was operated as a separate legal entity until 1 April 2004 when the main business of O2 Online
was subsumed into the operations of O2 UK.
Capital reorganisation
Merger accounting
O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 as part of the capital reorganisation described in note 19
to the ﬁnancial statements. The purpose of the capital reorganisation was to create distributable reserves in
O2 plc to allow the implementation of the Group’s distribution policy. These ﬁnancial statements are O2 plc’s
ﬁrst company and consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
On 14 March 2005, O2 plc was introduced as the new holding company of the mmO2 plc Group pursuant
to a Scheme of Arrangement (the Scheme) under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985, whereby O2 plc
issued shares in return for the existing shares in mmO2 plc. Shareholders were also offered the opportunity
to realise, for cash, their shareholding in mmO2 plc in a cost effective manner.
The Directors consider that in substance the Scheme constituted two distinct transactions being ﬁrstly, the
insertion of the new holding company, O2 plc, and secondly, a placing of shares on behalf of certain
shareholders who elected to receive the consideration for their shares in mmO2 plc in cash. The insertion of
a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction as deﬁned by Financial Reporting Standard (FRS)
6 “Acquisitions and mergers” and has been accounted for using merger accounting principles. The premium
paid to shareholders who elected to receive their consideration in cash has been recognised as a deduction
from the Group proﬁt and loss account reserve.
o2.com   21
Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 21 o2.com   22
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 comprise the results of O2 plc
from incorporation to 31 March 2005 together with the results of the O2 Group from the 14 March 2005 
to the end of the ﬁnancial year and the results of the mmO2 Group from 1 April 2004 to 13 March 2005.
The comparative information presented is as previously published for the mmO2 Group except where
otherwise stated. 
O2 plc purchased mmO2 plc for share consideration. Certain mmO2 shareholders, holding 299,500,644
ordinary shares of mmO2 plc, elected to receive the consideration for their shares in mmO2 in cash. All
other shareholders, holding 8,403,362,095 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in mmO2, received the same
number of new ordinary shares of 80 pence each in the Company as they previously held in mmO2. In order
to fund the cash consideration the Company issued and allotted 299,500,644 ordinary shares in the
Company via a placement with investors on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities on
17 March 2005. This placement raised £374,375,805. The remaining cash consideration of £14,975,032,
representing a premium of ﬁve pence per share owing to shareholders electing to receive the cash, was
funded by the Group.
The Board of mmO2 also reviewed the US listing and the associated ADR programme which is a legacy 
of the demerger from BT. As part of the reorganisation, mmO2’s ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock
Exchange at the time that the Scheme became effective and O2 plc has not established an equivalent ADR
programme nor a US listing for the new shares in O2 plc. The Board has also reviewed the consequences of
continued SEC registration although the timing of any application to deregister has not yet been determined 
by the Board. 
Factors affecting our business
Certain key factors affecting our results of operations in the three years ended 31 March 2005 are discussed
below.
The mobile telecommunications market
The Western European mobile telecommunications market has high penetration rates and is highly 
competitive. As a consequence we focus on customer retention and on generating increased usage from
existing customers through both voice services and data applications. We also focus on acquiring higher
spending contract customers, and SACs for certain customers, in particular high value post-pay customers,
may increase.
Pre-pay products
Pre-pay customers pay in advance for their usage, and comprise the majority of our customer base across
the Group. Our pre-pay customers account for 66 per cent of our customers in the United Kingdom, 45 per
cent in Germany and 74 per cent in Ireland. 
In each of our mobile telecommunications businesses, on average, pre-pay customers spend less than post-
pay customers. Nonetheless, pre-pay services offer us several signiﬁcant advantages, including lower SAC,
higher average per minute charges, reduced credit risk and lower administrative costs. However, lower
average outgoing usage minutes for pre-pay customers results in lower ARPU. As our ARPU from pre-pay
customers is lower than for post-pay customers, to maintain proﬁtability we give lower handset discounts to
pre-pay customers, in line with general industry practice.
Seasonality
Historically, the number of new customer connections to mobile telephone networks in the markets where
we are present has been greater during the second half of the ﬁnancial year than during the ﬁrst half,
primarily owing to increased sales during the Christmas period. Therefore, our revenues from equipment
sales and connection charges, and the aggregate costs of customer equipment and dealer commissions and
our other related costs of sales, have been greater during the second half of the ﬁnancial year than during
the ﬁrst half. However, this trend may not continue and it is difﬁcult to predict the seasonality of customer
connections in the future.
Impact of regulation
Our businesses operate in highly regulated markets, and governmental regulation frequently limits the
revenue we may receive from certain sources. The regulatory climate in the territories in which our
businesses operate is discussed in the regulation section of our business review.
Foreign currency translation
The Company publishes its Group ﬁnancial statements in Sterling (£). The subsidiaries in Germany and
Ireland report their results and ﬁnancial position in Euros (€). Consequently, ﬂuctuations in the value of
Sterling against the Euro affect the amount at which these items are reported in the Company’s Group
ﬁnancial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency.
Critical accounting policies
Our consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are
generally accepted in the UK. As part of these reporting guidelines, management are required to identify 
and disclose the accounting policies relating to all aspects of the results and ﬁnancial position of our Group
used in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. The preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires 
management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities. The accounting
policies used in preparing our Group’s ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 are disclosed
in note 1 of those ﬁnancial statements.
The following accounting policies are considered to be critical to the understanding of the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements. These policies have the potential to have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial
statements, either because of the signiﬁcance of the ﬁnancial statement item to which they relate, or
because they require a high degree of judgement and estimation owing to the uncertainty involved in
measuring, at a speciﬁc point in time, events that are continuous in nature. 
Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 22 Tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets
We estimate the useful lives of tangible assets, goodwill and other intangible assets in order to determine
the amount of depreciation and amortisation to be charged in any reporting period. These useful lives are
estimated at the time the asset is acquired, and are based on historical experience with similar assets as well
as taking into account future anticipated events affecting their life. Changes in technology or changes in the
Group’s intended use of these assets may cause the estimated life or the value of these assets to change.
We perform a review of the estimated useful life, residual value and depreciation method for each category of
tangible ﬁxed assets (being land and buildings, plant and equipment and assets in the course of construction),
at the end of every reporting period. Our review of these assets may indicate that their lives need to be
lengthened or shortened, resulting in a decreased or increased depreciation charge respectively in future
periods. Alternatively, our review may indicate a decrease in the value of the asset, recognised by an
impairment charge.
Fixed asset impairments
In accordance with UK GAAP , we assess the carrying values of our intangible ﬁxed assets (including goodwill)
at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year following acquisition, and all our ﬁxed assets (tangible, intangible
and goodwill) in any accounting period if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
values may not be recoverable. Factors we believe are important and may trigger an impairment review
could include the following:
>> a signiﬁcant decline in a ﬁxed asset’s market value; 
>> a signiﬁcant adverse change in the business or the market in which the ﬁxed asset is involved;
>> a signiﬁcant adverse change in the statutory or other regulatory environment; or
>> signiﬁcant underperformance relative to expected or forecast operating results.
Under UK GAAP , when a triggering event has occurred, we perform an impairment review by comparing the
carrying value of the income generating unit (IGU) with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is
deemed to be the higher of the IGU’s value-in-use and its net realisable value. Unless an IGU is to be
disposed of, the recoverable amount is deemed to be equal to its value-in-use, which is determined by
calculating the net present value of its future estimated cash ﬂows.
We have not identiﬁed any events requiring an impairment review to be performed in the current year. 
Revenue recognition
In turnover we only recognise transactions that are considered to be part of our principal on-going
operations. In particular:
>> voice and data service revenue is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account based on minutes of 
airtime processed over the Group’s networks;
>> turnover derived from connection fees and subscriptions is recognised evenly over the estimated
customer relationship period, or the contracted period to which they relate;
>> income received from sales of pre-pay call cards is deferred until the customer uses the value in the 
card to pay for relevant calls; and
>> revenues from handsets are recognised at the point of sale.
The Group recognises revenue on a gross basis where its role is that of principal in a transaction. The gross
basis represents the gross value of the billing to the customer after trade discounts, with any related costs
being charged to operating expenses. Where the Group acts as agent in a transaction, the net revenue
earned is recognised as turnover.
Debtor recoverability
In connection with recording revenue, we maintain provisions for doubtful debts for estimated losses that
result from the inability of a portion of our customers to make required payments. We base our provision on
historical results and future expectations, the economic and competitive environment and other relevant
factors, and review the provision regularly.
Mast site restoration provisions
We have certain legal obligations relating to the restoration of leased property to its original condition at the
end of the lease term. This obligation relates principally to mast sites. We provide for the expected costs of
restoring those sites on which we believe that we will have a material liability. The provision is based on
assumptions covering the lease term, the characteristics of the site, the expected cost of restoring the site
and the period of time before the obligation is expected to be incurred. There is inherent uncertainty given
the long period over which certain leases run and actual restoration costs may differ to those estimated.
Financial performance measurement
We deﬁne EBITDA as our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items,
excluding our share of operating proﬁts and losses of our joint ventures and associates. We use EBITDA, 
a non-GAAP ﬁnancial measure, as one of the key performance indicators for evaluating the ﬁnancial
performance of our business units. We believe that EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying
operating performance of our Group because it excludes recurring non-cash items such as depreciation and
amortisation. We believe that this measure is also used by readers of this Annual Report in order to assess
our performance against other comparable companies. Other measures used include revenues, operating
proﬁt or loss and capital expenditure.
We also believe that EBITDA is one of the key indicators of our borrowing potential as indicated by the
ﬁnancial covenants attaching to some of our credit facilities which require compliance with EBITDA targets
and EBITDA-based ratios. Further details are provided in the treasury management and policies section on
page 37.
As EBITDA is not a measure of ﬁnancial performance under UK GAAP , it may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures of other companies because EBITDA is not uniformly deﬁned. EBITDA should not be
considered by investors as an alternative to group operating proﬁt or loss or proﬁt or loss on ordinary
activities before taxation as an indication of operating performance, or as an alternative to cash ﬂow from
operating activities as an indication of cash ﬂows.
o2.com   23
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 23 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
Group operating proﬁt is considered to be the UK GAAP ﬁnancial measure most directly comparable 
to EBITDA. The reconciliation of EBITDA to group operating proﬁt/(loss), including O2 Netherlands, for 
the three years ended 31 March 2005 is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
EBITDA 1,768 1,367 859
Depreciation
1
(931) (926) (932)
Goodwill amortisation (200) (201) (374)
UMTS licence amortisation (169) ––
Other amortisation (82) (7) (31)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) before exceptional items 386 233 (478)
Exceptional items (45) (75) (8,300)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 341 158 (8,778)
1
In the years ended 31 March 2005 and 2004, excludes depreciation of £6 million and £2 million respectively charged as exceptional items
as part of the reorganisation and restructuring discussed in the exceptional items section on page 28.
Sale of O2 Netherlands
The sale of O2 Netherlands, our wholly-owned Dutch subsidiary, to Greenﬁeld Capital Partners completed
on 3 June 2003 for €25 million in cash. The total loss on sale arising on completion was £1,369 million which,
after utilisation of the provision recognised in 2003, resulted in a non-operating exceptional loss of £5 million in
the year ended 31 March 2004.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 3 (FRS 3) “Reporting ﬁnancial performance” , the results 
of O2 Netherlands for the two years ended 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 have been classiﬁed 
as discontinued.
The summarised results of the Group, excluding O2 Netherlands, for the three years ended 31 March 2005 are:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group turnover 6,683 5,646 4,611
Cost of sales (3,799) (3,291) (2,854)
Gross proﬁt 2,884 2,355 1,757
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (2,498) (2,121) (2,115)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) before exceptional items 386 234 (358)
Exceptional items (45) (75) (8,300)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 341 159 (8,658)
Deﬁnition of segments
In the year ended 31 March 2004, we undertook a restructuring of our central functions and rationalisation
of our property portfolio. In the year ended 31 March 2005 the activities of O2 Online and Products O2,
which were previously reported as the “mobile internet services” segment, are reported within the segments
in which they now reside. As the information is not readily available, the comparatives have not been
restated and these businesses are reported separately in line with day-to-day managerial and budgetary
control at that time.
Operating results
Introduction to results of operations
The main components of turnover, cost of sales and administrative expenses, which form our results of
operations, are described below.
Turnover
Our turnover from operations can be analysed into two areas: service and other revenues (including
equipment), with service revenue our principal source of income. These income streams are brieﬂy 
described below:
>> service revenue is derived from our customers’ use of our mobile networks. This includes both voice-
related airtime and data services, such as SMS and GPRS. It also includes interconnection fees from
other networks terminating calls on our customers’ mobile phones, and roaming fees from other
network customers using our networks;
>> other revenue includes equipment revenue derived from the sale of handsets and other accessories,
income we recognise when acting as a service provider for non-O2 customers, national roaming and
wholesale contracts revenue. It also includes connection charges and revenue from other sources such
as voice messaging and paging services.
Cost of sales
The principal items within cost of sales are:
>> service cost of sales which consists principally of interconnection charges and operation and
maintenance costs relating to our networks. Interconnection charges are payments made by us to other
ﬁxed line or mobile network operators domestically and abroad when our customers use voice or data
services which terminate on other networks. These costs are variable in nature, increasing as the usage
of the network increases. Costs relating to the operation and maintenance of our networks mainly
comprise core transmission costs, mast site leases, network equipment maintenance and depreciation
charges related to our network assets. These costs are more ﬁxed in nature, and depend on the size of
the network not the usage of the network, although they will increase as we depreciate our UMTS
networks from the date of launch of commercial services;
>> other cost of sales includes the cost of purchasing handsets and other hardware items, costs associated
with the provision of roaming and wholesale contracts and the network cost of providing voice
messaging and paging services.
o2.com   24
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 24 Administrative expenses before exceptional items
Principal administrative expenses are:
>> promotional and advertising expenses, primarily comprising bonuses and commissions paid to retailers,
for the acquisition and retention of customers. They also include expenditure on advertising, marketing
and loyalty programmes;
>> overhead expenses including personnel costs relating to functions such as ﬁnance, planning, network,
regulatory, legal, marketing and customer care. They also include property charges, facilities, training and
information technology support;
>> depreciation charges on non-network assets; and
>> amortisation charges on goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, on our UMTS telecommunications
licences from the date of market launch of UMTS services and on other intangible assets.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are large non-recurring incomes or expenses that have been disclosed separately to avoid
distortion of the underlying trading result.
O2 consolidated results of operations for the three years ended 31 March 2005, 2004 and 2003
The following table presents certain ﬁnancial data for our Group, including O2 Netherlands, for the years
ended 31 March 2005, 2004 and 2003 extracted from our consolidated ﬁnancial statements:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group turnover 6,683 5,694 4,874
Cost of sales (3,799) (3,314) (3,060)
Gross proﬁt 2,884 2,380 1,814
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (2,498) (2,147) (2,292)
Exceptional items (45) (75) (8,300)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 341 158 (8,778)
Group’s share of operating result of joint ventures and associates (3) –5
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 338 158 (8,773)
Costs of capital reorganisation (20) ––
Total loss on sale of business – (5) (1,364)
Net interest payable and similar charges (9) (58) (66)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 309 95 (10,203)
Taxation (8) 71 55
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year 301 166 (10,148)
Dividends (196) ––
Retained proﬁt/(loss) for the year 105 166 (10,148)
1
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of operating proﬁts and
losses of our joint ventures and associates. The use of EBITDA as a ﬁnancial performance measure is discussed on page 23.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared to the year ended 31 March 2004
Group turnover
The following table shows contributions of our businesses to Group turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 per cent
£m £m variation
Continuing operations
O2 UK 4,030 3,451 17
O2 Germany 1,865 1,508 24
O2 Ireland 585 529 11
O2 Airwave 169 89 90
O2 Online – 140 –
Manx Telecom 53 50 6
Intragroup eliminations (19) (121) (84)
6,683 5,646 18
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands – 48 (100)
Total 6,683 5,694 17
Group turnover from continuing operations increased by 18 per cent from £5,646 million for the year ended
31 March 2004 to £6,683 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. All our businesses contributed to the
rise in Group turnover. The principal reasons for the increases in our mobile telecommunications businesses
were the overall rise in subscriber numbers in the current year and the increased usage of the Group’s
services by subscribers. 
A description of the signiﬁcant new products and services offered by the Group during the year, and the
development of the O
2
brand, are given in the business review on pages 6 to 19.
O2 UK
O2 UK’s overall turnover increased by 17 per cent from £3,451 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 
to £4,030 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. O2 UK’s total active customer base increased from
13.3 million at 31 March 2004 to 14.4 million at 31 March 2005, an increase of over 8 per cent. 
o2.com   25
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 25 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
The following table provides an analysis of O2 UK’s turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 per cent
£m £m variation
Service 3,627 3,183 14
Equipment and other 403 268 50
Total 4,030 3,451 17
Service revenues Service revenue is the principal element of O2 UK’s turnover, comprising 90 per cent of
O2 UK’s group turnover for the year ended 31 March 2005. O2 UK’s service revenue increased by 14 per
cent from £3,183 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 to £3,627 million for the year ended 31 March
2005. Of this, service revenue from post-pay customers remains the principal source of income, accounting
for 66 per cent of the total service revenue for the year ended 31 March 2005 (2004: 65 per cent).
O2 UK’s service revenue has grown as a result of a combination of an increase in the subscriber base and 
an increase in ARPU.
At 31 March 2005 our post-pay customer base totalled 4.9 million compared to 4.6 million at 31 March 2004
which represents 335,000 net additions for the year. Our mix of brand, devices and propositions has
continued to appeal to new customers. Despite this, post-pay churn for the year ended 31 March 2005 was
31 per cent which is a rise of 5 percentage points from the churn of 26 per cent recorded for the year ended
31 March 2004. This reﬂects the increasingly competitive market in the UK and the loss of the BT employee
corporate account which in itself contributed 2 per cent to churn.
ARPU for both post-pay and pre-pay customers has grown in the year, despite the impact of the termination
rate cut imposed by the regulator in September 2004. Post-pay ARPU has increased from £525 for the year
ended 31 March 2004 to £542 for the year ended 31 March 2005. Pre-pay ARPU has increased from £141
for the year ended 31 March 2004 to £143 for the year ended 31 March 2005. Voice usage continued to
increase and average voice minutes of use per customer increased by 11 per cent to 137 minutes per month
during the year ended 31 March 2005. Data ARPU also grew £13 year-on-year, to leave total blended ARPU
£9 higher than last year, at £281. Data revenue, as a proportion of total service revenues, was driven by a
34 per cent year-on-year growth in the number of SMS messages handled (from 8.0 billion in the 2004
ﬁnancial year to 10.7 billion in the 2005 ﬁnancial year), along with an increasing contribution from non-SMS
revenues, which accounted for 3.7 per cent of service revenue in the fourth quarter.
Equipment and other revenues Equipment revenues have increased over the 2004 ﬁnancial year reﬂecting
the higher level of gross customer connections than in 2004. Other revenues have increased owing to the
continued growth in national roaming and wholesale contracts.
O2 Germany
O2 Germany’s overall turnover increased by 24 per cent from £1,508 million for the year ended 31 March
2004 to £1,865 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. O2 Germany’s total active customer base
increased by 33 per cent from 6.0 million at 31 March 2004 to 8.0 million at 31 March 2005.
The following table provides an analysis of O2 Germany’s turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 per cent
£m £m variation
Service 1,687 1,347 25
Equipment and other 178 161 11
Total 1,865 1,508 24
Service Service revenue is the principal element of O2 Germany’s turnover, comprising 90 per cent of total
turnover for the year ended 31 March 2005. O2 Germany’s service revenue increased by 25 per cent from
£1,347 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 to £1,687 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. 
Of this, service revenue from post-pay customers is the principal source of income, with post-pay revenue for
the year ended 31 March 2005 accounting for 83 per cent of the total (2004: 84 per cent).
This increase in service revenue is principally the result of a signiﬁcant increase in the active subscriber base
described above. In particular, the net post-pay customer additions in the year ended 31 March 2005 were
890,000, representing 45 per cent of total net additions. The pre-pay customer base increased by 44 per
cent from the 2004 ﬁnancial year to the 2005 ﬁnancial year, with pre-pay customers totalling 3.6 million 
at 31 March 2005. Of this, the new Tchibo Mobilfunk channel has contributed in excess of 250,000 pre-pay
customers since its launch in October 2004. The growth in service revenue is also affected by foreign
exchange, and translating O2 Germany’s service revenue in 2005 at the exchange rates prevailing in the 
prior year would increase the reported growth in turnover by £31 million.
In the post-pay market, O2 Germany’s Active bundles were launched in July 2004 and proved very successful
with high value customers, with approximately 40 per cent of new contract customers in the second half of
the 2005 ﬁnancial year subscribing to an Active bundle. In the year ended 31 March 2005, the popular
O
2
Genion Homezone service, our location based tarifﬁng technology, accounted for 50 per cent of new
contract customers. These propositions contributed to the proportion of contract customers in O2 Germany’s
customer base at 31 March 2005 being nearly 55 per cent.
Post-pay ARPU has decreased from £375 for the year ended 31 March 2004 to £362 for the year ended
31 March 2005. In local currency, the fall is less signiﬁcant (from €540 in the ﬁnancial year 2004 to €531 
in the ﬁnancial year 2005) which is a function of the weakening of the Euro during the 2005 ﬁnancial year.
Average customer voice minutes of use remained constant year-on-year, at 118 minutes per month. The 
fall in blended ARPU can be ascribed to the cut in termination rates suffered in the year and the increasing
number of pre-pay customers, as a proportion of the overall customer base, who on average generate lower
ARPU than our post-pay customers.
o2.com   26
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 26 The proportion of data revenues compared to total service revenues rose to 21.8 per cent for the year ended
31 March 2005 compared to 19.5 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2004. The principal element of
data revenue is generated by text messages and O2 Germany recorded nearly 2.4 billion text messages in
the year ended 31 March 2005, an increase of one third over the previous year. The success of data
propositions also drove non-SMS data uptake and usage, and the number of customers at the year-end who
had used a non-SMS data service during the previous 90 days was 1.9 million, 24 per cent of the total base. 
Equipment and other revenues Within this category, equipment revenues have risen by 9 per cent to 
£160 million compared to the prior year which is principally owing to the increase in gross additions in the
2005 year compared to the 2004 year.
O2 Ireland
O2 Ireland’s revenue has increased by 11 per cent from £529 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 to
£585 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. This increase in revenue is attributable to an increase of
142,000 in the customer base. Post-pay customer numbers increased from 381,000 at 31 March 2004 to
403,000 active subscribers at 31 March 2005, and the pre-pay customer base increased from 1,010,000 at
31 March 2004 to 1,130,000 at 31 March 2005.
O2 Airwave
Revenue at our O2 Airwave business has increased by 90 per cent from £89 million for the year ended 
31 March 2004 to £169 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. On 1 April 2005, O2 Airwave
announced that the roll-out of the secure digital communication network for the police forces of England,
Scotland and Wales was complete in all 51 forces across England, Scotland and Wales.
Net operating expenses before exceptional items
Net operating expenses before exceptional items comprises cost of sales and administrative expenses. Net
operating expenses from continuing operations (excluding O2 Netherlands) increased by 16 per cent from
£5,412 million for the 2004 ﬁnancial year to £6,297 million for the 2005 ﬁnancial year. This reﬂects the
increase in the cost of sales arising from the growth in turnover described earlier and the commencement of
amortisation of the UMTS licences in our UK and German businesses following commercial launch of UMTS
services during the year. Foreign exchange has also had an effect and translating the net operating expenses
of our overseas businesses at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior year would increase these costs by
£43 million.
Group cost of sales
Group cost of sales from continuing operations increased by 15 per cent from £3,291 million for the year
ended 31 March 2004 to £3,799 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. The increase in cost of sales for
the 2005 ﬁnancial year is lower than the increase in Group turnover of 17 per cent owing to the
improvement in gross margin percentage in our businesses. The gross proﬁt margin of the Group, 
excluding O2 Netherlands, increased by one percentage point to 43 per cent.
The gross margin percentage (gross proﬁt divided by turnover) of our newer business in Germany is 
lower than those of our more established businesses in the UK and Ireland. O2 Germany is still building 
its customer base and, as revenues grow, additional contribution is made towards the ﬁxed element of cost
of sales, which increases the margin. As a consequence, in the year ended 31 March 2005, O2 Germany
increased its gross margin by 6 percentage points to 44 per cent. As our O2 Airwave business matures, 
we expect its gross margin to improve similarly.
Group administrative expenses before exceptional items
Group administrative expenses before exceptional items from continuing operations, which exclude 
O2 Netherlands, have increased by £377 million from £2,121 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 to
£2,498 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. During the year, O2 UK and O2 Germany have launched
commercial UMTS services, and in line with Group accounting policy, the UMTS licences held by these
businesses have commenced amortisation. The charge for the year ended 31 March 2005 is £169 million.
Additionally, amortisation in O2 Germany also includes £78 million in respect of the T-Mobile network
sharing agreement.
Administrative expenses have also increased owing to a rise in marketing expenditure reﬂecting the
competitive environment in which our businesses operate and the continued growth in the size of the
business. Administrative expenses excluding UMTS licence and other amortisation and marketing
expenditure have risen only 4 per cent. 
An analysis of the net operating expenses before exceptional items between our operating companies is
provided in the table below:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 per cent
£m £m variation
Continuing operations
O2 UK 3,464 2,899 19
O2 Germany 1,955 1,579 24
O2 Ireland 430 389 11
O2 Online – 224 –
O2 Airwave 151 119 27
Other operations and central costs 97 1–
Goodwill amortisation 200 201 –
Total 6,297 5,412 16
o2.com   27
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 27 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
O2 UK
O2 UK’s net operating expenses before exceptional items have increased by 19 per cent, from £2,899 million
for the year ended 31 March 2004, to £3,464 million for the year ended 31 March 2005.
O2 UK’s gross proﬁt margin, being gross proﬁt expressed as a proportion of O2 UK’s group turnover, has
declined from 44 per cent in the year ended 31 March 2004 to 41 per cent for the year ended 31 March
2005. This is attributable to ﬁrstly the integration of the business of O2 Online and Products O2 on 1 April
2004 discussed above and secondly the increasing cost of supplying devices to customers. Handsets are
increasingly sophisticated and we have experienced greater demand for more costly devices with additional
features such as cameras.
O2 UK’s depreciation charge has increased from £488 million in the year ended 31 March 2004 to
£558 million in the year ended 31 March 2005, an increase of 14 per cent. This reﬂects the commencement
of depreciation on the UMTS network assets and a larger ﬁxed asset base as well as a review of certain asset
lives, mainly software. 
Advertising and marketing expenditure for the year ended 31 March 2005 has increased year on year
reﬂecting the general level of competition in the market. Post-pay SACs have increased from £160 to £172
per subscriber and pre-pay SACs have increased from £16 to £19 per subscriber.
O2 Germany
O2 Germany’s net operating expenses before exceptional items increased from £1,579 million for the year
ended 31 March 2004 to £1,955 million for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Under a long-standing agreement, T-Mobile Deutschland GmbH (T-Mobile) currently provides national
roaming capacity to O2 Germany in areas where O2 Germany has not developed its own network. The cost
of the contract is determined based on a ﬁxed number of minutes available to O2 Germany and includes
certain capital payments to T-Mobile.
In November 2004 O2 Germany announced a strategy to deliver faster customer growth and to step up 
the level of investment in its UMTS network. To sustain the rapid growth in subscribers experienced in O2
Germany, we aim to deliver UMTS network quality and population coverage competitive with the two
market leaders. This will require additional capital expenditure on our UMTS network which we expect to a
signiﬁcant extent to be offset by a reduction in operating costs, including lower national roaming costs, 
and by faster revenue growth.
The total depreciation charge (for both network and non-network ﬁxed assets) was £241 million for the 
year ended 31 March 2005, a 18 per cent decrease over the charge for the year ended 31 March 2004 of
£295 million.
Blended subscriber acquisition costs have fallen by 8 per cent from £119 per subscriber for the year ended
31 March 2004 to £110 per subscriber for the year ended 31 March 2005. The fall in blended SAC is mainly
attributable to the increasing proportion of pre-pay customers in the new connections mix.
O2 Ireland
Net operating expenses before exceptional items for O2 Ireland have increased by 11 per cent from 
£389 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 to £430 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. 
The increase is consistent with the growth of this business and reﬂects the stable margins reported by
O2 Ireland.
O2 Airwave
The net operating expenses of our O2 Airwave business have increased by 27 per cent, or £32 million, from
2004 to 2005 as the business has expanded and the roll-out of the network has been completed.
Goodwill amortisation
The Group’s goodwill amortisation charge was £200 million for the year ended 31 March 2005 which is
consistent year on year and reﬂects the systematic charge recognised against our Group’s goodwill value.
Exceptional items
In the year ended 31 March 2005, we incurred an exceptional operating charge of £45 million and an
exceptional non-operating charge of £20 million. The exceptional operating charge related to the
redeployment of resources within O2 UK into customer facing areas and away from non-customer facing
areas. This is in line with O2 UK’s strategy of delivering an enhanced customer experience and increasing
customer loyalty. The charge comprises redundancy and property costs. No cash was expended in the 
year ended 31 March 2005. The exceptional non-operating charge related to the costs of the capital
reorganisation described in note 19 to the ﬁnancial statements. This charge gave rise to a cash outﬂow 
of £15 million in the year.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, we incurred an exceptional operating charge of £75 million in respect of
the restructuring of central functions and the resultant rationalisation of our property portfolio. This arose on
the transfer of O2 Online, Products O2 and certain other central functions to our operating businesses in the
UK, Germany and Ireland and included provisions relating to redundancies and the termination of property
leases. This charge gave rise to a cash outﬂow of £17 million in that year. 
The sale of O2 Netherlands to Greenﬁeld Capital Partners completed on 3 June 2003 for €25 million in
cash. The total loss on sale arising on completion was £1,369 million which, after utilisation of the provision
recognised in 2003, resulted in an exceptional non-operating loss of £5 million in the year ended 31 March 2004.
The impairment review performed during the year ended 31 March 2003 resulted in an exceptional non-
cash operating charge in respect of our continuing businesses of £8,300 million. This comprised charges
relating mainly to the impairment of UMTS licences and goodwill in O2 UK and O2 Germany (totalling 
o2.com   28
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 28 £2,300 million and £4,700 million respectively) and the impairment of goodwill in O2 Ireland of
£1,300 million.
EBITDA
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our
share of operating proﬁts and losses of our joint ventures and associates. All our mobile telecommunications
businesses have generated positive EBITDA over the last three ﬁnancial years.
The reconciliation of EBITDA to Group operating proﬁt/(loss), the closest UK GAAP ﬁnancial measure, by
business is as follows:
Group operating Exceptional
proﬁt/(loss) Depreciation Amortisation items EBITDA
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
O2 UK 371 346 558 488 209 150 45 57 1,183 1,041
O2 Germany (90) (72) 241 295 190 – – 2 341 225
O2 Ireland 106 87 65 67 52 53 – 1 223 208
O2 Airwave 19 (31) 53 31 – – – 1 72 1
O2 Online – (93) – 36 – 4 – 10 – (43)
Other operations (65) (78) 14 8 – 1 – 4 (51) (65)
341 159 931 925 451 208 45 75 1,768 1,367
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands – (1) – 1 – – – – – –
341 158 931 926 451 208 45 75 1,768 1,367
The following table shows contributions of our businesses to Group EBITDA:
Year ended 31 March
2005 2004 per cent
£m £m variation
Continuing operations
O2 UK 1,183 1,041 14
O2 Germany 341 225 52
O2 Ireland 223 208 7
O2 Airwave 72 1–
O2 Online – (43) –
Other operations and central costs (51) (65) (22)
1,768 1,367 29
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands – ––
Total 1,768 1,367 29
Group EBITDA from continuing operations has increased by 29 per cent from £1,367 million for the year
ended 31 March 2004 to £1,768 million for the year ended 31 March 2005. The increased EBITDA
contribution has come from all the trading operations of the Group.
Group operating proﬁt
In the year ended 31 March 2004, we recorded our ﬁrst ever group operating proﬁt of £158 million. 
This has increased by 116 per cent to £341 million in the year ended 31 March 2005. Excluding exceptional
items, our Group’s total operating proﬁt has increased by 66 per cent from £233 million in the 2004
ﬁnancial year to £386 million in the 2005 ﬁnancial year.
Net interest
Net interest payable relates to the ﬁnance charges payable on external debt, net of interest received on
amounts invested. In the 2005 ﬁnancial year we incurred a net interest charge of £9 million, a decrease 
of 84 per cent over the 2004 ﬁnancial year which reﬂects the decrease in net debt over that period. In the
2005 ﬁnancial year, the principal elements of our interest charge were the interest on our revolving credit
facility (“RCF”) amounting to £4 million (2004: £8 million) and interest of £57 million (2004: £62 million)
accruing on our long-term bonds, which we issued in January 2002. In accordance with UK GAAP , we are
amortising the issue costs of our bank facility and our bonds over the lives of the facilities (ﬁve and ten years
respectively), through the interest line in the proﬁt and loss account. Amortisation of these costs amounted
to £8 million in the 2005 ﬁnancial year (2004: £4 million) with the increase representing an accelerated
charge arising from the reduction in our RCF during the year. We also incur interest charges on the O2 UK
loan notes and on our ﬁnance leases and other borrowings, and have received interest on our short-term
investments. Further details are contained in the liquidity and capital resources section on page 35.
Tax on loss on ordinary activities
We recognised a tax charge of £8 million for the year ended 31 March 2005 compared to a credit of 
£71 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. The overall charge reﬂects a prudent view of the utilisation
of our Group’s tax losses in the UK and Germany and the related deferred tax assets. Overall we continue 
to recognise a net deferred tax liability.
Dividends
We have proposed an inaugural ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 pence per share for the year ended 31 March 2005. 
This dividend, totalling £196 million, will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register on 
5 August 2005.
o2.com   29
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 29 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared to the year ended 31 March 2003
Group turnover
The following table shows contributions of our businesses to Group turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2004 2003 per cent
£m £m variation
Continuing operations
O2 UK 3,451 3,025 14
O2 Germany 1,508 1,060 42
O2 Ireland 529 442 20
O2 Online 140 93 51
Other operations 139 64 117
Intragroup eliminations (121) (73) 66
5,646 4,611 22
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands 48 263 (82)
Total 5,694 4,874 17
Group turnover from continuing operations increased by 22 per cent from £4,611 million for the year ended
31 March 2003 to £5,646 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. All our businesses contributed to the
rise in Group turnover. The principal reasons for the increases in our mobile telecommunications businesses
were the overall rise in subscriber numbers in the current year and the increased usage of the Group’s
services by subscribers. The rise in turnover of our other operations is due mainly to our Airwave business
which contributed £73 million of the increase. 
The strengthening of the Euro during 2004 also improved the growth. Translating the results of our overseas
business at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior year would have reduced the reported growth in
turnover by £153 million.
O2 UK
O2 UK’s overall turnover increased by 14 per cent from £3,025 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 
to £3,451 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. O2 UK’s total active customer base increased from
12.1 million at 31 March 2003 to 13.3 million at 31 March 2004, an increase of 10 per cent. This included 
a net increase in post-pay subscribers of over half a million customers.
The following table provides an analysis of O2 UK’s turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2004 2003 per cent
£m £m variation
Service 3,183 2,738 16
Equipment and other 268 287 (7)
Total 3,451 3,025 14
Service revenues Service revenue is the principal element of O2 UK’s turnover, comprising 92 per cent of
total turnover for the year ended 31 March 2004. O2 UK’s service revenue increased by 16 per cent from
£2,738 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £3,183 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. 
Of this, service revenue from post-pay customers remains the principal source of income, accounting for 
over 65 per cent of the total. This represents a decrease from the 67 per cent recorded for the year ended 
31 March 2003 and is a function of the strong growth in pre-pay ARPU in the year ended 31 March 2004.
O2 UK’s revenue has grown as a result of a combination of an increase in the subscriber base, partly arising
from improving levels of retention of existing post-pay users, and an increase in post-pay ARPU.
Post-pay subscriber gross additions for the year ended 31 March 2004 total 1.7 million, taking our total post-
pay customer base to 4.6 million (representing 516,000 net additions for the year). Post-pay churn for the
year ended 31 March 2004 was 26 per cent, a fall of two percentage points from the churn of 28 per cent
recorded for the year ended 31 March 2003. This reﬂects our efforts to attract higher-spending customers
through innovative products and services as well as targeted and successful campaigns in the business market. 
We have also increased our use of ARPU-share incentive arrangements with independent distributors to
increase revenue and reduce churn.
ARPU for both post-pay and pre-pay customers grew strongly in the year. Post-pay ARPU increased from
£503 for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £525 for the year ended 31 March 2004. Pre-pay ARPU
increased from £121 for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £141 for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Data revenues, as a proportion of total service revenues, increased steadily through the year from 17.1 per
cent for the year ended 31 March 2003 to 20.4 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2004. Data revenue
as a proportion of total service revenue for the ﬁnal quarter of the year ended 31 March 2004 was 22.3 per
cent. Included within these statistics, the popularity of text messages continued to grow, with in excess of 
8 billion messages sent during the year ended 31 March 2004, compared with 5.8 billion during the year
ended 31 March 2003.
Equipment and other revenues Equipment revenues increased marginally in the 2004 ﬁnancial year
compared to the 2003 ﬁnancial year. Although the level of gross additions to our subscriber base has
remained level in 2004 compared to 2003, handset prices have generally decreased year on year, the effect 
of which has been offset by the sales mix. Other revenues have fallen by almost one-quarter from 2003 to
o2.com   30
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 30 2004 reﬂecting a reduction in service provider and non-mobile retail revenues, which is partially offset by
increased revenue from national roaming and wholesale contracts.
O2 Germany
O2 Germany’s overall turnover increased by 42 per cent from £1,060 million for the year ended 
31 March 2003 to £1,508 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. O2 Germany’s total active customer
base increased by 24 per cent from 4.8 million at 31 March 2003 to slightly less than 6.0 million at 
31 March 2004. 
The following table provides an analysis of O2 Germany’s turnover:
Year ended 31 March
2004 2003 per cent
£m £m variation
Service 1,347 944 43
Equipment and other 161 116 39
Total 1,508 1,060 42
Service Service revenue is the principal element of O2 Germany’s turnover, comprising 89 per cent of total
turnover for the year ended 31 March 2004. O2 Germany’s service revenue increased by 43 per cent from
£944 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £1,347 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. 
Of this, service revenue from post-pay customers is the principal source of income, with post-pay revenue
accounting for 84 per cent of the total.
This increase in service revenue is principally the result of a signiﬁcant increase in the active subscriber base
described above. In particular, the post-pay customer additions in the year ended 31 March 2004 were
836,000, representing 71 per cent of total net additions. The pre-pay customer base increased by 15 per
cent from the 2003 ﬁnancial year to the 2004 ﬁnancial year, with pre-pay customers totalling 2.5 million 
at 31 March 2004. A further contributory factor in the growth in service revenue is the effect of foreign
exchange. Translating O2 Germany’s service revenue in 2004 at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior
year would reduce the reported growth in turnover by £101 million.
A large proportion of the post-pay additions during the year relate to customers who have subscribed to the
O
2
Genion Homezone service, our location-based tarifﬁng technology, which allows reduced call rates within
a small geographical area, usually at home. O2 Germany also offers an equivalent service to business
customers. Both O
2
Genion Home and Business are part of our drive across the Group to attract high-value
customers. At 31 March 2004, over 42 per cent of the total customer base subscribed to the O
2
Genion
service compared with 30 per cent at 31 March 2003.
Post-pay ARPU has increased from £341 for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £375 for the year ended
31 March 2004. This rise is a function of the continuing drive to win higher spending customers. 
O2 Germany have continued to offer advanced data services during the 2004 ﬁnancial year. This has been
reﬂected in the increase in the proportion of data revenues compared to total service revenues which have
risen to 19.5 per cent during the year ended 31 March 2004. The proportion for the three months ended
31 March 2004 reached 20.7 per cent. The principal element of data revenue is generated by text messages
and O2 Germany recorded in excess of 1.8 billion text messages in the year ended 31 March 2004, an
increase of 466 million messages over last year. 
Equipment revenues Equipment revenues have risen by 56 per cent to £147 million compared to the prior
year. This is principally owing to the increase of almost 500,000 gross additions in the 2004 year compared 
to the 2003 year.
O2 Ireland
O2 Ireland’s revenue has increased by 20 per cent from £442 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 to
£529 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. This increase in revenue is a combination of an increase 
of 136,000 in the customer base and an 11 per cent rise in blended ARPU. Post-pay customer numbers
increased from 366,000 at 31 March 2003 to 381,000 active subscribers at 31 March 2004 and the pre-pay
customer base increased from 889,000 at 31 March 2003 to 1,010,000 at 31 March 2004.
A further contributory factor in the growth in revenue is the effect of foreign exchange. Translating O2
Ireland’s revenue in 2004 at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior year would reduce the reported
growth in turnover by £40 million.
O2 Airwave
Revenue at our Airwave business has increased by over 450 per cent from £16 million for the year 
ended 31 March 2003 to £89 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. The roll-out of the secure digital
communication network for the police forces of England, Scotland and Wales continued during the year 
and by 31 March 2004 had achieved live status in 35 of the country’s 51 forces.
O2 Online
During the year ended 31 March 2004, O2 Online acted as the online sales channel for O2 UK and as the
developer of the Group’s mobile data capability. Subsequent to the year end, the operations of O2 Online
and Products O2 have been transferred to O2 UK as part of the reorganisation undertaken in the year ended
31 March 2004.
O2 Online generated internal revenue mainly from connection fees, airtime voucher sales and the provision
of WAP gateway and portal services to other Group companies. External revenues include sales of devices
outside the Group’s territories, paid-for alerts and ring-tones and advertising.
In the current year, gross connections through the Online channel doubled compared to the 2003 year to
over 1.0 million.
o2.com   31
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 31 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
Net operating expenses before exceptional items
Net operating expenses before exceptional items comprises cost of sales and administrative expenses. Net
operating expenses from continuing operations (excluding O2 Netherlands) increased by 8 per cent from
£4,969 million for the 2003 ﬁnancial year to £5,412 million for the 2004 ﬁnancial year. This reﬂects the
increase in the cost of sales arising from the growth in turnover described earlier. Translating the net
operating expenses of our overseas businesses at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior year would
reduce these costs by £147 million.
Group cost of sales
Group cost of sales from continuing operations increased by 15 per cent from £2,854 million for the year
ended 31 March 2003 to £3,291 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. The increase in cost of sales for
the 2004 ﬁnancial year is commensurate with the increase in Group turnover of 22 per cent, partly offset by
the improvement in gross margin percentage in our businesses. The gross proﬁt margin of the Group,
excluding O2 Netherlands, increased by 4 percentage points to 42 per cent.
The gross margin percentage (gross proﬁt divided by turnover) of our newer business in Germany is lower
than those of our more established businesses in the UK and Ireland. O2 Germany is in the process of
building its customer base and, as revenues grow, additional contribution is made towards the ﬁxed element
of cost of sales, which increases the margin. As a consequence, in the year ended 31 March 2004, O2
Germany increased its gross margin by 10 percentage points to 38 per cent.
Group administrative expenses before exceptional items
Group administrative expenses before exceptional items from continuing operations, which exclude O2
Netherlands, have increased from £2,115 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £2,121 million for
the year ended 31 March 2004. Given the growth in subscribers and revenues in 2004, the static level of
administrative expenses before exceptional items reﬂects the beneﬁt of a full year of cost savings following
the restructuring undertaken by the Group in the 2002 and 2003 ﬁnancial years, and certain savings already
realised from the reorganisation started in 2004. Translating the administrative expenses of our overseas
business at the exchange rates prevailing in the prior year would reduce them by £62 million from the
£2,121 million reported.
Group administrative expenses before exceptional items from continuing operations, as a percentage 
of turnover, have decreased from 46 per cent in the 2003 ﬁnancial year to 38 per cent in the 2004 
ﬁnancial year.
An analysis of the net operating expenses before exceptional items between our operating companies is
provided in the table below:
Year ended 31 March
2004 2003 per cent
£m £m variation
O2 UK 2,899 2,691 8
O2 Germany 1,579 1,295 22
O2 Ireland 389 356 9
O2 Online 224 216 4
Other operations and central costs 120 71 69
Goodwill amortisation 201 340 (41)
Total 5,412 4,969 9
O2 UK
O2 UK’s net operating expenses before exceptional items have increased by 8 per cent, from £2,691 million
for the year ended 31 March 2003, to £2,899 million for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The variable element of O2 UK’s service cost of sales has increased in line with the network usage.
Interconnection charges increased signiﬁcantly during the ﬁnancial year 2004, compared to the year ended
31 March 2003, reﬂecting increased calls from O2 UK customers terminating on other networks including
other mobile networks whose termination charges are generally higher than charges levied by ﬁxed-line
network providers.
O2 UK’s depreciation charge has increased from £477 million in the year ended 31 March 2003 to 
£488 million in the year ended 31 March 2004, an increase of 2 per cent. 
The advertising and marketing spend for the year ended 31 March 2004 has remained static year on year
reﬂecting the focused nature of the spend in this area. Within this, subscriber acquisition costs have fallen as
the unit cost of connections has declined despite an increase in the volume of gross subscribed additions.
Post-pay SACs have decreased from £177 to £160 per subscriber and pre-pay SACs have decreased from
£25 to £16 per subscriber.
Compared to the year ended 31 March 2003, O2 UK’s overheads have increased by 8 per cent for the year
ended 31 March 2004, which, despite the increased turnover and concentration on improving customer
service, reﬂects the cost control measures during the year and the cost savings which continue to be derived
from the restructuring of the business announced in February 2002.
O2 Germany
O2 Germany’s net operating expenses before exceptional items increased from £1,295 million for the year
ended 31 March 2003 to £1,579 million for the year ended 31 March 2004.
o2.com   32
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 32 T-Mobile Deutschland GmbH (T-Mobile) provides national roaming capacity to O2 Germany in areas where
O2 Germany has not developed its own network. The cost of the contract is determined based on a ﬁxed
number of minutes available to O2 Germany. In February 2003, an extension to this agreement gave O2
Germany access to T-Mobile’s 3G network over a longer period. The access provides us with an effective
route to provide UMTS services to our customers in Germany.
Net operating expenses as a percentage of turnover was 122 per cent for the 2003 ﬁnancial year and for
the 2004 ﬁnancial year has fallen to 105 per cent. This reﬂects the rapid growth in revenues at O2 Germany.
For O2 Germany, we expect this ratio to be higher than the same ratio of our more established businesses,
as it is a newer business and is in the process of building up its customer base. 
The total depreciation charge (for both network and non-network ﬁxed assets) was £295 million for the 
year ended 31 March 2004, a 14 per cent increase over the charge for the year ended 31 March 2003 of
£259 million. This reﬂects the continuing investment by O2 Germany in their network. 
Blended subscriber acquisition costs have increased by 11 per cent from £107 per subscriber for the year
ended 31 March 2003 to £119 per subscriber for the year ended 31 March 2004. The Euro-denominated
SAC has remained static for both pre-pay and post-pay connections from 2003 to 2004. The increase in
blended SAC is mainly attributable to the strengthening of the Euro against Sterling from 2003 to 2004
which increases the SAC when translated into Sterling for reporting purposes.
O2 Ireland
Net operating expenses before exceptional items for O2 Ireland have increased by 9 per cent from 
£356 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 to £389 million for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The principal reason for the increase is the expansion of the business in the 2004 ﬁnancial year as the total
turnover of O2 Ireland has grown by 20 per cent from the 2003 ﬁnancial year to the 2004 ﬁnancial year.
The effect of the revenue increase was reduced as a result of the continuing cost control measures. 
O2 Online
O2 Online’s net operating expenses before exceptional items increased by 4 per cent from £216 million for
the year ended 31 March 2003 to £224 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. This reﬂects the Group’s
continued focus on developing mobile data capability while at the same time minimising expenditure prior
to the transfer of the trade to O2 UK immediately after the 2004 year end.
O2 Airwave
Within other operations and central costs, the net operating expenses of our O2 Airwave business have
increased by £68 million from 2003 to 2004 as the business has expanded.
Goodwill amortisation
The Group’s goodwill amortisation charge relating to continuing operations before the exceptional
impairment charge recognised in the 2003 ﬁnancial year decreased from £340 million in the 2003 ﬁnancial
year to £201 million in the 2004 ﬁnancial year. This is due to the impairment charge recognised in 2003
which reduced the ongoing annual amortisation charge.
Exceptional items
In the year ended 31 March 2004, we incurred an exceptional operating charge of £75 million in respect 
of the restructuring of central functions and the resultant rationalisation of our property portfolio and a
non-operating exceptional charge of £5 million relating to the completion of the sale of O2 Netherlands.
These are discussed earlier in this operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects.
In 2003, we recognised an exceptional non-cash charge relating to the impairment of ﬁxed assets in our
continuing businesses (being our UK, German and Irish businesses) of £8,300 million.
EBITDA
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our
share of operating proﬁts and losses of our joint ventures and associates. Our businesses with larger market
shares in their countries of operation, O2 UK and O2 Ireland, have generated positive EBITDA over the last
three ﬁnancial years. O2 Germany, a newer business, has historically made EBITDA losses, until the 2003
ﬁnancial year, during which O2 Germany achieved a positive EBITDA result for the ﬁrst time and in the 2004
ﬁnancial year has achieved an EBITDA margin of 15 per cent.
The following table shows contributions of our businesses to Group EBITDA:
Year ended 31 March
2004 2003 per cent
£m £m variation
Continuing operations
O2 UK 1,041 837 24
O2 Germany 225 27 733
O2 Ireland 208 157 32
O2 Online (43) (73) (41)
Other operations (64) (90) (29)
1,367 858 59
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands – 1–
Total 1,367 859 59
Group EBITDA from continuing operations has increased by 59 per cent from £858 million for the year
ended 31 March 2003 to £1,367 million for the year ended 31 March 2004. The increased EBITDA
contribution has come from all the trading operations of the Group.
o2.com   33
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 33 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
The reconciliation of EBITDA to Group operating proﬁt/(loss), the most directly comparable UK GAAP
ﬁnancial measure, by business is as follows:
Group operating Exceptional
proﬁt/(loss) Depreciation Amortisation items EBITDA
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
O2 UK 346 (2,116) 488 478 150 175 57 2,300 1,041 837
O2 Germany (72) (4,979) 295 259 – 47 2 4,700 225 27
O2 Ireland 87 (1,331) 67 67 53 121 1 1,300 208 157
O2 Online (93) (122) 36 34 4 15 10 – (43) (73)
Other businesses (109) (110) 39 20 1 – 5 – (64) (90)
159 (8,658) 925 858 208 358 75 8,300 1,367 858
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands (1) (120) 1 74 – 47 – – – 1
158 (8,778) 926 932 208 405 75 8,300 1,367 859
Total operating proﬁt/(loss)
We recorded our ﬁrst ever total operating proﬁt in the year ended 31 March 2004, of £158 million. This
compares with a total operating loss of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2003 of £8,773 million
which included the exceptional impairment charge of £8,300 referred to above. Excluding exceptional items,
the total operating loss recorded in 2003 of £473 million reversed to a proﬁt of £233 million in 2004. This
can be ascribed to both increased revenues generated by all our businesses arising from the increased
number of subscribers and the rise in ARPUs and to the continuing cost control exhibited by our businesses.
Net interest payable
Net interest payable relates to the ﬁnance charges payable on external debt, net of interest received on
amounts invested. In the 2004 ﬁnancial year we incurred an interest charge totalling £58 million, a decrease
of 12 per cent over the 2003 ﬁnancial year reﬂecting the decrease in net debt over that period. In the 2004
ﬁnancial year, the principal elements of our interest charge were the interest on our revolving credit facility
amounting to £8 million (2003: £12 million) and the interest accrued, of £62 million (2003: £63 million) on
our long-term bonds, which we issued in January 2002. In accordance with UK GAAP , we are amortising the
issue costs of our bank facility and our bonds over the lives of the facilities (ﬁve and ten years respectively),
through the interest line in the proﬁt and loss account. Amortisation of these costs amounted to £4 million
in the 2004 ﬁnancial year (2003: £3 million). We also incur interest charges on the O2 UK loan notes and on
our ﬁnance leases and other borrowings, and have received interest on our short-term investments. See the
liquidity and capital resources section on page 35.
Tax on proﬁt and ordinary activities
We have recognised a tax credit of £71 million for the year ended 31 March 2004 compared to a credit of
£55 million for the year ended 31 March 2003. The increase in the tax credit is principally as a result of the
improved ﬁnancial performance of the Group for the 2004 ﬁnancial year and the related recognition of
certain losses as deferred tax assets. However, overall the Group continues to have a net deferred tax liability.
Balance sheets as at 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004
Our Group’s summary balance sheet is presented below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 7,045 7,354
Tangible assets 4,449 3,996
Investments 2 5
11,496 11,355
Current assets 2,473 2,043
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (2,031) (1,678)
Net current assets 442 365
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (1,403) (1,375)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (254) (251)
Net assets 10,281 10,094
Shareholders’ funds 10,281 10,094
Intangible ﬁxed assets comprise goodwill, UMTS licences and other intangible assets. Their aggregate
carrying value has fallen from £7,354 million at 31 March 2004 to £7,045 million at 31 March 2005. This 
is a result of amortisation charges of £200 million against goodwill, £169 million against UMTS licences 
and £82 million against other intangibles. These charges are partially offset by gains on foreign exchange
which arise on the retranslation of our Euro-denominated intangible assets into Sterling, and £59 million 
of additions.
The carrying value of tangible ﬁxed assets has increased from £3,996 million at 31 March 2004 to
£4,449 million at 31 March 2005 as a result of £1,356 million of additions partly offset by depreciation
charges of £937 million and currency movements of £36 million.
Investments comprise our investments in joint ventures and associates where the carrying value is positive.
Net current assets have increased from £365 million at 31 March 2004 to £442 million at 31 March 2005,
primarily as a result of an increase in cash and current asset investments during the year which is partially
offset by the amount owing for the proposed ﬁnal dividend.
o2.com   34
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 34 Creditors falling due after more than one year comprise principally our Group’s long-term bonds and have
increased from £1,375 million at 31 March 2004 to £1,403 million at 31 March 2005. This is primarily
owing to the weakening of the Euro during the 2005 ﬁnancial year which has increased the reported
Sterling value of our Euro-denominated bonds. We have also entered into additional ﬁnance leases which 
is partly offset by the movement of amounts nearing maturity into current liabilities.
Liquidity and capital resources
The following table sets forth our cash ﬂows for the years ended 31 March 2005, 2004 and 2003 extracted
from our consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 1,755 1,391 1,033
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (43) (62) (63)
Tax paid (15) (13) (4)
Net cash outﬂow from capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (1,348) (1,114) (868)
Acquisitions and disposals (2) (6) –
Cash inﬂow before management of liquid resources and ﬁnancing 347 196 98
Management of liquid resources (302) (191) (3)
Net cash outﬂow from ﬁnancing (27) (50) (47)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 18 (45) 48
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities
Our operating activities provided cash of £1,755 million, £1,391 million and £1,033 million during the 
three years ended 31 March 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. Our Group operating proﬁt of £341 million,
£158 million and loss of £8,778 million in each of the years were offset by signiﬁcant non-cash depreciation
and amortisation charges totalling £1,388 million, £1,136 million and £9,637 million (including in 2005 and
2004 exceptional depreciation of £6 million and £2 million respectively and in 2003 an operating exceptional
charge of £8,300 million).
Returns on investment and servicing of ﬁnance
Net cash outﬂows for servicing of ﬁnance in the 2005 year have decreased from £62 million to £43 million
in comparison to the 2004 ﬁnancial year. The reduction is mostly attributable to higher short-term
investments generating an increase in interest income of £15 million, a dividend of £7 million received 
from our associate and a one-off cash inﬂow of £22 million arising from the settlement of the cross-currency
element of our interest rate swaps. These inﬂows were offset by cash outﬂows of £32 million on the
settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts as part of our Group’s hedging strategy which is discussed
in note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements. The cash outﬂow for the year ended 31 March 2005 in respect of
interest paid was £71 million (2004: £78 million, 2003: £81 million), mostly in relation to our long-term
bonds. 
Tax paid
The total tax paid by our Group in the year ended 31 March 2005 was £15 million, an increase over 2004
and 2003 during which the Group paid £13 million and £4 million respectively.
Net cash outﬂow from capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
Cash outﬂow in respect of capital expenditure for the 2005 ﬁnancial year was £1,348 million, an increase 
of 21 per cent over the equivalent outﬂow of £1,114 million for the 2004 ﬁnancial year. This increase 
arises principally in our mobile telecommunications businesses in the UK and Germany. The increase is a
consequence of the ongoing expenditure on rolling out our planned UMTS networks, which accounted for
35 per cent of capital expenditure at O2 UK and 30 per cent at O2 Germany in the year ended 31 March
2005. Around 15 per cent of capital expenditure by O2 UK in the 2005 ﬁnancial year related to investment
in new customer care systems.
Capital expenditure at our O2 Airwave business fell in the year ended 2005 from the level in 2004 as the
roll-out of the network completed.
Capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March 2003 of £885 million related mainly to tangible ﬁxed asset
purchases across our footprint in respect of network expansion and improvement. 
Across our Group, there are generally timing differences between the recognition of a new ﬁxed asset in our
ﬁnancial statements, and the cash payment, because we are often able to secure delayed non-interest
bearing payment terms with our capital suppliers. 
The following table presents the capital additions recognised for each of the years in the three-year period
ended 31 March 2005:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Continuing operations
O2 UK 638 502 362
O2 Germany 388 308 141
O2 Ireland 100 52 59
O2 Airwave 218 243 163
O2 Online – 14 21
Other operations 14 11 8
UMTS licences and other intangible assets 57 83 131
1,415 1,213 885
Discontinued operations
O2 Netherlands – 559
Total 1,415 1,218 944
o2.com   35
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 35 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
Total capital expenditure by continuing operations, excluding O2 Netherlands, for the year ended 31 March
2005 has increased by 17 per cent to £1,415 million from £1,213 million for the year ended 31 March
2004. In 2005, capital expenditure included a network sharing agreement payment in Germany of
£57 million, in addition to a payment of £83 million made in 2004. In the 2003 ﬁnancial year, the Group
purchased a UMTS licence in Ireland for £73 million.
We expect to incur signiﬁcant capital expenditure in the medium term, a material portion of which relates to
the roll-out of our UMTS networks. We expect to fund our future capital spend from our bank facilities and
long-term bonds described below, and from net cash ﬂows from operations. The Group will maintain tight
control of its investment programme, and in particular will aim to match the timing and quantum of capital
expenditure on our UMTS network roll-out with the emerging demand for mobile data services.
Acquisitions and disposals
During the year ended 31 March 2005, we invested £2 million in a new joint venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, we sold O2 Netherlands for €25 million. The sale proceeds, net of
cash disposed with O2 Netherlands, were £7 million. In 2004, we also invested £5 million in Tesco Mobile
Limited, our joint venture with Tesco. 
Financing
During the year ended 31 March 2005, we incurred a net cash outﬂow from ﬁnancing of £27 million. 
This was principally in relation to loan repayments of £21 million and the costs of the capital reorganisation
and premium paid to mmO2 shareholders totalling £30 million, offset by cash received for issued shares
vesting under various employee share option schemes which realised an inﬂow of £24 million. The cash
outﬂow in the year ended 31 March 2004 was £50 million being mainly in relation to loan repayments of
£53 million. We also issued shares vesting under various employee option schemes which realised a cash
inﬂow of £3 million. The cash outﬂow in the year ended 31 March 2003 was £47 million being mainly the
redemption of O2 UK loan notes during the ﬁrst half of the 2003 ﬁnancial year. Our ﬁnancing activities are
further described below. 
Sources of liquidity and capital resources
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities, bank ﬁnancing and bond ﬁnancing
described below. 
Total gross debt at 31 March 2005 amounted to £1,404 million (2004: £1,382 million), including the O2 UK
hire purchase obligations (the QTE leases), the obligations of which are fully offset by cash deposits held in
trust. Net debt was £78 million (2004: £366 million). Included in the total gross debt are €1,000 million and
£375 million of eurobonds issued in January 2002 which have a ﬁve year and ten year term respectively.
Loan notes outstanding in aggregate amounted to £7 million (2004: £8 million) and are redeemable at any
time at the option of the holder.
As at 31 March 2005 bank ﬁnancing comprised a syndicated facility totalling £1,000 million with a ﬁnal
maturity date of 15 October 2009. During the year, both the previous £1,725m syndicated facility and the
£100m bilateral facility, maturing in September 2006, were cancelled. As at 31 March 2005, the syndicated
facility was undrawn. 
Interest on loans drawn under the syndicated facility is calculated at a margin above LIBOR (or in the case 
of Euro advances, EURIBOR). The margin varies according to the long-term credit rating assigned to O2 plc
by major credit rating agencies but is subject to a maximum of 0.6 per cent. As at 31 March 2005, the
syndicated facility bears a margin under 0.5 per cent.
Interest on our eurobonds is at a ﬁxed rate at 6.375 per cent per annum and 7.625 per cent per annum 
on the Euro and the Sterling bond issues respectively. Interest on the €1,000 million bond issue has been
swapped to ﬂoating rate and calculated at a margin above EURIBOR. As at 31 March 2004, interest on
€500 million of the eurobond was calculated at a margin above Sterling LIBOR as a result of cross-currency
swaps. The cancellation of the cross-currency element of those swaps, as detailed below in foreign 
exchange management, resulted in €500 million of the Eurobond reverting to a ﬂoating rate calculated
above EURIBOR.
The Group’s contractual obligations, including commitments for future payments under hire purchase
contracts, and long- and short-term debt arrangements are summarised in the table below. Details of these
obligations are fully disclosed in notes 15, 16, 17 and 23 to the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
Payments due by period
Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 After
Total 1 year years years 5 years
Future commitments at 31 March 2005 £m £m £m £m £m
Debentures 1,056 – 683 – 373
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and 
hire purchase contracts 308 40 60 100 108
Loan notes 7 7 – – –
Other loans and borrowings 33 9 15 9 –
Other creditors 55 – 13 6 36
Commitments provided in the accounts 1,459 56 771 115 517
Operating lease commitments
1
1,931 205 358 308 1,060
Other commitments
1
112 25 46 41 –
Total future commitments (excluding capital) 3,502 286 1,175 464 1,577
1
Not recognised as a liability by the Group in accordance with UK GAAP .
o2.com   36
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 36 Treasury management and policies
Group Treasury (Treasury) operates as a centralised service for the Group. The role of Treasury is to identify,
monitor and manage ﬁnancial risk within the framework of Board approved policies and delegated
authorities. Treasury is not permitted to add to the ﬁnancial risks inherent in our business and may not
undertake speculative activity.
The principal ﬁnancial risks of our Group are identiﬁed below.
Banking covenants
Our current policy is to fully fund our business plan through access to the debt capital markets and other
sources of funding. Borrowing is centralised and there are no material local facilities. The Group is
committed to maintaining the key ﬁnancial ratios, as set out in the covenants relating to the multi-currency
revolving credit facility, of Group EBITDA to interest and net debt to Group EBITDA. As at 31 March 2005,
actual ratios were Group EBITDA to interest of 884.0 times (2004: 23.6 times, 2003: 13.0 times) and net
debt of 0.04 times Group EBITDA (2004: 0.3 times, 2003: 0.6 times). As at 31 March 2005, the Group’s
projected funding requirements were fully funded through a combination of bonds issued under the Group’s
bond ﬁnancing programme (£375 million and €1,000 million) and committed bank facilities (£1 billion).
Foreign exchange management
The policy of the Group is to hedge (primarily by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts) identiﬁed
foreign exchange ﬂows, although the current level of transaction risk exposure is low due to the fact that
cash ﬂows are primarily domestic in each Group company. The policy of the Group regarding foreign
exchange translation risk is to manage material risk on the translation of foreign currency assets and
liabilities into pounds sterling primarily through natural offsets and the use of currency debt, cross-currency
and foreign exchange swaps and forwards. At 31 March 2004, the majority of net debt was denominated 
in pounds sterling after taking account of the effect of derivative and non derivative hedging instruments.
As anticipated in the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts, the cash ﬂows in the Euro denominated overseas
businesses and the improved visibility of their future ﬁnancial proﬁle has led us to increase the level of
hedging of our overseas assets. This was achieved through the redenomination of our existing Euro debt,
through the cancellation of cross-currency and foreign exchange swaps, and the use of forward foreign
exchange contracts totalling €1,800 million. The on-going effect of this hedging is that the €1,000 million
of Euro borrowings and the forward foreign exchange contracts are exposed to foreign exchange rate
ﬂuctuations which are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses as they hedge net
investments in overseas businesses. 
Interest rate management
The debt level within the Group is a key determinant of the impact of interest rates. It is current policy to ﬁx
or protect expected interest ﬂows where Group proﬁts or key ﬁnancial ratios would be materially at risk
from interest rate movements. Treasury maintains the proportion of ﬁxed rate debt within a Board approved
range of 25 to 75 per cent by the issuance of ﬁxed rate debt and the use of derivative instruments (primarily
interest rate swaps). As at 31 March 2005, and after taking into account the effect of derivative instruments,
38 per cent (2004: 39 per cent, 2003: 36 per cent) of gross borrowings (excluding the QTE lease which is
fully defeased) were ﬁxed for a period of at least three years (2004: three years, 2003: three years). Based 
on the net debt as at 31 March 2005, a one per cent rise in market interest rates would increase debt costs
which would be more than offset by investment deposit returns. The effect on our Group’s proﬁt before 
tax of a one per cent rise in market interest rates would be an increase of £3 million (2004: nil, 2003:
adverse effect £7 million).
Credit risk management
It is our current policy to mitigate credit risk to our ﬁnancial counter-parties through the application of strict
counter-party limits. Counter-party limits are based on credit ratings issued by the main credit rating agencies
and outstanding transactions are weighted according to potential risk to the Group. Counter-party limits are
reviewed on a regular basis by Treasury.
Off balance sheet arrangements
We do not participate in, or secure ﬁnancing for, any unconsolidated special purpose entities.
Research and development, patents and licences
We have not engaged in any signiﬁcant research and development activities during any of the last three
ﬁnancial years.
Outlook and prospects
In O2 UK, we expect mid-single digit growth in net service revenue, reﬂecting the remaining ﬁve months’
impact of the September 2004 termination rate cut, and continuing competition in what is now a highly
penetrated mobile market. The EBITDA margin is expected to remain broadly stable reﬂecting the
competitiveness of the market and O2 UK’s programme to allocate substantial resources to develop additional
customer-facing capabilities, and achieve higher long-term customer retention.
In O2 Germany, we expect to deliver further strong service revenue growth, mainly driven by continued rapid
growth of the customer base. The EBITDA margin is expected to improve further, to around 20 per cent,
reﬂecting O2 Germany’s continuing prioritisation of revenue growth as well as the impact of UMTS network
running costs and the continued costs of national roaming.
Capital expenditure is expected to be broadly in line with the total incurred in the year ended 31 March 2005
(excluding the network sharing agreement payments in Germany), with higher UMTS network investment,
particularly in Germany, offsetting the reduction in O2 Airwave capital expenditure due to completion of the
police network roll-out.
In the ﬁve-year period from 1 April 2004 O2 Germany is expected to incur total capital expenditure in the
range €3 billion to €3.5 billion which is €1 billion to €1.5 billion higher than previously planned.
o2.com   37
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 37 Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects continued
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Council of the European Union announced in June 2002 that listed companies in Europe would be
required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2005. The adoption of IFRS will apply to the Group for the ﬁrst time for the year ending
31 March 2006. 
In 2003, the Group formed a project team to manage the transition from existing UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) to IFRS. The project is sponsored by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and involves
specialists from the Group Finance function as well as representatives from each of the Group’s operating
businesses. The project is mostly complete and we expect to publish our ﬁrst IFRS reconciliation, comprising
our transition balance sheet at 1 April 2004 and the proﬁt and loss account and balance sheet for the six
months ended 30 September 2004 and the year ended 31 March 2005, in July 2005 at the time of our ﬁrst
quarter non-ﬁnancial metrics press release.
The initial phase of the project involved a high level assessment of potential issues, the preparation of a
project plan and identiﬁcation of the key work streams in the operating businesses and at a group level,
supported by work programmes in these areas. We also considered which, if any, of the optional transitional
provisions within IFRS 1 “First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” to adopt. The
second phase of the project involved the restatement and reconciliation of opening balances to IFRS and the
adjustment of reporting systems to capture new data requirements for on-going IFRS reporting.
In preparing the discussion below, we have used our knowledge of the expected standards and
interpretations which we expect to apply in our ﬁrst full IFRS ﬁnancial statements. However, the facts,
circumstances and accounting policies we adopt could change by that date. IFRS is subject to ongoing
review and endorsement by the European Union, and possible amendment by interpretative guidance from
the International Accounting Standards Board may occur. IFRS is also being applied in the United Kingdom
and in a large number of other countries simultaneously for the ﬁrst time.  Owing to a number of new 
and revised standards in IFRS, there is not yet a signiﬁcant body of established practice to use in forming
opinions regarding interpretation and application. Accordingly, practice is continuing to evolve. At this
preliminary stage, therefore, the full ﬁnancial effect of reporting under IFRS as it will be applied and 
reported on in our Group’s ﬁrst IFRS ﬁnancial statements cannot be determined with certainty and 
may be subject to change.
However, our work on the project indicates that the major areas of difference between UK GAAP and IFRS
which will impact our Group comprise the following: 
Goodwill
IFRS 3 “Business combinations” prohibits the annual amortisation of goodwill and instead subjects such
goodwill to an annual impairment review. The carrying value of our goodwill at the date of transition to 
IFRS is ﬁxed and the amortisation ceases from that date.
Intangible assets
IAS 38 “Intangible assets” considers, inter alia, whether an asset which incorporates both tangible and
intangible elements should be classed as a tangible ﬁxed asset or an intangible ﬁxed asset. The treatment is
determined by an assessment of which element is more signiﬁcant. Certain elements of our software, which
are currently classed as a tangible ﬁxed asset, will be reclassiﬁed to intangible ﬁxed assets. 
Pension accounting
Under UK GAAP , we account for our pension schemes using SSAP 24 “Pension costs” and have elected
under the transitional rules of FRS 17 “Retirement beneﬁts” to make disclosures only. IAS 19 “Employee
beneﬁts” is similar, but not identical to, FRS 17. IAS 19 and FRS 17 are conceptually different to SSAP 24 
as they require any deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme surplus or deﬁcit to be recognised on our Group’s
balance sheet.
On transition to IFRS, we expect to recognise the full assets and liabilities of our deﬁned beneﬁt pension
schemes on our balance sheet. Thereafter, IAS 19 permits two approaches for the recognition of actuarial
gains and losses. Under the ﬁrst option, a portion of actuarial gains and losses are recognised on our
balance sheet, based on the application of a “corridor”. This corridor is deﬁned as the greater of 10 per cent
of the scheme’s assets or liabilities, and actuarial gains and losses below this threshold are not required to be
recognised. Any actuarial gains and losses exceeding the corridor are recognised in the proﬁt and loss
account over a period representing the expected average remaining working lives of employees participating
in the scheme. Under the second option, actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of
changes in equity, rather than in the proﬁt and loss account, in the period in which they arise. The proﬁt and
loss account charge comprises an operating cost and an interest cost. Our principal pension scheme, the
O2 Pension Plan, operates for the majority of UK employees and is divided into deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned
contribution sections. The deﬁned beneﬁt section comprises mainly active members because all deferred and
pensioner members at 30 June 2002 remained in the BT Pension Scheme following our demerger from BT in
November 2001. 
Accounting for share schemes
We have historically accounted for share scheme costs under UK GAAP using the intrinsic value. IFRS 2
“Share based payments” requires the value of all share based payments to be measured, and an expense
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account, based on fair value. The fair value of the share schemes is
estimated using a valuation model and involves complex mathematical modelling. It is often, but not always,
the case that the fair value is higher than the intrinsic value. Additionally, under UK GAAP , Inland Revenue
approved SAYE schemes are exempt from the requirement to recognise a charge whereas under IFRS there is
no such exemption. 
Financial instruments
IAS 39 “Financial instruments: recognition and measurement” details how to value and account for all
ﬁnancial instruments, including derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and
forward contracts used to reduce exposure to interest rate and currency risk. Under IAS 39, all ﬁnancial
o2.com   38
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 38 instruments are required to be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value. If a derivative ﬁnancial
instrument is designated as a hedge, the movement in the fair value of the derivatives can be recognised
directly through reserves in certain circumstances, which offsets the opposite movement in the fair value of
the hedged item, also in reserves. All other movements in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments must be
recognised as an income or expense in the proﬁt and loss account.
We have prepared documentation in line with the provisions of IAS 39 for all hedging instruments and have
established an ongoing procedure for testing the effectiveness of these hedges which should permit the
adoption of hedge accounting for our ﬁnancial instruments.
Deferred taxation
IAS 12 ”Income taxes“ bases the calculation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities on the difference
between tax carrying values and balance sheet carrying values, rather than the income statement approach
required by FRS 19 ”Deferred tax“. As a result, the scope of IAS 12 is wider than that of FRS 19.
IAS 12 requires a deferred tax liability in respect of rolled over gains to be recognised, irrespective of whether
there is an expectation that the gain will crystallise. We expect to recognise a deferred tax liability on
transition to IFRS relating to a gain arising prior to our demerger from BT. The gain arose on BT's disposal 
of the UK Yell business and was rolled over into the goodwill purchased on the acquisition of O2 Germany. 
On the subsequent disposal of this goodwill for tax purposes, the deferred tax liability will reverse and be
recognised as a credit in the proﬁt and loss account of the Group in the period in which it reverses.
Business risks
We face increasing competition from new and existing providers of mobile services
We are competing increasingly with new mobile service providers, virtual network operators and resellers 
of mobile services. Also, competition from existing service providers may be more intense than anticipated,
driving down prices. Failure to compete effectively could result in a decrease in our customers, revenues 
and proﬁtability.
We face competing technologies
We face competition from communications technologies that are under development or that will be
developed in the future, including cordless technologies and private and shared radio networks. As a 
result of current trends in the telecommunications industry in Europe, such as the rapid convergence of
technologies, we expect there to be further technological advances in the future. Failure to compete could
result in a decrease in our customers, revenues and proﬁtability.
Alleged health risks associated with mobile telecommunications could lead to decreased usage of
our services and products, increased difﬁculty in obtaining transmitter sites or potential liability
Public concern about the alleged or perceived health risks of mobile communications could have a
detrimental impact on our business through negative customer perception of our brand, services or
products, difﬁculties in retaining or attracting customers, reduced usage times per customer of our mobile
telecommunications services or increased difﬁculty in obtaining transmitter sites. There can be no assurance
that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless
handsets and base stations and these health concerns. Government authorities could increase regulation of
wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns, or wireless companies, including us,
could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have a negative
impact on our business.
In addition, regulators may reduce the prescribed limits for exposure to electromagnetic radiation in the
countries in which we operate, which would mean that the exclusion areas around our antennas in those
countries may have to increase in some situations. In this event we may suffer additional costs associated
with repositioning our network equipment and we may experience delays in the roll-out of our networks.
We fail to maintain the momentum necessary to achieve economic scale in Germany
If our increased network investment fails to deliver a high-quality customer experience from our own 
UMTS platform, this could have a signiﬁcant negative impact on the proﬁtability of our business.
Implementation of a new billing and operational system for O2 UK
Implementation may affect operational performance and customer satisfaction if the major releases are not
completed successfully. Our reputation may be damaged by real or implied failure of our billing systems
resulting in a signiﬁcant negative impact on the proﬁtability of our businesses.
o2.com   39
Risk factors
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 39 We may fail to achieve our strategic goal of earning revenues from more sophisticated 
data services
If the market for non-SMS data services does not grow as quickly as we currently anticipate and SMS yields
fall faster than we currently anticipate and voice price erosion increases faster than we currently anticipate
and, if we do not build the correct business model and capabilities to remain competitive in the dataworld,
we could experience a negative impact on our business and results of operations.
We may be disadvantaged by our UMTS offerings
Our UMTS offerings may suffer as a consequence of later launches. This could have a negative impact on
our business and our results of operations.
Misuse of our networks by our customers through fraud or in a way that damages our reputation
Certain customers may misuse our networks in ways which damage our reputation, for example using the
network to make inappropriate contact with children, spamming or propagation of viruses. Certain
customers may also misuse our networks in ways which impact our costs or revenues, including fraud. 
This could have a negative impact on our business.
We may fail to positively differentiate our customer experience and/or fail to implement our
customer plan
Slower implementation timetables, higher costs and poorer customer experience may undermine the value
of our brand and could limit our ability to attract and retain high value customers, which in turn could have
a negative impact on our business and our results of operation.
Competition law and regulatory risks
We operate in highly regulated markets that limit our ﬂexibility to manage our business
We must comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and supervise the licensing,
construction and operation of our networks and the provision and pricing of our products and services in
countries in which we operate. We must also co-operate with agencies or other governmental authorities
that regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation
and competition laws which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry. Our business and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the law, regulation or government policies
directed at the mobile telecommunications markets in which we operate. In particular, decisions by
regulators and competition authorities relating to tariffs, interconnection or the effects of expansion into
new markets, or the accessibility of our network to mobile virtual network operators or service providers
could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. 
Action by the Commission or regulators may result in ﬁnes and a decrease in roaming revenues
If the Commission ﬁnds that there have been infringements of Article 82 EC Treaty in the markets for
international roaming services in which we operate, it may ﬁne us. The Commission could also require us to
reduce our wholesale charges for international roaming or to change the way in which such charges are set.
In addition, national regulators in the UK, Germany or Ireland may seek to regulate our international roaming
charges, if they ﬁnd that we have SMP on the wholesale roaming market. 
Any ﬁnes or future regulation of roaming charges could have a negative impact on our business and results
of our operations.
We may be subject to new regulatory obligations 
New or more onerous regulatory obligations may be imposed on us under the EU Regulatory Framework in
Germany, the UK and Ireland. Depending upon the obligations imposed, this could have a signiﬁcant effect
on the proﬁtability of our businesses.
We face increased regulation in Ireland
In Ireland, ComReg has determined that we have SMP in the mobile access and origination market and has
required us to meet reasonable requests for wholesale access (including national roaming) by third parties 
on a non-discriminatory basis. ComReg has reserved the right to intervene in the event that commercial
negotiations fail or should intervention otherwise be required. If this happens, ComReg may require us to
comply with cost orientation, cost accounting and accounting separation obligations. We are appealing both
the SMP and remedies decisions but if unsuccessful, we will continue to be subject to this increased
regulation in the market, which could have a signiﬁcant effect on the proﬁtability of our business in Ireland.
o2.com   40
Risk factors continued
O2_AR_pp006-040.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 40 o2.com   41
Board of directors
David Arculus (58) Chairman
(b) (d)
David Arculus was appointed to the Board in 2003 and became Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the conclusion
of mmO2’s 2004 Annual General Meeting. Mr Arculus is Chairman of the Better Regulation Task Force and 
a non-executive Director of Barclays. He has also served as Chairman of Severn Trent. Mr Arculus was
previously Chairman of IPC Group Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP . 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Peter Erskine (53) Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
(b) (c)
Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. He joined the Company from
BT where, since March 1993, he held a number of senior positions including Director of BT Mobile, President
and Chief Executive of Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet. Prior to joining BT, he 
was European Vice President of Sales and Customer Service for Mars and Senior Vice President Sales and
Marketing for UNITEL. Mr Erskine is also a member of the Advisory Board of the University of Reading
Business School.
David Finch (49) Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
(b) (c)
David Finch was initially appointed to the Board in 2001. Mr Finch is the Company’s Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
and has extensive experience in ﬁnancial management, having previously held senior ﬁnance positions at
Exel, Novar (formerly Caradon) and Grand Metropolitan. In addition to Group Finance, he has direct
responsibility for the Group Treasury and Investor Relations functions.
Rudolf Gröger (50) CEO O2 Germany
(c)
Rudolf Gröger was appointed to the Board in 2003. He joined the Company in October 2001 as Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of O2 Germany. Prior to this, he was Managing Director of T-Systems International GmbH,
a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, from 1999 to 2001. He played a key role in the acquisition of Debis
Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Telekom. He has also worked for Siemens and was
head of its German information and communication product operations.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Stephen Hodge (63)
(a) (d) (e)
Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001. Mr Hodge was Director of Finance of the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group, prior to his retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility for all ﬁnancial
and investor relations issues for the Shell Group and its parent companies. He has extensive knowledge of
the ﬁnancial management of international companies, having worked throughout the world including
Australia, the Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of ﬁnancial positions. He is Chairman of
Shell Pensions Trust Limited and Deputy Chairman of the Franchise Board of Lloyd’s of London. Mr Hodge
was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior independent Director on 1 January 2005.
David Chance (48)
(a) (d)
David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003. Mr Chance was Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB
until June 1998 and is Chairman of Modern Times Group and Top Up TV Limited, and is a non-executive
Director of ITV and Sunderland AFC. He previously held senior marketing and business development roles at
US telecoms companies, Scientiﬁc Atlanta and Grass Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES. 
Rudolf Lamprecht (56) 
Rudolf Lamprecht was appointed to the Board on 30 March 2005. He is presently a member of the
Management Committee of Siemens with responsibility for Osram (lighting), the Fujitsu joint venture and
household appliances. He was previously a Board member at Siemens and held a number of senior positions,
including President of information and communications products. He is highly experienced in complex
business-to-business technology, sales cycles and multiple channels to market. 
Patrick Lupo (54)
(e)
Patrick Lupo was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004. Mr Lupo was previously Chief Executive and
then Executive Chairman of DHL Worldwide Express. He is currently a non-executive Director of Hilton Group
and was also, until March 2004, a non-executive Director of WH Smith. Patrick Lupo held a number of
senior positions at DHL Airways Inc and DHL Worldwide Express between 1984 and 2001, where he was
instrumental in establishing it as the global market leaders in international express and logistics.
Kathleen O’Donovan (47)
(a)
Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board on 30 March 2005. She currently chairs both the audit
committee of the Court of the Bank of England and the pension fund of Invensys, the engineering group
where she was previously Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. She is also Deputy Chairman and senior non-executive
Director of Great Portland Estates, and holds non-executive directorships at Prudential and EMI Group.
Andrew Sukawaty (49)
(d) (e)
Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001. Mr Sukawaty was the non-executive Deputy
Chairman of the Company and senior independent Director until 31 December 2004. He is Chairman and
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Inmarsat Group. He is President of Cable Partners Europe LLC, which invests 
in and operates cable television services in Europe. He is Chairman of Xyratex Group Limited. He is a 
former Chairman of Telenet. He has considerable experience in the mobile telephone industry and
telecommunications industries in the United States and Europe, having at different times in those periods
held the offices of Chief Executive and President of Sprint PCS, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of NTL, and Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer of Mercury One2One. He has also been a former Chairman of the Cellular Telephone and
Internet Association (CTIA) in the United States.
COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL
Philip Bramwell (48)
Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was employed since 1998, initially as Legal Manager,
Group Strategy and Development and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate Development. Before joining 
BT, he was a partner in DDV, a European specialist telecommunications consultancy ﬁrm. Prior to this, 
he held the position of Vice President and General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Legal Advisor at
SmithKlineBeecham Pharmaceuticals international division. He was called to the Bar in 1983.
Key to membership of Board Committees:
(a) Audit Committee 
(b) Chairman’s Committee 
(c) Executive Committee 
(d) Nomination and Governance Committee 
(e) Remuneration Committee
All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the management of the Company.
O2_AR_pp041.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 41 o2.com   42
Report of the directors
The Directors have pleasure in presenting to shareholders their report and the audited ﬁnancial statements
of O2 plc for the year ended 31 March 2005. 
New holding company
O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 and it became the holding company of mmO2 plc and the
mmO2 group of companies on 14 March 2005 pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of
the Companies Act 1985 (the Scheme). 
Scheme of Arrangement 
The Scheme was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at a Court Meeting and Extraordinary General
Meeting of mmO2 plc held on 14 February 2005. Under the Scheme, shares in mmO2 plc were exchanged
for shares in O2 plc on a one-for-one basis. Shareholders also had the option of electing to receive, in
exchange for their existing shares in mmO2, either new shares in O2 plc or cash consideration under the
Cash Alternative. Shareholders who took no action were deemed to have elected for the Cash Alternative.
The O2 plc shares of holders who successfully elected for the Cash Alternative were placed in the market.
This was limited to 300,000,000 O2 plc shares.
References to the Company and the Board throughout this Annual Report and Financial Statements refer to
O2 plc from 14 March 2005 onwards and prior to that to mmO2 plc. References to the Group refer to O2
plc and its subsidiaries from 14 March 2005 onwards and prior to that to mmO2 plc and its subsidiaries.
As part of the Scheme, mmO2 ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange on 11 March 2005
and neither an ADR programme nor a US listing has been established for the shares in O2 plc.
The Board is currently pursuing deregistration of O2 plc shares from the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In order to facilitate this deregistration process, the O2 Articles of Association include
temporary provisions to limit ownership of O2 plc shares by US resident shareholders. 
Principal activity
The Group is a leading provider of mobile communications services in Europe and has traded through its
wholly-owned subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man throughout the year. The Group
also provides a nationwide mobile radio service designed to serve the needs of the police and other
emergency services in England, Wales and Scotland through O2 Airwave. O2 UK has a 50 per cent interest
in a joint venture, Tesco Mobile, to sell exclusively Tesco branded mobile services in Tesco stores across the
UK, using O2’s technology and network. In addition, O2 Germany has a 50 per cent interest in Tchibo
Mobilfunk, a joint venture with Tchibo GmbH, which is selling an O2 pre-pay mobile service in Germany. It is
also a founding member of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, a group of independent mobile phone operators
who have joined forces in readiness for the international roll-out of UMTS services. The business review on
pages 6 to 19 and the operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects on pages 21 to 39 contain a review of
the business during the year and an indication of future developments, and form part of this report.
Results 
The audited ﬁnancial statements are presented on pages 66 to 89. The Directors are pleased to recommend
an inaugural ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 pence per share for the year ended 31 March 2005. This dividend will be
paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register on 5 August 2005.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current Directors of O2 plc are given on page 41.
All the Directors of mmO2 plc who held ofﬁce on 4 January 2005 were appointed to the Board of O2 plc by
shareholders’ resolution on 4 January 2005. Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen O’Donovan were additionally
appointed on 30 March 2005 and Ian Meakins and David McGlade resigned on 30 March 2005 and 
31 March 2005 respectively. Peter King and Adrian Knight were Directors of O2 plc from incorporation 
until their resignations on 5 January 2005.
During the year, David Varney retired as a Director and Chairman of mmO2 plc on 28 July 2004 at the
conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting and David Arculus became Chairman from that time. 
Paul Myners and Neelie Kroes resigned from the Board on 10 August 2004 and 31 August 2004 respectively
and Patrick Lupo, who was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004, was elected a Director of the
Company by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of mmO2 plc held on 14 February 2005.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that Directors are required to retire by rotation every three
years. It is the Board’s intention that shareholders will be given the opportunity to re-elect Directors within
that timescale. David Chance and Rudolf Gröger will retire by rotation this year and are proposed for 
re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting together with David Arculus who changed his role during
the year. In addition, any Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen O’Donovan
will seek election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, emoluments and share interests as at the ﬁnancial year-end can be
found in the report on directors’ remuneration on pages 51 to 64.
Share capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company at 31 March 2005 and details of share
allotments made during the year are given in note 19 to the ﬁnancial statements.
By a special resolution of the shareholders dated 5 January 2005, 02 plc was authorised to make market
purchases of up to 871,175,625 of its own ordinary shares. This authority expires at the conclusion of the
2005 Annual General Meeting and a similar authority will be sought at that meeting for a further year,
based on approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at 31 March 2005. 
O2_AR_pp042-044.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 42 o2.com   43
Substantial shareholdings
At 10 May 2005, the following notiﬁcations had been received by the Company in respect of holdings of
three per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital:
Number of Percentage of
O2 plc issued ordinary
Shareholder ordinary shares share capital 
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 649,424,088 7.46
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 308,947,551 3.54
Interest of management in certain transactions
During and at the end of the 2005 ﬁnancial year, none of the Company’s Directors had a signiﬁcant interest
in any material transaction in relation to the Group’s business.
Employees 
The Company operates a number of employee share schemes, including savings-related option schemes,
which encourage regular saving and enable employees to acquire options over shares in the Company, and
an all employee share ownership plan in the UK allowing employees to buy shares in the Company. 
The Company has a wide range of communication channels with employees including face-to-face
meetings, team brieﬁngs, audio conferences and a comprehensive Company intranet that includes a regular
newsletter. The aim of all these channels is to ensure employees fully understand the Group’s objectives and
its operational and ﬁnancial performance. In addition, the Company conducts annual attitude surveys and
maintains a constructive dialogue with unions, employee representative bodies and works councils. 
The Company continues to be committed to the development of all people in the organisation and actively
promotes this through many training and development initiatives. People are encouraged and supported in
maintaining personal development plans. The Company has invested in e-learning technology to give people
better access to a wide range of learning opportunities.
The Group is committed to employment policies that follow best practice, based on equal opportunities for
all, and recognises that a diverse workforce is a strength in a competitive marketplace. The Company has a
Diversity Champion at Executive Committee level and integrates equal opportunity into all its management
processes. This approach extends to the fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to their
recruitment, training and development. Full consideration and every effort are given to the retention of people
who become disabled during employment. O2 UK is a member of the Employers’ Forum on Disability.
Policy on the payment of suppliers 
The Group aims to pay all of its creditors promptly. The payment terms for major contracts are agreed at the
same time as other terms are negotiated with individual suppliers. It is the Group’s policy to make payments
for other purchases within 30 working days of the invoice date, provided that the relevant invoice is
presented in a timely fashion and is complete.
The Group had 35 days’ purchases outstanding as at 31 March 2005 (2004: 34 days) based on the average
daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 45 to 50.
Community involvement
During the ﬁnancial year, the Group made cash donations to charitable and community organisations
totalling £2,239,795 of which £636,266 was made from UK-based companies. As in previous years, no
political donations were made. Further details regarding the Company’s involvement in the community 
are set out in the corporate responsibility section of this report on pages 19 to 21.
Auditors
Resolutions concerning the appointment of the auditors and authorising the Directors to set their
remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting 
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 27 July 2005,
together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all
shareholders.
By Order of the Board
Philip Bramwell
Company Secretary and General Counsel
17 May 2005
Registered Ofﬁce: Wellington Street, Slough, 
Berkshire SL1 1YP
Registered number: 5310128
O2_AR_pp042-044.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 43 o2.com   44
Statement of directors’ responsibility
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year that give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for
that period.
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements the Directors are required to:
>> select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
>> make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
>> state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements.
The Directors conﬁrm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the ﬁnancial
statements. The ﬁnancial statements have complied with UK disclosure requirements in this report in order
to present a consistent picture to all shareholders.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure the ﬁnancial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website. The Directors
understand that uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded as information published on the
internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and
dissemination of ﬁnancial statements.
By Order of the Board
Philip Bramwell 
Company Secretary and General Counsel
O2_AR_pp042-044.qxd  6/1/05  7:59 PM  Page 44 o2.com   45
Report on corporate governance
The Board supports high standards in corporate governance. The application during the ﬁnancial year of the
principles in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code) is
described in the appropriate sections of this statement and in the report on directors’ remuneration on
pages 51 to 64. 
The Directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code, except in the following respects. David Arculus was also Chairman of Severn Trent Plc at
the time of his appointment on 28 July 2004. Mr Arculus conﬁrmed before his appointment that he would
relinquish his chairmanship of Severn Trent Plc by 31 December 2004 and has done so. The service contract
in respect of Rudolf Gröger is now terminable on 12 months’ notice. However, in the event of termination 
of Mr Gröger’s employment within 12 months of a change of control of O2 or its German business, the
employer is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his base salary and a payment equal to 
the bonus expected for an on-target performance.
The Board
The Directors’ biographies appear on page 41.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, one further
executive Director, and six non-executive Directors, which is considered to be an effective size and balance
for the Company. The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors are independent under the 
criteria set out in the Combined Code. In determining that position, the Board in particular had regard
to Rudolf Lamprecht’s membership of the Management Committee of Siemens, which has a business
relationship with the O2 Group. The level of that business relationship is not considered material in the
overall O2 Group context and therefore would not affect or interfere with or compromise his independent
judgement as a Director of the Company. The Board also considered that David Arculus was independent
at the date of the announcement of his appointment as Chairman in 2004.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer has been set out in
writing and agreed by the Board. 
During the year, Stephen Hodge replaced Andrew Sukawaty as Deputy Chairman and senior independent
Director. The Deputy Chairman is recognised as the senior independent Director to whom concerns can be
conveyed independently of the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer or Chief Financial Ofﬁcer by other
Directors or by shareholders.
The differing roles of executive Directors and non-executive Directors are clearly delineated, with both having
ﬁduciary duties towards shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years. The non-executive Directors’ letters of
appointment set out their expected time commitment and key elements of the role. Their appointment is
subject to one month’s notice from either the Company or the Director. Towards the end of the three-year
period, the Board will consider whether to continue the appointment for a further three-year period. Where
appropriate, the three-year period commences from the time the non-executive Director ﬁrst became a
Director of mmO2 plc.
At the time of a Director’s appointment to the Board, an internal induction programme is provided on the
Group’s strategic and business plans and developments to date. The content of this induction programme
and, where appropriate, any additional training which may be required by the Director is kept under review.
Directors are also advised of their legal and other obligations as a Director of a listed company. 
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors submit
themselves for re-election every three years. 
The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides entrepreneurial
leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be
assessed and managed. It sets out the Company’s values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its
shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met. 
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year together with an annual off-site conference
to review and discuss corporate strategy. Main Board meetings are also held periodically at the premises of
the operating countries of the Group. Additional meetings are held as necessary. During the ﬁnancial year
ended 31 March 2005, the Board had eight scheduled Board meetings. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved to it for decision, including the approval of
strategic plans and the annual operating plan, signiﬁcant investments and capital projects, and treasury and
risk management policies. All Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company. 
Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation and timely delivery of papers by management
to Directors for each Board meeting, so that the Directors have enough information to be properly briefed.
Where issues arise at Board meetings, the Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed and,
where necessary, appropriate further enquiries are made. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, under the direction of
the Chairman, is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, maintaining
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations, and advising the Board on all governance matters. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. There is 
an agreed procedure for enabling the Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense, should they consider this to be necessary. 
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 45 o2.com   46
Report on corporate governance continued
Whilst not actively involved in the day-to-day management of the Company, the non-executive Directors play
an important role in bringing their independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to
the Board’s deliberations with their advice being reﬂected in management meetings. They have regular
contact with senior managers in the businesses. 
During the ﬁnancial year, the Chairman met regularly with non-executive Directors without the executive
Directors present, and the non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present under the
leadership of the senior independent Director. The Deputy Chairman carried out a review of the Chairman’s
performance.
During the ﬁnancial year, the Board conducted an internal review of its performance and that of its principal
Board Committees and individual Directors. Each Director completed a comprehensive questionnaire and
there were one-to-one interviews between the Chairman and each Director. Directors were asked to
comment on matters such as the culture and approach of the Board, the effective setting of strategy based
on information about the business and how the market operates, the quality and timeliness of information
provided, the composition of the Board, the role of the senior independent Director, Board meeting
processes, the form of continuing professional development, and communication of Board decisions and
discussions. The results of this review were considered in one-to-one discussions with the Chairman and
collectively at a Board meeting. The Directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operated
effectively and that, as individuals, the Directors were each contributing to the overall effectiveness of 
the Board.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers, and
summaries of these discussions and meetings are provided to the Board. These summaries and reports
enable the Directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the
Company.
The Company maintains Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be
brought against its Directors. The Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004
came into force on 6 April 2005. This Act amends the Companies Act 1985 by permitting the grant of
Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions (QTPIP) by a company to its directors. Such indemnities extend,
amongst other things, to the payment of a Director’s defence costs in an action brought by the Company or
by a third party, subject to the repayment of such costs in certain circumstances. The Board believes that it is
in the best interests of the Company to attract and retain the services of the most able Directors by offering
competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the latest
statutory provisions. Accordingly, on 13 May 2005, the Board approved the granting of indemnities in the
form permitted by the QTPIP to all Directors. Further details of the indemnities will be included in the
Directors’ report in the Company’s 2006 Annual Report.
The Board has adopted appropriate governance policies dealing with the conduct of Board affairs and has
delegated responsibility for monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole, allocation of
resources within agreed plans, implementation of policies and decisions relating to speciﬁc value-related
commitments to the Executive Committee and designated managers in accordance with a schedule of
delegated authorities.
Attendance
The attendance of Directors at programmed Board and principal Board Committee meetings held during the
year is detailed in the table below:
Nomination and 
Governance Remuneration
Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee
Held* Attended Held* Attended Held* Attended Held* Attended
D Arculus 8 8 2 2 4 3 n/a n/a
D Chance 8 8 4 4 4 3 n/a n/a
P Erskine 8 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
D Finch 8 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
R Gröger 8 7 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
S Hodge 8 8 4 4 2 2 8 7
N Kroes 4 3 2 2 n/a n/a 3 2
R Lamprecht – – n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P Lupo 5 4 n/a n/a n/a n/a 5 5
D McGlade 8 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
I Meakins 8 6 4 2 n/a n/a 7 5
P Myners 4 3 n/a n/a 2 2 3 2
K O’Donovan – – – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
A Sukawaty 8 7 n/a n/a 4 4 8 8
D Varney 3 3 n/a n/a 1 1 n/a n/a
*During the period a director was in ofﬁce or a member of a committee
The Board also met as required in relation to the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc. Arrangements were
made for any Directors who were unable to attend meetings to discuss the agenda items with the relevant
Chairman of that meeting in advance.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated authority to the Committees described below on speciﬁc matters. All of the
Committees have formal terms of reference. Minutes of meetings are formally recorded. 
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees are
posted on the Company’s website and are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and General
Counsel who acts as Secretary to these Committees. The Board reviews the membership of the Committees
on an annual basis at the start of each ﬁnancial year or more frequently as circumstances require. 
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 46 o2.com   47
Chairman’s Committee
Chairman: David Arculus 
The Chairman’s Committee advises and assists the Chairman in the preparation for Board meetings. 
The Committee also acts on behalf of the Board between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional
circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to convene a meeting of the Board. In addition to the
Chairman, Peter Erskine and David Finch are members of the Committee. David Arculus became a member
and Chairman of the Committee on 28 July 2004 when David Varney retired from the Board.
Audit Committee
Chairman: Stephen Hodge 
The Committee comprises Stephen Hodge, David Chance, and Kathleen O’Donovan (appointed 30 March
2005). During the year, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins were members of the Committee until their
resignations from the Board on 31 August 2004 and 30 March 2005 respectively. In addition, David 
Arculus was a member of the Committee until 28 July 2004 when he became Chairman of the Company.
Since that time, he has attended meetings of the Committee in his capacity as Chairman at the invitation 
of the Committee.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Company’s ﬁnancial statements; reviews the Company’s 
internal control system and risk management systems; monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal audit function; makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment 
of the external auditors and recommends the audit fee (and terms of engagement) to the Board following
appointment by the shareholders in general meeting; monitors and reviews the external auditor’s
independence, objectivity and effectiveness; considers management’s response to any major external or
internal audit recommendations; approves the appointment or dismissal of the Head of Internal Audit; 
reviews the Company’s procedure for responding to calls made to its conﬁdential helpline facility; and
considers other topics, such as the Company’s policies for preventing or detecting fraud and its code 
of corporate conduct/business ethics. 
Further details of the Committee and a report of its work during the ﬁnancial year are set out below.
Audit Committee Report
The composition of the Committee is as described above. Further details of the members of the Committee
and their relevant ﬁnancial experience are set out in the biographies of the Directors on page 41. 
Stephen Hodge, as Chairman of the Committee, is considered by the Board to be the audit committee
ﬁnancial expert and the member of the Committee with recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. Prior 
to becoming Deputy Chairman, he received an additional fee of £5,000 for acting as Chairman of the
Committee, which is included in the Directors’ remuneration table contained in the report on directors’
remuneration on page 58.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel is secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings 
are circulated to all Board members. Regular attendees at Committee meetings, at the invitation of the
Committee, include the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, the Head of Internal Audit
and representatives of the external auditors. The Committee has authority to seek any information that it
requires from any employee, authority to obtain independent professional advice and access to sufﬁcient
resources generally to carry out its activities.
The Committee undertook a review of its work and its terms of reference during the year and reported back
to the Board. 
The Committee met four times during the ﬁnancial year. Following each meeting, the Committee members
met with the external auditors in private. The Committee members have also met privately with the Head 
of Internal Audit.
The Committee worked to a structured programme of activities, with agenda matters focused to coincide
with key events of the annual ﬁnancial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee 
is required to consider at each meeting. The Committee reviewed the following matters and reported its
conclusions to the Board:
>> the ﬁnancial disclosures contained in the Company’s annual and interim reports to shareholders and
other interested parties;
>> various accounting matters, including the Company’s accounting policies, raised by management and
the external auditor in the context of the ﬁnancial disclosures;
>> the Group’s risk management process, including monitoring and progress on the management of key
risks identiﬁed by the Company and within the Group’s operating businesses; 
>> the effectiveness of internal controls and measures to detect and prevent fraud;
>> the annual external audit plan for the Group’s auditors. This review included the audit objectives,
auditor independence and objectivity policies, partner rotation, audit scope, team composition,
timetable, deliverables and fee proposal; 
>> the amount and purpose of non-audit fees. The Board has a formal policy governing the independence
of the Company’s external auditors and deﬁning those non-audit services that may be provided to the
Group, including those which require the prior approval of the Committee. Details of non-audit services
are reviewed at each meeting of the Committee. Further details of the statutory audit and non-audit
services fees are set out in note 27 to the ﬁnancial statements. The policy also covers employment of
former auditor employees by the Company and audit partner rotation;
>> the external auditors’ year-end report and the ﬁndings of their work and conﬁrmation that all
signiﬁcant matters had been satisfactorily resolved;
>> the performance of the external auditor, which resulted in the Committee recommending the
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the Company; and
>> the internal audit plan and resources for the internal audit function. This review included detailed
reports from the Head of Internal Audit on progress on matters identiﬁed in the plan, current resources
of the internal audit function and updates on matters requested by the Committee.
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 47 o2.com   48
Report on corporate governance continued
The Committee noted, during its review of non-audit services by the external auditors, that the level of 
non-audit service fees for this ﬁnancial year was higher than that for the last ﬁnancial year due to the
Company’s external auditors’ involvement in the Scheme of Arrangement and related matters.
The Committee received brieﬁngs from the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on the implications for ﬁnancial reporting
of International Financial Reporting Standards, which will apply to the Company in respect of the ﬁnancial
year 2005/06.
The Committee reviewed the policy for the handling of complaints received by the Company regarding
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for the conﬁdential, anonymous submission
by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting, auditing, employment, ethical or other matters.
The Committee also reviewed, for recommendation to the Board, the Company’s compliance programme to
ensure the Group complies with its Business Principles and relevant regulatory and legal obligations.
The Committee received regular updates from the Company Secretary and General Counsel on corporate
governance issues in the UK and US, principally those arising from the Combined Code and the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It also received regular reports from a project team responsible for the
establishment of a control framework consistent with the requirements of Section 404 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee also received minutes of all meetings of the Disclosure Committee. Details of the remit of
this Committee are provided in the internal control section of this report.
Nomination and Governance Committee
Chairman: David Arculus
The Committee comprises David Arculus, David Chance, Stephen Hodge and Andrew Sukawaty. During 
the year, David Varney and Paul Myners were members of the Committee until they ceased to be Directors
on 28 July 2004 and 10 August 2004 respectively. Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Committee on 
11 November 2004 and David Arculus replaced David Varney as Chairman of the Committee on 28 July
2004. The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for
recommending candidates for Board membership for the approval of the Board. 
In the appointment of new Directors, the Committee reviews the current balance of skills on the Board. It
draws up a speciﬁcation to include any speciﬁc knowledge or expertise it considers of future beneﬁt to the
Board having regard to the business throughout the Group and the overall strategy. External search agents
are used during the recruitment process. The agents put forward a shortlist of candidates for the Committee
to review before submitting its recommendation to the Board. Whilst the Chairman of the Board chairs this
Committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
The Committee ensures that the performance of the Chairman, senior independent Director and other
Directors is regularly reviewed.
During the ﬁnancial year, the Committee met four times. It recommended to the Board those Directors 
who should retire by rotation and seek re-election at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and considered 
the leadership needs and succession plans of the Group as a whole. It has a sub-committee comprising all 
the non-executive Directors to review the performance evaluation processes and succession plans for all
Directors. The process relating to the selection of the new Chairman in 2004 was conducted by an ad-hoc
committee of independent Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman and advised by an independent
executive search agency.
Remuneration Committee
Chairman: Patrick Lupo
The Committee comprises Patrick Lupo, Stephen Hodge and Andrew Sukawaty. During the year, Paul
Myners, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins were members of the Committee until they ceased to be Directors on
10 August 2004, 31 August 2004 and 30 March 2005 respectively. Patrick Lupo joined the Committee on
10 August 2004 and assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from Andrew Sukawaty on 11 November
2004. The Committee is responsible for determining the framework and broad policy for the remuneration
of the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, and members of 
the Executive Committee, and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, speciﬁc remuneration
packages for each of these, including any pension rights, any compensation payments and the
implementation of executive incentive schemes. The Committee operates on the principle that members 
of the executive management should be provided with appropriate incentives to encourage superior
performance and should, in a fair and responsible manner, be rewarded for their individual contributions 
to the success of the Group. The report on directors’ remuneration is set out on pages 51 to 64.
The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and comprising the other executive Directors and his
senior executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Company, the preparation
and maintenance of strategic plans for the Group, and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group
as a whole.
US corporate governance compliance
The Company is required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented
by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to foreign issuers during the period it remains
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Company is committed to on-going development of open and effective communications with
shareholders. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer regularly meet with institutional
shareholders and analysts and the Company’s Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to
communicate with private investors and encourage their participation. All substantial issues, including the
adoption of the annual report and ﬁnancial statements, are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on
separate resolutions. All of the resolutions proposed at the 2004 Annual General Meeting were conducted
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 48 o2.com   49
by way of a poll in accordance with best practice. The poll results were notiﬁed to the UK Listing Authority
and published on the Company’s website following veriﬁcation by the Company’s share registrar. All the
resolutions to be proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting will also be proposed by way of a poll. It is
intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees will
be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company’s website provides ﬁnancial and other business information about the Group. It contains an
archive of past announcements and annual reports, share price information and a calendar of events as well
as information on O2’s approach to corporate responsibility and the Company’s Business Principles.
Going concern 
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s liquid resources and borrowing facilities, and the Group’s budget
and cash ﬂow forecast for the year to 31 March 2006, and outline projections for the subsequent year. 
On the basis of this review, the Directors are satisﬁed that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors adopt the going-concern
basis in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements. 
Internal control 
Responsibility
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and risk management and 
for reviewing their effectiveness. These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives; any system can provide only reasonable assurance against material
mis-statement or loss, not absolute assurance.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal
control procedures in the Group during the ﬁnancial year.
Control environment 
The Board sets policies on Internal Control and Risk Management that are implemented by management.
These policies are in accordance with “The Guidance on Internal Control (The Turnbull Guidance)” section 
of the Combined Code.
Following an extensive internal consultation and external benchmarking exercise, the Group Risk
Management policy has been reviewed, updated and authorised by the Board during the year.
Risk Management, Internal Control compliance and Internal Audit are the responsibility of separate functions
within the Company but operate holistically to deliver an effective internal control system.
Risk management
The Group has a detailed on-going risk management process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Company and embedding a risk awareness and management culture
throughout the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Group’s strategic planning cycle and 
this includes the consideration of major business risks by senior management.
The risk management process comprises the following key elements:
>> Group operating companies and key functions in the business carry out risk assessments, to determine
the nature and extent of risks facing the Company;
>> the Executive Committee undertakes a formal Group-wide risk review every six months, which is
reviewed by the Board. Risk management is a formal item at each Executive Committee meeting;
>> registers are produced which detail signiﬁcant risks and indicate likelihood, impact, and the level of
controls, together with mitigating actions;
>> the proﬁles of the signiﬁcant risks from the registers are summarised and tracked using a consolidated
risk map;
>> senior management is accountable and responsible for managing risks within the Group, supported by
dedicated risk managers. These risk managers assist in embedding risk management within the business
culture via risk forums, team meetings, training sessions and the Company’s intranet;
>> the Internal Audit function also promotes effective risk management in the business’ operations; and
>> a fast track process exists for identifying and responding to evolving risks and signiﬁcant changes to
existing risks so that they are reported to an appropriate level of management and corrective action 
is taken.
Review of effectiveness 
At the half and full year, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer requests a formal conﬁrmation of the review and
assessment of internal controls and other aspects of corporate governance in the form of a Corporate
Governance Certiﬁcate from the chief executive ofﬁcer and the chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer of each Operating
Business, together with each of the members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary 
and General Counsel.
A report is then provided to the Audit Committee which includes:
>> the Group risk registers, risk maps and dashboards;
>> the Group Corporate Governance Certiﬁcates signed by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer.
In order to perform its review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control across the Group, 
the Audit Committee uses this information together with:
>> any signiﬁcant failings that may have been identiﬁed during the internal control reporting process;
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 49 o2.com   50
Report on corporate governance continued
>> the  regular assessments of the quality of the Internal Control and Risk Management process carried out
by the Group Head of Internal Audit as part of a cyclical risk-based audit approach; and
>> the external auditors’ reports.
The Audit Committee then reports its conclusions to the Board.
Joint ventures
In the case of joint ventures and associated undertakings, where the Group does not have operating
responsibility, our policy is to inﬂuence and encourage adoption of our own standards of Internal Control
and Risk Management and to offer practical advice wherever appropriate. 
Disclosure 
The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers the materiality of information and the respective
disclosure obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies. This Committee assists the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer to evaluate the effectiveness of the Group’s disclosure controls and
procedures to ensure that material information relating to the Group is made known to them by others.
Annual assessment
The Board has reviewed the nature, extent and changes to the signiﬁcant risks to the business. The Group’s
current key risks are summarised in risk factors on pages 39 and 40.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed regularly the effectiveness of the system of
internal controls and reported its ﬁndings to the Board.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer have concluded, after evaluating the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal and disclosure controls within the past 90 days, that O2’s internal and disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that material information relating to the Company is made
known to them by others within the Group. The procedures provide reasonable assurance that problems are
identiﬁed on a timely basis and dealt with accordingly. 
There were no signiﬁcant changes to the Company’s internal controls or to other factors that could
signiﬁcantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of the most recent evaluation. 
These processes have been in place for the whole of the ﬁnancial year and have continued up to the date
on which this document was approved.  
Business principles
To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our standards of business ethics and corporate
governance, O2 has a set of Business Principles covering the whole Group, including its Directors and senior
ﬁnancial ofﬁcers, which have been endorsed by the Chairman. There have been no waivers or changes to
these Business Principles during the year. The Company also continues to require its business partners and
suppliers to apply these principles when dealing with O2. A copy is available on the Company’s website.
These high-level principles are supported by a Conﬁdential Help facility comprising telephone, post and
e-mail, which is available to employees who want to report incidents and for those who have questions
regarding the application of the principles.
The Company’s Conﬁdential Help policy has been externally benchmarked and updated during the year.
Compliance programme
It is O2’s policy to be fully compliant with its Business Principles and local legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board has approved a detailed compliance policy which describes the compliance programme.
Online and direct training is available to ensure that all employees are aware of our Business Principles and
know how they should be applied.
Executive Committee members are required to conﬁrm compliance with our Business Principles as part of
the Corporate Governance Certiﬁcation process.
Corporate responsibility
The Board takes account of signiﬁcant social, environmental and ethical issues that affect the Group. This
includes risks and opportunities that relate to our people, our supply chain, our customers, the environment
and society around us.
The management of these issues is covered in the corporate responsibility section of this report, on pages 
19 to 21, which contains information in accordance with the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility,
issued by the Association of British Insurers.
We are also producing a separate externally-veriﬁed Corporate Responsibility report, which will be 
available in July 2005, or on the Company’s website www.o2.com/cr/report05 or on request from the
Company Secretary.
O2_AR_pp045-050.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 50 Report on directors’ remuneration
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) and approved by the
Board. A resolution will be put to shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting to invite them to
consider and vote on this report.
Remuneration Committee
Role
The Committee is responsible for determining policy on the remuneration and performance of the
Chairman, executive Directors and the Senior Management Team (comprising the other members of the
Executive Committee and the Company Secretary and General Counsel). It determines, within agreed terms
of reference, speciﬁc remuneration packages for each of the roles above, including:
>> service contracts;
>> salaries;
>> beneﬁts;
>> pension rights;
>> any compensation payments; and 
>> the operation of the O2 Executive Share Portfolio. 
Membership and meetings
The Committee consists of independent non-executive Directors. No member of the Committee has any
personal ﬁnancial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the Committee. 
The Committee comprises Patrick Lupo, Stephen Hodge, and Andrew Sukawaty. During the year, Neelie
Kroes, Ian Meakins and Paul Myners were members of the Committee until they ceased to be Directors on
31 August 2004, 30 March 2005 and 10 August 2004 respectively. Patrick Lupo joined the Committee on
10 August 2004 and assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from Andrew Sukawaty on 11 November
2004. The Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except
when their own remuneration is discussed. The Committee had eight programmed meetings during the year
and also met on two further occasions.
Advisers
The Committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of remuneration matters,
to ensure that it is able to exercise informed judgement in determining a remuneration policy that supports
the business, is market competitive and represents good practice.
The Committee consulted the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer on matters relating to the remuneration of the other
executive Directors who report to him. The Chairman and Group HR Director were consulted in relation to
the remuneration of all executive Directors.
The advisers listed in the table overleaf provided services to the Committee in the year ended 
31 March 2005:
o2.com   51
Dear Shareholder
As you know, O2 operates in highly competitive and rapidly changing markets, but has delivered
outstanding revenue and proﬁt growth in 2004/05. Of particular note have been the announcement 
of our distribution policy, the restructuring of the Company and the continued strong growth of O2
Germany. This success has allowed the Committee to build on its remuneration strategy in support of
the Group’s strategic goals. The delivery of sustainable returns for our shareholders remains key and 
we continue to ensure that our performance measures for reward are closely linked to improvements in
revenue growth, proﬁtability, operational efﬁciency and providing a better experience for our customers.
O2 is a maturing business with a progressive and innovative business strategy; however, there are
considerable challenges ahead. Whilst quarter on quarter performance improvements are encouraging,
we continue to face increasingly tough competition in the UK. It is therefore critical that we maintain
this momentum through the continuity of our management team, which has largely been stable since
demerger.
On that basis, during 2004/05 we continued the dialogue with our shareholders regarding our
remuneration strategy and policy. The feedback highlighted speciﬁc concerns which we have addressed
through a revised remuneration approach which addresses the strategic objectives of the business.
Reward at O2 will focus on exceptional annual operational performance, year on year progress towards
longer term business growth and delivery of long-term shareholder value. We will achieve this through
an increase in the annual bonus opportunity (delivered in deferred O2 shares) in addition to making
performance share awards. The Performance Share Plan will be the long-term incentive scheme used 
in 2005/06 and beyond.
I am greatly encouraged by the active dialogue with our shareholders and have every conﬁdence that
our remuneration approach for the forthcoming ﬁnancial year will link to and support the business
strategy, as well as ensure the retention of our management team and continued creation of long-term
shareholder value.
Patrick Lupo
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 51 Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Advisers Services provided Other services provided to O2 plc
Deloitte & Touche LLP Appointed by the Committee to Audit services in relation to the 
provide independent advice on O2 Pension Plan and, specialist 
executive remuneration matters. corporation tax, VAT, and expatriate
services.
New Bridge Street Independently monitor and measure None.
Consultants LLP the Total Shareholder Return 
performance of the Company.
Towers Perrin Provision of market remuneration data. Advice on beneﬁts policy.
Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus Deringer Legal advice on long-term incentives Legal advice on certain corporate
and Directors’ service contracts. matters.
Lane, Clark & Peacock Provision of data for pension Actuaries for the Group.
accounting and disclosures and 
advice in respect of executive 
pension provision.
Hewitt, Bacon and Woodrow Pensions advice in relation to the None.
forthcoming changes in pensions 
legislation.
Remuneration policy
This section of the report sets out the Group’s policy on executive Directors’ remuneration for the year
ending 31 March 2006 and, as far as possible, for subsequent years. O2 has a sufﬁciently ﬂexible
remuneration approach to support the changing needs of the business. Any changes in policy for
subsequent years will be described in future reports on Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee has adopted the following principles:
>> the Committee sets base salaries which reﬂect contribution, criticality to the business and general wage
levels elsewhere in the Group. Decisions are made with reference to a range around the median of the
relevant market for the individual although the Company may pay more to recruit a high-calibre executive;
>> emphasis is placed on rewarding business performance, and therefore we seek to position the total
compensation packages at upper quartile for superior performance; and
>> performance-related incentives with stretching business performance targets to drive and reward
superior performance from our executives whilst at the same time aligning the interests of the
leadership team with those of our shareholders.
These principles are applied to all employees to recruit, retain and motivate the highest calibre of employee
throughout the business. On an annual basis the Committee reviews the relationship between the base pay
of the executive Directors with the base pay of reporting levels below executive Directors’ level.
Total reward approach
We adopt a total reward approach which comprises a combined focus on base pay, short and long-term
incentives, pension and beneﬁt provision. We believe that total reward should encourage superior
performance at all levels (Group, Operating Business and individual). The Committee considers it vital to
align the interests of the leadership team with those of shareholders, by linking a signiﬁcant proportion of
the package to the creation of shareholder value. The chart below shows that, on the basis of achievement
of “on target” bonus and long-term incentives, the balance between ﬁxed and performance-related pay 
is 37:63.
When determining total reward levels, the Committee takes account of the UK market and looks wider 
than simply the telecoms sector. This approach allows us to structure reward appropriately, with the right
level of performance-related remuneration, rather than reﬂecting solely the remuneration practices adopted 
in our industry.
Fixed vs performance-related pay 
Annual bonus
Long-term
incentives
Performance-
related
Fixed
Salary
Benefits
o2.com   52
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 52 Each element of remuneration has been designed to support the overall reward strategy, in turn helping to
deliver business performance success:
Reward element Purpose Measures/inﬂuencing factors
Base salary Reﬂects position within the Company, Individual contribution and market review.
performance and contribution to the 
success of the organisation.
Annual incentives Incentivises participants towards superior Group and Operating Business key 
annual business performance and aligns performance indicators (KPIs).
employee interests with those of 
shareholders.
Long-term incentives Ensures alignment with shareholder Total Shareholder Return (TSR) – compares 
interests and incentivises towards the net return of an O2 shareholder 
share price growth. (share price growth and assumed 
reinvestment of any dividends) with that 
of a shareholder in each of a group of 
comparator companies.
Beneﬁts An integral element of total reward Market driven.
reﬂecting competitive market provision. 
The main beneﬁts are a company car 
or cash equivalent; healthcare for the 
executive and family; dental care, and 
a personal tax and ﬁnancial planning 
allowance.
Pensions The core beneﬁt in maintaining standard Market driven.
of living after employment.
Total reward The constituents of the above provide Combination of all of the above.
for a total reward package that has
the potential to be at the upper quartile 
level for superior performance.
Elements of executive Directors’ remuneration
Base salary
Base pay is reviewed (but not necessarily increased) annually by the Committee with effect from 1 June. 
As at 31 March 2005, the annual salaries payable to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, CEO
of O2 Germany and CEO of O2 UK were £675,000, £430,000, €650,000 and £420,000 respectively. The
annual salaries for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and CEO of O2 Germany with effect
from 1 June 2005 can be found on page 58. The CEO of O2 UK resigned from the Board on 31 March
2005. His successor to this role is not an executive Director.
Annual incentives
Annual incentive arrangements are based on a balance of KPIs that the Committee considers to be key
drivers of shareholder value including EBITDA and EBIT (indicators of strong ﬁnancial performance); net
service revenue, data ARPU and customer satisfaction targets (crucial to future growth and proﬁtability). 
The Committee sets demanding targets which we believe represent results consistent with shareholder
expectations. Stretch bonus targets represent superior performance.
As outlined on page 51, following dialogue with our shareholders, annual bonus opportunity will increase 
by half, and the resulting bonus will be delivered two-thirds in cash and one-third in deferred O2 shares. 
The deferred shares will be held in trust for three years and vesting will generally depend on the executive
remaining in service. No further performance condition will apply on vesting. Delivering the additional
annual bonus opportunity in shares aligns our executives’ interests with those of our shareholders and
provides a means of retention.
The ﬁrst award of deferred shares under this arrangement will be made in July 2005. This represents the
transition from the Deferred Equity Incentive Plan, which included a deferred share element for retention 
in 2004 (see page 55) and the proposed long-term incentive arrangements in 2005 (see page 54).
For the year ended 31 March 2005 and the year ending 31 March 2006, the bonus opportunity as a
percentage of base salary (including the deferred shares element) payable to the CEO and CFO is 100 per cent
of salary for on-target performance and 150 per cent of salary for maximum performance. The CEOs of
Operating Businesses each have an on-target and maximum bonus potential of 120 per cent of salary and
180 per cent of salary.
Bonuses are not pensionable. The Chairman does not participate in annual incentive arrangements. Details
of the actual cash annual bonuses payable in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 can be found on
page 58.
Long-term incentives
The Committee believes it is important to adapt the incentive arrangements offered in future years to
support the Group’s fast changing business requirements. This will be achieved through the use of a ﬂexible
long-term incentive portfolio (the O2 Executive Share Portfolio) described overleaf, which the Committee
actively reviews to ensure that incentives remain appropriate to the needs of the business. Other than in
exceptional circumstances, executives will only be made an award under one plan in any year.
All employees of the O2 Group are eligible to participate in long-term incentives at the discretion of the
Committee. The Committee determines the appropriate performance targets and reviews the extent to
which they have been met. Awards and options are not pensionable.
o2.com   53
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 53 Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Share ownership 
The Committee has introduced shareholding guidelines which require executive Directors to build up 
a shareholding of one times base salary and for the Senior Management Team to build a shareholding 
of 50 per cent of base salary.
Long-term incentives for 2005/06
Following consultation with shareholders, the Committee has recommended that the Performance Share 
Plan will be the primary form of long-term incentive for the year ending 31 March 2006. The Committee
proposes to make awards of performance shares linked to the Company’s TSR performance for most of our
executives as it believes that TSR is the most appropriate means of aligning the interests of executives with
those of shareholders.
In the case of the CEO of O2 Germany and a small number of senior O2 Germany employees, performance
share awards will be made based solely on controllable EBIT margin and net service revenue growth of 
O2 Germany over a three-year performance period. This is due to the major growth opportunity that the
German mobile market represents for O2, with clear potential to increase shareholder value. The Company
intends to increase its investment in Germany and accelerate the build-out of the 3G network. These
performance measures have been chosen because:
>> service revenue is both a measure of absolute size and of growth, and can be correlated to proﬁtability; 
>> controllable EBIT is a similar measure to underlying earnings, which is the key ﬁnancial measure in
determining regular dividends for our shareholders.
A stretching achievement level will be set for each measure, for which 30 per cent of the total award will
vest. Below this level none of the award will vest. For achievement of the maximum performance level,
which will represent superior performance and, we believe, signiﬁcant shareholder value, 100 per cent of
the award will vest. Both measures must be achieved at maximum for the full award to vest. The maximum
vesting level under this arrangement would represent compound annual revenue growth in the region of 
20 per cent in the three-year period to 2007/08 and an EBITDA margin by that time in the mid-twenties.
The Committee will determine the level of vesting from this incentive, and will set, review and measure each
of the targets (and performance against the targets) to satisfy itself that any payout is a genuine reﬂection
of underlying ﬁnancial performance over the period. At the time of vesting, the Committee will explain the
rationale for any payout.
Performance Share Plan
Purpose: to focus performance on the creation of long-term and sustained shareholder value.
Year ended 31 March 2005
Performance shares were not awarded to executive Directors, but were made to senior managers in
2004/05.
Performance measure
>> Vesting is subject to the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator group over a ﬁxed
three-year period as set out below:
TSR ranking % Performance Shares Vest
Below median 0%
Median 30% 
Upper quartile 100% 
(Vesting on a straight line basis between median and upper quartile performance.)
>> The comparator group consists of the constituents of the FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications
Index (formerly known as the FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index) at the time awards are made
(shown below). This index was chosen by the Committee as it closely compares the Company
with its business sector.
BT Group Tele2 B
Cable & Wireless Telecom Ital.Mobl.
Cosmote Mobile Telecom Italia
Deutsche Telekom (Xet) Telecom Italia Rnc
France Telecom Telefonica
Ote-Hellenic Telc. Telekom Austria
Pt Telecom Sgps Telenor
Kpn Kon Teliasonera
Swisscom R Vodafone Group
TDC O2
>> Awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee is satisﬁed that the Company’s TSR
performance is a genuine reﬂection of the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance over 
the period.
>> There are no retesting opportunities.
Year ending 31 March 2006
Awards of performance shares will be made to executive Directors, the Senior Management Team 
and other senior managers at the discretion of the Committee.
The vesting schedule, performance condition and comparator group will be as set out above for
executive Directors except for the CEO of O2 Germany and a small number of senior O2 Germany
employees as outlined opposite.
o2.com   54
O2 Executive Share Portfolio – Summary of Plans
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 54 Deferred Equity Incentive Plan (DEIP)
Purpose: to drive short-term business goals through the Deferred Award, and focus performance on
the creation of shareholder value over the long term through the Performance Uplift award.
Year ended 31 March 2005
Executive Directors received a Deferred Award and Performance Uplift. Details of awards made to
executive Directors can be found on page 60.
There are two parts to the DEIP:
Deferred Award
>> The Deferred Award is an entitlement to shares equal in value to half of the annual bonus 
earned in respect of the preceding ﬁnancial year (i.e. 2003/04). Vesting is subject to continued
employment, but no further corporate performance condition.
Performance Uplift
>> The maximum Performance Uplift is equal to twice the Deferred Award. Vesting is subject to the
long-term performance of the Company.
Performance measure
>> Vesting of the Performance Uplift is subject to the Company’s TSR performance against a
comparator group over a ﬁxed three-year period as set out below:
TSR ranking % Performance Uplift vests
Below median 0%
Median 30% 
Upper quintile (top 20%) 100% 
(Vesting on a straight line basis between median and upper quintile performance.)
>> The comparator group for Performance Uplift awards made in 2004/05 consisted of the
constituents of the FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications Index at the date of award (the
constituents are the same as those shown on page 54 for awards made under the Performance
Share Plan in 2004/05). This index was chosen by the Committee as it closely compares the
Company with its business sector. 
>> The Performance Uplift will only vest to the extent that the Committee is satisﬁed that the
Company’s TSR performance is a genuine reﬂection of the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial
performance over the period. 
>> There are no retesting opportunities.
Year ending 31 March 2006
There are no plans to operate the DEIP in the forthcoming year. 
Share Option Plan 
Purpose: to focus on share price growth and the creation of long-term shareholder value.  
Year ended 31 March 2005
Share options were not granted under this plan.
Year ending 31 March 2006
There are currently no intentions to make any awards to executive Directors under this plan. However,
the Committee will retain the ﬂexibility to grant options in exceptional circumstances; for example, if
required to secure an appointment. Should options be granted in the future, the Committee will have
regard to best practice at the time on retesting and performance conditions. 
Options previously granted had the following provisions:
Performance measure
>> Vesting of options is subject to the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator group over
a ﬁxed three-year period as set out below:
TSR ranking % of options exercisable
Below median 0%
Median 50% 
Upper quartile (top 25%) 100% 
(Vesting on a straight line basis between median and upper quartile performance.)
>> If the performance goal is not satisﬁed in full on the ﬁrst performance test, it can be retested on
two subsequent occasions, on the fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries of grant, extending the length of
the performance period at each test. The proportion of options that can be exercised will
increase if the Company’s TSR performance improves between the test dates.
>> The comparator group consisted of the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the time the
options were granted. 
>> The options will only become exercisable to the extent that the Committee is satisﬁed that the
Company’s TSR performance is a genuine reﬂection of the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial
performance over the period.
o2.com   55
O2 Executive Share Portfolio – Summary of Plans
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 55 o2.com   56
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Restricted Share Plan 
Purpose: to encourage personal investment in the Company and act as a retention tool.
Year ended 31 March 2005
>> Restricted shares were not awarded to executive Directors.
>> The Company made a one-off award of restricted shares to the Chairman upon his appointment,
details of which can be found on pages 57 and 60.
>> Awards over restricted shares were made to a small number of senior managers. Restricted
shares will usually vest on the third anniversary of grant, if the conditions below are met.
Performance measure
>> In order for the restricted shares to vest in full, participants must personally build and maintain an
equivalent number of O2 shares until the vesting date as well as remaining in employment with
the O2 Group until this time. 
>> The awards vest on a pro rata basis if the participant builds up a lower personal investment.
Year ending 31 March 2006
There is currently no intention to make any awards to executive Directors under this plan. However,
the Committee will retain the ﬂexibility to grant awards in exceptional circumstances; for example, 
if required to secure an appointment.
Capital reorganisation of the Company
As a result of the capital reorganisation which became effective on 14 March 2005, all options and awards
granted over mmO2 plc shares under the Executive Share Portfolio were automatically rolled over into
options and awards over an identical number of O2 plc shares. There was no change to option prices, to the
number of shares under option/award, or to the length of the vesting period. Where options/awards over
shares are subject to TSR, this will be measured in respect of mmO2’s performance and O2’s performance
over the relevant period as necessary. 
Legacy long-term incentives
Outstanding awards under long-term incentive arrangements originally implemented prior to the Company’s
demerger from BT are described on pages 62 and 63.
Pension beneﬁts 
There are pension arrangements in place in the main jurisdictions in which the O2 Group operates. 
Schemes vary in accordance with local market practices in each jurisdiction, and as such there are various
arrangements in place for executive Directors and the Senior Management Team.
Peter Erskine and David Finch are entitled to ﬁnal salary related pension beneﬁts up to the UK statutory
earnings cap. In addition, they are entitled to supplementary pension beneﬁts in respect of earnings above
the statutory earnings cap (comprising unfunded ﬁnal salary related beneﬁts in the case of Peter Erskine and
funded deﬁned contribution beneﬁts in the case of David Finch).
These arrangements will be affected by changes to the current UK pension regime resulting from the
Finance Act 2004. The Committee is currently reviewing appropriate actions to take in response to these
changes and will report further next year.
Peter Erskine’s pension arrangements provide for a total pension of two-thirds of ﬁnal salary at age 60,
inclusive of any retained beneﬁts from his previous employment, and a widow’s pension of two-thirds of 
his pension. The majority of his pension is provided outside the O2 Pension Plan as an unfunded beneﬁt
promise from the Company.
David Finch’s pension arrangements provide for an annual accrual of 1/30 of the earnings cap within the 
O2 Pension Plan, subject to any restriction due to retained beneﬁts. In addition, he is entitled to a
supplementary deﬁned contribution beneﬁt, the level of which is determined on an annual basis. For the
year to 31 March 2005 this was equal to 32.5 per cent of basic salary; 21 per cent was paid to a Funded
Unapproved Retirement Beneﬁt Scheme (FURBS) and 11.5 per cent was paid as a cash supplement. 
Rudolf Gröger’s pension arrangements provide for a pension at age 60 of 20 per cent of salary after the ﬁrst
three years of service and an annual pension accrual of 1.5 per cent of salary thereafter. The beneﬁt is
provided by the Company as an unfunded pension promise.
David McGlade received a cash allowance in lieu of pension beneﬁts of 20 per cent of basic salary from 
1 April 2004 to 31 May 2004 and 30 per cent of basic salary from 1 June 2004.
David Varney, who retired as Chairman on 28 July 2004, did not participate in any O2 plc pension
arrangements. David Arculus’s pension arrangements are set out on pages 57 and 59.
Life cover of four times salary is provided for David Arculus, Peter Erskine, David Finch and David McGlade, 
whilst he was a Director, and was provided for David Varney whilst he was Chairman.
Details of pension arrangements within O2 are set out in note 30 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Contracts and notice periods
It is the Committee’s general policy that executive Directors will have contracts and service agreements with
similar provisions.
O2 Executive Share Portfolio – Summary of Plans
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 56 The service contracts and notice periods for the executive Directors are set out below:
Effective date of
Director service agreement Notice period
P Erskine
1
24 October 2001 12 months
D Finch
1
19 November 2001 12 months
R Gröger
1
1 April 2003 12 months
D McGlade
2
1 April 2003 12 months
1
Peter Erskine and David Finch are employed by mmO2 plc but have each entered into an amendment letter with effect from 14 March
2005 to reﬂect the implementation of the reorganisation to establish O2 plc as the holding company for the Group with effect from 
that date. Rudolf Gröger’s contract is with O2 (Germany) Management GmbH and has been amended in similar respects.
2
David McGlade left the Company on 31 March 2005.
The Company may in its discretion terminate without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice equal to
the sum of 12 months’ pay including the value of employers’ pension contributions, beneﬁts, and a bonus
payment of not less than the previous year’s bonus. This payment in lieu of notice provision does not prevent
the Company from terminating as a result of breach of contract, which may enable the Company to pay a
reduced amount by requiring greater mitigation.
On termination of employment within 12 months following a change of control, the Company is obliged to
make a payment equal to the base salary, the value of employer pension contributions and beneﬁts for the
notice period, plus additional payments generally equal to the annual bonus potential for that year, and in
respect of the loss of rights under share incentive schemes.
In the event of termination of Rudolf Gröger’s employment within 12 months following a change of control
of O2 or its German business, the employer is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his base
salary and bonus. The amount of bonus payable will be that expected for on-target performance. This
reﬂects German market practice for senior executives. 
David Arculus, who served previously as a non-executive Director of the Company, agreed to serve as
Chairman with effect from 28 July 2004 under an agreement dated 4 May 2004. His time commitment is 
an average of two days per week although in practice the Chairman is available at any time. The notice
period required by the Company to terminate this agreement is 12 months. On a change of control, in the
event that his agreement is terminated, he will be entitled to 12 months’ pay in lieu of notice. This can be
subject to mitigation in the event that he ﬁnds a comparable alternative role.
Chairman’s remuneration
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee. Upon appointment he was entitled to an
annual fee of £325,000 as Chairman, of which £28,254 is, at his request, paid into his personal pension
arrangements. Following a review of the remuneration of the Chairman, it was agreed that, with effect from
1 June 2005, the annual fee payable will be £355,000. The Chairman does not participate in O2 plc annual
incentive arrangements. The Chairman has agreed to invest 15 per cent of his after-tax fee in the Company’s
shares, to be retained until his retirement as Chairman.
The Chairman has been granted a one-time award of restricted shares the vesting of which is subject to him
building a substantial personal shareholding in the Company. Details of the award can be found on page 60.
Remuneration of non-executive Directors
The fees of non-executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and executive Directors who have
access to independent advice. 
Each non-executive Director has agreed that a portion of their after-tax fee, equivalent to a minimum of
50 per cent and up to a maximum of 100 per cent, would be invested in shares. This arrangement was
approved by the Board in 2002, but was suspended for the period 1 October 2003 to 31 December 2004.
Fees are paid quarterly in arrears and the shares are allotted on the same basis. The non-executive Directors
do not participate in any of O2’s pension or incentive arrangements and receive no beneﬁts. 
As at 31 March 2005:
(a) the basic annual fee payable to the non-executive Directors was £40,000 plus an additional fee of
£5,000 for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, £3,000 for the Nomination and
Governance Committee and an additional fee of £5,000 per annum for chairmanship of a committee;
and
(b) the annual fee payable to the Deputy Chairman of the Company was £100,000. 
Following a review of the remuneration of the non-executive Directors, it was agreed that with effect from 
1 April 2005 the annual fees payable to the non-executive Directors will be as follows:
(a) the basic annual fee payable will be £50,000 plus an additional fee of £7,500 for membership of the
Audit and Remuneration Committees, £3,750 for the Nomination and Governance Committee and an
additional fee of £7,500 per annum for chairmanship of a committee; and
(b) the annual fee payable to the Deputy Chairman of the Company remains unchanged.
Each non-executive Director has a letter of appointment with O2 plc covering, amongst other items, their
terms of appointment and expected time commitment, together with a general statement of their role and
duties. Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years unless otherwise terminated earlier by
and at the discretion of either party upon one month’s written notice. Non-executive Directors are typically
expected to serve two three-year terms subject to satisfactory performance and re-election by shareholders. 
Changes to the Board
As previously reported, David Varney retired as Chairman at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM on
28 July 2004. No compensation for loss of ofﬁce was paid to David Varney on his retirement. David Arculus 
has served as Chairman with effect from that date.
David McGlade stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2005. No compensation for loss of ofﬁce was paid.
Patrick Lupo was appointed as a non-executive Director on 10 August 2004. Rudolph Lamprecht and
Kathleen O’Donovan were appointed as non-executive Directors on 30 March 2005. Paul Myners, Neelie
Kroes and Ian Meakins resigned as non-executive Directors on 10 August 2004, 31 August 2004 and
30 March 2005 respectively.
o2.com   57
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 57 o2.com   58
Directors’ remuneration (excluding pension arrangements) for the year ended 31 March 2005 
Beneﬁts excluding
Salary and fees Annual bonus pensions
1
Total Total Salary/fees as at
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005
2
2004
3
1 June 2005
£ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Current directors
D Arculus 280,847
4
48,000 – – 16,787 – 297,634 48,000 355,000
P Erskine
5
665,833 607,500 568,404 564,200 35,241 40,602 1,269,478 1,212,302 725,000
D Finch 425,000 395,833 430,000 364,000 28,222 24,705 883,222 784,538
6
460,000
R Gröger
7
439,992 399,211 534,847 499,896 25,146 20,543 999,985 919,650 473,134
D McGlade 414,167 372,500 391,980 462,000 24,162 100,047 830,309 934,547 –
D Chance 48,000 48,000 – – – – 48,000 48,000 61,250
S Hodge 66,667
8
55,000 – – – – 66,667 55,000 100,000
R Lamprecht
9
– – – – – – – – 50,000
P Lupo
10
30,856 – – – – – 30,856 – 65,000
K O’Donovan
9
– – – – – – – – 57,500
A Sukawaty 87,000
11
100,000 – – – – 87,000 100,000 61,250
Former directors
D Varney
12
113,844 350,000 – – 42,911
13
36,125 156,755 386,125 –
N Kroes
14
20,833 50,000 – – – – 20,833 50,000 –
I Meakins
15
50,000 50,000 – – – – 50,000 50,000 –
P Myners
16
17,290 48,000 – – – – 17,290 48,000 –
1
Benefits include car provision or cash allowance, healthcare, ﬁnancial planning, dental care, home security and life cover. 
2
Certain Directors received pension supplements for the year ended 31 March 2005. Details of these payments can be found on page 59 below the pensions table.
3
Total aggregate remuneration for 2004 excludes long-term incentive gains which were included in the report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
4
Includes aggregate fees earned as a non-executive Director and Chairman designate for the period 1 April 2004 to 28 July 2004.
5
Highest paid Director. 
6
Excludes £146,717 gains from long-term incentives which were included in the report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
7
Rudolf Gröger’s remuneration has been converted from Euro to Sterling at an exchange rate of £1 = €1.45836.
8
Appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2005.
9
Appointed on 30 March 2005.
10
Appointed on 10 August 2004.
11
Andrew Sukawaty stepped down as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 31 December 2004 but remains on the Board.
12
Retired at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM on 28 July 2004.
13
In addition to the beneﬁts listed in Note 1, David Varney received a payment for outstanding holiday entitlement.
14
Resigned from the Board on 31 August 2004.
15
Resigned from the Board on 30 March 2005.
16
Resigned from the Board on 10 August 2004.
Aggregate remuneration paid to the Senior Management Team 
The aggregate remuneration of the Senior Management Team for services in all capacities during the 2005 ﬁnancial year was £2.6 million. In addition, loans outstanding to senior ofﬁcers of the Company as 
at 31 March 2005 were £119,643.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  2/6/05  12:43  Page 58 o2.com   59
Pensions
The table below includes the information required in relation to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes under the UKLA Listing Rules and Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Increase in
Transfer value of real increase transfer
Total accrued pension
1
Transfer value
2,3
Real increase in Increase in accrued pension in accrued beneﬁt value less
At At At At accrued pension during year (less Directors’ Directors’ Directors’
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March during year (including inﬂation) contributions)
2,3
contri- contri-
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 butions butions
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Peter Erskine
O2 Pension Plan 41 37 490 407 3 3 4 4 25 20 68 15
Unfunded Plan 246 203 4,161 3,124 36 39 43 43 606 598 1,037 –
Total 287 240 4,651 3,531 39 42 47 47 631 618 1,105 15
David Finch 12 9 114 72 3 3 3 4 31 27 42 –
Rudolf Gröger
4
93 69 2,281 1,540 23 35 24 35 545 744 741 –
1
The accrued annual pension represents the maximum deﬁned beneﬁt liability for O2. The amounts will be reduced by any retained beneﬁts
from previous employment.
2
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice. The transfer values of the Inland Revenue approved beneﬁts have
been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 using the assumptions adopted by the O2 Pension Plan Actuary. 
The unapproved element of pension beneﬁts has been valued using assumptions appropriate to the FRS17 accounting standard, which are
consistent with GN11 principles. The increase in transfer values has been caused by each executive Director’s increase in salary and length 
of service.
3
These ﬁgures represent liabilities of the Company and the O2 Pension Plan, not sums paid or due to the individual.
4
The ﬁgures in £ sterling have been converted from Euros at an exchange rate of €1:£0.6803 as at 31 March 2005 and €1:£0.6943 as at
31 March 2004.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, David Arculus received employer’s contributions of £16,482 (£28,254
per annum) into his personal pension arrangements. For the year ended 31 March 2005, in respect of David
Finch, £89,250 (£83,125 for the year ended 31 March 2004) was paid to a deﬁned contribution Funded
Unapproved Retirement Beneﬁt Scheme (FURBS) and £48,875 (£45,521 for the year ended 31 March 2004)
was paid as a cash supplement. For the year ended 31 March 2005, David McGlade received a cash
allowance of £117,833 (£74,500 for the year ended 31 March 2004) in lieu of pension beneﬁts.
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company
Beneﬁcial interests 
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in ordinary shares of 0.1p each in the Company as at 31 March 2005 as set out in the table below.
As at 31 March 2005 As at 1 April 2004
David Arculus 338,281
1,2
24,078
Peter Erskine 965,910
1,2
537,027
David Finch 1,028,768 812,816
Rudolf Gröger 63,944 –
David McGlade 670,986 335,496
David Chance 15,029 15,029
Stephen Hodge 91,914 91,914
Rudolf Lamprecht – –
Patrick Lupo 73,048 –
Kathleen O’Donovan – –
Andrew Sukawaty 83,576 83,576
1
Since 31 March 2005 Peter Erskine and David Finch have each acquired 208 additional ordinary shares under the terms of the O2 Share Ownership Plan. There have been no other changes in the Directors’ beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests in share capital, including options to
subscribe for shares, or in the debentures of the Company and its subsidiaries between 31 March 2005 and 10 May 2005.
2
Includes shares held by trustee of the O2 Share Ownership Plan.
The Senior Management Team beneﬁcially own less than 1 per cent of the Company’s outstanding ordinary shares.
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 59 o2.com   60
Performance Share Plan
The table below shows the number of performance shares which remained outstanding to executive Directors as at 31 March 2005.
Granted 
during the
Number year ended Number
at 1 April 31 March at 31 March
Date of award 2004 2005 Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
Peter Erskine 31/07/03 1,403,773 – – – 1,403,773 31/07/06
David Finch 31/07/03 905,660––– 905,660 31/07/06
Rudolf Gröger 31/07/03 859,245––– 859,245 31/07/06
David McGlade 31/07/03 815,094 – – (815,094)
1
– –
1
David McGlade left the Company on 31 March 2005 and his award over performance shares lapsed in full.
A summary of the performance condition can be found on page 54.
Deferred Equity Incentive Plan
The table below shows the number of deferred equity shares awarded to executive Directors during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Granted during the year ended 31 March 2005
Number Number of Number of Total Number
at 1 April Deferred Award Performance Uplift number at 31 March
Date of award 2004 Shares shares of shares Vested Lapsed 2005 Vesting date
Peter Erskine 29/07/04 – 329,941 659,883 989,824 – – 989,824 29/07/07
David Finch 29/07/04 – 212,865 425,730 638,595 – – 638,595 29/07/07
Rudolf Gröger 29/07/04 – 282,105 564,210 846,315 – – 846,315 29/07/07
David McGlade 29/07/04 – 270,175 540,350 810,525 – (810,525)
1
– –
1
David McGlade left the Company on 31 March 2005 and his award over deferred equity shares lapsed in full.
A summary of the performance condition can be found on page 55.
Restricted Share Plan
The table below shows the number of restricted shares which remained outstanding to Directors during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Market price Number Awarded during Number
on date of at 1 April the year ended at 31 March Vesting/ Price on date
Date of award award 2004 31 March 2005 Vested Lapsed 2005 Lapse date of vesting
David Arculus
1
29/07/04 85.5p – 292,397 – – 292,397 29/07/07 –
Peter Erskine
2
23/11/01 – 575,815 – (575,815) – – 23/11/04 115.50p
David Finch
2,3
23/11/01 – 201,536 – (201,536) – – 23/11/04 116.25p
Rudolf Gröger
2
23/11/01 – 156,592 – – (156,592) – 23/11/04 –
David McGlade
2,4,5
23/11/01 – 38,579 – (33,549) (5,030) – 23/11/04 $21.61
1
David Arculus was granted a restricted share award over 292,397 shares (with a market value of 85.5p at the time of grant) with effect from 29 July 2004. This represents an amendment to the original award terms involving a reduction in the number of shares under award and 
the removal of a corporate performance condition to which the original award was subject. The restricted share award will vest on 29 July 2007 provided Mr Arculus builds up a personal shareholding of 350,877 shares by 28 July 2005 and remains with the Company until the vesting date.
2
Restricted share awards were granted on terms that they will only vest on the third anniversary of grant, if a signiﬁcant personal shareholding in the Company equal to the number of shares under award is built within 18 months of grant and retained until the vesting date as well as
remaining in employment with the Group. The awards vest on a pro-rata basis if the participant builds up a lower personal investment.
3
The personal shareholding requirement for David Finch was equal to one-third of the shares under award at 23 November 2001.
4
The restricted share award granted to David McGlade on 23 November 2001 was in the form of ADSs (one mmO2 ADS equalled 10 ordinary shares).
5
The dollar-sterling exchange rate on the date of vesting was £1 = $1.8688.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 60 o2.com   61
Share Option Plan
The table below shows the number of executive share options which remained outstanding to Directors during the year ended 31 March 2005. Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of corporate performance criteria as
detailed on page 55.
Options
granted during Price on 
Number at the year ended Number at Option date of Period
Grant date 1 April 2004 31 March 2005 Exercised Lapsed 31 March 2005 price exercise exercisable
Peter Erskine 23 Nov 01
1
1,724,137 – – – 1,724,137 87p – 23 Nov 04-
22 Nov 11
25 Jul 02
2
3,554,347 – – – 3,554,347 46p – 25 Jul 05-
24 Jul 12
David Finch 23 Nov 01
1
1,206,896 – – – 1,206,896 87p – 23 Nov 04-
22 Nov 11
25 Jul 02
2
2,445,652 – – – 2,445,652 46p – 25 Jul 05-
24 Jul 12
Rudolf Gröger 23 Nov 01
1
625,168 – (462,624) – 162,544 87p 123p 23 Nov 04-
22 Nov 11
25 Jul 02
2
1,763,373 – – – 1,763,373 46p – 25 Jul 05-
24 Jul 12
David McGlade 23 Nov 01
1,3
122,059 – (90,323) (31,736) – $11.873 126p –
25 Jul 02
2,4
2,184,782 – – – 2,184,782 46p – 25 Jul 05-
31 Mar 06
David Varney 23 Nov 01
1,5
1,724,137 – (1,275,860) – 448,277 87p 114p 23 Nov 04-
28 Jul 05
25 Jul 02
2,5
3,260,869 – – – 3,260,869 46p – 25 Jul 05-
18 Oct 05
1
For options granted in the year ended 31 March 2002 (ie. 23 November 2001), the ﬁrst performance test took place in November 2004. TSR performance from 19 November 2001 (the start of the performance period) to 18 November 2004 placed the Company at 31st position within
the comparator group and resulted in 74 per cent of share options becoming exercisable. Performance will be tested in respect of the unexercisable portion of the option on 18 November 2005. Should the remaining portion of the option not be exercisable at that time, a ﬁnal retest
will occur on 18 November 2006. In the case of David McGlade who resigned from the Board on 31 March 2005, the balance of his option outstanding lapsed in full.
2
For options granted in the year ended 31 March 2003 (i.e. 25 July 2002), the ﬁrst performance test is expected to be July 2005. TSR performance from 18 July 2002 (the start of the performance period) to 31 March 2005 placed the Company at ﬁrst position within the comparator group.
3
The options granted to David McGlade on 23 November 2001 were in the form of ADSs (one mmO2 ADS equalled 10 ordinary shares). The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the price on the date of exercise and the option price. David McGlade
converted his option over ADSs to ordinary shares on exercise and made a gain of £576,622. The sterling-dollar exchange rate on 7 March 2005 was £1 = $1.9114.
4
On resigning as a Director of O2 plc on 31 March 2005, the Committee permitted David McGlade to retain his options for the maximum periods referred to in the ﬁnal column above. The exercisability of these options is dependent on the applicable performance targets being met.
5
On retiring as Chairman of the Company on 28 July 2004, the Committee permitted David Varney to retain his options for the maximum periods referred to in the ﬁnal column above. The exercisability of these options is dependent on the applicable performance targets being met.
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 61 o2.com   62
Sharesave
The table below shows the sharesave options over ordinary shares in the Company held by Directors during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Number at Number at
1 April 31 March Exercise Price on
Grant date 2004 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2005 price date of exercise Period exercisable
Peter Erskine 21 Dec 2001 12,978 – (12,978) – – 73.2p 123.5p 14 Feb 2005-
13 Aug 2005
17 Dec 2004 – 18,040 – – 18,040 91.6p – 1 Feb 2010-
31 Jul 2010
David Finch 21 Dec 2001 12,978 – (12,978) – – 73.2p 123.5p 14 Feb 2005-
13 Aug 2005
17 Dec 2004 – 10,343 – – 10,343 91.6p – 1 Feb 2008-
31 Jul 2008
David McGlade
1
20 Dec 2002 21,477 – – (21,477) – 44p – –
David Varney
2
21 Dec 2001 12,978 – – (12,978) – 73.2p – –
1
David McGlade resigned from the Board on 31 March 2005 and his sharesave options lapsed in full.
2
David Varney resigned from the Board on 28 July 2004 and his sharesave options lapsed in full.
Legacy long-term incentives
Peter Erskine had the following O2 shares under award from BT Legacy Share Awards. Following demerger, these awards were adjusted to relate solely to O2 shares, and any performance measure has been translated into
a measure of O2 performance from demerger to the end of the performance period.
Number of
O2 shares Number at Price on
1 April 31 March date of
Name Plan Year of award 2004 Vested Lapsed 2005 vesting Vesting date
Peter Erskine BT Executive Share Plan 1999
1
144,198 – (144,198) – – 2004
Peter Erskine BT Deferred Bonus Plan 2001
2
127,656 (127,656) – – 88.25p 2004
1
The performance period for the 1999 BT Executive Share Plan ended on 31 March 2004. The TSR performance condition was not met and as a result the award over 144,198 shares lapsed in May 2004.
2
The vesting of shares awarded under the BT Deferred Bonus Plan was subject only to continued employment with the Company.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 62 o2.com   63
Legacy Option Plan
Subsisting options over BT shares granted under BT executive share option plans have been replaced with options over O2 shares, granted under the O2 Legacy Option Plan, for those participants now employed by O2. 
The replacement options were granted on the same terms and are exercisable between the same dates as the options for which they were exchanged. 
There are no performance conditions relating to the vesting of these options other than continued employment with the O2 Group. This reﬂects the terms of the underlying BT Option plan. The legacy options will be
satisﬁed using new issue shares, and options granted under this plan do not count towards the dilution limits established for O2 share option plans. No further options will be granted under this plan.
The table below shows options over BT shares held by David Varney and David McGlade prior to demerger.
Number at Number at
1 April 31 March Option Price on 
Grant date 2004 Exercised Lapsed 2005 price date of exercise Date exercisable
David McGlade
1
1 October 2000 113,440 (113,440) – – $23.243 126p 1 Oct 2001-
30 Sept 2006
David Varney 22 June 2001 491,272 (491,272) – – 101.7p 114p 2004-
28 July 2005
1
David McGlade’s legacy options were awarded in the form of ADSs (one mmO2 ADS equalled 10 ordinary shares) and on exercise the ADSs were converted into ordinary shares. David McGlade made a gain of £48,893. The sterling-dollar exchange rate on 7 March 2005 was £1 = $1.9114.
0
20
40
60
80
120
100
160
140
Value (£)
 mmO2/O2 FTSE 100 Index
Total shareholder return against the FTSE 100 Index and FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index
Source: Thomson Financial
19 Nov 
2001
31 Mar 
2002
31 Mar 
2003
31 Mar 
2004
31 Mar 
2005
FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index
Share price
The closing market price of the Company’s shares at 31 March 2005 was 119.25p and the range from
1 April 2004 to that date was 84.25p to 131.25p.
Non-beneﬁcial interests
At 31 March 2005, all executive Directors had a non-beneﬁcial interest in 956,316 O2 plc ordinary shares
held in trust by Hill Samuel Offshore Trust Company Limited as trustee of the O2 Restricted Share Plan, 
O2 Performance Share Plan and O2 Deferred Equity Incentive Plan.
Performance graph 
The performance graph illustrates the Company’s TSR performance for the period from 19 November 2001
(when the Company was ﬁrst listed following its demerger from BT) to 31 March 2005, compared to the
FTSE 100 Index and the FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications Index. The FTSE 100 Index was selected by the
Committee because it is recognised as an externally valid and robust comparator group of UK-based companies
of similar size to the Company in terms of market capitalisation. The FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications
Index was chosen because it more closely compares the Company within its sector. The graph relates to
mmO2 plc’s performance prior to 14 March 2005, and O2 plc’s performance thereafter.
The graph shows the growth in value of £100 invested on 19 November 2001 (including the reinvestment
of dividends). It does not relate to the Company’s TSR performance as reﬂected in O2 long-term incentives.
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 63 o2.com   64
All-employee share schemes
The Committee believes that it is in the interests of all employees across the business to be given the
opportunity to own O2 shares, and wishes to encourage this by taking advantage of favourable tax
treatment where available for employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Group’s all-employee share schemes on the same terms
as other employees. Details of their interests can be found on page 62. There are no performance conditions
attached to the schemes and both operate within speciﬁc tax legislation: 
>> the O2 Sharesave Plan, under which the Directors can grant options to all employees across the
business to acquire shares at an exercise price set at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the market value
of a share at the time of invitation; and
>> the O2 Share Ownership Plan, under which UK employees can acquire O2 shares on tax-favoured terms.
Policy on outside appointments 
It is the Group’s policy to support executive Directors and senior managers taking external directorships or
similar roles where it is beneﬁcial for both the individual concerned and the Group and does not detract
from their responsibilities to the Group. The number of such appointments must not exceed two, only one
of which may be with a FTSE 100 company. Appointments relating to executive Directors and Executive
Committee members require the prior approval of the Board. Appointments relating to other senior
executives require the prior approval of the Chairman. The Company permits the executive Director or senior
executive concerned to retain any fees earned from such a position provided they are at a reasonable level.
Peter Erskine is a member of the University of Reading Business School Advisory Board. David McGlade,
who left the Board on 31 March 2005, is a non-executive Director of a US-based company called
PureMatrix. None of the executive Directors received fees in respect of these external directorships.
Compliance 
This report complies with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). The
Regulations require the Group’s auditors to report to shareholders on the auditable part of the report and 
to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations). The auditable sections of the report are the tables
relating to Directors’ remuneration, Directors’ pensions and Directors’ interests in share schemes on pages 60
to 63 and the accompanying footnotes. The Company’s compliance with the Combined Code is set out in
the Report on corporate governance.
By Order of the Board
Patrick Lupo
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 May 2005
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
O2_AR_pp051-065.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 64 Report of the auditors
Independent auditors’ report to the members of O2 plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements which comprise the proﬁt and loss account, the balance sheet, 
the cash ﬂow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which
have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the
statement of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A 
to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on directors’ remuneration (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors’
responsibilities. The Directors are also responsible for preparing the report on directors’ remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors’
remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985
and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether
the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
directors’ report is not consistent with the ﬁnancial statements, if the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our 
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the directors’ report, the unaudited part of the directors’
remuneration report, the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review, the operating and
ﬁnancial review and prospects, and the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration. It also includes 
an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
>> the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group
at 31 March 2005 and of the proﬁt and cash ﬂows of the Group for the year then ended;
>> the ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
>> those parts of the report on directors’ remuneration required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
17 May 2005
The maintenance and integrity of the O2 plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried
out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially
presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
o2.com   65 Group profit and loss account
Year ended 31 March 2005
Group balance sheet
As at 31 March 2005
2005 2004 2003
Note £m £m £m
Turnover: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 6,890 5,859 5,020
Group’s share of joint ventures and associates turnover (207) (165) (146)
Group turnover 2 6,683 5,694 4,874
Net operating expenses (including exceptional items) 3 (6,342) (5,536) (13,652)
EBITDA
1
1,768 1,367 859
Depreciation before exceptional items (931) (926) (932)
Goodwill amortisation (200) (201) (374)
UMTS licences amortisation (169) ––
Other amortisation (82) (7) (31)
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 386 233 (478)
Exceptional items 5 (45) (75) (8,300)
Group operating profit/(loss) 3,4 341 158 (8,778)
Group’s share of operating (loss)/profit of joint ventures and associates (3) –5
Total operating profit/(loss) 338 158 (8,773)
Costs of capital reorganisation 5 (20) ––
Loss on sale of business – discontinued operation 5 – (5) (1,364)
Net interest payable and similar charges 6 (9) (58) (66)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 309 95 (10,203)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 7 (8) 71 55
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 20 301 166 (10,148)
Dividends 8,20 (196) ––
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 105 166 (10,148)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 9 3.5 1.9 (117.0)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 9 3.4 1.9 (117.0)
Dividend per share 2.25 ––
All results in the current year derive from continuing operations.
1
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of the operating profits and
losses of our joint ventures and associates. EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under UK GAAP and may not be comparable
to similarly titled measures of other companies, because EBITDA is not uniformly defined. EBITDA should not be considered by investors as an
alternative to Group operating profit or profit on ordinary activities before taxation as an indication of operating performance, or as an
alternative to cash flow from operating activities as an indication of cash flows. EBITDA is one of the key financial measures used by the
Group for evaluating financial performance, and is discussed in the operating and financial review and prospects on page 23.
2005 2004
As restated
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 10 7,045 7,354
Tangible assets 11 4,449 3,996
Investments 12 2 5
11,496 11,355
Current assets
Stocks 87 84
Debtors 13 1,060 943
Investments 14 1,285 993
Cash at bank and in hand 41 23
2,473 2,043
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 (2,031) (1,678)
Net current assets 442 365
Total assets less current liabilities 11,938 11,720
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 (1,403) (1,375)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 (254) (251)
Net assets 10,281 10,094
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 19 9 9
Share premium 20 375 3
Other reserves 20 2,913 11,074
Profit and loss account 20 6,984 (992)
Shareholders’ funds 10,281 10,094
The Company balance sheet is shown in note 31.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2005 and were signed on
its behalf by:
PeterErskine DavidFinch 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
o2.com   66
O2_AR_pp066-067.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 66 2005 2004 2003
Note £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 301 166 (10,148)
Currency translation differences arising on foreign currency 
net investments less translation differences on debt 
designated as a hedge of foreign currency net investments 20 68 (144) 1,333
Premium paid to shareholders electing for cash alternative in 
capital reorganisation 19,20 (15) ––
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 354 22 (8,815)
Group net debt
As at 31 March 2005
2005 2004
Note £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 41 23
Current asset investments 14 1,285 993
1,326 1,016
Euro medium-term notes (net of issue costs) 16 (1,056) (1,012)
Loan notes 15 (7) (8)
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 17 (308) (325)
Other loans and borrowings 15,16 (33) (37)
Net debt (78) (366)
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group operating profit/(loss) 341 158 (8,778)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 1,388 1,136 9,637
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 2 58
Increase in stocks (2) (17) (5)
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (84) (88) 166
Increase in creditors 98 142 58
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 12 55 (53)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,755 1,391 1,033
Group cash flow statement
Year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004 2003
Note £m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,755 1,391 1,033
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 21 (43) (62) (63)
Taxation 21 (15) (13) (4)
Capital expenditure and financial investment 21 (1,348) (1,114) (868)
Acquisitions and disposals 21 (2) (6) –
Cash inflow before management of liquid resources 
and financing 347 196 98
Management of liquid resources 21 (302) (191) (3)
Financing 21 (27) (50) (47)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 22 18 (45) 48
Group statement of total recognised gains and losses
Year ended 31 March 2005
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Reconciliation of group operating profit to operating cash flows
Year ended 31 March 2005
o2.com   67
O2_AR_pp066-067.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 67 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1. Accounting policies
Accounting conventions
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable
accounting standards and generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP).
The ﬁnancial statements include the results of O2 plc and its subsidiaries. All principal subsidiary undertakings’
financial years are coterminous with those of O2 plc. On consolidation, all intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.
Certain amounts relating to the prior year have been reclassiﬁed to conform to the current year presentation.
Basis of preparation
Merger accounting
O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 as part of the capital reorganisation described in note 19.
The purpose of the capital reorganisation was to create distributable reserves in O2 plc to allow the
implementation of the Group’s distribution policy. These ﬁnancial statements are O2 plc’s ﬁrst company 
and consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
On 14 March 2005, O2 plc was introduced as the new holding company of the mmO2 plc Group pursuant
to a Scheme of Arrangement (the Scheme) under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985, whereby O2 plc
issued shares in return for the existing shares in mmO2 plc. Subsequently, O2 plc effected a reduction in 
its share capital to create distributable reserves. Shareholders were also offered the opportunity to realise, for
cash, their shareholding in mmO2 plc in a cost effective manner.
The Directors consider that in substance the Scheme constituted two distinct transactions being ﬁrstly, the
insertion of the new holding company, O2 plc, and secondly, a placing of shares on behalf of certain
shareholders who elected to receive the consideration for their shares in mmO2 plc in cash. The insertion of
a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction as deﬁned by Financial Reporting Standard (FRS)
6 “Acquisitions and mergers” and has been accounted for using merger accounting principles. The premium
paid to shareholders who elected to receive their consideration in cash has been recognised as a deduction
from the Group proﬁt and loss account reserve.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 comprise the results of O2 plc
from incorporation to 31 March 2005 together with the results of the O2 plc group from the 14 March
2005 to the end of the ﬁnancial year and the results of the mmO2 group from 1 April 2004 to 13 March
2005. The comparative information presented is as previously published for the mmO2 plc Group except
where otherwise stated. 
Change in accounting policy
The Group has adopted the Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 (UITF 38) “Accounting for ESOP trusts” in
the year ended 31 March 2005, which requires that a company’s own shares held through an ESOP trust be
shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds until such time as the shares vest unconditionally. Previously
these shares were recorded at cost less amortisation charged to date and shown as a ﬁxed asset investment.
The comparative ﬁgures have been restated to reﬂect the adoption of UITF 38. The aggregate impact on
the previously reported ﬁgures is to reduce total equity shareholders’ funds at 1 April 2002 by £3 million
(31 March 2003: £3 million, 31 March 2004: increase by £3 million). The adoption of UITF 38 has no effect
on the proﬁt and loss account.
Turnover
Group turnover, which excludes value added tax and other sales taxes, comprises the value of services
provided, equipment sales and other revenue.
Mobile telecommunications service turnover includes turnover earned for usage of the Group’s wireless
network for voice and data transmission by the Group’s customers, subscription fees and interconnect
revenue. Post-pay customers are billed in arrears based on usage and turnover is recognised when the
service is rendered. Turnover for pre-pay customers is recorded as deferred revenue prior to
commencement of services and is recognised as the pre-pay services are rendered. Inbound roaming
revenue, earned from other mobile operators whose customers roam onto the O2 network, and outbound
roaming revenue, earned from customers roaming outside their domestic coverage area, are recognised
based upon usage. Subscription fees are recognised evenly throughout the periods to which they relate.
Hardware turnover principally consists of revenue from the sale of wireless mobile devices. The revenue
and related expenses associated with the sale of wireless handsets and accessories are recognised when
the products are delivered and accepted by the customer. Other sales include connection charges which
are deferred and recognised over the estimated customer relationship period.
Revenue is recognised on a gross basis where the Group’s role is that of principal in a transaction. The
gross basis represents the gross value of the billing to the customer after trade discounts, with any related
costs being charged to operating expenses. Where the Group acts as agent in a transaction, the net
revenue earned is recognised as turnover.
Subscriber acquisition costs
Subscriber acquisition costs, which include the commission costs associated with acquiring new subscribers
and other incremental costs of customer acquisition, are charged to the proﬁt and loss account as incurred.
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the day the
transaction occurred or at the contracted forward rate of exchange if hedged by a forward exchange
contract or similar hedging arrangement. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date or at the forward rate of exchange if hedged.
Net assets of foreign subsidiary undertakings, including related goodwill, are translated into sterling at the
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The proﬁt or loss and cash ﬂows for the year of foreign subsidiary 
o2.com   68
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 68 undertakings are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year. Exchange adjustments arising on
the translation into sterling of the opening net assets and proﬁts or losses for the year retained by foreign
subsidiary undertakings are recognised in reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses. Exchange gains and losses arising on foreign currency net borrowings used to hedge the Group’s
foreign currency net investments are also recognised directly in reserves.
All other exchange gains or losses are dealt with in the proﬁt and loss account.
Goodwill
Goodwill, arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and interests in joint ventures and 
associates, represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value 
of the net assets acquired.
For all acquisitions arising on or after 1 April 1998, the goodwill arising is capitalised as an intangible asset.
The goodwill is amortised on a straight-line basis from the time of acquisition over a period estimated by
management to be its useful economic life. The useful economic life is normally 20 years and is subject to
review if and when an event or change occurs which may affect the asset life.
For acquisitions made before the adoption of FRS 10 “Goodwill and intangible assets” on 1 April 1998,
the goodwill arising was written off directly to reserves. The goodwill written off directly to reserves will be
charged to the proﬁt and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
Other intangible ﬁxed assets
Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication activities to be operated for deﬁned
periods, are capitalised at cost and are amortised from the market launch of service to the end of the licence
period on a straight-line basis. Other licences are amortised over the period of the licence on a straight-line
basis. Other intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful economic life on a straight-line basis.
Tangible ﬁxed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation. The cost of tangible ﬁxed assets includes
directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
Depreciation is provided on tangible ﬁxed assets from the date they are brought into use over their
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis, taking into account any residual values. The lives assigned to
tangible ﬁxed assets are:
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or 40 years, whichever is the shorter
Network assets 5 to 15 years
Computers, software and ofﬁce equipment 2 to 6 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in course of construction.
Joint ventures and associates
Investments in joint ventures and associates are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements using the
equity method of accounting. The proﬁt and loss account includes the Group’s share of the proﬁts or losses
of joint ventures and associates. In instances in which the Group holds an interest in the net liabilities of its
joint ventures and associates, such interests are recognised in creditors: amounts falling due within one year.
Fixed asset impairment
Goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year
following acquisition and, together with tangible ﬁxed assets, in other periods if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. Such events may include continuing
operating losses, technological obsolescence or signiﬁcant adverse changes in the business or the market in
which the ﬁxed asset is used.
The impairment review is performed by comparing the carrying value of the asset, or group of assets, with
their recoverable amount. For assets used in the continuing operations of the Group the recoverable amount
is the assets’ value in use which is estimated by calculating the present value of its future cash ﬂows. For
assets to be disposed, the recoverable amount is the assets’ net realisable value. Impairment charges are
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable
amount in the period in which the impairment is identiﬁed.
Stocks
Stocks comprise mainly handsets and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value (which reﬂects
the value to the business of the handset in the hands of the subscriber) on a ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out basis, after
provisions for obsolescence.
Debtors
Debtors are stated at estimated net realisable value. Net realisable value is the invoiced amount less
provisions for bad and doubtful debtors. Provisions are made speciﬁcally against debtors where there is
evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay. An additional provision is made based on an analysis of balances
by age, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised by the Group when three criteria are met: (i) the Group has a constructive or legal
obligation as a result of a past event; (ii) if it is probable that a transfer of economic beneﬁts will be required
to settle the obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
A provision is made for the present value of the cost of restoration of mast sites at the date of acquisition of
the site in accordance with FRS 12 “Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets”.
Share based payments
The cost of awards to employees of shares or share options is recognised as an operating expense over 
the period of the employees’ performance to which the award relates. The cost of the award is based on 
o2.com   69
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 69 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
the difference between the award or option exercise price and the market value of the shares at the date of
grant and is adjusted for the likelihood of performance criteria being achieved. The proﬁt and loss account
charge is matched by a reserve recognised within shareholders’ funds for equity settled awards.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under UITF 17 (revised) ”Employee share
schemes“ not to account for Inland Revenue approved Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) schemes.
The assets and liabilities of ESOP Trusts are included in the accounts of the sponsoring employer. Until such
time as own shares vest unconditionally in employees, the consideration paid for the shares is deducted from
the proﬁt and loss account reserve.
Post-retirement beneﬁts
The Group operates a number of pension schemes as disclosed in note 30 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
All pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Standard
Accounting Practice (SSAP) 24 “Accounting for pension costs”. The Group continues to apply the
transitional disclosure requirements set out in FRS 17 ”Retirement beneﬁts”.
For funded and unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, the expected costs of providing pensions and other
post-retirement beneﬁts, as calculated periodically by professionally qualiﬁed independent actuaries, are
charged to the proﬁt and loss account so as to spread the cost over the service lives of employees in the
schemes in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected
future pensionable payroll. For the funded schemes, the assets of the schemes are held separately from
those of the principal employer. For the unfunded schemes, no contributions are made by either employees
or the employer to a separate pension fund and a provision is recorded on the balance sheet to recognise
the cumulative accrued liability of the Group.
The Group also supports a number of deﬁned contribution pension schemes where the beneﬁts are based
on the level of contributions paid. Costs arising from these schemes are charged to the proﬁt and loss
account in the period to which they relate.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is provided in full on all timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet
date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they
crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income
and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the
ﬁnancial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than
not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Debt issue costs
Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds received. Debt issue costs are amortised over the
term of the debt to ensure a constant rate of charge.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are used to manage the Group’s exposure to ﬂuctuations in interest rates
and foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward exchange contracts
are accounted for as hedges when they alter the risk proﬁle of an existing underlying exposure of 
the Group.
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments held for hedging purposes are identiﬁed as hedges of the underlying
asset or liability from inception. To qualify as a hedge the derivative must be established in accordance with
speciﬁc guidelines and must be effective on inception and throughout its life.
Forward exchange contracts, used to hedge net foreign currency investments in overseas businesses, are
translated at the closing rates of exchange. Net realised and unrealised gains and losses arising on these
hedging instruments are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses to offset the
translation gains or losses arising on the net investments being hedged. Forward points (comprising the
interest rate differential between the currencies) inherent in forward exchange contracts are recognised in
the proﬁt and loss account over the term of the contracts. 
Interest rate differentials on interest rate swaps qualifying as hedges are recognised by adjusting
interest payable.
Other forward exchange contracts hedging transaction exposures are revalued at the year end at the
prevailing forward rate with net unrealised gains and losses being matched to the underlying transactions
being hedged.
Leases and hire purchase contracts
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the proﬁt and loss account in equal annual instalments over
the periods of the leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at the present value of the
minimum lease payments on the inception of the leases and depreciated over the shorter of the period 
of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets. Finance charges are allocated over 
the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the proﬁt 
and loss account.
o2.com   70
1. Accounting policies continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 70 o2.com   71
2. Segmental analysis
The Group’s operations have been divided internally into two classes of business, in line with day-to-day managerial and budgetary control during the year:
1) the supply of mobile telecommunications services and products; and
2) other businesses, comprising O2 Airwave, a secure national radio service business, and Manx Telecom, a ﬁxed and mobile telecommunications business in the Isle of Man.
Businesses within the mobile telecommunications services segment mainly derive their turnover from the calls made and received by their customers using mobile telephones, from subscription fees charged to their
contract customers and from handset equipment sales.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group undertook a restructuring of its central functions and rationalised its property portfolio as described in note 5. For the year ended 31 March 2005 the activities of O2 Online
and Products O2, which were previously reported as the “mobile internet services” segment, are reported within the segments in which they now reside. As the information is not readily available, the comparatives have
not been restated and these businesses are reported separately in line with day-to-day managerial and budgetary control at that time.
Turnover is based on the country of invoice origination, which is not materially different to turnover by destination. Central overheads and adjustments includes central costs and other consolidation adjustments.
The segmental disclosures in respect of proﬁt and loss account items are presented below:
Year ended 31 March 2005 Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Total Total Depreciation, Total
Group Depreciation and operating Group Depreciationand operating Group amortisation operating
turnover amortisation
1
proﬁt/(loss) turnover amortisation
1
proﬁt/(loss) turnover and impairment
1
loss
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Mobile telecommunications UK 4,030 773 370 3,451 638 346 3,025 2,953 (2,111)
Germany 1,865 431 (92) 1,508 295 (72) 1,060 5,006 (4,979)
Ireland 585 117 106 529 120 87 442 1,488 (1,331)
Total mobile telecommunications 6,480 1,321 384 5,488 1,053 361 4,527 9,447 (8,421)
Mobile internet services UK 140 42 (93) 93 49 (122)
Other businesses UK 222 61 35 139 37 (13) 64 19 (23)
Central overheads and adjustments –6 (81) –3 (96) – 1 (87)
Inter-segment eliminations (19) – – (121) – – (73) – –
6,683 1,388 338 5,646 1,135 159 4,611 9,516 (8,653)
Discontinued operation
Mobile telecommunications The Netherlands ––– 48 1 (1) 263 121 (120)
Group total 6,683 1,388 338 5,694 1,136 158 4,874 9,637 (8,773)
1
In the years ended 31 March 2005 and 2004, depreciation includes a charge of £6 million and £2 million respectively included within the exceptional operating cost disclosed in note 5. In the year ended 31 March 2003, the exceptional depreciation, amortisation and impairment
charged to total operating proﬁt of £8,300 million comprised a charge of £2,401 million in respect of impairment of goodwill and £5,899 million in respect of impairment of telecommunication licences and investments held in the Group’s businesses.
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 71 o2.com   72
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
The segmental disclosures in respect of balance sheet items are presented below:
Year ended and as at 31 March 2005 Year ended and as at 31 March 2004 Year ended and as at 31 March 2003
Net operating Net operating Net operating
Capital Tangible assets/ Capital Tangible assets/ Capital Tangible assets/
expenditure
1
ﬁxed assets (liabilities)
2
expenditure
1
ﬁxed assets (liabilities)
2
expenditure
1
ﬁxed assets (liabilities)
2
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Mobile telecommunications UK 637 2,210 5,744 502 2,118 5,945 362 2,111 6,226
Germany 388 1,229 3,203 308 1,051 3,160 141 1,072 3,203
Ireland 100 273 1,078 52 233 1,086 57 257 1,186
Total mobile telecommunications 1,125 3,712 10,025 862 3,402 10,191 560 3,440 10,615
Mobile internet services UK ––– 12 22 13 17 48 20
Other businesses UK 228 735 656 252 568 450 170 353 295
Central assets and adjustments 32 (190) 24 (62) 1 3 (109)
1,356 4,449 10,491 1,128 3,996 10,592 748 3,844 10,821
Discontinued operation
Mobile telecommunications The Netherlands ––– 5–– 593112
Group total 1,356 4,449 10,491 1,133 3,996 10,592 807 3,875 10,833
1
Capital expenditure comprises tangible ﬁxed asset additions.
2
Net operating assets/(liabilities) comprise tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets (including goodwill), stocks, debtors, creditors (excluding debt) falling due within and after more than one year and provisions (excluding deferred tax).
Group turnover Year ended 31 March 2005 Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Inter-segment Inter-segment Inter-segment
UK Germany Ireland eliminations Total UK Germany Ireland eliminations Total UK Germany Ireland eliminations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Mobile telecommunications
Service turnover 3,627 1,687 556 – 5,870 3,183 1,347 500 – 5,030 2,738 944 415 – 4,097
Equipment and other turnover 403 178 29 – 610 268 161 29 – 458 287 116 27 – 430
Total mobile telecommunications 
turnover 4,030 1,865 585 – 6,480 3,451 1,508 529 – 5,488 3,025 1,060 442 – 4,527
Mobile internet services ––––– 140––– 140 93––– 93
Other businesses 222––– 222 139––– 139 64––– 64
Inter-segment eliminations ––– (19) (19) ––– (121) (121) – – – (73) (73)
4,252 1,865 585 (19) 6,683 3,730 1,508 529 (121) 5,646 3,182 1,060 442 (73) 4,611
Discontinued operations
Mobile telecommunications – 
The Netherlands – 48 263
Group turnover 6,683 5,694 4,874
Joint ventures and associates
Total turnover for the year ended 31 March 2005 was £6,890 million (2004: £5,859 million, 2003: £5,020 million) and included £196 million (2004: £165 million, 2003: £146 million) representing the Group’s share 
of the turnover of its joint ventures and associates in the UK mobile telecommunications business and £11 million (2004: nil, 2003: nil) representing the Group’s share of the turnover of its joint venture in the German 
mobile telecommunications business. The Group’s share of the operating loss of its joint ventures and associates was £3 million (2004: nil, 2003: £5 million proﬁt). The Group’s interest in the aggregate liabilities of its joint
ventures and associates at 31 March 2005 was £1 million (2004: assets of £5 million, 2003: nil).
2. Segmental analysis continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 72 o2.com   73
3. Net operating expenses Year ended 31 March 2005 Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
. Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operation Total operations operation Total operations operation Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 March 2005
Group turnover 6,683 – 6,683 5,646 48 5,694 4,611 263 4,874
Cost of sales (3,799) – (3,799) (3,291) (23) (3,314) (2,854) (206) (3,060)
Gross proﬁt 2,884 – 2,884 2,355 25 2,380 1,757 57 1,814
Administrative expenses (2,543) – (2,543) (2,196) (26) (2,222) (10,415) (177) (10,592)
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (2,498) – (2,498) (2,121) (26) (2,147) (2,115) (177) (2,292)
Exceptional items (45) – (45) (75) – (75) (8,300) – (8,300)
Group operating proﬁt 341 – 341 159 (1) 158 (8,658) (120) (8,778)
Net operating expenses comprise cost of sales and administrative expenses (including exceptional operating items) and total £6,342 million in 2005 (2004: £5,536 million, 2003: £13,652 million).
4. Group operating proﬁt
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting): 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Depreciation of tangible ﬁxed assets:
Owned
1
904 900 907
Held under hire purchase contracts 33 28 25
Amortisation of intangible ﬁxed assets (before impairment):
Goodwill 200 201 374
UMTS licences 169 ––
Other 82 731
Rentals under operating leases:
Hire of plant and machinery 12 10 12
Other operating leases 154 158 171
Staff costs (note 29) 613 548 521
Own work capitalised (118) (106) (62)
Loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets 2 58
Research and development costs 8 10 9
1
Includes exceptional depreciation of £6 million in 2005 and £2 million in 2004.
5. Exceptional items
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group incurred an exceptional operating charge of £45 million and
an exceptional non-operating charge of £20 million.
The exceptional operating charge relates to the redeployment of resources within O2 UK into customer
facing areas and away from non-customer facing areas. This is in line with O2 UK’s strategy of delivering
an enhanced customer experience and increasing customer loyalty. The charge comprises redundancy and
property costs. No cash was expended in the year ended 31 March 2005. The exceptional non-operating
charge relates to the costs of the capital reorganisation described in note 19. This charge gave rise to a 
cash outﬂow of £15 million in the year.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group incurred an exceptional operating charge of £75 million in
respect of the restructuring of central functions and the resultant rationalisation of the Group’s property
portfolio. This arose on the transfer of O2 Online, Products O2 and certain other central functions to the
Group’s operating businesses in the UK, Germany and Ireland and includes provisions relating to redundancies
and the termination of property leases. This charge gave rise to a cash outﬂow of £17 million in that year.
The impairment review performed by the Group during the year ended 31 March 2003 resulted in an
exceptional non-cash operating charge in respect of the Group’s continuing businesses of £8,300 million.
This comprised charges relating mainly to the impairment of UMTS licences and goodwill in O2 UK and 
O2 Germany (totalling £2,300 million and £4,700 million respectively) and the impairment of goodwill in 
O2 Ireland of £1,300 million.
The sale of O2 Netherlands to Greenﬁeld Capital Partners completed on 3 June 2003 for €25 million in cash.
The total loss on sale arising on completion was £1,369 million which, after utilisation of the provision
recognised in 2003, resulted in a non-operating exceptional loss of £5 million in the year ended 31 March
2004. In accordance with FRS 3 “Reporting ﬁnancial performance”, the results of O2 Netherlands have been
classiﬁed as discontinued.
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 73 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
6. Net interest payable and similar charges 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group
Interest receivable and similar income:
Cash and current asset investment deposits 33 17 16
Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 26) 24 ––
Other 6 33
Interest payable and similar charges:
Bank loans, overdrafts and other borrowings (8) (13) (19)
Amortisation of debt issue costs (8) (4) (3)
Debentures (57) (62) (63)
Group net interest payable (10) (59) (66)
Share of joint ventures and associates
Interest receivable and similar income 1 1–
Net interest payable (9) (58) (66)
7. Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Current tax
Non-United Kingdom tax (14) (13) (8)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1 1–
Tax on Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates (1) (1) (2)
Total current tax charge (14) (13) (10)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences 1 86 72
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 5 (2) (7)
Total deferred tax credit 6 84 65
Tax (charge)/credit on proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities (8) 71 55
Current tax
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation was £309 million 
(2004: £95 million, 2003: loss of £10,203 million).
The tax assessed for the year varied from the amount computed by applying the corporation tax rate to
proﬁt or loss on ordinary activities before taxation. The differences were attributable to the following factors:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
United Kingdom corporation tax on proﬁt/(loss) at 30% (93) (29) 3,061
Non-deductible depreciation, amortisation and impairment (122) (78) (2,387)
Non-deductible non-United Kingdom losses 1 – (23)
Non-United Kingdom tax rate differences 35 16 7
Capital allowances in excess/(deﬁcit) of depreciation 31 (1) (14)
Losses carried forward – (30) (657)
Losses brought forward and utilised 134 138 –
Non-deductible losses on sale of discontinued operations – (2) –
Other timing differences and adjustments (1) (28) 3
Prior year adjustments 1 1–
Current tax charge for year (14) (13) (10)
The Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years which will
affect future tax charges.
Deferred tax
The deferred taxation credit arises as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Excess capital allowances 22 (15) (4)
Other timing differences (21) 101 76
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 5 (2) (7)
Total deferred tax credit 6 84 65
Other timing differences include the recognition of a deferred tax asset of £55 million in respect of UK tax
losses carried forward owing to sufﬁcient certainty regarding the availability of future taxable proﬁts.
Deferred tax assets in respect of certain other UK and German losses carried forward and other timing
differences totalling £5,185 million have not been recognised due to insufﬁcient certainty regarding the
availability of appropriate future taxable proﬁts.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
o2.com   74
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 74 8. Dividends
2005
pence per share £m
Proposed ﬁnal 2.25 196
The ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 pence per share will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 5 August 2005.
9. Earnings per share
Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the proﬁt for the year by the weighted average number
of ordinary shares in issue during that year, as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year (£ million) 301 166 (10,148)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year and 
used to calculate basic earnings per share (number of shares, millions) 8,681 8,671 8,670
Dilutive potential ordinary shares (number of shares, millions) 120 44 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding and used to 
calculate diluted earnings per share (number of shares, millions) 8,801 8,715 8,670
Basic earnings per share (pence) 3.5 1.9 (117.0)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 3.4 1.9 (117.0)
Underlying earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the underlying proﬁt for the year by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during that year. Underlying proﬁt is calculated 
as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year 301 166 (10,148)
Goodwill amortisation 200 201 374
UMTS licences amortisation 169 ––
Operating exceptional items 45 75 8,300
Non-operating exceptional items 20 5 1,364
Underlying earnings 735 447 (110)
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 8.5 5.2 (1.3)
In accordance with the principles of merger accounting as applicable to group reorganisations described in
note 1, earnings per share has been calculated as if O2 plc had in issue the share capital of mmO2 plc prior
to 14 March 2005.
10. Intangible assets UMTS
Goodwill licences Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 9,704 9,797 151 19,652
Additions – – 59 59
Currency movements 178 164 1 343
At 31 March 2005 9,882 9,961 211 20,054
Amortisation
At 1 April 2004 6,515 5,778 5 12,298
Charge for the year 200 169 82 451
Currency movements 156 103 1 260
At 31 March 2005 6,871 6,050 88 13,009
Net book value
At 31 March 2005 3,011 3,911 123 7,045
At 31 March 2004 3,189 4,019 146 7,354
o2.com   75
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 75 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
11. Tangible assets Assets in
Land and Plant and course of
buildings equipment construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 349 6,482 708 7,539
Additions 5 562 789 1,356
Transfers 24 963 (987) –
Disposals (7) (194) – (201)
Currency movements 1 71 3 75
At 31 March 2005 372 7,884 513 8,769
Depreciation
At 1 April 2004 146 3,397 – 3,543
Charge for the year
1
40 897 – 937
Disposals (7) (192) – (199)
Currency movements – 39 – 39
At 31 March 2005 179 4,141 – 4,320
Net book value
At 31 March 2005 193 3,743 513 4,449
At 31 March 2004 203 3,085 708 3,996
1
The charge for the year includes an exceptional charge of £6 million relating to the reorganisation described in note 5.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: 2005 2004
£m £m
Freehold 73 76
Long leases 26 23
Short leases 94 104
Net book value 193 203
The net book value of assets held under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts comprises:
Cost 748 733
Accumulated depreciation (401) (368)
Net book value 347 365
12. Fixed asset investments Interests in
joint ventures Own
and associates shares Total
Group £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 98 6 104
Prior period adjustment relating to UITF 38 (note 1) – (6) (6)
At 1 April 2004 (as restated) 98 – 98
Additions 4 – 4
Dividend received from associate (7) – (7)
Loss retained for the year (3) – (3)
Reclassiﬁcations
1
3– 3
At 31 March 2005 95 – 95
Provisions
At 1 April 2004 93 6 99
Prior period adjustment relating to UITF 38 (note 1) – (6) (6)
At 1 April 2004 (as restated) and at 31 March 2005 93 – 93
Net book value
At 31 March 2005 2 – 2
At 31 March 2004 5 – 5
1
Represents the reclassiﬁcation of the Group’s interest in the net liabilities of our joint ventures and associates to creditors: amounts falling
due within one year.
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
Parent company £m
Cost and net book value
On incorporation –
Additions 7,116
At 31 March 2005 7,116
The Directors consider that disclosing full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement
of excessive length. A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is given in note 25.
o2.com   76
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 76 13. Debtors Parent
Group company
2005 2004 2005
£m £m £m
Trade debtors 578 508 –
Other debtors 93 25 1
Prepayments 112 166 –
Accrued income 277 244 –
1,060 943 1
14. Current asset investments Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Money market deposits 953 631
Money market funds 57 69
Other deposits 275 293
1,285 993
Other deposits of £275 million (2004: £293 million) are funds held in trust to meet the O2 UK hire purchase
obligations disclosed in note 17. A further US$79 million (2004: US$102 million) in money market deposits is
cash collateral for the bank guarantees issued to cover speciﬁc risks under the same hire purchase obligations.
15. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Parent
Group company
2005 2004 2005
£m £m £m
Other loans (note 17) 9 6 –
Loan notes (note 17) 7 8 –
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts (note 17) 40 40 –
Trade creditors 595 497 –
Amounts owed to group undertakings – – 4
Corporation tax 7 9 –
Other taxation and social security 75 61 –
Other creditors 29 39 –
Accrued expenses 846 816 –
Deferred income 227 202 –
Dividend payable 196 – 196
2,031 1,678 200
16. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Parent
Group company
2005 2004 2005
£m £m £m
Debentures (note 17) 1,056 1,012 –
Other loans (note 17) 24 31 –
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts (note 17) 268 285 –
Amounts owed to group undertakings – – 18
Other creditors 55 47 –
1,403 1,375 18
17. Debentures and other borrowings Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of loan repayments
Within one year or on demand 16 14
Between one and two years 690 7
Between two and ﬁve years 17 663
After ﬁve years 373 373
1,096 1,057
In January 2002 mmO2 plc issued two debentures in the form of a €1,000 million 6.375% ﬁxed rate 
bond and a £375 million 7.625% ﬁxed rate bond which have a ﬁve and ten year term respectively. The
debentures are recognised at the amount of net proceeds received and after the effects of any related
hedging instruments. At 31 March 2005 the carrying value includes unamortised issue costs of £4 million 
(2004: £5 million).
Loan notes of £132 million were issued by O2 UK between March 1999 and April 2000 for the purchase 
of certain businesses. At 31 March 2005 loan notes totalling £7 million (2004: £8 million) were outstanding
and repayable on demand.
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Within one year 41 41
Between one and ﬁve years 191 138
After ﬁve years 166 254
398 433
Less: ﬁnance charges allocated to future periods (90) (108)
308 325
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts are mainly in respect of hire purchase
agreements for plant and equipment. On 30 March 2001 and 9 April 2001 hire purchase ﬁnancing contracts
o2.com   77
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 77 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
were signed between O2 UK and a number of US leasing trusts. Under the contracts O2 UK sold and
repurchased material portions of its GSM radio and switching equipment. O2 UK has deposited sufﬁcient
funds with a trust company to meet the future hire purchase obligations. The deposit account is included in
current asset investments. The hire purchase agreement is for 16 years with an early buy out option after
12 years. In accordance with the Separation Agreement signed on demerger, BT continues to guarantee all
future hire purchase obligations of O2 UK which has provided a counter indemnity to BT for this guarantee.
Future gross ﬁnance lease and hire purchase payments payable by the Group as at 31 March 2005 are as follows:
£m
Payable in the year ending 31 March
2005 41
2006 34
2007 31
2008 43
2009 83
Thereafter 166
Total future gross ﬁnance lease and hire purchase payments 398
18. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred Other
taxation Restructuring provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 137 54 60 251
(Credit)/charge for the year (6) 39 (5) 28
Utilised in the year – (24) (1) (25)
At 31 March 2005 131 69 54 254
Deferred taxation
The elements of deferred taxation provided for in the ﬁnancial statements are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 194 281
Other 4 (22)
Unrelieved tax losses carried forward (67) (122)
Total provision for deferred taxation 131 137
The restructuring provision arises in respect of the exceptional operating charges recognised in the years
ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004 and described in note 5.
Other provisions includes £16 million (2004: £26 million) in respect of mast site restoration costs and
£18 million (2004: £16 million) in respect of unfunded pensions liabilities. It also includes amounts provided
for legal claims.
19. Called up share capital 2005 2005
Number of shares £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 20,000,000,000 20
Called up, allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 8,704,068,599 9
O2 plc was incorporated as a public limited company on 10 December 2004 with an authorised share
capital of £51,000, comprising 10,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and 50,000 redeemable preference
shares of £1 each. Of these shares, 2 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were taken up by the subscribers to
the memorandum of association. By ordinary resolution passed on 21 December 2004, 50,000 non-voting
redeemable preference shares of £1 each were issued and allotted at par. On 5 January 2005, a further
14 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued and allotted at par. By extraordinary general meeting on
5 January 2005, the ordinary shares of 10 pence each were consolidated at a ratio of 8 to 1 into ordinary
shares of 80 pence each and the authorised share capital was increased from £51,000 to £16,000,050,000
by the creation of 19,999,998,750 additional ordinary shares of 80 pence each.
On 14 March 2005, pursuant to a Court approved scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the
Companies Act 1985, the Company purchased mmO2 plc (mmO2) for share consideration. Certain mmO2
shareholders, holding 299,500,644 ordinary shares of mmO2 plc, elected to receive the consideration for
their shares in mmO2 in cash. All other shareholders, holding 8,403,362,095 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in mmO2, received the same number of new ordinary shares of 80 pence each in the Company as 
they previously held in mmO2. In order to fund the cash consideration the Company issued and allotted
299,500,644 ordinary shares in the Company via a placement with investors on the London Stock
Exchange’s market for listed securities on 17 March 2005. This placement raised £374,375,805. The
remaining cash consideration of £14,975,032, representing a premium of ﬁve pence per share owing to
shareholders electing to receive the cash, was funded by the Group.
Further, on 14 March 2005, the two 80 pence ordinary shares arising on the share consolidation on 
5 January 2005 were transferred to the Company at par value and were cancelled in accordance with
sections 146(1)(b) and 146(2)(a) of the Companies Act 1985.
On 16 March 2005, the share capital of the Company was reduced by cancelling paid up share capital to
the extent of 79.9 pence on each issued ordinary share and reducing the nominal value of each such share
from 80 pence to 0.1 pence; and reducing the nominal value of each unissued ordinary share of 80 pence
to 0.1 pence. This created distributable reserves of £6,714,286,314.
On 17 March 2005, 50,000 £1 redeemable preference shares were redeemed at par.
During the period from 1 April 2004 to 13 March 2005 mmO2 issued 28.2 million ordinary shares of
0.1 pence each for a total cash consideration of £23.4 million. Since the Court approved capital reduction
on 14 March 2005, the Company has issued 1.2 million ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each for a total cash
consideration of £0.9 million. All proceeds received during the year arose on the exercise of employee
(including Director) share options. Details of the share option and share award schemes operated by the
Group are described in note 29.
o2.com   78
17. Debentures and other borrowings continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 78 20. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Total
Called up Share Other Proﬁt and shareholders’
share capital premium reserves loss account funds
Group £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2002 as previously reported 9 – 22,656 (3,831) 18,834
Prior period adjustment relating to UITF 38 (note 1) ––– (3) (3)
At 1 April 2002 (as restated) 9 – 22,656 (3,834) 18,831
Retained loss for the year – – – (10,148) (10,148)
Reinstatement of goodwill previously 
written off to reserves – – – 47 47
Purchase of mmO2 plc ordinary shares – – – (2) (2)
Share schemes charge for the year – – – 2 2
Transfer from proﬁt and loss account – – (10,569) 10,569 –
Currency translation differences – – – 1,333 1,333
At 31 March 2003 (as restated) 9 – 12,087 (2,033) 10,063
Retained proﬁt for the year – – – 166 166
Shares issued on share scheme exercises – 3 – – 3
Share schemes charge for the year – – – 6 6
Transfer from proﬁt and loss account – – (1,013) 1,013 –
Currency translation differences – – – (144) (144)
At 31 March 2004 (as restated) 9 3 11,074 (992) 10,094
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – 301 301
Dividends – – – (196) (196)
Purchase of mmO2 plc ordinary shares – – – (1) (1)
Shares issued on share scheme exercises – 24 – – 24
Share schemes charge for the year – – – 6 6
Issue of shares in exchange for shares in mmO2 plc
1
6,714 (26) (7,062) (15) (389)
Placing of O2 plc shares on 17 March 2005
1
– 374 – – 374
Court approved capital reduction
1
(6,714) – – 6,714 –
Transfer from proﬁt and loss account – – (1,099) 1,099 –
Currency translation differences – – – 68 68
At 31 March 2005 9 375 2,913 6,984 10,281
1
Transaction arising during capital reorganisation described in note 19.
Other reserves originally arose on the Group’s demerger from British Telecommunications plc (BT). They
relate to the difference between the carrying value of the Group held by BT prior to demerger (representing
BT’s investments and funding in the Group) and amounts settled with BT on demerger to acquire the assets 
and liabilities of the Group. The merger difference arising in the year ended 31 March 2005 during the
capital reorganisation has been offset against these other reserves.
Aggregate goodwill as at 31 March 2005 in respect of acquisitions completed prior to 1 April 1998 of
£15 million (2004: £15 million, 2003: £15 million) has been written off against reserves in accordance with
the accounting policy existing prior to the adoption of FRS 10 “Goodwill and intangible assets”.
Total
Called up Share Proﬁt and shareholders’
share capital premium loss account funds
Company £m £m £m £m
On incorporation ––––
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial period – – 1 1
Dividends – – (196) (196)
Shares issued on share scheme exercises – 1 – 1
Transfer of shares held by the O2 plc Share Ownership Trust – – (1) (1)
Issue of shares in exchange for shares in mmO2 plc
1
6,723 – – 6,723
Court approved capital reduction
1
(6,714) – 6,714 –
Placing of O2 plc shares on 17 March 2005
1
– 374 – 374
At 31 March 2005 9 375 6,518 6,902
1
Transaction arising during capital reorganisation described in note 19.
The Company has taken advantage of section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present the
Company’s own proﬁt and loss account. The proﬁt attributable to the shareholders of the Company for the
period from incorporation on 10 December 2004 to 31 March 2005 was £1 million.
Disclosures under UITF 38
The O2 plc Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) was established in 2001 to encourage and facilitate the
holding and distribution of shares and other beneﬁts for certain Group employees. The shares are
conditionally gifted to employees under certain share award plans and held in the Trust.
2005 2004
Number of shares held
1
(number of shares, million) 1.0 2.7
Market value of shares held
2
(£ million) 1 3
Proﬁt and loss account reserve reduction in relation to own shares (£ million) 1 2
1
Shares which have not vested unconditionally to employees at the end of the year.
2
Based on respective year end share prices.
o2.com   79
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 79 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
21. Analysis of cash ﬂows for headings netted in the cash ﬂow statement
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance
Interest received 28 16 18
Settlement of cross-currency swaps 22 ––
Dividend received from associate 7 ––
Interest paid (68) (78) (81)
Settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts (note 26) (32) ––
(43) (62) (63)
Taxation
Non-United Kingdom corporation tax paid (15) (13) (4)
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
Purchase of tangible ﬁxed assets (1,287) (1,035) (779)
Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (60) (85) (89)
Purchase of own shares (1) ––
Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets – 6–
(1,348) (1,114) (868)
Acquisitions and disposals
Deferred consideration arising on purchase of subsidiary undertakings – (8) –
Sale of subsidiary undertakings (2004: disposed net of £10 million cash) – 7–
Investment in joint venture (2) (5) –
(2) (6) –
Management of liquid resources
Increase in money market deposits and money market funds (302) (191) (3)
Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 24 3–
Premium paid to mmO2 shareholders in capital reorganisation (note 19) (15) ––
Costs of capital reorganisation (note 19) (15) ––
Loan repayments (21) (53) (47)
(27) (50) (47)
22. Analysis of net debt At 1 April Non-cash At 31 March
2004 Cash ﬂow changes 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 23 18 – 41
Current asset investments 993 302 (10) 1,285
1,016 320 (10) 1,326
Debt due after one year (1,043) – (37) (1,080)
Debt due within one year (14) 8 (10) (16)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts (325) 13 4 (308)
(366) 341 (53) (78)
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movements in net debt 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 18 (45) 48
Management of liquid resources 302 191 3
Cash outﬂow from decrease in debt 21 53 47
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂows 341 199 98
Other non-cash movements (53) (16) (30)
Decrease in net debt in the year 288 183 68
Net debt at beginning of year (366) (549) (617)
Net debt at end of year (78) (366) (549)
Non-cash changes relate principally to the inception of new ﬁnance leases, interest accrued thereon and
foreign exchange gains and losses arising in relation to items of net debt held in foreign currencies.
23. Financial commitments and contingent liabilities
Operating lease commitments
At 31 March 2005 the Group was committed to making the following payments during the next year in
respect of operating leases:
2005 2004 
Land and Land and 
buildings Other buildings Other 
£m £m £m £m 
Leases which expire
Within one year 45 21 
Between one and ﬁve years 33 10 31 12 
After ﬁve years 146 7 148 – 
183 22 181 13 
o2.com   80
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 80 o2.com   81
Future minimum operating lease payments due by the Group as at 31 March 2005 are as follows:
£m 
Payable in the year ending 31 March
2006 205
2007 185
2008 173
2009 162
2010 146
Thereafter 1,060
Total future minimum operating lease payments 1,931
Other commitments 2005 2004 
£m £m 
Contracts placed for capital expenditure not provided in the accounts 414 353 
Contracts placed for non-capital expenditure not provided in the accounts 112 113
Total other commitments 526 466 
mmO2 plc has provided a guarantee of all liabilities of Airwave O2 Limited under its contracts with
the Police Information Technology Organisation (PITO) and the police force customers.
Other than as detailed in note 17, the Group has no contingent liabilities or guarantees on which material
losses are expected. The Group has insurance cover to certain limits for major risks on property and major
claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
The Group does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse
effect on the ﬁnancial position or results of operations of the Group.
24. Related party disclosures
During the year the Group entered into transactions with related parties as follows:
2005 2004 
£m £m 
Turnover
The Link Stores Limited 22 39 
Tesco Mobile Limited 12 3 
Purchases
The Link Stores Limited (33) (47)
Tchibo Mobilfunk GmbH & CP KG (4) –
Total net transactions (3) (5)
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group provided partly paid equity totalling £4 million to its joint
venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk. The balance outstanding at 31 March 2005 was £2 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group provided a combination of loans and partly paid 
equity totalling £3 million (2004: £6 million) to its joint venture, Tesco Mobile Limited. The loan balance
outstanding at 31 March 2005 was £2 million (2004: £3 million). The Group also provided other services to
Tesco Mobile Limited with a value of £7 million (2004: £3 million) and equipment and other services to
Tchibo Mobilfunk with a value of £15 million. At 31 March 2005, Tchibo Mobilfunk owed £6 million to the
Group. All transactions were at arm’s length rates.
Related party transactions with Directors are detailed in the Report on Directors’ remuneration from page 51
to 64.
25. Principal subsidiary undertakings and associates
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are detailed below, all of which are included in the Group
ﬁnancial statements.
Portion of 
Country of incorporation ordinary shares held 
Name and operation Activity % 
mmO2 plc England and Wales Intermediate holding company 100
O2 Holdings Limited
1
England and Wales Intermediate holding company 100
O2 (UK) Limited England and Wales Mobile cellular telephone system 
provider and operator 100
O2 (Germany) GmbH & Co. OHG Germany Mobile cellular telephone system 
provider and operator 100
O2 Communications (Ireland) Limited Ireland Mobile cellular telephone system 
provider and operator 100
Airwave O2 Limited
2
England and Wales Secure digital radio service for public 
safety organisations 100
Manx Telecom Limited Isle of Man Telecommunication services supplier 100
1
O2 Limited changed its name to O2 Holdings Limited on 10 December 2004.
2
Airwave mmO2 Limited changed its name to Airwave O2 Limited on 14 March 2005.
The shares held in mmO2 plc are held directly by O2 plc. The shares in O2 Holdings Limited are held directly
by mmO2 plc. The shares of the other operating companies are held by O2 Holdings Limited or its wholly
owned subsidiaries. The accounting reference date of the principal operating subsidiary undertakings is
31 March.
The Group also owns a 50 per cent stake in two joint ventures, Tesco Mobile Limited and Tchibo Mobilfunk
GmbH & CP KG, and a 40 per cent stake in an associate, The Link Stores Limited. Tesco Mobile Limited
supplies mobile electronic communications and related services to consumers and is incorporated in England
and Wales and operates throughout the United Kingdom. The accounting reference date of Tesco Mobile
Limited is 28 February. Tchibo Mobilfunk is a telecommunications equipment retailer and is incorporated 
in and operates in Germany. The Link Stores Limited is a telecommunications equipment retailer which is
incorporated and operates in England and Wales.
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 81 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
26. Financial instruments and risk management
Financial risks are identiﬁed and managed by a centralised group treasury function. The Group’s treasury
policy, including details of the nature, terms and credit risk associated with ﬁnancial instruments with 
off-balance sheet risk are described in the treasury management and policies section of the operating 
and ﬁnancial review and prospects on page 37.
The Group holds or issues ﬁnancial instruments principally to ﬁnance its operations, for the temporary
investment of short-term funds and to manage currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations.
Further details on the ﬁnancing of operations is contained in the source of liquidity and capital resources
section of the Operating and ﬁnancial review and prospects on page 36.
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage its exposure to market risks such as changes in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The objective is to match the proﬁle and characteristics of Group
funding of equity and debt to that of the assets funded and to mitigate foreign exchange risk under the
guidelines approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Group’s treasury policy.
Short-term debtors and creditors, where permitted by FRS 13 “Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments:
Disclosures”, have been excluded from the following disclosures, which are after taking account of interest
rate and currency swaps where applicable.
Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments
The book and fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2005 are:
2005 2004
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m 
Liabilities
Debentures (1,060) (1,146) (1,042) (1,135)
Hire purchase contracts (308) (319) (325) (334)
Loan notes (7) (7) (8) (8)
Other loans and borrowings (33) (33) (37) (37)
Total ﬁnancial liabilities (1,408) (1,505) (1,412) (1,514)
Assets
Hire purchase contracts 275 298 293 315 
Short-term deposits 953 953 631 631 
Money market funds 57 57 69 69 
Cash at bank and in hand 41 41 23 23 
Total ﬁnancial assets 1,326 1,349 1,016 1,038 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency proﬁle of the Group are
as follows:
2005 2004 
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 
£m £m £m £m 
Interest rate swaps –24 – 17 
Cross-currency swaps –– 25 44 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 24 25 44 
24 49 29 65 
Fair value
Fair value is the amount at which a ﬁnancial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction
between informed and willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Book values are stated before
deducting any unamortised issue costs, which are disclosed in note 17.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts is based on 
the market price of comparable instruments where available or, if not available, by the discounting of future
cash ﬂows to net present values using appropriate interest and currency rates.
The fair value of the short-term deposits, money market funds, cash at bank and short-term borrowings
approximates to the book carrying value due to the short-term or on demand maturity of these instruments.
For long-term borrowings the fair value of the sterling and euro denominated bonds have been estimated
using quoted market prices.
Hedging activities
Under the Group’s accounting policy detailed in note 1 to the ﬁnancial statements, certain gains and losses
on derivative instruments used for hedging are not recognised in the ﬁnancial statements. The gains and
losses are as follows:
Gains 
£m 
Unrecognised gains at 1 April 2004 36 
Gains arising in previous years that were recognised in the year –
Gains arising in previous years that were not recognised in the year 36
Losses arising in the year that were not recognised in the year (11)
Unrecognised gains on hedges at 31 March 2005 25
Of which:
Gains expected to be recognised in the year ended 31 March 2006 1
Gains expected to be recognised after 31 March 2006 24
Currency exposures
At 31 March 2005, the net foreign currency exposure comprising of monetary assets and liabilities of the
Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the individual Group company was £7 million
(2004: £4 million) denominated primarily in US$.
o2.com   82
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 82 Financial instruments held for trading purposes
The Group does not trade in ﬁnancial instruments.
Financial assets
Financial assets consist of sterling and Euro denominated cash at bank, short-term money market deposits
and investments in a AAA-rated money market fund. Money market deposits have a maturity proﬁle between
overnight and three months and earn interest at market rates. Investments in the money market fund can be
called on either a same day or next day basis and yield income or interest on the basis of performance of the
underlying assets measured against one-week and three-month LIBOR or EURIBOR benchmarks.
Hire Short-term 2005 Hire Short-term 2004
Cash at purchase deposits Cash at purchase deposits 
bank and related and money bank and related and money 
in hand assets market funds Total in hand assets market funds Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Currency
Sterling 7– 711 718 (3) – 461 458 
Euro 24 – 257 281 22 – 184 206 
Other 10 275 42 327 4 293 55 352 
At 31 March 2005 41 275 1,010 1,326 23 293 700 1,016 
At 31 March 2005, the Group had no ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial assets.
Financial liabilities
2005 
Non-interest Floating Fixed rate Fixed rate ﬁnancial 
bearing Fixed rate rate ﬁnancial liabilities liabilities weighted 
ﬁnancial ﬁnancial ﬁnancial weighted average average period for 
liabilities liabilities liabilities Total interest rate which rate is ﬁxed 
£m £m £m £m % (years) 
Currency
Sterling – 427 7 434 7.3% 6.3 
Euro 2– 686 688 – –
Other – 286 – 286 7.4% 5.5
At 31 March 2005 2 713 693 1,408 7.3% 6.0
2004
Floating Fixed rate Fixed rate ﬁnancial 
Fixed rate rate ﬁnancial liabilities liabilities weighted 
ﬁnancial ﬁnancial weighted average average period for 
liabilities liabilities Total interest rate which rate is ﬁxed 
£m £m £m % (years)
Currency
Sterling 431 5701,001 7.3% 7.2 
Euro – 80 80 – – 
Other 306 – 306 7.4% 6.1 
At 31 March 2004 737 650 1,387 7.4% 6.7 
The cash ﬂows of the Group’s overseas businesses, O2 Germany and O2 Ireland, and the improved visibility
of the future ﬁnancial proﬁle of the Group, has resulted in a decision to increase the level of hedging of our
overseas assets. This was achieved through the redenomination of the Group’s existing Euro borrowings and
through the use of €1,800 million of forward foreign exchange contracts, which commenced in June 2004.
The ongoing effect of the hedge implementation is that the Euro borrowings totalling €1,000 million, 
which are a component of net debt, are exposed to foreign exchange rate ﬂuctuations, and the interest
charge is impacted by the forward foreign exchange contracts which has reduced the current year net
interest charge by £24 million. Additionally, the foreign exchange gains or losses, arising on the retranslation
of the Euro borrowings and on the forward foreign exchange contracts, are recognised in the statement of
total recognised gains and losses as they hedge certain assets of the overseas businesses.
The Group has €1,000 million of Euro borrowings that are classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate at 31 March 2005
(2004: €500 million). The Group had €500 million of cross currency interest rate swaps, which classiﬁed
€500 million of Euro borrowings as ﬂoating rate in sterling for the year ended 31 March 2004. The cross-
currency element was cancelled during the year realising a one-off cash inﬂow of £22 million which, when
combined with the revaluation of the relevant Euro denominated debt at that time, had no material impact
on net debt.
Floating rate ﬁnancial liabilities bear interest rates, based on relevant EURIBOR equivalents, which are ﬁxed in
advance for periods of six months.
Borrowing facilities
At 31 March 2005, the Group had an undrawn committed ﬂoating rate syndicated facility totalling
£1,000 million, which matures in 2009. This facility incurs commitment fees at market rates. At 31 March
2005, all conditions precedent had been met.
o2.com   83
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 83 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
27. Auditors’ remuneration
The aggregate fees paid to auditors during the year for audit and other services is analysed below:
2005 2004 2003 
£000 £000 £000 
Audit services:
UK 665 600 500 
Other countries 370 400 500 
Total statutory audit fees 1,035 1,000 1,000 
Audit-related regulatory reporting 32 32 17 
Sarbanes-Oxley compliance reporting 279 ––
International Financial Reporting Standards reporting 150 ––
Total audit and audit-related fees 1,496 1,032 1,017 
Non-audit fees:
Other assurance services 869 339 687 
Tax compliance 180 166 125 
Tax advisory 338 280 171 
Systems implementation – – 176 
Total non-audit fees 1,387 785 1,159
Other non-audit assurance services includes fees totalling £630,000 in respect of the capital reorganisation
described in note 19. Non-audit fees arising in the UK were £991,000 (2004: £498,000, 2003: £490,000).
The audit fees for the Company were £10,000.
28. Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2005 were, in summary, as follows:
2005 2004 2003 
£000 £000 £000 
Salaries 2,336 2,405 1,408 
Performance related bonus 1,925 2,265 593 
Other beneﬁts 172 249 102 
4,433 4,919 2,103 
Payments to non-executive Directors 325 399 251 
Total emoluments 4,758 5,318 2,354 
During the year, three directors (2004: three, 2003: two) accrued retirement beneﬁts under a deﬁned beneﬁt
pension plan. In addition, contributions of £89,250 (2004: £83,125, 2003: £77,875) in respect of one
director (2004: one, 2003: one) were paid to a deﬁned contribution pension plan.
Gains arising during the year ended 31 March 2005 on the exercise of share options were £1,214,442, and
on the vesting of long-term incentive plans were £1,399,955 (2004: share options nil, long-term incentive
plans £146,717; 2003: share options nil, long-term incentive plans £157,636).
More detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlement, share options
and long-term incentive plans is shown in the report on directors’ remuneration on pages 51 to 64.
29. Employees 2005 2004 2003 
No. No. No. 
Average number of full time employee equivalents (including 
executive Directors) by class of business:
Mobile telecommunications 13,005 11,133 11,643 
Mobile internet services – 301 269 
Other businesses 906 913 866 
Total employees 13,911 12,347 12,778 
Average number of full time employee equivalents (including 
executive Directors) by geographic area:
UK 8,709 7,328 7,081 
Germany 3,675 3,494 3,527 
Other 1,527 1,525 2,170 
Total employees 13,911 12,347 12,778 
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were: 2005 2004 2003 
£m £m £m 
Wages and salaries 514 456 446 
Social security costs 64 58 47 
Employee share ownership scheme 9 84 
Pension costs (note 30) 26 26 24 
Total staff costs 613 548 521 
At 31 March 2005, the Group employed 14,914 (2004: 12,905, 2003: 12,476) full time employee equivalents.
The Group operates a number of employee incentive schemes including a sharesave plan, a share ownership
plan and various executive and employee option schemes. The report on directors’ remuneration on pages
51 to 64 contains full details of the directors’ interests in these schemes.
As a result of the capital reorganisation described in note 19, on 14 March 2005 all mmO2 plc options and
awards outstanding at that date were replaced by options and awards over O2 plc shares.
The share option plans operated by the Group are:
O2 Sharesave Plan
The O2 Sharesave Plan is a savings related share option scheme available to all UK, Isle of Man and Irish
employees. The scheme enables employees to acquire shares in the Company at an agreed price through
monthly savings at the end of a three or ﬁve year SAYE contract. A sharesave scheme also operates
in Germany.
o2.com   84
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 84 O2 Executive Share Option Plan
Executive Share Options have been granted to certain employees of the Group on terms such that they
usually become exercisable on the third anniversary of grant subject to the achievement of certain
performance criteria. If these criteria are not met on the third anniversary of grant, they are retested on the
fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries. All such options have an exercise price equal to the market value at grant date
and have a life of ten years. In the year ended 31 March 2005, no options were granted to employees under
this plan (2004: nil, 2003: 1,041 employees for nil consideration).
O2 Legacy Option Plan
Options over BT shares granted under BT Executive Share Option Plans were replaced with options over O2
shares, granted under the Legacy Option Plan, for those participants now employed by O2. The replacement
options were granted on the same terms, and are exercisable between the same dates, as the options for
which they were exchanged. The exercise price of these options equals the market value as at original grant
date. Options are normally exercisable up until the tenth anniversary of the date of the original grant. 
Options outstanding under the O2 Sharesave Plan, O2 Executive Share Option Plan and O2 Legacy Option
Plan as at 31 March 2005, together with their exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
Options outstanding over Options exercisable over
ordinary shares ordinary shares
Weighted-
average Weighted- Weighted-
remaining average average
Number contractual exercise Number exercise
outstanding life price exercisable price
Range of exercise prices (m) (years) (£) (m) (£)
£0.44 32 1 0.44 – –
£0.46 70 7 0.46 – –
£0.48 1 8 0.48 – –
£0.54 13 2 0.54 – –
£0.64-0.69 4 7 0.68 3 0.69
£0.73 3 1 0.73 1 0.73
£0.87 18 7 0.87 9 0.87
£0.92 9 3 0.92 – –
£1.16-1.93 1 6 1.61 1 1.61
151 5 0.55 14 0.83
Options granted, exercised and lapsed during the years ended 31 March 2005 and 2004 under these share
option plans were as follows:
Options over ordinary shares Options over ADSs
Ordinary shares ADS
1
Savings- Weighted- Weighted-
related Other average Other average
share share exercise share exercise
options options price options price
(m) (m) (£) (m) (£)
Balance at 31 March 2003 45 138 0.60 3 1.49
Granted 15 – 0.54 – –
Lapsed (5) (23) (0.76) (1) (1.69)
Exercised – (4) (0.70) – –
Balance at 31 March 2004 55 111 0.57 2 0.93
Granted 9 – 0.92 – –
Lapsed (4) – 0.60 (1) 0.82
Exercised (3) (17) 0.77 (1) 0.63
Balance at 31 March 2005 57 94 0.55 – –
1
Share options over American Depositary Shares (ADSs) have exercise prices termed in US Dollars. For purposes of disclosure, these options’
exercise prices have been translated into Sterling at the year end exchange rate. As each ADS represents ten ordinary shares, the number
of options and exercise prices have been adjusted by this ratio to reﬂect the options on a like for like basis. As a consequence of the
implementation of the capital reorganisation in March 2005, the mmO2 ADS programme was terminated, and all ADSs have been
converted into either O2 plc ordinary shares or cash.
Share award plans
The share award plans operated by the Group are:
O2 Restricted Share Plan
Restricted share awards have been granted to a small group of senior executives on terms that they will
normally only vest on the third anniversary of grant if the participant builds up a predetermined personal
shareholding in the Group and remains in employment with the Group. The weighted average market value 
at grant date of the 2 million shares granted under this plan in the year ended 31 March 2005 was £0.88.
No shares were granted under this plan in the years ended 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003. 
O2 Performance Share Plan
Performance related share awards were granted to certain senior employees during the year ended 
31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004. These awards will vest on the third anniversary of grant if the
Company meets certain performance criteria, and the participant remains in employment with the Group.
The weighted average market value at grant date of the 12 million (2004: 26.4 million) shares granted
under this plan in the year ended 31 March 2005 was £0.88 (2004: £0.53).
o2.com   85
29. Employees continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 85 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
O2 Deferred Equity Incentive Plan (DEIP)
Participants in the DEIP receive share awards that include a deferred element and a performance element.
The deferred element generally vests three years after grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
The performance element is subject to the long-term performance of the Group and continued employment
with the Group. DEIP awards have been granted to a small group of senior executives during the year ended
31 March 2005. The weighted average market value at grant date of the 8 million shares in the year ended
31 March 2005 was £0.88.
30. Pension costs
The Group operates a number of pension schemes in its businesses. All the Group’s pension schemes are
provided through either deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contribution arrangements. Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
generally provide pensions based on the employee’s length of service and their ﬁnal pensionable salary.
Deﬁned contribution schemes offer employees individual funds which are converted into pension beneﬁts 
on retirement. The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group’s ﬁnances. 
The O2 Pension Plan
The O2 Pension Plan (O2 PP) provides the pension beneﬁts for the majority of UK employees and is divided
into deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt sections.
Deﬁned contribution section
Prior to 1 July 2002, the Group participated in the BT Retirement Plan (BTRP), a deﬁned contribution scheme
established by BT. Members of the BTRP could elect to transfer their funds under management 
into the new O2 Plan (deﬁned contribution section) on its inception. These funds were transferred on
14 March 2003.
Deﬁned beneﬁt section
Following the Group’s demerger from BT and until 30 June 2002, the Group was a participating employer in
the BT Pension Scheme (BTPS), a funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. While participating the Group paid
to the BTPS a predetermined percentage of the pensionable payroll costs of those Group employees 
who were members of the scheme. These costs have been charged in the period to which they relate.
On 1 July 2002 the O2 PP was established for employees in the United Kingdom and a share of the assets of
the BTPS of the members electing to transfer their beneﬁts to the new plan were transferred to the O2 PP on
17 March 2003. The beneﬁts of all deferred and pensioner members at 30 June 2002 remain in the BTPS.
From 1 July 2002, the Group has been the principal employer of the O2 PP . The pension costs have been
assessed in accordance with the advice of a qualiﬁed independent actuary using the projected unit method
and taking assets at market value. The deﬁned beneﬁt sections of the O2 PP are closed to new entrants and
therefore the current service cost is likely to increase as the members approach retirement.
Actuarial valuation
The ﬁrst full actuarial valuation of the deﬁned beneﬁt sections of the O2 PP was undertaken at 30 June
2003 by a professionally qualiﬁed independent actuary using the projected unit method. The purpose of 
this valuation was to design a future funding plan to ensure that contributions to the plan are sufﬁcient 
to meet future liabilities. As at 30 June 2003 the assets of the O2 PP had a market value of £230 million 
and were sufﬁcient to cover 86 per cent of the beneﬁts accrued to members at that date on the ongoing
funding measure. As a result of the valuation, the Group has increased the employer’s regular contribution
rate from 11.6 per cent to 13.1 per cent of pensionable salaries with effect from 1 April 2004. In order to
meet the deﬁcit, additional annual payments of £4.4 million are payable for 13 years (subject to review at
future valuations). The employee’s contribution rate remains at 6 per cent of pensionable salary.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the valuation were as follows:
%
Nominal rate of increase in salaries 3.75-4.25 
Nominal rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.50 
Investment return pre retirement 7.00 
Investment return post retirement 5.50 
Inﬂation assumption 2.50
Other Group pension plans
The Group operates several other deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. In the Isle of Man beneﬁts are provided
by a funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme that is closed to new entrants. The Group also operates
unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK and in Germany. A provision, determined in accordance 
with SSAP 24, is recorded on the balance sheet to recognise the cumulative accrued liability for the
unfunded schemes as disclosed in note 18.
Until May 2001 the O2 Germany main scheme was unfunded. This scheme has been changed to a 
funded arrangement with payments being made to provide for previously unfunded liabilities over the
period to the active members’ retirements. The vast majority of members of the O2 Germany main scheme
are now accruing beneﬁts under an insured arrangement. The other deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in Germany
are unfunded. 
The Group operates deﬁned contribution schemes in Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man. The assets of
these deﬁned contribution arrangements are held separately from those of the Group in independently
administered funds.
o2.com   86
29. Employees continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 86 Disclosures under SSAP 24 “Accounting for pension costs”
The total cost charged to the proﬁt and loss account for all the Group’s pension schemes is as follows:
2005 2004 2003 
£m £m £m 
O2 Pension Plan cost 16 16 12 
Contributions to the BT Pension Scheme – –4 
Other deﬁned beneﬁt schemes 3 34 
Deﬁned contribution schemes 7 74 
26 26 24 
Within the total cost analysed above, the regular cost is £23 million (2004: £24 million, 2003: £24 million).
The Group has recognised an asset of £5 million (2004: nil, 2003: nil) representing the excess of cumulative
funding over the accumulated pension cost on the O2 PP and amounts totalling a net liability of £16 million
(2004: £15 million, 2003: £11 million) representing the excess of cumulative pension cost over accumulated
funding on other schemes.
As at 30 June 2003, the assets of the O2 PP were sufﬁcient to cover 95 per cent of the beneﬁts accrued to
members based on the SSAP 24 accounting basis, which is used to calculate the pension charge recognised
in the proﬁt and loss account.
The number of members in each of the Group’s main pension schemes is as follows:
2005 2004
Active Total Active Total
No. No. No. No.
O2 PP 5,113 6,133 4,014 4,596
O2 Germany schemes 3,148 3,267 2,996 3,008
Isle of Man scheme 273 448 281 437
O2 Ireland scheme 996 1,481 918 1,112
UK unfunded arrangement 13 23 15 23
9,543 11,352 8,224 9,176
The principal assumptions used to determine the pension cost under SSAP 24 for the deﬁned beneﬁt section
of the O2 PP for the year were:
2005 2004 
% % 
Nominal rate of increase in salaries 3.75-4.25 3.75-4.25 
Nominal rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.50 2.50 
Investment return pre retirement 7.50 7.50 
Investment return post retirement 5.70 5.70 
Inﬂation assumption 2.50 2.50 
The assumptions for the other deﬁned beneﬁt schemes around the Group are consistent with those used for
the O2 PP .
Disclosures under FRS 17 “Retirement beneﬁts”
In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 “Retirement beneﬁts”, certain information
regarding the Group’s pension arrangements are disclosed below.
The actuarial valuation of the O2 PP as at 30 June 2003 has been updated to 31 March 2005 by an
independent qualiﬁed actuary in accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17. In accordance
with FRS 17, the deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities have been measured using the projected unit method. Plan assets
are stated at their market value.
The main assumptions adopted for the O2 PP under FRS 17 are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
% %%
Nominal rate of increase in salaries 4.15-4.65 4.05-4.55 3.75
Nominal rate of increase of pensions in payment
– Pension increases with inﬂation 2.90 2.80 2.50
– Pension increases with inﬂation limited to 5 per cent p.a. 2.70 2.60 2.40
Discount rate 5.50 5.70 5.80
Inﬂation assumption 2.90 2.80 2.50
Expected long-term return for:
– Equities 7.70 7.80 7.50
– UK Government bonds 4.70 4.70 –
– Other bonds 5.50 5.70 –
– Other 4.70 4.60 3.80
The assumptions, adopted for FRS 17 purposes, for the other deﬁned beneﬁt schemes around the Group are
consistent with those used for the O2 PP .
o2.com   87
30. Pension costs continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 87 o2.com   88
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
The assets and liabilities of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes are: 
2005 2004 2003
O2 PP  Other schemes Total O2 PP Other schemes Total O2 PP Other schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of assets comprises:
– Equities 306 13 319 245 12 257 177 11 188
– UK Government bonds 17 7 24 14 6 20 –55
– Other bonds 16 2 18 14 2 16 –55
– Other 426 516 20 – 20
Fair value of assets 343 24 367 278 21 299 197 21 218
Present value of liabilities (444) (51) (495) (362) (42) (404) (268) (39) (307)
Deﬁcit (101) (27) (128) (84) (21) (105) (71) (18) (89)
Related deferred tax asset 30 8 38 25 6 31 21 5 26
Net pension liability (71) (19) (90) (59) (15) (74) (50) (13) (63)
The following table sets out the amounts which would be charged to the proﬁt and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2005 and statement of total recognised gains and losses in accordance with the requirements
of FRS 17 for the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt plans: 
2005 2004
O2 PP  Other schemes Total O2 PP Other schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of the amount charged to operating proﬁt:
Current service cost (employers) 20 2 22 16 2 18
Curtailment and settlement
1
(3) – (3) – (2) (2)
Vested past service cost 5– 5 2– 2
Total operating charge 22 2 24 18 – 18
Analysis of the amount credited/(charged) to net interest:
Expected return on pension plan assets 22 1 23 15 1 16
Interest on pension plan liabilities (22) (2) (24) (16) (2) (18)
Net return – (1) (1) (1) (1) (2)
Analysis of the amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Actual return less expected return on pension plan assets
2
17 1 18 39 2 41
Experience gains and losses arising on plan liabilities –(1) (1) 6 (1) 5
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of plan liabilities (33) (4) (37) (57) (4) (61)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (16) (4) (20) (12) (3) (15)
1
In 2004 relates to the disposal of O2 Netherlands.
2
Excluding the returns on assets of the Group’s deﬁned contribution arrangements which do not affect the balance sheet liability.
30. Pension costs continued
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 88 o2.com   89
The Group has applied the transitional provision of FRS 17. The analysis of the proﬁt and loss account that
would have arisen had FRS 17 been fully implemented is as follows:
2005 2004 
£m £m 
Proﬁt and loss account 6,984 (992)
Amounts recognised under SSAP 24 11 15
Pension deﬁcit under FRS 17 (net of related deferred tax asset) (90) (74)
Proﬁt and loss account including pension deﬁcit 6,905 (1,051)
31. Parent company balance sheet of O2 plc at 31 March 2005 2005
Note £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 7,116 
Current assets
Debtors 13 1 
Cash at bank and in hand 3 
4 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 (200)
Net current assets (196)
Total assets less current liabilities 6,920
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 (18)
Net assets 6,902
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 19 9 
Share premium 20 375 
Proﬁt and loss account 20 6,518
Shareholders’ funds 6,902
O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 and these are O2 plc’s ﬁrst ﬁnancial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2005 and were signed on its
behalf by:
Peter Erskine David Finch
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Other
O2 PP schemes Total
Movement in deﬁcit during the year £m £m £m
Deﬁcit at 1 April 2003 (71) (18) (89)
Total current service cost
1
(24) (3) (27)
Total contributions
1
26 2 28
Curtailment and settlement gain – 2 2
Vested past service costs (2) – (2)
Other ﬁnance income (1) (1) (2)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains 
and losses (12) (3) (15)
Deﬁcit in plan at 31 March 2004 (84) (21) (105)
Total current service cost (27) (3) (30)
Total contributions 28 2 30
Curtailment and settlement gain 3 – 3
Vested past service costs (5) – (5)
Other ﬁnance cost – (1) (1)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains 
and losses (16) (4) (20)
Deﬁcit in plan at 31 March 2005 (101) (27) (128)
1
Includes £2 million in respect of the restructuring disclosed in note 5.
2005 2004 2003
Other Other Other
O2 PP schemes O2 PP schemes O2 PP schemes
History of experience gains and losses £m £m £m £m £m £m
Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets:
Amount – gain/(loss) 17 1 39 2 (62) (7)
Percentage of plan assets 5% 3% 14% 11% (32%) (33%)
Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities:
Amount – (loss)/gain – (1) 6 (2) (4) 2
Percentage of the present value of 
plan liabilities –(1%) 2% (4%) (1%) 5%
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – loss (16) (4) (12) (3) (40) (6)
Percentage of the present value of 
plan liabilities (4%) (7%) (3%) (8%) (15%) (15%)
O2_AR_pp068-089.qxd  6/1/05  8:00 PM  Page 89 o2.com   90
Non-ﬁnancial metrics
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
O2 UK
Customer numbers (thousands)
1
ARPU (£)
2
Pre-pay 9,472 8,687 7,989 Pre-pay 143 141 121 
Post-pay 4,912 4,577 4,061 Post-pay 542 525 503 
Total 14,384 13,264 12,050 Blended 281 272 247
Churn
3
SAC per connection (£)
4
Pre-pay 37% 33% 31% Pre-pay 19 16 25 
Post-pay 31% 26% 28% Post-pay 172 160 177 
Blended 35% 30% 30% Blended 66 64 79 
Data as a percentage of service revenue
5
24.2% 20.4% 17.1%
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
O2 Ireland
Customer numbers (thousands)
1
ARPU (£)
2
Pre-pay 1,130 1,010 889 Pre-pay 244 248 220
Post-pay 403 381 366 Post-pay 762 736 656
Total 1,533 1,391 1,255 Blended 385 388 351
Data as a percentage of service revenue
5
21.2% 19.9% 15.3% 
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
O2 Germany
Customer numbers (thousands)
1
ARPU (£)
2
Pre-pay 3,620 2,516 2,182 Pre-pay 95 96 83
Post-pay 4,356 3,466 2,630 Post-pay 362 375 341
Total 7,976 5,982 4,812 Blended 248 254 219 
Churn
3
SAC per connection (£)
4
Pre-pay 16% 17% 16% Pre-pay 22 17 16 
Post-pay 15% 17% 16% Post-pay 190 175 161 
Blended 16% 17% 16% Blended 110 119 107 
Data as a percentage of service revenue
5
21.8% 19.5% 19.3% 
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 
Manx Telecom
Customer numbers (thousands)
1
ARPU (£)
2
Pre-pay 41 42 38 Pre-pay 128 123 115
Post-pay 22 21 21 Post-pay 630 623 556
Total 63 63 59 Blended 297 289 288
Notes on non-ﬁnancial metrics
1
Customer numbers – represent customers who are active. Customers are treated as being active if they have used the network in the preceding three months.
2
Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) – is calculated by dividing total service revenue from sales to customers for the preceding 12 months by the weighted average number of active customers for the same period. Total service revenue includes revenue from inbound roaming. ARPU is
calculated using gross service revenue before deduction of wholesale discounts. O2 UK ARPU includes mobile number portability (MNP) revenue.
3
Churn – is calculated by expressing the sum of disconnections for the preceding 12 months as a percentage of the weighted average number of active customers for the same period.
4
Subscriber Acquisition Cost (SAC) per connection – is calculated by dividing the total cost of acquisition (comprising total cost of handset (including handset costs, SIM costs and packaging) less handset revenue plus commissions paid to sales channels) for the preceding 12 months by
the total number of connections over the same period.
5
Data as a percentage of service revenue – data revenue comprises revenue generated from the sale of SMS, WAP , GPRS and UMTS services.
O2_AR_pp090-091.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 90 o2.com   91
Five year summary
Selected proﬁt and loss account information
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 
£m £m £m £m £m 
Group turnover 6,683 5,694 4,874 4,276 3,200 
Net operating expenses before exceptional items (6,297) (5,461) (5,352) (4,982) (3,543)
Exceptional items (45) (75) (8,300) (150) (2,821)
EBITDA
1
1,768 1,367 859 433 317 
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 341 158 (8,778) (856) (3,164)
Group’s share of operating result of joint ventures 
and associates (3) – 5 8 (286)
Costs of capital reorganisation (20) – – – – 
Loss/provision for loss on sale of business – (5)(1,364) – – 
Net interest payable and similar charges (9) (58) (66) (25) (9)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 309 95 (10,203) (873) (3,459)
Tax on proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities (8) 71 55 23 (70)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 301 166 (10,148) (850) (3,529)
Minority interests – – – – (4)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year 301 166 (10,148) (850) (3,533)
Dividends (196) ––––
Retained proﬁt/(loss) for the year 105 166 (10,148) (850) (3,533)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 3.5 1.9 (117.0) (9.8) (40.7)
Underlying earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 8.5 5.2 (1.3) (3.8) (4.9)
Dividend per share 2.25 ––––
1
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of operating proﬁts and
losses of our joint ventures and associates.
Selected balance sheet information
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 
£m £m £m £m £m 
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 7,045 7,354 7,582 15,992 15,624 
Tangible assets 4,449 3,996 3,875 4,094 3,727 
Investments 2 5 – 34 33 
Total ﬁxed assets 11,496 11,355 11,457 20,120 19,384 
Current assets 2,473 2,043 1,913 2,037 1,785 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (2,031) (1,678) (1,572) (1,521) (1,504)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than 
one year (1,403) (1,375) (1,451) (1,403) (399)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (254) (251) (284) (402) (206)
Net assets 10,281 10,094 10,063 18,831 19,060 
Shareholders’ funds 10,281 10,094 10,063 18,831 19,068 
Equity minority interests – – – – (8)
10,281 10,094 10,063 18,831 19,060
O2_AR_pp090-091.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 91 o2.com   92
Additional information for shareholders
Third party trade marks
Third parties’ trade marks used in this document remain the property of the third party concerned.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This annual report and ﬁnancial statements contains certain forward-looking statements. We may also make
written or oral forward-looking statements in:
>> our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, also known as the SEC, on Forms
20-F and 6-K;
>> our half-yearly reports;
>> our press releases and other written materials; and
>> oral statements made by our ofﬁcers, Directors or employees to third parties.
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current plans, expectations and projections about
future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about
us. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations are forward-
looking statements. Words like “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “seek”, “will”, “plan”,
“could”, “may”, “might”, “project”, “goal”, “target” and similar expressions often identify forward-
looking statements but are not the only ways we identify these statements.
These statements may be found in “Risk factors”, “Business review”, “Operating and ﬁnancial review 
and prospects”, and in this annual report generally. Our actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks discussed
in the above-mentioned sections.
If any one or more of the foregoing assumptions are ultimately incorrect, our actual results may differ from
our expectations based on these assumptions. Also, the sector and markets in which we operate may not
grow over the next several years as expected, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow as expected may
have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and ﬁnancial condition and the market
price of our ordinary shares.
The information on our website, any website mentioned in this annual report or any website directly or
indirectly linked to our or any other website mentioned in this annual report is not incorporated by reference
into this annual report and you should not rely on it.
Listings
The ordinary shares of O2 plc were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 14 March 2005, pursuant to
the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc.
Analysis of shareholdings
Ordinary shares
of 0.1p each
Size of shareholding Number of Percentage Number of Percentage
at 31 March 2005 shareholders of total shares held of total
1 – 500 266,127 35.58 74,594,694 0.86
501 – 999 157,118 21.01 110,913,190 1.27
1,000 – 9,999 319,193 42.68 649,306,837 7.46
10,000 – 99,999 4,289 0.57 79,278,779 0.91
100,000 – 999,999 643 0.09 243,357,671 2.80
1,000,000 – 4,999,999 333 0.04 772,646,728 8.88
5,000,000 and above 217 0.03 6,773,970,700 77.82
Total 747,920 100.00 8,704,068,599 100.00
At 31 March 2005, the number of holders of record of O2 plc ordinary shares in the USA was 1,067 with
holdings of 1,459,834 ordinary shares.
Capital Gains Tax
At the time of the demerger of mmO2 plc from BT, the conﬁrmed ofﬁcial opening prices for mmO2 plc
ordinary shares and BT Group plc ordinary shares for Capital Gains Tax (“CGT”) purposes, were 82.75 pence
and 285.75 pence respectively. This means that, of the total value of 368.5 pence, 22.456 per cent was
attributable to mmO2 and 77.544 per cent to BT Group.
Accordingly, for CGT calculations, the base cost of your mmO2 plc ordinary shares is calculated by
multiplying the acquisition cost of your BT shareholding by 22.456 per cent and the base cost of your 
BT Group plc ordinary shares is calculated by multiplying the acquisition cost of your BT shareholding 
by 77.544 per cent.
Following the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc dated on 12 January 2005 becoming effective on
14 March 2005, reference to mmO2 plc shares should be read as reference to O2 plc shares.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (ShareGift) operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with
small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are available on
the ShareGift internet site www.sharegift.org.
Cassettes for visually impaired shareholders
The Company’s Annual Review is available on audio cassette. Copies can be obtained, free of charge, from
the Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, by calling Freefone 0808 100 4102.
O2_AR_pp092-096.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 92 o2.com   93
Annual Report and Financial Statements
Further copies of our Annual Report and Financial Statements can be obtained by contacting our Registrar,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, on Freefone 0808 100 4102.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Hexagon, Queens Walk, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7UA on
Wednesday, 27 July 2005 at 11.00 a.m.
Dividend
To register your bank details and allow dividend payments to be sent directly to a bank account, please
contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete and return the mandate form that will be attached to your
dividend cheque in August 2005.
Shareview
Many shareholders prefer to receive their reports online rather than through the post. You can do this by
registering with Shareview, which is easy and free. Go to Shareview at www.shareview.co.uk – click on
“register now”, and complete the on-screen application form.
Shareview, which is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives O2 shareholders access to special services over
the internet. You will be able to check the details of your O2 shareholding at any time. As a Shareview user
you will be able to view indicative prices of shares of other companies of which you are a shareholder and
who use Lloyds TSB as their Registrar.
An e-mail will be sent to you when there is an item for you to view on the shareholder pages on
www.o2.com.
In future, when a dividend payment is made, it will be possible to download your tax voucher in respect of
dividend payments by logging on to Shareview’s website at www.shareview.co.uk with your access number
and password, and click on “e-Tax vouchers”. You can print or save the details if you need to enter them in
self-assessment forms. There will also be a useful summary showing the details of payments within a given
tax period.
O2 plc offers its UK shareholders Shareview Dealing, an internet and telephone share sale and purchase
service operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars. Log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call them on 0870 850
0852 between 8.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m., Monday to Friday, for more information about the service and for
details of their rates.
Lloyds TSB Registrars is a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority and a signatory to the Banking Codes.
Duplicate mailings 
You may have received separate sets of documents as it may not have been possible to combine your
records. Any shareholder who now wishes to stop the additional mailings by combining their records should
contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Financial calendar/results announcements
Annual General Meeting 27 July 2005
Proposed dates
Q1 Trading Statement and publication July 2005
of IFRS ﬁnancial information
Proposed Inaugural Final Dividend 26 August 2005
of 2.25 pence per share payable to 
shareholders who are on the register 
on 5 August 2005
Interim Results November 2005
Interim Dividend January 2006
Q3 Trading Statement February 2006
Preliminary Announcement May 2006
Publication of the Annual Report and June 2006
Financial Statements
Shareholder enquiries
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Company’s share register and provide a shareholder helpline service
(details below). Shareholders should contact the Registrar if they have any enquiries about their
shareholding.
The Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars (3501) O2 plc shareholder helpline
The Causeway Freefone: 0808 100 4102
Worthing Fax: 01903 833371
West Sussex BN99 6DA From outside the UK
Tel: +44 121 415 7102
Fax: +44 1903 833371
General enquiries
O2 plc
Wellington Street
Slough 
Berkshire SL1 1YP
e-mail: shareholders@o2.com
O2_AR_pp092-096.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 93 Deﬁnitions
The following deﬁnitions apply throughout this document unless the context requires otherwise:
“Airwave” A secure TETRA communications system for the emergency services and other
Public Safety Users.
“analogue” The ﬁrst generation of mobile telecommunications technology in which radio
signals are modulated proportionally by the strength and frequency of audio
sounds.
“ARPU” Average Revenue Per User.
“CRM” Customer Relationship Management.
“GPRS” General Packet Radio Service. A technology, sometimes referred to as 2.5G, that
allows customers to remain connected to the network between calls for the
receipt and transmission of data.
“GSM” The Global System for Mobile communications. Originally deﬁned as a pan-
European standard for digital cellular telephone networks to support roaming, 
it is now one of the world’s main digital mobile standards.
“HSDPA” High Speed Downlink Packet Access, widely regarded as the next enhancement
to 3G, also referred to as superfast 3G.
“IFRS” International Financial Reporting Standards.
“ISP” Internet Service Provider.
“Manx Telecom” Manx Telecom Limited, a company incorporated in the Isle of Man with
registered number 28059.
“mmO2” mmO2 plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered
number 4190833.
“MMS” Multimedia Messaging Services.
“MVNO” Mobile Virtual Network Operators. Mobile operators that do not own spectrum
and usually do not have their own network infrastructure.
“O2 Ordinary Shares” 
or “ordinary shares” Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of O2.
“O2” O2 plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number
5310128 or, where the context requires, a reference to its subsidiaries or
associated undertakings.
“O
2
”Areference to our trade name or brand.
“O2 Group” O2 plc and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time.
“O2 Airwave” Airwave O2 Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with a
registered number 3985643.
“O2 Germany” O2 (Germany) GmbH & Co. OHG, a company incorporated in Germany.
“O2 Ireland” O2 Communications (Ireland) Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland.
“O2 Netherlands” O2 (Netherlands) B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands.
“O2 UK” O2 (UK) Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered
number 1743099.
“PDA” Personal Digital Assistant.
“Public Safety Users” Any organisation, as determined by Ofcom, which has broadly fulﬁlled the
or “PSU” following criteria: (a) responds to emergencies; (b) is involved in emergency
situations reasonably frequently; (c) is civilian, or is required to respond to 
civilian emergencies; and (d) requires interaction with those who respond 
to emergencies.
“SAC” Subscriber Acquisition Cost.
“SMP” Signiﬁcant Market Power.
“SMS” A service sometimes known as text messaging, which enables mobile telephone
users to send and receive written messages on their handsets.
“TETRA” Terrestrial Trunked Radio. Radio technology used in networks that require a high
level of security and availability.
“UMTS” Universal Mobile Telecommunications System. An international standard of third
generation, or 3G, mobile telecommunications.
“WAP” Wireless Application Protocol. A global, open standard for accessing online
services through mobile devices.
“we” or “us” or “our” O2 and/or, if the context so requires, one or more members of the O2 Group.
o2.com   94
O2_AR_pp092-096.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 94 Notes
o2.com   95
O2_AR_pp092-096.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 95 Notes
o2.com   96
O2_AR_pp092-096.qxd  6/1/05  8:01 PM  Page 96 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
o2.com
O2 plc
Wellington Street
Slough
Berkshire SL1 1YP
Registered No. 5310128
The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental 
Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Paufﬂey Ltd
Printed in England by St Ives Financial Limited.
O2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
ARep_Covers.qxd  2/6/05  10:34  Page FC1 Annual Review 2005
C12020_ARev_outer.qxd  2/6/05  10:07  Page FC1 o2.com   IFC
Surprisingly for a mobile communications
company, we’re not about technology.
We’re about people. How we can continue
to make people’s lives easier, to engage
their imaginations and deliver even greater
experiences, through our products, services
and know-how. 
This report is based on our commitment 
to listen to people’s wants and needs, 
to respond to them, and to bring the
resulting beneﬁts to all our customers,
employees and shareholders.
Listen
Respond
C12020_ARev_ifc-03.qxd  6/1/05  6:22 PM  Page IFC o2.com   1
Beneﬁt
Contents
2 Introduction by the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
4 Listen
6 Business review
8 Respond
10 Business review continued
12 Beneﬁt
14 Board of Directors
15 Summary Directors’ report
17 Summary Directors’ remuneration report
19 Summary ﬁnancial statement
20 Independent auditors’ statement
20 Additional information for shareholders
Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking 
statements on page 21.
C12020_ARev_ifc-03.qxd  6/1/05  6:23 PM  Page 1 o2.com   2
Introduction by the
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
An operationally efﬁcient, agile and innovative
organisation We will be driving our businesses to
realise efﬁciency gains, using our growing insight
into our customers’ needs and behaviour to align
our costs more closely to what customers value
most. We have innovative joint ventures with Tchibo
in Germany and Tesco in the UK, and other, multi-
territory, partnerships. 
Mobile data services that our customers really
value Texting has become a way of life – whether
in person-to-person messages, texting questions 
to the Prime Minister or voting off Big Brother
contestants. We carried a record 50 million texts on
Christmas Day 2004 and texting continues to grow
in all markets. Driven by O
2
Active, our award-
winning mobile internet portal, we are also starting
to see signiﬁcant growth in non-text data usage,
revenues from which have increased by 50 per cent
over the past 12 months.
With a powerful new relationship now in place 
with NTT DoCoMo, we are poised for even more
dramatic growth, as we develop new mobile data
products and value-added services.
Leading technology
3G A high-speed network, as provided by 3G, is 
the key to future mobile data services, enabling
customers to migrate to advanced, content-rich
applications. During 2004/05, we launched 3G
consumer and business services in Germany and 
the UK, with Ireland to follow later this year. 
Welcome to our fourth annual review, and our ﬁrst
as O2 plc. One of our ﬁrst acts as O2 will be to pay
a dividend to our shareholders. 
As a shareholder in mmO2, you have exchanged
your existing shares for shares in O2 plc. We are
delighted that you have joined us and are conﬁdent
about our Company’s future prospects.
As part of our reorganisation, mmO2 was delisted
from the New York Stock Exchange. There is no
intention to seek a US listing for O2 shares.
Strategy
Our strategic framework for the coming year is
driven by the same high aspirations that have
delivered such strong momentum to our business
since demerger. To continue to meet those
aspirations, we will be addressing some key
priorities in 2005/06.
Revenue and proﬁt growth superior to our
competitors Despite the competitive landscape, 
O2 UK continues to focus on winning and retaining
more high-value customers in order to drive further
revenue improvement. In Germany, there is
signiﬁcant room for growth and our accelerated
network investment programme will provide a
springboard to achieve this. In addition, O2 Airwave
will make a strong ﬁnancial contribution in its ﬁrst
full year of operation.
Best customer experience to express the iconic
O
2
brand Quality, value and innovation are the keys
to maintaining the strength of the O
2
brand, and
differentiating us from our competitors. To maintain
the loyalty and trust of our customers, we must
give them the service that they want and products
that work – which is why we have been cautious in
the timing of our 3G launch. We do not necessarily
want to be the ﬁrst to market but we do want to
be the best. Our aim is keep the O
2
brand fresh,
with fewer, better services, all designed to enhance
the customer experience. We are investing in the
systems and people to achieve this.
We are rolling out the 3G network across all our
territories, matching capacity to known mobile data
demand. We have also invested in training and
billing systems, and developed highly speciﬁed,
well-functioning devices. 
Mobile internet To complete the picture, we
signed a long-term agreement with NTT DoCoMo
Inc, Japan's largest mobile communications provider,
to launch a mobile internet service branded i-mode
®
in the UK and Ireland in Autumn 2005. A similar
service will be available in Germany from Spring
2006. This service, which will complement O
2
Active, has a proven track record in Western Europe
of lifting uptake, usage and revenue from data
services, due to its ease of use and huge breadth
and depth of tailored internet content.
Corporate responsibility
We have a responsibility to the communities in
which we operate. We believe that companies who
respond to the needs of those communities, and of
the wider world, are more likely to maintain long-
term success. We produce a separate report
detailing our CR strategy and activities; here are
some highlights from 2004/05.
Industry recognition O2 was the top-scoring
mobile operator in the Dow Jones Sustainability
Indexes, which track the ﬁnancial performance of
the leading sustainability-driven companies world-
wide. In addition, we were included in the
FTSE4Good Index, the Business in the Community
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Index and the Top 100
Global Sustainability Reporters list. 
• Strong revenue and proﬁt growth
• First dividend earlier than planned
• Focus on enhanced customer experience
• Accelerated investment in Germany
• Building a sustainable business
C12020_ARev_ifc-03.qxd  6/1/05  6:23 PM  Page 2 o2.com   3
internet grooming. These are available in our retail
outlets and online. 
Looking ahead
We are ﬁnancially strong and have built a powerful,
iconic O
2
brand. Revenue is growing fast, the
Company has modest debt and, led by a strong
management team, we have so far outperformed
most City expectations. O2 is in a good position. 
Taking the Company forward and further
strengthening its position in the United Kingdom,
Germany and Ireland will be challenging but
achievable. We will:
•continue to focus on gaining a closer
understanding of our customers’ needs and
behaviour, in order to further improve their
satisfaction and loyalty;
•work even harder to differentiate our business by
delivering intuitive, easy-to-use and fairly priced
products and services – particularly in the data
ﬁeld – that our customers value highly, and that
are based on proven technology;
•continue to ensure that we work to make a
difference to the communities in which we operate,
building a sustainable business for the future.
Community activities Our activities are focused on
programmes that aim to improve the conditions
and prospects for children and young people
around the world.
A number of community projects and programmes
that support employee fund raising and giving have
been successfully developed under our “Can Do in
the Community” programme. Across the Group,
we contributed £1.7 million in charitable donations,
over £600,000 of which came from UK-based
companies, and £500,000 to the Tsunami appeal.
Our employees continue to give their time and
imagination to a wide range of fundraising schemes. 
Health and safety issues We are sensitive to
public concerns over health issues such as the siting
of masts, and issues concerning mobile phone use,
including the protection of the vulnerable. To help
parents and others make informed choices, we
have introduced measures such as age veriﬁcation,
parental controls, ﬁlters and barring. In addition, we
help fund on-going research and are committed to
effective, responsible communications, producing
leaﬂets on subjects ranging from health issues to
advice to parents on personal safety, bullying and
We aim to grow the dividend towards our medium-
term target pay-out ratio of 50 per cent of
underlying earnings, reﬂecting our conﬁdence in
the Company’s ability to continue to increase
revenue, earnings and cash-ﬂow, and our
commitment to deliver attractive returns to
shareholders. 
Group turnover
1
 £m Group EBITDA
1
 £m
02
4,076
03
4,611
04
5,646
05
6,683
02
484
03
858
04
1,367
05
1,768
Continuing operations.
1
Board changes
David Arculus joined the Board as a non-
executive Director in April 2003 and became
Chairman of mmO2 plc at the conclusion of its
Annual General Meeting in July 2004, when
David Varney stood down to take up a new
position as Executive Chairman of HM Revenue
& Customs. 
There have been other important changes over
the past year. David McGlade, Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer of O2 UK, stepped down from the
Board and left the Company at the end of the
ﬁnancial year to take up a new opportunity in
his native America. David led the turnaround in
O2 UK’s performance since demerger, and the
successful establishment of the O
2
brand in 
the UK. He has been succeeded as CEO of 
O2 UK by the former UK Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer, Matthew Key, who has also been
appointed to the Executive Committee of O2. 
We are delighted to welcome Patrick Lupo,
Kathleen O’Donovan and Rudolf Lamprecht to
the Board as non-executive Directors. All have
held senior executive and non-executive
positions for a number of major international
companies, and bring to the Board a wealth 
of ﬁnancial and business management
experience. They will make a major
contribution to our strategy.
Three non-executive Directors, Paul Myners,
Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins, stepped down
from the Board. Paul Myners decided to
become Chairman of Marks & Spencer, 
Neelie Kroes left following her nomination 
by the Dutch government as their new EU
Commissioner and Ian Meakins is devoting
himself to his role as CEO of Alliance UniChem.
Paul, Neelie and Ian have all contributed to the
successful establishment of O2 as a FTSE 100
company with a strong balance sheet and a
powerful brand.
We aim to grow our dividend towards
50 per cent of underlying earnings, reﬂecting
our conﬁdence in the Company.
David Arculus
Chairman
Peter Erskine 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
C12020_ARev_ifc-03.qxd  6/1/05  6:23 PM  Page 3 Listen
Consulting the experts
What business wouldn’t say that it listens to its
customers? It’s a “given”.
But at O2, we believe it’s vital that we know
exactly what our customers are thinking, and
understand their needs, likes and dislikes. 
What may be a barely-formed wish or niggle 
in a customer’s mind now can have a huge
impact in an industry as competitive as ours 
– in a surprisingly short time. 
O2’s advantage is that we’re structured to be
agile: to monitor and respond quickly to
emerging trends from a solid base.
We have a range of mechanisms for listening
to customers around the Group. O2 Germany
has “scouts” – opinion leaders who help us test
and develop new products and services such as
O
2
Active. In the UK, we worked extensively
with customers to ﬁne-tune our 3G services
ahead of launch,and O2 Ireland redesigned 
the online shop in line with feedback from
customer focus groups. 
o2.com   4
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:24 PM  Page 4 o2.com   5
Most of our consumer insights come from
ongoing research. Overwhelmingly, this is 
what people tell us they want:
“Simplicity – not confusing, myriad offers, or
technology I have to jump through hoops for.”
“Value for money – I don’t necessarily want 
the cheapest deal, but I do want to know and
appreciate what I’m paying for.”
“Network quality – so I can make a call
whenever, wherever, and always get through.”
“Clear, accurate bills. And mistakes put right
quickly, without fuss.”
“A company that acts like it values my custom –
rewarding my loyalty and treating me as an
individual.”
“A company I can trust to behave well in the
wider world.”
Further on, we’ll show how we’ve responded to
what our customers are telling us.
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:24 PM  Page 5 o2.com   6
feedback and drove higher usage. As at 31 March
2005, O
2
Active was available on 100 different
handsets.
Increasing our own retail sales
The percentage of total sales delivered through 
O2’s own channels (O2 stores, O2 Online store and
direct sales) continued to increase and we expect
this trend to be maintained in 2005/06. We believe
this will enable us to deliver a better customer
relationship. The number of O2 retail stores grew 
by 26 to reach 257 by the year end.
Strengthening business customer relationships
In the business market, we grew our direct sales
force and introduced new pricing and service
propositions for our customers. These initiatives
helped us acquire many new corporate customers
such as DHL as well as growing business with
customers including Superdrug and West 
Yorkshire Police.
In October 2004, we launched O
2
Connection
Manager, the UK’s ﬁrst integrated mobile
connection software to incorporate 3G, Wireless
LAN (WLAN) and GPRS. This provides a simple
interface that automatically connects business 
users to the fastest available network. Following
agreements signed with WLAN operators, O2 now
offers WLAN access in over 6,700 UK locations
including hotels, airports, coffee shops, bars 
and pubs.
Improving customer service
Providing our customers with a superior quality of
service is one way that we aim to differentiate the
O
2
brand. This commitment is demonstrated by 
O2 UK
Our performance
Increasing proﬁtability In a highly competitive
market, O2 UK delivered a strong operating and
ﬁnancial performance. Customer numbers, service
revenue, average revenue per user (ARPU) and
EBITDA all showed continued growth. Success was
driven by innovative new services and customer
propositions, a series of successful marketing
campaigns and further improvements in network
quality.
Total customer numbers grew by 1.1 million to
14.4 million, helping to drive a 14 per cent growth
in net service revenue to £3,627 million. The quality
of our customer base also continued to improve,
with blended ARPU reaching £281 at year end, an
increase of £9 over the previous year. This occurred
despite the impact of a signiﬁcant regulatory 
price cut in September 2004. Overall EBITDA, 
one of our key indicators of proﬁtability, reached
£1,183 million, a 14 per cent year-on-year increase.
Leading technology 
As part of our on-going investment in service
capability, we rolled out the ﬁrst phase of our 3G
network in the UK, launching initial services to
business customers in October 2004 and consumers
in February 2005. Our approach to 3G is an
evolution of our successful data services strategy.
Because it offers faster speeds, 3G allows customers
to enjoy richer entertainment content and new
interactive services. As 3G is a new technology, 
we believe services will initially appeal to early
adopters, building towards mass-market adoption
over the next year.
Building on text success
We retained our focus on mobile data (i.e. non-
voice services). The volume of text messages carried
on our network hit 1 billion texts per month by the
end of 2004/05. This continued focus on text and
other messaging services such as e-mail and picture
messages, as well as non-voice services like music,
content downloads and information services,
helped data services revenue reach 24.2 per cent 
of O2 UK service revenue, an increase of 3.8 per
cent over last year.
O
2
Active – better than ever
Further developments of O
2
Active, the simple-to-
use portal for news, information and downloads,
helped drive this success. A revamped, more
intuitive homepage, including a scrolling ticker of
news headlines, received positive customer
our investment in a single billing and Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) system in the UK.
Now roughly two-thirds towards completion, the
programme will enable us to predict and meet
customer needs in a more consistent manner by
better aligning our billing, customer service and
CRM activities to an individual customer’s
behaviour. Work already completed has enabled
“online” customers to view their bills online. In
addition, a new web-based tool in retail stores
allows new customers’ mobile phones to be
activated on the spot. Finally, we are recruiting
2,000 additional retail and customer service staff
and opening a fourth major UK call centre to
further improve our response levels.
Differentiating our brand The distinctive appeal
of our brand and market propositions – aided by
our sponsorship of the World Cup winning England
rugby team, the 2004 Football Association Premiership
champions Arsenal, Capital Radio’s drive-time
programme and a host of music events – continued
to help us differentiate against our competitors.
Business review
All our businesses performed well in 2004/05.
Here we report on their activities in the past
year, and look at their challenges for the future.
O
2
X4, built for 3G and equipped with the new-improved O
2
Active
portal offers greater access to compelling content and services.
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:24 PM  Page 6 o2.com   7
After an extremely strong ﬁrst half, growth
continued over the rest of the year. Service revenue
was up by 28 per cent to €2,474 million and
EBITDA increased to €500 million. This was 
driven by a rapid increase in the customer base –
O2 Germany has a very attractive range of products
and services and markets them aggressively. 
We added 890,000 new post-pay customers,
accounting for 45 per cent of net new customers
in Germany. O2 Germany has market-leading
blended ARPU of €363, driven largely by our
unique O
2
Genion Homezone service.
Attracting high-value customers By attracting a
signiﬁcant proportion of high-value customers and
tightly controlling operating costs, O2 Germany 
has translated rapid growth in subscribers into a
substantial improvement in proﬁtability. Over the
next ﬁve years, we will step up investment in our
network to reduce national roaming costs, enhance
customer experience and secure population
coverage to rival that of the market leaders.
Improving the customer experience Our
customers’ personal experience of the O
2
brand is
central to our growth strategy. Our O2 Online shop
has continued to show a strong performance,
bringing us new customers with good ARPU at low
cost. Customers also value the opportunity for face-
to-face interaction and the ﬁrst ‘ﬂagship’ O2 store
was opened in Munich in December 2004. 
In October 2004, O2 Germany launched a 50/50
joint venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk, with Tchibo – a
well-established consumer brand known for its
value-for-money offers. This additional and exclusive
sales channel complements O2’s target segments
and by the year-end had added more than 250,000
new pre-pay customers. 
Our unique O
2
Genion service continues to attract
new customers. O
2
Genion’s advanced technology
offers reduced tariffs in the customer’s chosen
geographical area – usually near the home or
workplace. With its higher revenues and
considerably lower churn rate compared to other
mobile products, O
2
Genion is key to our focus on
more proﬁtable customers. 
Recognising the impact of the O
2
brand on our
business performance, O2 UK won the Institute 
of Practitioners in Advertising’s (IPA) prestigious
Grand Prix award for 2004. We also won The
Mobile Data Association’s “Best Network of the
Decade” award for being the most innovative in
“encouraging the uptake of mobile data over 
the past ten years”.
Extending our reach Tesco Mobile, our 50/50 joint
venture with Tesco, has shown sustained growth.
Tesco Mobile addresses sections of the family market
not currently targeted by O2 through Tesco’s 
nationwide network of supermarkets and smaller
“Metro” shops. In December 2004, 14 months after
its launch, it had attracted over half a million
customers.
Market dynamics
Our strong
performance was
achieved against a
backdrop of stiff
and increasing
competition, with
ten operators now
active in a highly
saturated market.
Looking ahead
We expect
competition to
intensify in 2005/06,
coinciding with
slowing overall
growth in new
customers as mobile penetration exceeds 100 per
cent. A key priority will be customer retention
including through marketing initiatives aimed at
increasing customer loyalty. We will nonetheless
continue to focus on improving proﬁtability.
Taking care of customers The cornerstone of our
strategy going forward is simple – to attract and
retain high-value customers by giving them the best
possible experience. This will be achieved through,
among other things, further improvements in
service quality, the launch of innovative new
services and loyalty programmes, signiﬁcant
investment in customer service and CRM, and
continued development of the O
2
brand.
i-mode
®
As reported in the Chairman and CEO’s
statement, we plan to launch a mobile internet
service based on i-mode
®
capability later this year,
in an exclusive agreement for the UK. This will give
users access to the most comprehensive and ﬂexible
internet service available on mobile phones, and
has proven to generate higher revenues than any
other competing technology or platform.
O2 Germany
Our performance
An exciting year O2 Germany has established
itself as the most dynamic and innovative operator
in the German market – the largest in Europe. In
2004/05, both revenues and customer numbers
accelerated throughout the year, outstripping both
our expectations and our competitors, and leading
to further growth in market share. 
Improving our offer
to business
customers Our
Business Unit team has
been winning major
new business
customers and forging
new partnerships with
sales channels and
software suppliers. We
also extended our
range of tariffs and
services, offering
packages tailored to
the speciﬁc needs of
business customers.
We acquired a number
of new high-proﬁle
customers, including
MTU Aero Engines,
Tchibo and Christian
Dior, and strengthened relationships with long-
standing customers such as BMW. 
Mobile data goes from strength to strength
Revenues from mobile data products grew strongly,
with the volume of text messages sent during the
year increasing by a third. At the same time, non-
text data usage made an increasingly important
contribution, with nearly a quarter of our customers
now using these services. 
The launch of high-speed 3G services last year
should raise mobile data revenues further. We
launched our 3G service in April 2004, offering a
laptop card to business users, following this with
laptop and 3G handset surﬁng for consumers. In
addition to fast mobile internet access, our 3G
customers can make video calls and use a broad
range of video streaming.
The appeal and impact of our O
2
Active portal
service has already won external recognition.
Europe’s best-selling telecom magazine Connect
gave O
2
Active two awards – from both readers and
experts – as the best mobile portal in Germany. An
advanced version of the O
2
Active portal was
launched in November 2004. 
Data services now generate revenues
of over £1.4 billion per year.
Happy Hour offered O2 customers 
free texts and picture messages
between 7-8pm every day.
O
2
surf@home – enabling customers 
to connect to the internet from 
their homes at ﬁxed line rates.
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:24 PM  Page 7 Doing fewer things, better
Having a really clear idea of what our
customers want has transformed our business.
Here are the key ways in which we’ve
responded to what they’ve told us. 
“Simplicity”
When it comes to technology, we’re focusing
on products that give the customer better, not
just more choice. And we only launch a new
product when we’re absolutely sure it works.
Take 3G. We’re not rushing to be ﬁrst to
market. Instead, we’re focusing our coverage
on areas of greatest demand; and we’re
working with customers to ensure we get 
3G-capable phones “right ﬁrst time”.
We will continue to hone our tariffs and
promotions to make them the clearest on the
market, with no hidden charges or reams of
small print.
“Value for money”
With our tailored price plans, such as O
2
Bolt-
Ons in the UK, customers can talk and text 
in the way that suits them best – so no nasty
surprises when the bill comes. We've also
teamed up with the best retailers – Tesco in 
the UK and Tchibo in Germany – to launch
simple, value-for-money mobile services.
“Network quality”
With an almost 100 per cent call success rate,
we’re the network choice for millions of
customers; and as a founder of the Starmap
Mobile Alliance, we’re delivering a ”home-
away-from-home“ experience across Europe too.
Respond
o2.com   8
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:24 PM  Page 8 o2.com   9
“Clear, accurate bills; mistakes quickly put right”
Our Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
systems are streamlining the billing process.
We’re also expanding the number of our UK
call centres, so that customers are served
promptly and effectively.
“A company that values my custom”
When it comes to rewarding loyalty, O2 UK
leads the way. Since Spring 2005, pre-pay
customers get 10 per cent of their O
2
Top Ups
back every three months, while post-pay
customers get 50 per cent extra minutes and
texts on renewing their contract. These and
future loyalty initiatives are backed by a major
advertising campaign delivering the key
message: the longer you stay with O2, the
better it gets. 
Across all our businesses, CRM is bringing us
closer to our customers – giving us information
about their usage and preferences that will
help us meet their needs even more precisely.
Face-to-face contact really matters to
customers, and we are going to expand our
high-street presence. In Ireland, three
O
2
Experience Stores, which encourage
customers to try out the latest technology and
chat to advisors, were launched with great
success in the past 12 months. 
“A company I can trust”
We are committed to behaving responsibly as 
a business. We respond to public concerns in 
a number of areas affecting our industry –
particularly in health, education and child
protection. For example:
• O2 Germany runs a number of programmes
with educational organisations. Its “Polly and
Fred” information pack promotes responsible
mobile phone use by young people. 
• O2 UK produces a wide range of literature on
mobile-related topics for children, parents,
teachers and drivers, and on general health
issues – all of which is available in stores and
online.
• O2 Ireland launched the O2 Ability Awards,
to recognise organisations that see disability
and diversity as part of their success.
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:25 PM  Page 9 o2.com   10
Competitive services and tariffs are driving growth
in customers in this mature market. Mobile phone
usage in Ireland is over 50 per cent higher than in
our other territories – resulting in continued strong
blended ARPU of €565. 142,000 new customers
joined the O2 network during the year – representing
a 10 per cent increase in the customer base over
the previous year. This growth led to another year
of robust ﬁnancial performance, with service
revenues up by 13 per cent to €816 million and
EBITDA 9 per cent higher at €327 million.
We have focused on offering customers the best
possible experience, with products that work ﬁrst
time, superior service and an efﬁcient, customer-
friendly, high-street presence.
Customer Care satisfaction scores improved
throughout 2004/05, and O2 Retail excelled among
its peers. It has been a particularly successful year
for acquiring customers, but we also succeeded in
retaining them – despite a range of competitive
tariffs in the market, and the ease with which users
can change networks in Ireland.
Raising brand awareness O
2
brand recognition
continues apace, bolstered by a groundbreaking
advertising campaign. “Network Powered Ireland”
was named Best Integrated Campaign by Marketing
magazine.
Brand awareness was further supported by high-
level sponsorships and associations. These included
O2 in the Park, the Smurﬁt European Open golf
tournament and our association with golf and
rugby sporting stars. In the business arena, we
undertook joint initiatives with Dublin Chamber of
Market dynamics
The German mobile phone market grew by 9 per
cent and market penetration rose to 83 per cent in
March 2005. As a result, the market has become
increasingly competitive.
Looking ahead
Extending sales channels In the coming year,
we will focus on our target of proﬁtable growth.
We will extend our sales channels, including service
providers and Tchibo. We have launched an
innovative, high-speed 3G data service,
O
2
surf@home, that directly complements
O
2
Genion. This will enable O2 customers to
connect to the internet from their homes at ﬁxed
line rates. The combination of O
2
Genion and
O
2
surf@home will enable complete ﬁxed-line
substitution and increase customer value and loyalty.
Innovative tariff models such as bundles and pre-
paid top-up vouchers will give customers greater
control of costs, while driving revenues for O2. 
Keeping our customers satisﬁed We aim to
increase customer satisfaction by meeting the
expectations of those wanting more simplicity 
on the one hand, and those demanding advanced
data services on the other. We will continue to
attract and retain high-value customers, supporting
this with superior quality of service at the point of
sale and beyond.
Investing for growth Building on our success to
date, we are stepping up capital expenditure with
the aim of becoming a full network operator,
extending and accelerating the roll-out of our 3G
network and reducing national roaming. This will
enhance the customer experience by delivering
higher coverage and faster services, while reducing
our operating costs. We will also seek more
aggressive growth with new products.
O2 Ireland
Our performance
It’s all about the customer Throughout 2004/05,
O2 Ireland has continued to improve its business
performance, maintain current market share and
build on the strength of the O
2
brand. 
Commerce – sponsoring “E-Week” – and continued
to support regional Chambers of Commerce.
Another important development was the opening
of three O
2
Experience Stores. With its exciting
styling, friendly service and “try before you buy”
offer, this new retail concept has proved highly
effective in bringing us closer to customers. 
Exciting new products and services that make
life easier Business customers can save time and
money with the Fujitsu-Siemens Work Everywhere
Package, O
2
Instant and the O
2
Connection
Manager – all of which have been well received 
in the business and corporate markets. Consumer
customers beneﬁted from the introduction of
reduced tariffs in 2004, and an appealing range 
of handsets and devices including the new
BlackBerry™.
Maintaining network quality Our success is
underpinned by our networks, which are rated
among the best in the world. We continue to build
our network in a cost-efﬁcient and environmentally
friendly way and, where possible, to share existing
sites with other mobile operators and utilities
providers.
Our 3G network now extends to over 35 per cent
of the population. Limited trials of the service
began in mid-2004, and we plan to bring
commercial 3G services to Ireland in mid-2005. 
Market dynamics
The Irish mobile market continues to be highly
challenging, with close to 100 per cent of the
Business review continued
Send and receive messages while on the
move with the new BlackBerry
TM
7100x.
Our aim is to keep the O
2
brand fresh, with 
fewer, better services, all designed to enhance
the customer experience. 
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:25 PM  Page 10 The growth opportunities in mobile data – reducing
paperwork for ofﬁcers and thus increasing the time
available for policing – are considerable. Airwave
represents a secure, nationwide and resilient
network solution for these requirements. 
Looking ahead
The government is increasingly investing in new
technology to improve crime prevention and
detection and public safety measures, giving
O2 Airwave a signiﬁcant opportunity to help 
safety organisations develop their services. 
Manx Telecom
Trialling future technology
Manx Telecom is a wholly owned subsidiary of O2
on the Isle of Man, licensed to run ﬁxed and mobile
telephony and internet services. An Internet Service
Provider in its own right, Manx Telecom has a
portfolio of quality internet access and hosting
products and services.
Because of its successful track record as the ﬁrst
company in Europe to launch a live 3G service (in
December 2001), Manx Telecom was chosen by 
O2 to run Europe’s ﬁrst super-fast 3G trial, in
partnership with Lucent Technologies. This will offer
the possibility of communication speeds up to three
times faster than current commercial 3G services. 
Extending our service With the installation of a
pre-pay Intelligent Network platform in November
2004, we can offer a range of new services to our
pre-pay customers. Picture messaging was launched
in December 2004, and mobile web access became
available in March 2005. We plan to launch
outbound pre-pay roaming early in 2005/06.
population now owning a mobile phone. O2 Ireland
holds the second largest share of the market, with
around 40 per cent. Last year, Meteor made further
gains in market share, while “3” entered the market
in January 2004 and began to roll out its 3G
network. Potential competitors have also expressed
an interest in the mobile market, following
proposed measures by ComReg (the Irish
communications regulator) to encourage and allow
MVNOs (Mobile Virtual Network Operators) to
access the networks of existing operators.
Looking ahead
O2 Ireland will concentrate on maintaining its edge
in a highly competitive and increasingly regulated
environment. We will continue to put our
customers ﬁrst and to build on the growing
demand for data services.
We will be the ﬁrst and only mobile operator in
Ireland to offer a mobile internet service based on
i-mode
®
capability – a completely new experience
for Irish consumers – from Autumn 2005. 
We aim to build on last year’s success by meeting
our growth targets for revenue, EBITDA and
customer numbers. 
O2 Airwave
Our performance
Promising results for a unique service The
Airwave network was completed, on time and 
on budget, at the end of March 2005. The O2
Airwave service – designed to make communities
safer by enabling the emergency services to
communicate freely with each other – has now
been delivered to all police forces in England,
Scotland and Wales. 
The network, under the terms of a £2.9 billion, 
19-year contract with the Home Ofﬁce signed in
2000, has been built in less than ﬁve years. Over 
99 per cent of mainland Great Britain is covered by
the service, with 100 per cent population coverage.
The service has won more than 75 new public
safety customers outside the Home Ofﬁce contract,
including the British Transport Police, MoD and 
the Highways Agency. O2 Airwave has been
shortlisted for similar contracts to provide
nationwide communications for the ambulance 
and ﬁre services.
The invisible lifeline Airwave is a fully encrypted
digital radio system. It will enable police forces to
communicate with each other and with other
emergency services, even from radio “cold spots”,
for the ﬁrst time in their history. In addition,
Airwave delivers major beneﬁts to the health service
– allowing ambulance crews to transmit patient
vital signs directly to hospital staff, so they can
authorise the administration of life-saving drugs. 
Growth opportunities
The continued threat of terrorism, the incidence of
major accidents and heightened awareness of the
impact of natural disasters all demonstrate the
increasing importance of secure, “joined-up”
communications in both urban and remote areas. 
Going underground Although Airwave was not
originally speciﬁed to operate in the London
Underground, we have tested interim solutions with
the Police Information Technology Organisation
(PITO) and London Underground; and are exploring
ways in which we can improve underground
communications for the emergency services. 
Mobile data on the beat In December 2004,
O2 Airwave and the Lancashire Constabulary
embarked on the largest ever mobile data trial with
the police in the UK. This gave Lancashire police
ofﬁcers secure, continuous access to databases
while on the move. Now many police forces can
access the Police National Computer from their
handsets, allowing them to check names and
vehicle registrations in seconds.
Manx Telecom has continued its major investment
programme to make broadband available to as many
customers on the Isle of Man as possible, increasing
coverage to around 99 per cent of homes and
businesses. 
Work is well under way on a major contract,
announced last year, to build a new island-wide
network infrastructure for the Isle of Man
Government. 
Looking ahead
We look forward to offering our customers the
chance to experience the exciting video-based
applications and services that super-fast 3G can
offer. And we will continue to support the Isle 
of Man Government’s e-business strategy of
developing a world-class telecommunications
infrastructure to attract companies and investment
to the island.
O2 Airwave, the invisible lifeline – designed 
to make communities safer by enabling the
emergency services to communicate freely 
with each other.
The Network Powered campaign was rated as the “Best Integrated
Campaign”
*
in Ireland.
*
Marketing Magazine Media Awards in January 2005
O
2
Xda IIi – more advanced, more powerful with high-speed
internet and e-mail on the move and built in wi-ﬁ capability.
o2.com   11
C12020_ARev_04-11.qxd  6/1/05  6:25 PM  Page 11 Making a difference
The commercial beneﬁts of listening to our
customers are evident in our performance
ﬁgures and business growth. But it doesn’t 
end there. By listening to what people tell us
and acting upon it, we will: 
•provide products and services that customers
really want;
•deliver increased revenues for the business,
producing a strong company able to sustain
dividends for shareholders;
•play an active role in the communities in
which we operate;
•create a rewarding environment for
employees.
These commitments will drive our evolution as
an innovative, sustainable business. Here are
just some examples of its beneﬁts in practice.
Technology for our times
In developing Airwave – our secure, reliable
communication network for the police, ﬁre 
and ambulance services – we’re setting
performance standards in line with our
customers’ Key Performance Indicators, giving
them tangible beneﬁts. For example:
Beneﬁt
o2.com   12
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:25 PM  Page 12 o2.com   13
• Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust crews
have saved more than 150 lives since Airwave
was introduced in May 2002. The timely use
of clot-removing drugs by paramedics
dramatically improves the chances of survival
and recovery after a heart attack.
• The Airwave response to incidents caused 
by bad weather – such as Boscastle, Cornwall,
in August 2004 and Carlisle in Cumbria in
January 2005 – proved the network’s
resilience. It kept going when other
communications networks failed, and was
used by all the emergency services dealing
with these major incidents.
Research by the Police Information Technology
Organisation (PITO) shows the beneﬁts Airwave
has brought to police forces. Respondents
report huge improvements on the previous,
analogue service, in every aspect from security
to voice quality and interference levels. 
An agent for change
In 2004/05, O2 Ireland, in conjunction with 
The Aisling Foundation, launched The O2
Ability Awards. This is the ﬁrst awards
programme to recognise Irish businesses that
demonstrate best practice in the employment
of people with disabilities – an issue currently
high on the Irish social agenda.  
Rewarding employees
In 2004/05, we introduced a new package of
beneﬁts following feedback from the “Reﬂect”
employee survey. Meanwhile, our “Balance”
programme is helping our people maintain a
healthy work-life balance. We were also voted
“Best Large Company to Work For” in Ireland,
and listed among the top 15 medium-sized
employers in Germany. 
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:26 PM  Page 13 Board of Directors
1. David Arculus (58) Chairman
(b),(d)
David Arculus was appointed to the Board in 2003 and
became Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the conclusion of
mmO2’s 2004 Annual General Meeting. Mr Arculus is
Chairman of the Better Regulation Task Force and a non-executive
Director of Barclays. He has also served as Chairman of Severn
Trent. Mr Arculus was previously Chairman of IPC Group
Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP. 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
2. Peter Erskine (53) Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
(b),(c)
Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer. He joined the Company from BT where, since
March 1993, he held a number of senior positions including
Director of BT Mobile, President and Chief Executive of
Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
Prior to joining BT, he was European Vice President of Sales 
and Customer Service for Mars and Senior Vice President Sales
and Marketing for UNITEL. Mr Erskine is also a member of the
Advisory Board of the University of Reading Business School.
3. David Finch (49) Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
(b),(c)
David Finch was initially appointed to the Board in 2001. 
Mr Finch is the Company’s Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and 
has extensive experience in ﬁnancial management, having
previously held senior ﬁnance positions at Exel, Novar (formerly
Caradon) and Grand Metropolitan. In addition to Group
Finance, he has direct responsibility for the Group Treasury 
and Investor Relations functions. 
4. Rudolf Gröger (50) CEO O2 Germany
(c)
Rudolf Gröger was appointed to the Board in 2003. He joined
the Company in October 2001 as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of O2
Germany. Prior to this, he was Managing Director of T-Systems
International GmbH, a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, from
1999 to 2001. He played a key role in the acquisition of Debis
Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Telekom.
He has also worked for Siemens and was head of its German
information and communication product operations.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
5. Stephen Hodge (63) 
(a),(d),(e)
Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001. Mr Hodge
was Director of Finance of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, prior to
his retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility
for all ﬁnancial and investor relations issues for the Shell Group
and its parent companies. He has extensive knowledge of the
ﬁnancial management of international companies, having
worked throughout the world including Australia, the
Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of ﬁnancial
positions. He is Chairman of Shell Pensions Trust Limited and
Deputy Chairman of the Franchise Board of Lloyd’s of London.
Mr Hodge was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman
and senior independent Director on 1 January 2005.
6. David Chance (48)
(a),(d)
David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003. Mr Chance
was Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB until June 1998 and 
is Chairman of Modern Times Group and Top Up TV Limited,
and is a non-executive Director of ITV and Sunderland AFC. 
He previously held senior marketing and business development
roles at US telecoms companies, Scientiﬁc Atlanta and Grass
Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES. 
7. Rudolf Lamprecht (56)
Rudolf Lamprecht was appointed to the Board on 30 March
2005. He is presently a member of the Management
Committee of Siemens with responsibility for Osram (lighting),
the Fujitsu joint venture and household appliances. He was
previously a Board member at Siemens and held a number 
of senior positions, including President of information and
communications products. He is highly experienced in complex
business-to-business technology, sales cycles and multiple
channels to market.  
8. Patrick Lupo (54) 
(e)
Patrick Lupo was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004.
Mr Lupo was previously Chief Executive and then Executive
Chairman of DHL Worldwide Express. He is currently a non-
executive Director of Hilton Group and was also, until March
2004, a non-executive Director of WH Smith. Patrick Lupo 
held a number of senior positions at DHL Airways Inc and DHL
Worldwide Express between 1984 and 2001, where he was
instrumental in establishing it as the global market leaders in
international express and logistics.
9. Kathleen O’Donovan (47) 
(a)
Kathleen O’Donovan was appointed to the Board on 30 March
2005. She currently chairs both the audit committee of the
Court of the Bank of England and the pension fund of
Invensys, the engineering group where she was previously
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. She is also Deputy Chairman and senior
non-executive Director of Great Portland Estates, and holds
non-executive directorships at Prudential and EMI Group.  
10. Andrew Sukawaty (49) 
(d),(e)
Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001. 
Mr Sukawaty was the non-executive Deputy Chairman of the
Company and senior independent Director until 31 December
2004. He is Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Inmarsat
Group. He is President of Cable Partners Europe LLC, which
invests in and operates cable television services in Europe. He is
Chairman of Xyratex Group Limited. He is a former Chairman
of Telenet. He has considerable experience in the mobile
telephone industry and telecommunications industries in the
United States and Europe, having at different times in those
periods held the ofﬁces of Chief Executive and President of
Sprint PCS, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of NTL, and Chief Operating
Ofﬁcer of Mercury One2One. He has also been a former
Chairman of the Cellular Telephone and Internet Association
(CTIA) in the United States.
COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL
11. Philip Bramwell (48) 
Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was
employed since 1998, initially as Legal Manager, Group Strategy
and Development and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate
Development. Before joining BT, he was a partner in DDV, a
European specialist telecommunications consultancy ﬁrm. 
Prior to this, he held the position of Vice President and 
General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Legal Advisor at
SmithKlineBeecham Pharmaceuticals international division. 
He was called to the Bar in 1983.
Key to membership of Board Committees:
(a) Audit Committee 
(b) Chairman’s Committee 
(c) Executive Committee 
(d) Nomination and Governance Committee 
(e) Remuneration Committee
All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent 
of the management of the Company.
1 2 3 3 4 5 6
78 10 11 9 78 10 11 9
o2.com   14
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:27 PM  Page 14 o2.com   15
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their summary Directors’ report and ﬁnancial statement for the
year ended 31 March 2005.
This ﬁnancial statement is a summary of the information in the Group’s full annual report and ﬁnancial
statements (Annual Report). It does not contain sufﬁcient information to allow as full an understanding 
of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group as the Annual Report.
Members can view the Annual Report on the Company’s website – www.o2.com – or obtain a copy, free
of charge, by contacting the registrar as detailed on page 20. In addition, members can elect to receive the
Annual Report in future years by writing to the registrar.
New holding company O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 and it became the holding
company of mmO2 plc and the mmO2 group of companies on 14 March 2005 pursuant to a scheme 
of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985 (the Scheme).
Scheme of Arrangement The Scheme was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at a Court Meeting 
and Extraordinary General Meeting of mmO2 plc held on 14 February 2005. Under the Scheme, shares in
mmO2 plc were exchanged for shares in O2 plc on a one-for-one basis. Shareholders also had the option
of electing to receive, in exchange for their existing shares in mmO2, either new shares in O2 plc or cash
consideration under the Cash Alternative. Shareholders who took no action were deemed to have elected
for the Cash Alternative. The O2 plc shares of holders who successfully elected for the Cash Alternative
were placed in the market. This was limited to 300,000,000 O2 plc shares.
References to the Company and the Board throughout this Annual Review refer to O2 plc from 14 March
2005 onwards and prior to that to mmO2 plc. References to the Group refer to O2 plc and its subsidiaries
from 14 March 2005 onwards and, prior to that, to mmO2 plc and its subsidiaries.
As part of the Scheme, mmO2 ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange on 11 March 2005
and neither an ADR programme nor a US listing has been established for the shares in O2 plc.
The Board is currently pursuing deregistration of O2 plc shares from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In order to facilitate this deregistration process, the O2 Articles of Association include temporary provisions
to limit ownership of O2 plc shares by US resident shareholders. 
Activity The Group is a leading provider of mobile communications services in Europe and has traded
through its wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man throughout the year.
The Group also provides a nationwide mobile radio service designed to serve the needs of the police and
other emergency services in England, Wales and Scotland through O2 Airwave. O2 UK has a 50 per cent
interest in a joint venture, Tesco Mobile, to sell exclusively Tesco branded mobile services in Tesco stores
across the UK, using O2’s technology and network. In addition, O2 Germany has a 50 per cent interest 
in Tchibo Mobilfunk, a joint venture with Tchibo GmbH, which is selling an O2 pre-pay mobile service in
Germany. It is also a founding member of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, a group of independent mobile
phone operators who have joined forces in readiness for the international roll-out of 3G services.
Dividend The Directors are pleased to recommend an inaugural ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 pence per share 
for the year ended 31 March 2005. This dividend will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the
register on 5 August 2005.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current Directors of O2 plc are given on page 14.  
All the Directors of mmO2 plc who held ofﬁce on 4 January 2005 were appointed to the Board of O2 plc by
shareholders’ resolution on 4 January 2005. Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen O’Donovan were additionally
appointed on 30 March 2005 and Ian Meakins and David McGlade resigned on 30 March 2005 and 
31 March 2005 respectively. Peter King and Adrian Knight were Directors of O2 plc from incorporation 
until their resignations on 5 January 2005.
During the year, David Varney retired as a Director and Chairman of mmO2 plc on 28 July 2004 at the
conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting and David Arculus became Chairman from that time. 
Paul Myners and Neelie Kroes resigned from the Board on 10 August 2004 and 31 August 2004
respectively and Patrick Lupo, who was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004, was elected a 
Director of the Company by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of mmO2 plc held on
14 February 2005.
In addition, Stephen Hodge replaced Andrew Sukawaty as Deputy Chairman and senior independent
Director. The Deputy Chairman is recognised as the senior independent Director to whom concerns can 
be conveyed independently of the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer or Chief Financial Ofﬁcer by other
Directors or by shareholders.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that Directors are required to retire by rotation every three
years. It is the Board’s intention that shareholders will be given the opportunity to re-elect Directors within
that timescale. David Chance and Rudolf Gröger will retire by rotation this year and are proposed for 
re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting together with David Arculus who changed his role during
the year. In addition, any Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. Rudolf Lamprecht and Kathleen O’Donovan will seek
election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings At 10 May 2005, the following notiﬁcations had been received by the
Company in respect of holdings of three per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital:
Number of Percentage of
O2 plc issued ordinary
Shareholder ordinary shares share capital
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 649,424,088 7.46
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 308,947,551 3.54
Corporate governance The Board supports high standards in corporate governance. The application
during the ﬁnancial year of the principles in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the Combined Code) is described in the report on corporate governance in the Annual
Report. The Directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1
of the Combined Code, except in the following respects. David Arculus was also Chairman of Severn Trent
at the time of his appointment on 28 July 2004. Mr Arculus conﬁrmed before his appointment that he
would relinquish his chairmanship of Severn Trent by 31 December 2004 and has done so. The service
contract in respect of Rudolf Gröger is now terminable on 12 months’ notice. However, in the event of
termination of Mr Gröger’s employment within 12 months of a change of control of O2 plc or its German
business, the employer is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his base salary and a
payment equal to the bonus expected for an on-target performance. 
Summary Directors’ report
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:27 PM  Page 15 o2.com   16
The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides
entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which
enables risk to be assessed and managed. It sets out the Company’s values and standards and ensures that
its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met. 
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to the Committees described below on speciﬁc
matters. The Committees have formal terms of reference. Minutes of meetings are formally recorded. 
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees are
posted on the Company’s website and are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and 
General Counsel. 
The membership of the Committees is shown alongside the biographical details of the Directors on page 14.
Details of the attendance by Directors at Board and principal Board Committee meetings held during the
year ended 31 March 2005 are contained in the report on corporate governance in the Annual Report. The
Board reviews the membership of the Committees on an annual basis at the start of each ﬁnancial year or
more frequently as circumstances require.
The Chairman’s Committee, chaired by David Arculus since he became Chairman on 28 July 2004,
advises and assists the Chairman in the preparation for Board meetings. It also acts on behalf of the Board
between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to
convene a meeting of the Board. 
The Audit Committee, chaired by Stephen Hodge, reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters
raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the Committee and the full and half-
year ﬁnancial statements prior to their release. The Committee reviews the programme and effectiveness 
of risk management within the Group as well as ensuring that an appropriate relationship between O2 plc
and the external auditors is maintained. The Committee also approves the appointment or dismissal of the
Head of Internal Audit and reviews the procedures for handling complaints from whistleblowers. A full
report of the activities of the Committee during the year is contained in the report on corporate
governance in the Annual Report.
The Nomination and Governance Committee, chaired by David Arculus since he became Chairman 
on 28 July 2004 and previously by David Varney, is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and
composition of the Board and for recommending candidates for Board membership for the approval of 
the Board. The process leading to the selection of the new Chairman in 2004 was conducted by an ad-hoc
committee of independent Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman and advised by an independent
executive search agency. 
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Patrick Lupo since 11 November 2004 and previously by
Andrew Sukawaty, is responsible for determining the framework and broad policy for the remuneration 
of the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, and members 
of the Executive Committee, and for determining within agreed terms of reference, speciﬁc remuneration
packages for each of these, including any pension rights, any compensation payments and the
implementation of executive incentive schemes. A summary report on Directors’ remuneration is set 
out on pages 17 and 18. The full report on directors’ remuneration is published in the Annual Report. 
The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and comprising the other executive Directors and his
senior executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Company, the preparation
and maintenance of strategic plans for the Group, and monitoring day-to-day performance of the Group
as a whole. 
US corporate governance compliance The Company is required to comply with those provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to
foreign issuers during the period it remains registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Group’s system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. It has established an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and
managing key risks. There is a formal six-monthly review of key risks by the Executive Committee, Audit
Committee and the Board. The Audit Committee undertakes a six-monthly review of reports submitted by
senior executives on internal controls, risk management and reports from Internal Audit. These procedures
are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the
Group’s objectives. Whilst they do not provide total assurance against material mis-statement or loss, the
Directors, following a review of the systems described, are of the opinion that a proper system of internal
control is in place within the Group. 
The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers the materiality of information and the
respective disclosure obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies. 
Summary Directors’ report continued
O2 Germany’s ﬁrst O2 ﬂagship store was opened in Munich in
December 2004.
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:27 PM  Page 16 o2.com   17
Summary Directors’ remuneration report
This summary of the report on directors’ remuneration has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee
(the Committee). Further details on all aspects of this summary are provided in the full report, found in the
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005. 
Remuneration policy O2 has a sufﬁciently ﬂexible remuneration approach to support the changing needs
of the business. The Committee considers it vital to align the interests of the leadership team with those of
shareholders, by linking a signiﬁcant proportion of the package to the creation of shareholder value. 
The Committee has adopted the following principles:
• the Committee sets base salaries which reﬂect contribution, criticality to the business and general wage
levels elsewhere in the Group. Decisions are made with reference to a range around the median of the
relevant market for the individual although the Company may pay more to recruit a high-calibre executive;
• emphasis is placed on rewarding business performance, and therefore we seek to position the total
compensation packages at upper quartile for superior performance; and
•performance-related incentives with stretching business performance targets to drive and reward superior
performance from our executives whilst at the same time aligning the interests of the leadership team with
those of our shareholders.
Base salary Reﬂects position within the Company, performance and contribution to the success of the
organisation. Base salaries are reviewed (but not necessarily increased) annually by the Committee. 
Annual incentives The annual incentive arrangements are based on a balance of key performance
indicators that the Committee considers to be the main drivers of shareholder value, including EBITDA and
EBIT (indicators of strong ﬁnancial performance); net service revenue, data ARPU and customer satisfaction
targets (crucial to future growth and proﬁtability).
During the year, the Committee reviewed bonus opportunity for executive Directors and senior executives. 
Following dialogue with shareholders, the Committee concluded that bonus opportunity will increase by
half and the resulting bonus will be delivered two-thirds in cash, and one-third in deferred O2 plc shares
(the shares will be deferred for three years and subject to continued employment). For the year ended
31 March 2005 and the year ending 31 March 2006, the bonus opportunity as a percentage of base salary
(including the deferred shares element) payable to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is
100 per cent of salary for on-target performance and 150 per cent of salary for maximum performance.
The CEOs of Operating Businesses each have an on-target and maximum bonus opportunity of 120 per
cent of salary and 180 per cent of salary.
Long-term incentives The Committee believes it is important to adapt the incentive arrangements offered
in future years to support the Group’s fast-changing business requirements. It achieves this through an
appropriate and ﬂexible portfolio of long-term incentives. The portfolio comprises performance shares,
share options, restricted shares, and deferred equity shares. Other than under exceptional circumstances,
executives will only be made an award under one plan in any year.
Following consultation with shareholders, the Committee has recommended that the Performance Share
Plan will be the primary form of long-term incentive for the year ending 31 March 2006. Performance share
awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment with the
Company and the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance of the Company compared to the TSR
performance of the constituent companies of the FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications Index (formerly
known as the FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index) over a ﬁxed three-year period.
The performance share awards made to the CEO of O2 Germany and a small number of senior 
O2 Germany employees will be based on controllable EBIT margin and net service revenue growth of O2
Germany over a three-year period.
Share ownership The Committee has introduced guidelines that require the executive Directors to build a
shareholding of one times base salary.
Pensions Peter Erskine and Rudolf Gröger accrue retirement beneﬁts under Deﬁned Beneﬁt Schemes.
David Finch accrues beneﬁts under both a Deﬁned Beneﬁt and a Deﬁned Contribution scheme. For the
year ended 31 March 2005, £89,250 was paid to a deﬁned contribution Funded Unapproved Retirement
Scheme and £48,875 was paid as a cash supplement in respect of David Finch. During the year, £16,482
was paid to David Arculus’s personal pension arrangements. David Varney retired on 28 July 2004 and did
not participate in any of the Company’s pension plans. David McGlade received a cash allowance of
£117,833 in lieu of pension beneﬁts for the year under review.
Contracts and notice periods The notice period required by the Company to terminate executive Directors’
service agreements is 12 months. The Company may in its discretion terminate without notice and make a
payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of 12 months’ pay including the value of employer’s pension
contributions, beneﬁts, and a bonus payment of not less than the previous year’s bonus. Speciﬁc provisions
apply following a change of control of the Company.
Performance graph The performance graph below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance versus the
FTSE 100 Index and the FTSEuroﬁrst 300 Telecommunications Index over the period from 19 November
2001 (when the Company was ﬁrst listed following its demerger from BT) to 31 March 2005. 
0
20
40
60
80
120
100
160
140
Value (£)
 mmO2/O2 FTSE 100 Index
Total shareholder return against the FTSE 100 Index and FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index
Source: Thomson Financial
19 Nov 
2001
31 Mar 
2002
31 Mar 
2003
31 Mar 
2004
31 Mar 
2005
FTSEurofirst 300 Telecommunications Index
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  6/1/05  6:27 PM  Page 17 o2.com   18
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration The remuneration of non-executive Directors is reviewed
annually by the Chairman and executive Directors. Each non-executive Director has a letter of
appointment with O2 plc covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected time
commitment together with a general statement of their role and duties. Non-executive Directors are
appointed initially for three years unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either
party upon one month’s written notice.
Following a review of the remuneration of non-executive Directors, it was agreed that, with effect 
from 1 April 2005, the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors would be a basic annual fee 
of £50,000, plus an additional fee of £7,500 for membership of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees, £3,750 for the Nomination and Governance Committee, and an additional fee of £7,500
for chairmanship of a committee. The annual fee of £100,000 payable to the Deputy Chairman of the
Company remains unchanged.
Summary Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ remuneration (excluding pension arrangements) for the year to 31 March 2005
Salary and fees
1
Annual bonus Beneﬁts excluding pensions
2
Total Total
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005
3
2004
4
£ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Current directors
D Arculus 280,847
5
48,000 – – 16,787 – 297,634 48,000
P Erskine
6
665,833 607,500 568,404 564,200 35,241 40,602 1,269,478 1,212,302
D Finch 425,000 395,833 430,000 364,000 28,222 24,705 883,222 784,538
7
R Gröger
8
439,992 399,211 534,847 499,896 25,146 20,543 999,985 919,650
D McGlade
9
414,167 372,500 391,980 462,000 24,162 100,047 830,309 934,547
D Chance 48,000 48,000 – – – – 48,000 48,000
S Hodge 66,667
10
55,000 – – – – 66,667 55,000
R Lamprecht
11
– – – – – – – –
P Lupo
12
30,856 – – – – – 30,856 –
K O’Donovan
11
– – – – – – – –
A Sukawaty 87,000
13
100,000 – – – – 87,000 100,000
Former directors
D Varney
14
113,844 350,000 – – 42,911
15
36,125 156,755 386,125
N Kroes
16
20,833 50,000 – – – – 20,833 50,000
I Meakins
17
50,000 50,000 – – – – 50,000 50,000
P Myners
18
17,290 48,000 – – – – 17,290 48,000
1
Salaries are reviewed in June each year. Non-executive Directors’ fees are reviewed in April each year.
2
Beneﬁts include car provision or cash allowance, healthcare, ﬁnancial planning, dental care, home security and life cover.
3
Certain Directors received pension supplements for the year ended 31 March 2005. Details of these payments can be found on page 17.
4
Total aggregate remuneration for 2004 excludes long-term incentive gains which were included in the Summary Directors’ remuneration
report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
5
Includes aggregate fees earned as a non-executive Director and Chairman designate for the period 1 April 2004 to 28 July 2004.
6
Highest paid Director.
7
Excludes £146,717 gains from long-term incentives which were included in the Summary Directors’ remuneration report for the year
ended 31 March 2004.
8
Rudolf Gröger’s remuneration has been converted from Euro to Sterling at an exchange rate of £1 = €1.45836.
9
Resigned on 31 March 2005. No compensation for loss of ofﬁce was paid.
10
Appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2005.
11
Appointed as a non-executive Director on 30 March 2005.
12
Appointed as a non-executive Director on 10 August 2004.
13
Andrew Sukawaty stepped down as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 31 December 2004 but remains on the Board.
14
Retired at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM on 28 July 2004. No compensation for loss of ofﬁce was paid.
15
In addition to the beneﬁts listed in Note 2 David Varney received a payment for outstanding holiday entitlement.
16
Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 31 August 2004.
17
Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 30 March 2005.
18
Resigned from the Board as a non-executive Director on 10 August 2004.
O
2
Connection Manager - the UK's ﬁrst integrated mobile connection
software to incorporate 3G, Wireless LAN (WLAN) and GPRS.
C12020_ARev_12-18.qxd  2/6/05  10:08  Page 18 o2.com   19
Summary group proﬁt and loss account 
Year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
2
£m £m 
Group turnover 6,683 5,694
EBITDA
1
1,768 1,367
Group operating proﬁt before exceptional items 386 233
Exceptional items (45) (75)
Group operating proﬁt 341 158
Group share of operating result of joint ventures and associates (3) –
Costs of capital reorganisation (20) –
Loss on sale of business – discontinued operation – (5)
Net interest payable and similar charges (9) (58)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 309 95
Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities (8) 71
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 301 166
Dividends
3
(196) –
Retained proﬁt for the year 105 166
All results in the current year derive from continuing operations.
2005 2004
£000 £000
Directors’ emoluments
4
4,758 5,318
2005 2004
Basic earnings per share (pence) 3.5 1.9
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 3.4 1.9
Dividend per share (pence) 2.25 –
1
EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of the operating result of 
our joint ventures and associates.
2
O2 Netherlands was sold on 3 June 2003. Included within the 2004 results is turnover of £48 million, EBITDA of nil and an operating
loss of £1 million which are classiﬁed as a “discontinued operation” in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 3 “Reporting
financial performance”.
3
The proposed ﬁnal dividend of 2.25 per share will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at 5 August 2005.
4
Includes payments to non-executive Directors.
Basis of preparation
O2 plc was incorporated on 10 December 2004 as part of the capital reorganisation undertaken by the Group, and on 14 March 2005 was
introduced as the new holding company of the mmO2 plc group pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement (the Scheme) under section 425 of
the Companies Act 1985. The purpose of the capital reorganisation was to create distributable reserves in O2 plc to allow the
implementation of the Group’s distribution policy.
The Directors consider that in substance the Scheme constituted two distinct transactions being ﬁrstly, the insertion of the new holding
company, O2 plc, and secondly, a placing of shares on behalf of certain shareholders who elected to receive the consideration for their shares
in mmO2 plc in cash. The insertion of a new holding company constitutes a group reconstruction as deﬁned by Financial Reporting
Standard 6 “Acquisitions and mergers” and has been accounted for using merger accounting principles. The premium paid to shareholders
who elected to receive their consideration in cash has been recognised as a deduction from the Group proﬁt and loss account reserve.
Summary group balance sheet 
As at 31 March 2005
2005 2004 
£m £m
Cash and current asset investments 1,326 1,016
Euro medium-term notes (1,056) (1,012)
Loan notes (7) (8)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts and other borrowings (341) (362)
Net debt (78) (366)
This summary ﬁnancial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2005 and was signed 
on its behalf by:
Peter Erskine David Finch
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Summary group net debt 
As at 31 March 2005
2005 2004 
£m £m
Intangible assets 7,045 7,354
Tangible assets 4,449 3,996
Investments 2 5
Fixed assets 11,496 11,355
Current assets 2,473 2,043
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (2,031) (1,678)
Net current assets 442 365
Total assets less current liabilities 11,938 11,720
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (1,403) (1,375)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (254) (251)
Net assets 10,281 10,094
Shareholders’ funds 10,281 10,094
C12020_ARev_19-ibc.qxd  6/1/05  6:27 PM  Page 19 o2.com   20
Independent auditors’ statement to the members of O2 plc
We have examined the summary ﬁnancial statement of O2 plc.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable law. Our
responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary ﬁnancial statement within
the Annual Review with the annual ﬁnancial statements, the Directors’ report and the report on Directors’
remuneration, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act
1985 and the regulations made thereunder. We also read the other information contained in the Annual
Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the summary ﬁnancial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a
body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6, “The auditors’ statement on the summary
ﬁnancial statement” issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary ﬁnancial statement is consistent with the annual ﬁnancial statements, the
Directors’ report and the report on Directors’ remuneration of O2 plc for the year ended 31 March 2005
and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the
regulations made thereunder.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
17 May 2005
The ﬁnancial information contained in the summary ﬁnancial statement on page 19 does not constitute
the Group’s statutory accounts for the years ended 31 March 2005 or 31 March 2004. The ﬁnancial
information is derived from the statutory accounts which were approved by the Board of Directors on 
17 May 2005. The auditors have reported on those accounts; their report was unqualiﬁed and did 
not contain a statement under sections 237(2) or 237(3) of the Companies Act 1985. The 2005 
statutory accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting.
The maintenance and integrity of the O2 plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out
by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the summary ﬁnancial statement since it was
initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
O
2
Xda IIs – the ofﬁce in the palm of your hand
Listings
The ordinary shares of O2 plc were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 14 March 2005, pursuant to
the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc.
Financial calendar/results announcements
Annual General Meeting 27 July 2005
Proposed dates
Q1 Trading Statement and publication of July 2005
IFRS ﬁnancial information
Proposed Inaugural Final Dividend 26 August 2005
of 2.25 pence per share payable to shareholders 
who are on the register on 5 August 2005
Interim Results November 2005
Interim Dividend January 2006
Q3 Trading Statement February 2006
Preliminary Announcement May 2006
Publication of the Annual Report and Financial Statements June 2006
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (ShareGift) operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders 
with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are
available on the ShareGift internet site www.sharegift.org.
Cassettes for visually impaired shareholders
The Company’s Annual Review is available on audio cassette. Copies can be obtained, free of charge, 
from the Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, by calling Freefone 0808 100 4102.
Annual Report and Financial Statements
Copies of our Annual Report and Financial Statements can be obtained by contacting our Registrar, 
Lloyds TSB Registrars, on Freefone 0808 100 4102.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Hexagon, Queens Walk, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7UA 
on Wednesday, 27 July 2005, at 11.00 a.m. 
Additional information for shareholders o2.com   21
Duplicate mailings 
You may have received separate sets of documents as it may not have been possible to combine your
records. Any shareholder who now wishes to stop the additional mailings by combining their records
should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Dividend
To register your bank details and allow dividend payments to be sent directly to a bank account, please
contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete and return the mandate form that will be attached to your
dividend cheque in August 2005.
Shareview
Many shareholders prefer to receive their reports online rather than through the post. You can do this by
registering with Shareview, which is easy and free. Go to Shareview at www.shareview.co.uk – click on
“register now”, and complete the on-screen application form.
Shareview, which is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives O2 shareholders access to special services 
over the internet. You will be able to check the details of your O2 shareholding at any time. As a Shareview
user, you will be able to view indicative prices of shares of other companies of which you are a shareholder
and who use Lloyds TSB as their Registrar.
An e-mail will be sent to you when there is an item for you to view on the shareholder pages on
www.o2.com.
In future, when a dividend payment is made, it will be possible to download your tax voucher in respect of
dividend payments by logging on to Shareview’s website at www.shareview.co.uk with your access number
and password, and click on “e-Tax vouchers”. You can print or save the details if you need to enter them
in self-assessment forms. There will also be a useful summary showing the details of payments within a
given tax period.
O2 plc offers its UK shareholders Shareview Dealing, an internet and telephone share sale and purchase
service operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars. Log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call them on 0870
850 0852 between 8.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m., Monday to Friday, for more information about the service
and for details of their rates.
Lloyds TSB Registrars is a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority and a signatory to the Banking Codes.
Contacts
Shareholder enquiries
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Company’s share register and provide a shareholder helpline 
service (details below). Shareholders should contact the Registrar if they have any enquiries about 
their shareholding.
The Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars (3501) O2 plc shareholder helpline:
The Causeway Freefone 0808 100 4102
Worthing Fax: 01903 833371
West Sussex BN99 6DA From outside the UK:
Tel: +44 121 415 7102
Fax: +44 1903 833371
General enquiries
General enquiries should be addressed to the Company at:
O2 plc
Wellington Street
Slough
Berkshire SL1 1YP
e-mail: shareholders@o2.com
Third party trade marks
Third parties’ trade marks used in this document remain the property of the third party concerned.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements. We may also make written or oral forward-
looking statements in:
• our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, also known as the SEC, on Forms
20-F and 6-K;
• our Annual Report and Financial Statements and half-yearly reports;
• our press releases and other written materials; and
• oral statements made by our ofﬁcers, Directors or employees to third parties.
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current plans, expectations and projections about
future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about
us. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Statements that are not historical
facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations are forward-looking statements. Words like
“believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “seek”, “will”, “plan”, “could”, “may”, “project”, “goal”,
“target”, and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements but are not the only ways we
identify these statements.
These statements may be found in this document generally. Our actual results could differ materially from
those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks
discussed in the above-mentioned reports, releases and statements.
If any one or more of the foregoing assumptions are ultimately incorrect, our actual results may differ from
our expectations based on these assumptions. Also, the sector and markets in which we operate may not
grow over the next several years as expected, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow as expected
may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and ﬁnancial condition, and the
market price of our ordinary shares.
The information on our website, any website in this document or any website directly or indirectly linked to
our or any other website mentioned in this document is not incorporated by reference into this document
and you should not rely on it.
C12020_ARev_19-ibc.qxd  2/6/05  10:19  Page 21 o2.com
O2 plc
Wellington Street
Slough
Berkshire SL1 1YP
Registered No. 5310128
The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental 
Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Paufﬂey Ltd
Printed in England by St Ives Financial Limited.
C12020_ARev_outer.qxd  6/1/05  6:22 PM  Page BC2
