 Supporting UK 
Infrastructure
Renew Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 
Year ended 30 September 2014
Renew Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Supporting UK Infrastructure
Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 Renew’s structure
04 Renew’s operations
06 Markets
08 Business model
10 Strategy
12 Investment case
14 Chairman's statement
16 Chief Executive's review
20 Financial review
22 Operational review
24 Energy
28 Environmental
32 Infrastructure
36 Specialist Building
Corporate Governance
39 Corporate social responsibility
42 Directors’ report
45 Directors’ remuneration report
49 Corporate governance
51  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
Accounts
52 Independent auditor’s report
53 Group income statement
54  Group statement of 
comprehensive income
54  Group statement of changes in equity
55 Group balance sheet
56 Group cashflow statement
57 Notes to the accounts
79 Company balance sheet
80 Notes to the company accounts
86  Directors, officers and advisors
87 Shareholder information
88 Our subsidiary businesses
 
Energy
Nuclear, traditional, 
renewable and gas 
infrastructure
> page 24
Environmental
Water and land remediation
> page 28
Specialist Building
High quality residential
> page 36
Infrastructure
Rail and wireless telecoms
> page 32
Renew provides multidisciplinary Engineering Services through its 
independently branded businesses to support essential UK infrastructure. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01
Strategic Report
Strategic Report
Highlights
Operational highlights
 > Successful integration of Lewis Civil 
Engineering Limited 
 > Acquisition of Clarke Telecom Limited 
 > Acquisition of Forefront Group Limited
283
464
2013 2014
270
2012
246
2011
201
2010
10.0
16.4
2013 2014
9.6
2012
7.9
2011
4.0
2010
3.6
5.0
2013 2014
3.15
2012
3.0
2011
3.0
2010
12.4
20.8
2013 2014
12.4
2012
9.7
2011
4.5
2010
Revenue* £m
£464m
Adjusted earnings per share* p
20.8p
Adjusted operating profit* £m
£16.4m
Dividend per share p
5.0p
Financial highlights
10.3
13.9
2013 2014
8.9
2012
9.0
2011
13.2
2010
Net assets £m
£13.9m
We improve
We maintain
We renew
Business model
> page 8
Strategy
> page 10
Read more about our operations
The Group has successfully grown its Engineering 
Services business both organically and by acquisition.
*  Results are shown prior to exceptional items and amortisation 
charges and after accounting for discontinued operations. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
02
Renew’s structure
Strong independently branded 
subsidiary businesses
Renew Holdings plc
Board of Directors
> page 43
Governance
> page 49
Non-executive Chairman 
Roy Harrison OBE 
Chairman of the Board
Renew’s Board structure
Group Finance 
Director and 
Company Secretary
John Samuel FCA
Group Engineering 
Services Director 
Paul Scott
Independent  
Non-executive 
Director
John Bishop
Chief Executive 
 
Brian May
Independent  
Non-executive 
Director
David Forbes Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
Strategic Report
Energy Environmental Specialist 
Building
Infrastructure
Operational review
> page 22
Chief Executive’s review
> page 16
Renew’s subsidiary businesses
Renew’s organisational structure
Our independently branded subsidiary businesses, supported 
by the strength of the Renew Holdings group, deliver Engineering 
Services aligned to our clients' local needs, where regional 
knowledge and specialist expertise provide a differentiator.
Renew Holdings plc Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
04
Renew’s operations
Integrated Engineering Services
With our range of integrated Engineering Services we are 
ideally positioned to access essential maintenance and 
renewal spending programmes across our markets.
£464m
Group revenue
2
Acquisitions in  
the year
10
Individually branded 
UK subsidiary 
businesses
3,121
Directly employed, 
multi-skilled  
employees Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
Strategic Report
Our multidisciplinary engineering services businesses provide: 
 - Operational support and asset care 
 - Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals
 - Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
Infrastructure Energy Environmental
Engineering Services
Renew Holdings plc
 > Maintaining strategic water mains 
and main drainage
 > Clean and waste water 
rehabilitation infrastructure
 > Flood alleviation and attenuation
 > Port, harbour and sea defences
 > Soil and groundwater remediation
 > Off-track asset renewal 
and maintenance
 > Tunnel and shaft refurbishment
 > Bridges, structures 
and earthworks
 > Moving structures
 > Wireless telecoms installations
 > Nuclear decommissioning
 > Supporting traditional and 
renewable energy facilities
 > Gas distribution network asset 
maintenance, replacement 
and installation
 > Specialist flow stopping, drilling 
and internal inspection
Our subsidiaries operate across the Energy, Environmental  
and Infrastructure markets. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
06
Energy
Markets
Well positioned for future growth
We operate in mainly regulated markets where long-term spending plans 
and committed funding provide good visibility of future opportunities.
Nuclear 
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority 
("NDA") is responsible for the cleanup and 
waste management of the UK’s nuclear 
legacy. With 17 sites nationally, the NDA’s 
total planned expenditure for 2014/15 is 
around £3bn. Over half of this is allocated 
to Sellafield where work continues to 
focus on high risk and high hazard 
reduction operations.
1
An estimated investment of around £60bn 
is expected in new nuclear power stations 
in the UK by 2030 as most of the existing 
fleet of nuclear power stations are retired.
2
T raditional and renewable
As demand for energy increases, it is 
likely that the life of some of the UK’s 
existing traditional generating assets will 
be extended, requiring investment in 
long-term maintenance programmes.
Demand for renewable energy is expected 
to increase following the government's 
commitment to deliver 15% of the UK’s 
energy consumption from renewable 
sources by 2020.
3
As part of ongoing improvements to the 
gas network, the UK is currently 
undertaking a number of essential gas 
network asset replacement programmes.
Following concerns over iron gas mains 
safety, the Health and Safety Executive 
has implemented the national Iron Mains 
Risk Reduction Programme to replace gas 
mains within 30 metres of a building by 
2032 or earlier.
4
Water
UK water companies, regulated 
by the Water Services Regulation 
Authority ("Ofwat"), undertake large 
scale investment programmes to 
maintain and renew their water 
and sewerage infrastructure assets. 
Work on Asset Management Programme 
6, the next five year regulatory period in 
the water industry, is due to commence 
in April 2015 and will focus on 
maximising the efficient use of existing 
assets through integrated solutions. 
The UK government has made an 
unprecedented six year commitment 
to invest record levels in improving 
flood defences up to 2021.
5
Land remediation
The Homes and Communities Agency 
("HCA") is responsible for the disposal 
of publicly owned land, including former 
industrial land transferred from the 
former Regional Development Agencies. 
The HCA Corporate Plan 2014–2018 
includes specific targets in relation to 
the use of such legacy sites and funding 
arrangements to achieve economic 
growth, and to provide suitable and 
sufficient housing stock across the UK and 
to stimulate strategic inward investment.
6
Rail
Demand for rail services is anticipated 
to grow by more than 30% over the 
next decade. 
To meet this challenge Network Rail 
is investing around £38bn over the 
next five years to 2019 (CP5) on running, 
maintaining and improving Britain’s 
railway which includes some 30,000 
bridge, tunnel and embankment assets.
7
Wireless telecoms
Research undertaken for the market 
regulator, Ofcom, estimates that demand 
for mobile data could be as much as 
80 times higher than today by 2030 as 
the market continues to expand, with 
growth largely driven by the increasing use 
of mobile devices and internet services. 
As demand for service on the 
existing mobile network infrastructure 
increases, substantial investment is 
expected to add new infrastructure, 
upgrade existing networks and 
decommission redundant assets. 
Ofcom set a 2017 deadline for network 
operators to provide comprehensive 2G, 
3G and 4G coverage across the country.
8
Environmental Infrastructure Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
Strategic Report
Expanding our range 
of Engineering Services
High quality residential
The high quality residential market 
in London and the Home Counties 
remains strong with improved visibility. 
We have particular specialist engineering 
expertise in carrying out major structural 
alteration works.
This market requires knowledge and 
experience. Walter Lilly has a strong brand 
and an excellent reputation developed over 
many years in this market.
Making progress 
in new markets
As part of the Group’s strategy of 
expanding its range of capabilities into new 
infrastructure markets, Renew made two 
complementary acquisitions in the year 
in Clarke Telecom and Forefront Group, 
giving the Group a position in the wireless 
telecoms and gas infrastructure markets.
Who are Clarke Telecom and Forefront Group?
Clarke Telecom, based in Manchester, is a leading supplier of specialist 
wireless telecoms infrastructure services, undertaking all aspects of 
delivery including acquisition, planning and design through to deployment 
and optimisation. Network roll-outs are managed by utilising highly skilled 
in-house resources. Working for the network operators, the majority of 
work is undertaken through framework agreements.
Forefront Group, based in the South East, is a leading supplier to the gas 
infrastructure market where it provides gas mains installation, repair, 
maintenance and replacement services through framework agreements. 
Working on the long-term gas network asset replacement programmes 
gives excellent visibility of opportunities and strong growth prospects. 
Why has Renew chosen to expand its Engineering Services 
into the wireless telecoms and gas infrastructure markets 
through the recent acquisitions ?
Renew’s acquisition strategy has seen the Group consider a range of markets 
which benefit from good visibility of ongoing spending on UK infrastructure. 
Suitable business opportunities must have strong relationships in these 
markets where the skill sets are complementary to those that exist within the 
rest of the Group. Clarke Telecom and Forefront Group are leading suppliers in 
their markets, delivering engineering services to maintain and renew critical UK 
infrastructure assets, and operating in regulated markets which benefit from 
ongoing programmes of funding and which have high barriers to entry. 
Does this change the Group’ s ongoing acquisition strategy?
It remains the Group’s ongoing strategy to continue to develop its range 
of Engineering Services, identifying acquisitions that either expand the 
Group’s current market position or enable its entry into new markets, 
which will add to operating margins and enhance earnings per share. 
Specialist Building
1  Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, Business Plan 
– financial year beginning April 2014 to financial 
year ending March 2017 (April 2014). 
2  HM Government, Industrial strategy: government 
and industry in partnership, The UK’s Nuclear 
Future (2013). 
3  Department of Energy & Climate Change, UK 
Renewable Energy Roadmap (July 2011). 
4  Health and Safety Executive, Enforcement Policy 
for the iron mains risk reduction programme 
2013–2021. 
5  Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee, 
Winter floods 2013–14: Government response to 
the Committee’s First Report of Session 2014–15 
(October 2014). 
6  Homes and Communities Agency, Corporate Plan 
2014–18 (July 2014).
7  Network Rail Limited, Annual report and accounts 
2014 (June 2014). 
8  Ofcom, Consumer experiences of mobile phone calls 
(August 2014). 
Operational review
> page 22 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
08
Business model
 
Development 
and delivery of 
growth strategy
> See page 10
  
Ensuring the safe 
delivery of our 
operations
 
Ensuring the 
consistent delivery 
of quality
 
Ensuring thorough 
risk management
 
Development of long-
term positions in our 
target regulated 
markets
Delivering value to shareholders
Through effective controls and management of our operating 
subsidiaries, we seek to deliver value to shareholders in the 
form of reliable capital growth and a progressive dividend 
policy. Growth is delivered through both organic and 
acquisitive strategies.
Our wholly owned subsidiary businesses provide 
specific Engineering Services within targeted markets.
Each of our businesses operates autonomously, supported 
by Renew in areas where setting overall standards and sharing 
best practice such as health and safety, human resources and 
information technology allows our subsidiaries to benefit from 
Group experience whilst maintaining their discrete approach 
to individual markets.
Individually our businesses build on their strong recognised 
brands whilst collective, collaborative working provides 
additional opportunities in expanding the range of services 
we offer to our clients.
The role of Renew
Read more about 
the development 
and delivery of our 
growth strategy
> See overleaf Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
Strategic Report
Safety remains the Group’s priority. Our safe operations are 
managed and delivered locally by our subsidiary businesses 
alongside their safety advisors who have specific knowledge 
in the individual environments.
Our subsidiary businesses work in challenging environments, 
attention to delivering services safely ensures the continued 
improvement in our accident incidence rate which has improved 
by over 90% in the last nine years.
The work we undertake has seen a shift in nature with an increase 
in small teams working remotely. This change has driven our focus 
on behavioural safety training in addition to our continuing safety 
initiatives to ensure the well being of our employees, suppliers 
and those who work with us.
More about our safe operations can be found in our Corporate 
Social Responsibility report.
Corporate social responsibility report
> page 39
Our subsidiary businesses are leading suppliers in their 
markets. A key factor in our success in these markets is the 
consistent quality delivery of our services. The type of work the 
Group undertakes involves a high volume of small value tasks 
usually on large scale infrastructure networks. 
Ensuring continuity of delivery takes many approaches and 
requires a commitment across our businesses in areas such as 
logistics, training, investment in technology, corporate social 
responsibility and in the management of our supply chain. 
We strive to continue to develop and improve our business 
processes with key initiatives such as our aftercare service 
programmes and supply chain workshops.
Operational review
> page 22
Our subsidiary businesses are governed by a system of controls 
which include overarching requirements to adhere to Group 
minimum standards using internal audit processes to monitor 
compliance.
Our system of internal controls is based on the key principles 
of risk assessment, control environment and activities, 
information and communication and monitoring and 
evaluation of effectiveness which delivers robust 
commercial risk management.
Each subsidiary business is required to have a management 
system in place. Renew’s Group minimum requirements 
outline the processes to be maintained within the business 
management system. Individual business management 
systems are certified to ISO:9001. 
Regular operational and financial reporting is supported by 
monthly management meetings attended by a Group Executive 
member, regular Executive Management Committee meetings 
and monthly main Board meetings.
Principal risks and uncertainties
> page 11
Across our markets we provide multidisciplinary engineering 
services concentrating on operational support, asset care 
and maintenance. Undertaking a high volume of small tasks, 
we are often working on long-term framework agreements 
where we provide ongoing support to our clients over 
many years.
The work we undertake involves supporting the day-to-day 
operations, maintenance and emergency care requirements 
of some of the UK’s essential assets including the rail network, 
nuclear and traditional power stations, water and gas pipe 
networks and wireless telecoms network infrastructure.
Our clients engage our services, often on a long-term basis, 
where our work enables them to maintain continuity of 
service to their customers. Our responsive integrated 
engineering services and consistent delivery mean that we 
work on some of the largest frameworks designed to deliver 
asset care and maintenance services from our clients' 
operational expenditure budgets.
Our business model in action
Markets
> page 6
Ensuring the safe delivery 
of our operations
Ensuring the consistent 
delivery of quality
Ensuring thorough 
risk management
Development of long-term 
positions in our target 
regulated markets Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
10
Strategy
Since 2006, it has been the Group’s 
strategy to expand its Engineering 
Services activities both organically 
and by acquisition.
It has been the Group’s ambition to develop 
its Engineering Services businesses to 
account for over 70% of Group revenue 
with turnover exceeding £500m.
In 2014, Group revenue was £464m and 
Engineering Services accounted for 82% 
of this total.
The Group has strong positions in its 
target markets through a mixture of 
organic and acquisitive growth.
The Group continues to focus on developing 
its Engineering Services through:
 > organic growth, broadening our 
service offering to existing and 
new clients;
 > customer relationships built 
on responsiveness; and
 > acquisitive growth through 
identifying businesses with strong 
relationships in regulated markets.
Development and delivery 
of our growth strategy
Where we were Where we are Where we are going
Our strategic targets
15% Engineering  
Services revenue
Target by 2010
33% Engineering  
Services revenue
36% Engineering  
Services revenue 
Achieved 1 year early
Target by 2012
50% Engineering  
Services revenue
2% Group operating profit
Target by 2014
70% Engineering Services revenue
3% Group operating profit
52% Engineering Services revenue
2.2% Group operating profit
Achieved 1 year early
82% Engineering Services revenue
3.5% Group operating profit
Achieved on target
2006
2007 2009 2011
2009 2011 2014
Target by 2017
£500m Group revenue
4.5% Group operating profit
2017 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
Strategic Report
How we measure our progress
Key performance indicators
The Directors have established a number of key performance indicators which they use to measure and monitor the performance 
of the Group in a number of different areas. These measures are set out in the tables below. The Engineering Services segment 
targets have been established as part of the Board’s drive to grow both revenue and profitability in that segment of the business. 
The safety record improvement target is set annually and achievement of this target is an essential component of the bonus 
scheme for each Director and senior manager within the Group. 
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Engineering Services revenue as 
a percentage of Group revenue
Target – not less than 85% 84% 83%  70% 70%
Actual performance    82% 82%
Engineering Services operating 
profit as a percentage of revenue
Target – not less than 5%  5% 5%
Actual performance    4.3% 4.6%
Reduction in accident incidence rate
Cumulative target since 2005  82%  76%  69% 63%  57%
Cumulative actual performance since 2005    92%  92%
Group operating profit as a percentage 
of revenue  
Target – not less than 4.5% 4.2% 4%  
Actual performance   3.5% 3.5%
How we measure our risk
Principal risks and uncertainties
This Annual Report contains certain forward looking 
statements. These statements are made by the Directors in 
good faith, based on the information available to them up to 
the time of approval of this report. Actual results may differ to 
those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety 
of factors. These factors include customer acceptance of the 
Group’s services, levels of demand in the market, restrictions 
to market access, competitive pressure on pricing or additional 
costs, failure to retain or recruit key personnel and overall 
economic conditions. 
 
A risk inherent in the contracting industry occurs in the nature, 
timing and contractual conditions which exist at the time of 
contract procurement. To mitigate these risks, the Group has 
a system of pre-contract and pre-tender risk assessment 
whereby senior management, including the Executive Directors 
where appropriate, review and advise on specific issues arising 
in the contract procurement process. In contracting, management 
is required to estimate the total expected costs on a contract 
and the stage of contract completion in order to determine both 
the revenue and profit to be recognised in an accounting period. 
The Group has control and review procedures in place to monitor, 
and evaluate regularly, the estimates being made to ensure that 
they are consistent and appropriate. This includes reviewing the 
independent certification of the value of work done, the progress 
of work against contracted timescales and the costs incurred 
against plan. Should such estimates and judgements be 
incorrect, then the Group’s results could be materially different 
from those reported. The Group also seeks to limit its risks by 
specialising in certain markets where it has extensive experience 
and a particular skills base.
The Group derives much of its business from a relatively 
small number of major customers such as Network Rail, 
Northumbrian Water, Wessex Water, Welsh Water, National 
Grid, Sellafield Ltd and the Environment Agency. Were the 
Group to lose its position as a supplier to some or all of these 
customers then the Group’s financial position could be 
materially and adversely affected. 
The Group has two closed final salary pension schemes, details 
of which are disclosed in Note 24. Should the actuarial deficit 
relating to one or both of these schemes materially deteriorate 
then the Group could be required to make substantial payments 
into the schemes in accordance with the requirements of the 
Pensions Act 1995. The Group has taken steps to mitigate this 
risk by working with the schemes’ Trustees to develop liability 
matching investment strategies. These have included both 
schemes entering into annuity policies which match the 
liabilities in respect of certain of the schemes’ beneficiaries. 
At 30 September 2014, these policies are equivalent to 32% 
of the combined scheme liabilities.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
12
Investment case
A strong platform for growth
Growth is delivered through the development of long-term relationships with clients responsible for the renewal and 
maintenance of essential operational assets in Energy, Environmental and Infrastructure markets. 
Our local businesses are aligned to respond to the ongoing maintenance needs of our clients' operational assets undertaking 
work mainly through framework agreements. 
Since 2006 the Group has delivered 
on its strategic targets including Group 
operating profit and Engineering 
Services as a percentage of overall 
Group revenue.
Reasons to invest in Renew
Consistent delivery of 
strategic targets
Continued organic and 
acquisitive growth
Operating in markets with 
high barriers to entry
Our subsidiary businesses offer a 
range of integrated multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services solutions delivering 
both time and cost efficiencies.
Delivery of integrated 
engineering services
Operating in mainly  
regulated markets 
Long-term relationships 
with key clients
Since 2006 our Group operating margins 
have more than trebled from 1% to 3.5% 
as our strategy of moving to Engineering 
Services has been fulfilled.
Growing operating margins Strong balance sheet Capital growth
The Group has consistently delivered 
organic growth in its existing businesses 
and has further expanded its operations 
with two more acquisitions in the period.
Our target markets are mainly 
regulated which drives long-term 
programmes of spending on asset 
renewal and maintenance.
The Group's net assets have grown by 
161% since 2006.
The markets in which we operate 
demand a highly skilled workforce and a 
proven track record of safe delivery.
Our range of services and responsiveness 
to our clients' needs positions us as 
a key supplier. Our work enables our 
clients to maintain continuity of service.
The Group has grown its market 
capitalisation over eight fold since 
30 September 2005 without recourse 
to new equity.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
Strategic Report
How Renew grows its Engineering Services operations:
We achieve organic growth through: We achieve acquisitive growth through:
 > our strategy of responsiveness;
 > our ability to deliver locally through our 
branded businesses;
 > investing in the skills of our multi-skilled directly 
employed workforce and employees; and
 > our alignment with local managers of key operational 
assets, responding to critical task requirements and 
enabling required service levels to be maintained.
 > the acquisition of Clarke Telecom, giving the Group a 
position in the wireless telecoms infrastructure market;
 > the acquisition of Forefront Group, giving the Group 
a position in the gas infrastructure market; and 
 > consideration of complementary earnings 
enhancing opportunities. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
14
Chairman’s statement
A strong year for Renew
Results 
Record results for the year ended 
30 September 2014 demonstrate 
the Group’s continued progress as a 
leading multidisciplinary Engineering 
Services provider, supporting critical 
UK infrastructure. 
Group revenue and operating profit, prior 
to exceptional items, amortisation and 
discontinued operations were both up 
64% to £464.5m (2013: £282.7m) and 
£16.4m (2013: £10.0m) respectively. 
Group operating margin was maintained 
at 3.5% (2013: 3.5%). Earnings per share 
prior to exceptional items, amortisation 
and discontinued operations increased 
by 68% to 20.80p (2013: 12.38p) with 
basic earnings per share on continuing 
activities of 16.83p (2013: 16.62p). 
The Engineering Services business 
has seen growth across all its markets of 
Energy, Environmental and Infrastructure 
with revenue up 65% to £382.5m (2013: 
£232.4m). Engineering Services accounts 
for 82% of Group revenue. 
The largest area of growth was in our 
Rail business which experienced high 
levels of demand for emergency repair 
works following last winter’s extreme 
weather conditions alongside a Network 
Rail “enhanced spend” programme which 
together added £64.7m of non-recurring 
revenue. Our position with Network Rail 
has been recently strengthened following 
our appointment to seven Control Period 
5 Infrastructure Projects frameworks 
with an advertised value of £450m over 
the next five years. 
Engineering Services operating profit 
has seen a 54% increase to £16.3m 
(2013: £10.6m) with an operating margin 
of 4.3% (2013: 4.6%). Margin reduced 
slightly as much of the additional 
non-recurring Rail revenue referred to 
above was undertaken on a cost 
reimbursable basis with a lower margin. 
When the effect of the non-recurring Rail 
activity and acquisitions is excluded from 
our results, Engineering Services 
delivered 18% growth in revenue and 22% 
growth in operating profit.
Specialist Building is predominantly 
focused on the High Quality Residential 
market in London and the Home Counties. 
Revenue increased by 62% to £82.1m 
(2013: £50.6m) and operating profit by 
69% to £2.2m (2013: £1.3m), delivering 
an operating margin of 2.6% (2013: 2.5%). 
These results exclude those of Allenbuild 
Limited which has been treated as a 
discontinued business following its sale 
subsequent to the year end. 
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 3.50p per share, increasing the full year 
dividend by 39% to 5.0p (2013: 3.60p). 
The dividend will be paid on 2 March 2015 
to shareholders on the register as at 
30 January 2015. The Board continues 
to grow dividends progressively.
Order Book
The Group's contracted order book 
at 30 September 2014 stood at £439m 
(2013: £364m), a 21% increase, with the 
Engineering Services order book up 20% 
to £361m (2013: £301m). 
Acquisitions 
During the year, the Group made two 
complementary acquisitions in Clarke 
Telecom Limited, a market leader in 
wireless telecoms infrastructure delivery, 
for £17.1m and Forefront Group Ltd, 
a leading provider in the gas infrastructure 
market, for £14.8m. These strategically 
Summary
 > Record results for the year ended 
30 September 2014.
 > The Engineering Services business 
has seen growth across all its 
markets of Energy, Environmental 
and Infrastructure.
 > Engineering Services operating 
profit has seen a 54% increase 
to £16.3m.
R J Harrison OBE
Chairman Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
Strategic Report
important acquisitions will be accretive to 
Renew’s Engineering Services operating 
margin as we progress towards our target 
of 5% within this business segment, a key 
objective for the next financial year. 
Disposal
Subsequent to the year end, the Group 
announced the disposal of Allenbuild 
Limited, the new build affordable housing 
part of the Group’s Specialist Building 
business, to Places for People Group 
Limited ("PFP") for a total consideration 
of £2.75m payable in cash. PFP has 
acquired 50% of the issued share capital 
for £1.375m and will assume 100% 
ownership of Allenbuild after ten 
outstanding contracts, for which the 
Group retains the benefit, reach practical 
completion which is expected to be in 
about twelve months' time.
Cash
£24m of term loans were taken out to 
finance the Group’s acquisitions. At the 
year end, net debt was £16.1m (2013: net 
cash £2.8m), which represents only 0.85 
times 2014 EBITDA. 
People
The Group prides itself on providing a 
safe and rewarding working environment 
for its highly skilled directly employed 
work force. Our results and ongoing 
success are a testament to the skills, 
hard work and commitment of all of the 
Group’s employees and the Board would 
like to take this opportunity to express 
its gratitude.
Outlook
The Group enters the 2014/15 financial 
year in a strong position. In Specialist 
Building, the Group concentrates on 
the High Quality Residential market 
in London and the Home Counties. 
Our expertise is in the fit out and 
refurbishment of prestigious private 
residential projects, specialising in 
developing engineering solutions for 
major structural alterations. 
In Engineering Services, the Group has 
made excellent progress in expanding 
its position as a leading provider of 
engineering support services in the UK's 
Energy, Environmental and Infrastructure 
markets with strong organic growth 
coupled with two acquisitions into new 
markets. We operate in markets mainly 
governed by regulation that undertake 
long term programmes of essential 
non-discretionary spending to maintain 
critical infrastructure assets. The Group 
continues to focus its activities on 
these programmes which deliver good 
visibility of future opportunities, margin 
enhancement potential and sustainable 
earnings streams. 
It remains the Board's strategy to 
continue to grow its Engineering 
Services business, both organically 
and through selective acquisitions. 
The Board's ambition is to grow Group 
revenue to over £500m delivering a 
Group operating margin of over 4.5% 
within the next three years. 
The excellent organic and acquisitive 
growth achieved in the year along with its 
record order book gives the Board every 
confidence that the Group will continue 
to deliver on its strategic targets.
R J Harrison OBE
Chairman
25 November 2014
232
382
2013 2014
214
2012
173
2011
127
2010
Engineering Services revenue £m
£382m
10.6
16.3
2013 2014
9.6
2012
7.5
2011
4.2
2010
Engineering Services operating profit £m
£16.3m
82 82
2013 2014
64
2012
49
2011
44
2010
Engineering Services % of Group revenue
82% Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
16
Chief Executive’s review
Developing as a leading provider
Renew has continued to enhance its market 
position as a provider of multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services, successfully 
growing its Engineering Services both 
organically and by acquisition. Delivering 
long term maintenance and renewal 
services across the Energy, Environmental 
and Infrastructure markets, our highly 
skilled, directly employed workforce 
operates on the UK’s essential infrastructure 
assets. Our offering is differentiated 
by the promotion of our independently 
branded subsidiary businesses which 
are aligned to the needs of their clients. 
In Specialist Building, our activity is now 
primarily focused on the High Quality 
Residential market in London and the 
Home Counties, which continues to see 
strong demand and in which we have 
many years of experience and an 
excellent reputation as a leading brand.
Engineering Services
Revenue in Engineering Services 
increased by 65% to £382.5m (2013: 
£232.4m) and accounts for 82% of Group 
revenue (2013: 82%) and 88% of Group 
operating profit before exceptional 
items and amortisation prior to central 
activities (2013: 89%), generating an 
operating margin of 4.3% (2013: 4.6%). 
The Engineering Services order book has 
grown 20% to £361m (2013: £301m). 
During the year, the Group acquired 
two Engineering Services businesses 
which are leading brands in their 
respective markets. Clarke Telecom 
Limited (“Clarke”), a wireless telecoms 
infrastructure delivery business based 
in Manchester, which provides specialist 
services for the cellular market, was 
acquired in April. Forefront Group 
Limited (“Forefront”), which is based 
near London, operates across the gas 
network replacing strategic low and 
medium pressure mains, was acquired 
in August. Clients include National Grid 
and Southern Gas Networks.
These acquisitions establish the Group’s 
position in additional and complementary 
engineering markets. Strong organic 
growth has been achieved through our 
service responsiveness and development 
of key relationships.
Energy
The Group operates nationally in the 
nuclear, traditional, renewable energy 
and gas infrastructure markets.
In Nuclear, we operate across the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority’s estate 
where we are engaged on 9 sites that 
command around 80% of the £3bn annual 
expenditure. Over half of this spend is 
allocated to Sellafield, where we have 
operated for over 70 years and remain 
the largest mechanical, electrical and 
instrumentation employer on site. Our 
work concentrates on the support and 
care of operational plant associated 
with waste treatment or processing, 
decommissioning and clean up of 
redundant facilities.
Safety achievements at Sellafield 
include over 5 million man hours 
worked since a Lost Time Event and 
the award of Sellafield’s 2014 Resident 
Engineers Safety Award for ‘Outstanding 
Safety Performance’. 
Work at the site has increased 
substantially during the year resulting 
in a 33% increase in our provision of 
resources at the site. Our operations 
include work on the Multi Discipline Site 
Works framework where we are aligned 
with the largest scope of work at the site, 
production operations support. 
As part of the high hazard risk reduction 
operations at Sellafield, our service 
provision has again increased on the 
Evaporator Delta project which is now 
expected to provide over £80m of work 
through to its completion in 2015. 
A number of frameworks have also seen 
Summary
 > Renew has continued to 
enhance its market position as 
a provider of multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services.
 > During the year, the Group 
acquired two Engineering 
Services businesses which 
are leading brands in their 
respective markets.
 > The Engineering Services order 
book has grown 20% to £361m.
B W May
Chief Executive Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
Strategic Report
an increase in scope including the £26m 
Bulk Sludge Retrievals framework and 
the Decommissioning framework where 
we are involved with some of the oldest 
facilities on site. 
The Infrastructure enhancement 
programme at Sellafield continues 
with the Site Wide Asset Care framework 
where we operate as sole mechanical 
and electrical partner. We also continue 
to support the future Major Projects 
Programme at Sellafield where we have 
further developed our position as a key 
strategic partner on the £1.1bn 
Infrastructure Strategic Alliance 
framework. 
Our work at Sellafield was recognised with 
the award of a supply chain accreditation 
for the second year running, demonstrating 
our ability to deliver to the highest quality 
standards in the nuclear industry. 
Elsewhere, at Springfields where we 
have operated for 15 years, work has 
commenced for Westinghouse on a 
waste processing facility, following 
the recent successful completion of a 
large decommissioning and demolition 
project at the site. We have also been 
recently appointed to support reactor 
outage works at the Heysham nuclear 
power station. We remain committed to 
developing our position as a specialist 
contractor, continuing to support 
proposals within the nuclear new build 
market where we have initially focused 
on the manufacture and supply of high 
integrity fabricated components.
Our service teams deliver long term 
maintenance and asset renewal services 
at five of the UK’s traditional power 
stations as well as progressing a number 
of opportunities in the renewable energy 
market including hydro schemes for 
Welsh Water.
The acquisition of Forefront extends our 
range of services into the specialist 
gas infrastructure market. Forefront 
operates for National Grid and Southern 
Gas Networks on the 30/30 iron mains 
replacement programme through 
frameworks and also on the London 
medium pressure strategic gas mains 
replacement programme. Forefront has 
frameworks for specialist flow stopping, 
drilling and maintenance. Although 
Forefront also has been part of the Group 
for only a few months, opportunities for 
collaborative working with other parts of 
the Group have already been identified 
and are being progressed.
Environmental 
The Group operates in the water 
infrastructure, flood alleviation, river and 
coastal defence and land remediation 
markets providing operational support 
and maintenance services.
In Water, we continue to develop our 
long standing relationships with our 
largest clients Northumbrian Water, 
Wessex Water and Welsh Water where 
we deliver works under the regulated 
AMP 5 programme. We operate on a 
number of frameworks for Northumbrian 
Water including the Major Waste Water, 
Clean Water, Maintenance and Trunk 
Mains Cleaning frameworks. We were 
selected as one of two preferred 
partners to deliver the accelerated flood 
alleviation workstreams that have seen 
substantial investment in the period. 
We also undertake planned and 
reactive maintenance, sewer lining 
and infrastructure upgrades under 
their Minor Works framework.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
18
Chief Executive’s review continued
Engineering Services continued
Environmental continued
We have maintained ‘Best Performing 
Contractor’ status with both Wessex 
Water and Welsh Water in the period. 
Wessex Water frameworks include 
Workstream Partner and Minor Civils 
frameworks. For Welsh Water we work 
on the Pressurised Pipelines framework, 
which has recently been extended for 
two years, and also the Major Civil 
Engineering Projects frameworks. 
We have developed our relationship with 
the Environment Agency with the award 
of the £10m MEICA framework for the 
Northern region. This exclusive framework 
covers over 600 flood control and water 
management sites throughout the region 
and will run for 4 years to March 2018.
In Land Remediation our long term 
relationship with National Grid continues 
as we undertake work on established 
remediation frameworks nationally. We 
have recently been awarded the Land 
Quality Services framework with Magnox 
for the design and construction of land 
remediation services on decommissioned 
nuclear power generation sites across the 
UK. Work is currently underway on the 
Scotia Gas Networks 8 year framework 
that will generate opportunities across 
Scotland and the South East of England 
until 2021.
Infrastructure
In the Rail sector, Renew provides off-track 
asset renewal and maintenance services 
nationally as well as a 24/7 emergency 
services to the rail network.
During 2014, AMCO Rail has responded 
to the challenges posed by the effects of 
last winter’s severe weather and additional 
works provided by the Government’s Fiscal 
Stimulus into the rail network. This has 
provided almost £65m of non-recurring 
revenue in the year in addition to 
underlying organic growth of 17%. 
AMCO Rail is increasingly recognised by 
Network Rail for its responsiveness to 
short term, low cost critical tasks and 
this is demonstrated by 5,000 individual 
remits carried out during the year on the 
Asset Management frameworks across 
the network. AMCO Rail is now one of the 
top 10 suppliers to Network Rail.
Our success in responding to and 
managing this additional workload has 
been recognised by Network Rail appointing 
AMCO Rail to seven Infrastructure Projects 
frameworks for Control Period 5, with an 
advertised value of £450m over the next 
five years.
Key projects carried out in the year 
included the reinstatement of the Dawlish 
Sea Wall, which was completed ahead of 
schedule enabling services to resume to 
Cornwall. Our specialist skills in tunnel 
and shaft maintenance and refurbishment 
saw us successfully complete major 
schemes at Holme Tunnel and Whiteball 
Tunnel, both of which were on time and 
within budget.
The acquisition of Clarke takes the Group 
into a new market. As a leading provider of 
wireless telecoms infrastructure services, 
Clarke’s clients include all of the major 
wireless network operators and original 
equipment manufacturers. Integration 
with the Group has progressed well since 
acquisition and Clarke’s order book has 
grown by over 10% since acquisition. 
Specialist Building
Specialist Building results have been 
restated following the reclassification 
of Allenbuild Ltd as a discontinued 
business details of which are set 
out below.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
Strategic Report
Specialist Building continued
An operating profit of £2.2m (2013: £1.3m) 
was generated from revenue of £82.1m 
(2013: £50.6m), giving a margin of 2.6% 
(2013: 2.5%). Our Specialist Building order 
book stands at £78.1m (2013: £62.5m). 
In the High Quality Residential market in 
London and the Home Counties, we have 
over 50 years of experience and specialist 
engineering expertise in carrying out 
major structural alteration works 
including extensions below the ground. 
During the year, we completed projects 
for private clients at Wimbledon Village 
and on the Wentworth Estate, Surrey. 
Work is currently under way to demolish 
and reconstruct a substantial country 
home in Burnham Beeches and on a 
Grade II listed residence in London’s 
Belgravia district. 
Subsequent to the year end, we announced 
the sale of Allenbuild Ltd, our subsidiary 
business which focused on the new build 
affordable housing market, to Places 
for People Group Limited (“PFP”). PFP 
has acquired 50% of the issued share 
capital for £1.375m and will assume 
100% ownership of Allenbuild after ten 
outstanding contracts, for which the 
Group retains the benefit, reach practical 
completion which is expected to be in 
about twelve months' time. PFP will have 
the benefit of four new contracts and any 
further work which is now procured. 
People
Our commitment to the safety of our 
employees and those who work with us 
remains a priority for everyone at Renew. 
The changing nature of our operations 
into smaller, high volume tasks has 
seen an increase in behavioural safety 
training, alongside a wide range of safety 
initiatives, undertaken over the year. 
We are pleased to report a cumulative 
reduction in our Accident Incidence Rate 
of more than 90% over the last 9 years.
Summary
Our Specialist Building business has 
demonstrated its ability to deliver 
consistent profits and is well positioned 
with a strong order book.
In Engineering Services, our range of 
capabilities and responsiveness to our 
clients’ needs sees us operate on some 
of the largest programmes of work 
to maintain key infrastructure assets 
in the UK. 
We are strongly positioned in sustainable 
markets which are mainly regulated and 
which benefit from long term spending 
programmes. This will continue to provide 
opportunities for further profitable growth.
B W May
Chief Executive
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
20
Financial review
Results
Group revenue from continuing 
activities was £464.5m (2013: £282.7m) 
with an operating profit before tax from 
continuing activities of £16.4m (2013: 
£10.0m) prior to exceptional items and 
amortisation charges and the loss from 
the discontinued operation. A tax charge 
of £3.3m (2013: £2.3m) resulted in a 
profit after tax for the year of £12.8m 
(2013: £7.4m) prior to exceptional items 
and amortisation charges and the loss 
from the discontinued operation. After 
tax, exceptional items and amortisation, 
the profit for the year from continuing 
activities was £10.3m (2013: £10.0m).
Restatement of 2013 results
As a result of both the adoption of IAS 19 
(2011) and the treatment of Allenbuild 
Limited as a discontinued business in 
accordance with IFRS 5, there has been 
a restatement of the 2013 results.
Discontinued operation
Subsequent to the year end, the Board 
reached an agreement to sell Allenbuild 
Limited to Places for People Group 
Limited (“PFP”) for a total consideration 
of £2.75m payable in cash. PFP acquired 
50% of the equity on 31 October 2014 for 
£1.375m and will acquire the balance of 
the shares when ten outstanding partly 
completed contracts reach practical 
completion. This is expected to be in 
about a year’s time. During the joint 
ownership period, Renew will retain 
the benefit of those contracts and 
PFP will enjoy the benefit of new work 
procured. Allenbuild Limited is a business 
focused on the new build affordable 
housing market and as such was not 
core to the Group’s strategy to develop 
its Engineering Services business. In 
accordance with IFRS 5, the results of 
Allenbuild Limited have been treated 
as a discontinued business resulting 
in the restatement of the 2013 Income 
Statement and its disclosure in “Assets 
held for Resale” on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items recognised during the 
year comprise £0.8m of costs incurred 
in relation to the acquisitions of Clarke 
Telecom Limited and Forefront Group 
Limited. Additionally, £2.2m (2013: £0.5m) 
of amortisation charges relating to the 
intangible assets arising from the Amco, 
Clarke, Lewis and Forefront acquisitions 
were incurred.
Acquisitions
During the year, the Group completed the 
acquisitions of Clarke Telecom Limited 
and Forefront Group Limited for a combined 
consideration of £32.9m inclusive of costs, 
payable in cash. These acquisitions were 
funded by a £24m term loan which is 
repayable in equal quarterly instalments 
of £1.55m, the last instalment of which is 
due to be paid on 31 March 2018. £8.9m 
of the Group’s own cash resources were 
also deployed in these transactions. 
In March 2014, the final instalment on 
the Group’s previous term loan which 
had been used to acquire Amalgamated 
Construction Limited was repaid.
The Group’s profitability together 
with further improved working capital 
generation, has led to our reporting a 
cash balance of £5.6m (2013: £5.3m) at 
the year end. As a result, the Group’s net 
debt position as at 30 September 2014 
was £16.1m (2013: net cash of £2.8m). 
The Group has complied with the 
covenants associated with the term 
loans throughout the year. 
Summary
 > A final dividend of 3.5p (2013: 2.5p) 
per share brings the total for the 
year to 5.0p (2013: 3.6p).
 > Subsequent to the year end, the 
Board reached an agreement to 
sell Allenbuild Limited.
Dividend growth of 39% Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
Strategic Report
Pension schemes
The IAS 19 valuation of the Lovell Pension 
Scheme, which was closed to new members 
in 2000, has resulted in a small accounting 
surplus of £0.6m (2013: deficit of £2.8m) 
after accounting for deferred taxation. 
In 2011, the Board, in conjunction with the 
Trustees of the Lovell Scheme, completed 
a buy-in of part of the pensioner liabilities 
of the scheme. This measure, which was 
completed without any further cash 
contribution to the scheme by the Group, 
has reduced the risks associated with 
those liabilities and, at the year end, 
the annuities purchased represent 
30% of the scheme’s total liabilities. 
In accordance with the scheme specific 
funding requirements of the Pensions Act 
2005 and, following the triennial valuation 
of the scheme which was carried out 
as at 31 March 2012, the Board has 
an  agreement with the Trustees of the 
scheme on the level of future contributions 
which are currently approximately £2.9m 
per annum. The next triennial valuation is 
due as at 31 March 2015. 
The IAS 19 valuation of the Amco 
Pension Scheme shows a surplus of 
£0.6m (2013: £0.8m) after accounting 
for deferred taxation. In 2013, the Board, 
in conjunction with the Trustees of the 
Amco Scheme, completed a buy-in of part 
of the pensioner liabilities of the scheme. 
This measure, which was completed 
without any further cash contribution to 
the scheme by the Group, has reduced 
the risks associated with those liabilities 
and, at the year end, the annuities 
purchased represent 51% of the scheme’s 
total liabilities. In accordance with the 
scheme specific funding requirements of 
the Pensions Act 2005 and, following the 
triennial valuation of the scheme which 
was carried out as at 31 December 2010, 
the Board has an agreement with the 
Trustees of the scheme on the level of 
future contributions which are currently 
£0.2m per annum. The next triennial 
valuation, which will be measured as 
at 31 December 2013, is currently being 
carried out by the scheme actuary. 
As a result of the adoption of IAS 19 (2011), 
approximately £0.4m of costs are now 
charged to Administrative expenses 
in the Income Statement. These were 
previously treated as a contribution to the 
pension scheme and accounted for in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Taxation
The UK tax charge on profit for the year is 
£3.7m (2013: £3.3m). The deferred tax charge 
of £1.2m (2013: £1.2m) is wholly offset by 
deferred tax attributable to the discontinued 
business resulting in a tax charge on 
continuing activities of £2.7m (2013: £3. 1m). 
This represents an effective Group tax rate 
of 20.8% (2013: 23.6%). Following the sale 
of Allenbuild Limited, the Group’s available 
tax losses have been reduced although, due 
mainly to the tax deductibility of pension 
scheme contributions which are not charged 
to the Income Statement, the rate of 
corporation tax payable in each of the next 
few years is expected to remain below the 
headline rate.
Distributable profits
The distributable profits of Renew Holdings 
plc stood at £27 .9m (2013: £20.5m) enabling 
the Board to recommend a final dividend 
of 3.5p (2013: 2.5p) per share bringing 
the total for the year to 5.0p (2013: 3.6p), 
an increase of 39%.
J Samuel
Group Finance Director
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
22
Operational review
This section looks at the 
Group’ s target markets and 
highlights our achievements 
during the year.
In this section
24  Energy
28  Environmental
32  Infrastructure
36  Specialist Building Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
Strategic Report
Paul Scott
Engineering Services Director
Renew concentrates on delivering Engineering Services in the 
Energy, Environmental and Infrastructure markets. Our work 
in areas such as rail, nuclear, water, telecoms and gas sees us 
operating nationally for high profile clients where our service 
teams undertake a wide range of essential maintenance and 
renewal tasks, ensuring continuity of service of some of the UK’s 
critical infrastructure assets.
The markets in which we operate provide the Group with good 
visibility of future opportunities. The work we undertake is often 
delivered through long-term framework agreements. Our position 
on these frameworks, a large number of which extend over many 
years, is established through our responsiveness to clients’ 
needs and a safe and consistent service delivery. 2014 has seen 
a number of these key frameworks renewed.
We focus on our key relationships and extending our Engineering 
Services capabilities to increase our opportunities in areas of 
non-discretionary Infrastructure spending in the UK. We have 
seen good progress in our strategy of developing Engineering 
Services through 2014, where we have extended our range of 
services with two complementary acquisitions in Clarke Telecom 
and Forefront Group. Development of our collaborative solutions 
remains a key strategic target for the coming year. 
This Operational Review looks at our achievements in 2014 and 
outlines our objectives for the coming year which, alongside the 
Group’s strategy, gives the Group a strong platform for growth 
over the medium and long term.
P Scott
Engineering Services Director
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
24
Operational review – Energy
Expertise
 > Nuclear operational support and asset care
 > Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals 
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering services
 > Nuclear decommissioning
 > Specialist fabrication and manufacturing
 > We are strongly positioned across the NDA portfolio, on 9 
nuclear licensed sites, that command around 80% of the 
total site expenditure.
 > We remain the largest mechanical, electrical and 
instrumentation employer on site at Sellafield where we 
have operated for over 70 years. During the year we 
increased our resources at the site, where we operate on 
9 frameworks, by 33%.
 > We have seen increasing workload as 1 of 3 preferred 
strategic partners on the Multi Discipline Site Works 
framework at Sellafield where we undertake work 
packages potentially worth £280m over 4 years. We are 
aligned with the largest scope of work at the site, 
production operations support.
 > At Sellafield our service provision has again increased 
on the Evaporator Delta project which is now expected 
to provide over £80m of work through to its completion 
in 2015.
Opportunity
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (“NDA”) is 
responsible for the cleanup and waste management of the 
UK’s nuclear legacy. With 17 sites nationally, the NDA’s total 
planned expenditure for 2014/15 is around £3bn. Over half 
of this is allocated to Sellafield where work continues to 
focus on high risk and high hazard reduction operations.
1
An estimated investment of around £60bn is expected in 
new nuclear power stations in the UK by 2030 as most of the 
existing fleet of nuclear power stations are retired.
2
How we respond
Our operations principally focus on the ongoing programmes 
of high hazard risk reduction, engineering support on the care 
and maintenance of operational plant associated with waste 
treatment or processing, decommissioning, demolition and 
cleanup of redundant facilities where our engineering services 
are delivered by our directly employed multi-skilled 
operatives. We continue to differentiate ourselves through the 
integration of generation, grid and decommissioning services.
Nuclear
We deliver a range of integrated Engineering Services 
to the nuclear industry. Our work concentrates on 
high hazard risk reduction operations, supporting the 
maintenance and decommissioning of operational plant.
Our progress in the UK nuclear market
1,2 See page 7 for footnotes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
Strategic Report
Our progress in the UK nuclear market
 > Framework activity at Sellafield includes work on the £26m 
Bulk Sludge Retrievals framework recently extended by 
1 year to 2015 and the Decommissioning framework where 
we are involved with some of the oldest facilities on site.
 > As part of the Infrastructure enhancement programme at 
Sellafield we undertake work on the Site Wide Asset Care 
framework as sole mechanical and electrical partner.
 > We continue to support the future Major Projects Programme 
at Sellafield where we have further developed our position 
as a key strategic partner on the £1.1bn Infrastructure 
Strategic Alliance framework.
 > We have undertaken 5 million man hours since a Lost Time 
Event at Sellafield where our safety achievements include 
the award of the 2014 Resident Engineers Safety Award 
for “Outstanding Safety Performance”. 
 > For the second year running we have been awarded 
Sellafield’s Supply Chain accreditation demonstrating 
our ability to deliver the highest quality standards in the 
nuclear industry consistently. 
 > We continue to progress development of our position 
as a specialist contractor supporting proposals within 
the nuclear new build market where we have initially 
focused on the manufacture and supply of high integrity 
fabricated components.
 > Elsewhere in nuclear, at Springfields, work is underway 
for Westinghouse on a waste processing facility project 
which follows the recent successful completion of a large 
decommissioning and demolition project at the site where 
we have operated for 15 years.
 > We were recently appointed to support reactor outage 
works at the Heysham nuclear power station.
 > We currently operate on 5 of the 10 Magnox nuclear sites 
on an Electrical, Control and Instrumentation framework.
 > Successfully completed projects in the year include the 
electrical overlay scheme at Dungeness ‘A’ power station 
for Magnox Ltd. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
26
Operational review – Energy continued
Traditional, renewable 
and gas infrastructure
We provide long-term maintenance and asset renewal 
support at many of the UK's traditional power generation 
plants through established framework agreements.
 > Operational support and asset care in the traditional 
and renewable energy markets
 > Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
 > Gas distribution network asset maintenance, 
replacement and installation
 > Specialist flow stopping, drilling and internal inspection
Expertise
As demand for energy increases, it is likely that the life of some 
of the UK’s existing traditional generation assets will be extended, 
requiring investment in long-term maintenance programmes.
Demand for renewable energy is expected to increase 
following the government's commitment to deliver 15% of the 
UK’s energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020.
3
As part of ongoing improvements to the gas network, the UK 
is currently undertaking a number of essential gas network 
asset replacement programmes. Following concerns over 
iron gas mains safety, the Health and Safety Executive 
has implemented the national Iron Mains Risk Reduction 
Programme to replace gas mains within 30 metres of a 
building by 2032 or earlier.
4
Opportunity
Operating at the UK’s traditional power plants, our directly 
employed service teams provide long-term maintenance 
and asset renewal support. Our integrated mechanical, 
electrical and civil engineering solutions assist in the 
continued operation of these key infrastructure assets.
We work for clients across the gas distribution network 
replacing low and medium pressure and other complex 
strategically important gas mains. Clients include tRIIO, 
a strategic partner of National Grid, and Southern Gas 
Networks. Operating as one of the major service providers 
in the south of England our directly employed 350 strong 
workforce repairs, replaces and maintains over 150km of 
gas mains per annum.
How we respond
3,4 See page 7 for footnotes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
Strategic Report
 > We operate at 5 of the UK’s traditional power stations for 
clients E.ON, Eggborough Power Limited and SSE where 
our service teams deliver long-term maintenance and 
asset renewal services. 
 > Our operations in both the on and offshore wind energy 
market continue to progress including projects for offshore 
repairs and a recently secured manufacturing opportunity.
 > We continue to support the development of hydro schemes 
for a number of clients including Welsh Water.
 > We successfully extended our range of services into the 
specialist gas infrastructure market with the acquisition 
of Forefront Group.
 > We currently undertake 150km of gas main replacement 
per year across Southern Gas Network and National Grid's 
distribution networks as part of the 30/30 iron mains 
replacement programme. 
 > Appointed on stage 1 of a 15 year strategic replacement 
programme of large diameter medium pressure gas mains 
in central London.
 > Additional frameworks with tRIIO cover specialist flow 
stopping, drilling and maintenance. 
 > We also undertake emergency leakage repairs for National Grid.
Our progress in traditional, renewable and gas infrastructure markets in the UK Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
28
Operational review – Environmental
Water
The Group has extensive expertise in water infrastructure 
development and maintenance, flood alleviation and river 
and coastal defences where a large portion of work is 
procured under long-term framework agreements, many 
of these with repeat clients.
 > Operational support and asset care to the water industry
 > Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
 > Maintaining strategic water mains and main drainage
 > Clean and waste water rehabilitation infrastructure
 > Flood alleviation and attenuation
 > Port, harbour and sea defences
Expertise
UK water companies, regulated by the Water Services 
Regulation Authority (“Ofwat”), undertake large 
scale investment programmes to maintain and renew their 
water and sewerage infrastructure assets. Work on Asset 
Management Programme 6, the next 5 year regulatory 
period in the water industry, is due to commence in April 
2015 and will focus on maximising the efficient use of 
existing assets through integrated solutions. 
The UK government has made an unprecedented six year 
commitment to invest record levels in improving 
flood defences up to 2021.
5
Opportunity
As a multidisciplinary service provider we undertake a wide 
range of water infrastructure development work mainly 
under long-term framework agreements, many of these with 
repeat clients in the North East, Wales and the South West. 
We partner on frameworks delivering improvements to the 
water infrastructure network where our work includes 
mains replacement, upgrades to the sewer network and 
storm water retention schemes. 
The Group has specialist capabilities in innovative trunk 
mains cleaning of the underground water pipe network. 
Work is carried out by our highly trained directly employed 
workforce utilising our extensive specialised plant fleet.
How we respond
5 See page 7 for footnotes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
Strategic Report
Our progress in the UK water market
 > We continue to develop long standing relationships 
with Northumbrian Water, Wessex Water and Welsh Water, 
for which we deliver works under the regulated 
AMP 5 programme.
 > We operate on a number of frameworks for Northumbrian 
Water including the AMP 5 Major Waste Water framework and 
Clean Water frameworks as well as on non-discretionary 
Maintenance and Trunk Mains Cleaning frameworks.
 > During the year we were selected as one of two preferred 
partners by Northumbrian Water to deliver the 
accelerated flood prevention work streams which have 
seen substantial investment in the period.
 > Work continues on the Framework 4 Minor Works 
framework which sees us undertake planned and reactive 
maintenance, sewer lining and infrastructure upgrades for 
Northumbrian Water.
 > Innovation on Northumbrian Water’s Trunk Mains Cleaning 
frameworks including ice pigging techniques has delivered 
time and cost efficiencies. 
 > Work continues to develop our position on Northumbrian 
Water’s AMP 6 programme of works, having worked on all 
previous AMP programmes.
 > The integration of Lewis Civil Engineering, acquired in 
2013, has been very successful and extends our range 
and capabilities in the water market.
 > Lewis also adds a particular specialism to the Group with 
their expertise in trenchless technology.
 > We have maintained “Best Performing Contractor” status 
with both Wessex Water and Welsh Water in the period.
 > Successfully completed projects include a major project 
at Taunton for Wessex Water.
 > Wessex Water frameworks include Workstream Partner 
and Minor Civils.
 > Frameworks for Welsh Water include the Pressurised 
Pipelines framework, recently extended for two years, 
and the Major Civil Engineering Projects frameworks.
 > We have developed our relationship with the Environment 
Agency with the successful award of the £10m MEICA 
framework for the northern region. This exclusive framework 
covers over 600 flood control and water management sites 
throughout the region and will run for 4 years to March 2018.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
30
Operational review – Environmental continued
Land remediation
Renew is a leading provider of sustainable land remediation 
services nationwide with over 30 years’ expertise in specialist 
soil and groundwater remediation and associated earthworks. 
Expertise
 > Operational support and asset care in the land 
remediation market
 > Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
 > Soil and groundwater remediation
Opportunity
The Homes and Communities Agency (“HCA”) is responsible 
for the disposal of publicly owned land, including former 
industrial land transferred from the former Regional 
Development Agencies. 
The HCA Corporate Plan 2014–2018 includes specific 
targets in relation to the use of such legacy sites and 
funding arrangements to achieve economic growth, and 
to provide suitable and sufficient housing stock across 
the UK and to stimulate strategic inward investment.
6
How we respond
We are a leading provider of sustainable land remediation 
services nationwide, developing and deploying a range of site 
based remediation techniques. We work to remove costs 
associated with the redevelopment of previously used land.
Our land remediation services concentrate on the enabling and 
infrastructure works to allow the HCA targets to be achieved. Our 
in-house capabilities include soil washing, biophysical treatment, 
solidification and stabilisation, enhanced segregation and 
geotechnical improvements. Our ability to recover up to 100% 
of soils and excavated materials, including manufacturing high 
value aggregates, on site can provide a sustainable and cost 
effective solution for our clients. 
6 See page 7 for footnotes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
Strategic Report
Our progress in the UK land remediation market
 > Successful projects in the period include the delivery of 
a second major Commonwealth Games scheme for Clyde 
Gateway at Shawfields throughout 2013/14 involving the 
in situ treatment of contaminated ground water.
 > We continue to develop our opportunities in Scotland. 
During 2014 we opened an office in Cumbernauld to 
further develop our presence in this region.
 > Project awards in the period include schemes at Barnsley 
and Preston under the National Grid’s Gasholder 
Dismantling and Infilling framework which provides 
opportunities to 2016.
 > We have been awarded the Land Quality Services 
framework with Magnox for the design and construction 
of land remediation services on decommissioned nuclear 
power generation sites across the UK.
 > Our long-term relationship with National Grid continues 
as we undertake work on a number of established 
remediation frameworks nationally.
 > Work is currently underway on the Scotia Gas Networks 
8 year framework that will generate opportunities across 
Scotland and the South East of England until 2021.
 > A number of collaborative projects between Group 
businesses were undertaken in the year including scour 
protection schemes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
32
Operational review – Infrastructure 
Expertise Opportunity
How we respond
 > Off-track operational support and asset care
 > Critical planned, reactive and 24/7 emergency 
maintenance and renewal services
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
 > Asset renewal and refurbishment
 > Tunnel and shaft refurbishment
 > Bridges, structures and earthworks
 > Moving structures
Demand for rail services is anticipated to grow by more 
than 30% over the next decade. 
To meet this challenge Network Rail are investing around 
£38bn over the next five years to 2019 (CP5) on running, 
maintaining and improving Britain’s railway which includes 
some 30,000 bridge, tunnel and embankment assets.
7
As part of this long-term programme of works, our business 
is closely aligned to deliver a high volume of small value 
tasks across the rail network including civil, mechanical 
and electrical engineering and maintenance services 
nationally in this regulated market. 
Our strength lies in our flexibility and ability to deliver a 
variety of integrated and sustainable solutions for our 
clients who include Network Rail, train operating companies 
and major contractors within the rail industry. 
Our specialist skills combined with our 24/7 emergency 
response services are undertaken by our directly employed 
multi-skilled local delivery teams.
Rail
Our specialist skills combined with our 24/7 emergency 
response services are undertaken nationally by our 
directly employed multi-skilled local delivery teams.
7 See page 7 for footnotes. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
Strategic Report
Our progress in the UK rail market
 > We have seen another record year for our work in Rail with 
a substantial increase in activity across the entire work 
portfolio with Network Rail.
 > We secured a position on Network Rail’s Infrastructure 
Projects frameworks under CP5 for the Central, North East 
and Scotland regions which will see us deliver an extensive 
portfolio of renewals, maintenance and enhancements, with 
an advertised value of £450m, over the next 5 years.
 > We continue to align our business with our largest client 
Network Rail’s operational structure, resulting in 
increased opportunities.
 > Workload increased on our national Asset Management 
frameworks for Network Rail during 2014 where we undertook 
approximately 5,000 individual remits over the period.
 > We undertook work on the Building and Civils Delivery 
Partnership for Network Rail across all 4 Infrastructure 
Projects delivery regions.
 > As part of Control Period 4 we secured a large portion 
of the investment on the Economic Stimulus Programme, 
a government initiative to stimulate the economy in 
various regions.
 > Working nationally across the rail network our local delivery 
teams continue to provide a 24 hour emergency response 
service for Network Rail which has seen substantial demand 
in the period including emergency works at Dawlish in Devon 
where storms caused extensive damage to the track and 
surrounding infrastructure.
 > Our specialist skills in tunnel and shaft maintenance 
and refurbishment saw us successfully complete major 
schemes at Holme Tunnel and Whiteball Tunnel for 
Network Rail. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
34
Operational review – Infrastructure continued
Wireless telecoms
Expertise
 > Operational support and asset care in the UK wireless 
telecoms market
 > Critical planned and reactive maintenance and renewals
 > Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
 > Wireless telecoms installations
 > Specialist indoor wireless coverage solutions 
 > Special events temporary cellular network coverage
 > Provision of 2G, 3G, 4G and Wi-Fi technologies
Opportunity
Research undertaken for the market regulator, Ofcom, 
estimates that demand for mobile data could be as much as 
80 times higher than today by 2030 as the market continues 
to expand, with growth largely driven by the increasing use 
of mobile devices and internet services. 
As demand for service on the existing mobile network 
infrastructure increases, substantial investment 
is expected to add new infrastructure, upgrade existing 
networks and decommission redundant assets. 
Ofcom set a 2017 deadline for network operators 
to provide comprehensive 2G, 3G and 4G coverage 
across the country.
8
How we respond
We provide specialist wireless infrastructure services for 
the UK’s cellular network operators and major network 
equipment manufacturers where our work includes the 
acquisition, design and construction of sites, the 
installation and commissioning of the equipment and 
connection to the networks. We undertake all aspects of 
site maintenance and decommissioning with the majority of 
work contracted through framework agreements.
We provide Engineering Services encompassing all 
aspects of wireless telecoms infrastructure delivery 
including site acquisition and design, construction, 
installation and site optimisation as well as site 
maintenance and decommissioning.
8 See page 7 for footnotes Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
Strategic Report
 > The acquisition of Clarke Telecom expands our range of 
services into the wireless telecoms infrastructure market.
 > As a leading provider of wireless telecoms infrastructure 
services we remain one of the top performing contractors with 
all of our customers such as Cornerstone Telecommunications 
Infrastructure Ltd and Mobile Broadband Network Limited, 
joint ventures between the network operators which see them 
consolidate their UK asset portfolios carrying the O2, 3, 
Vodafone and EE networks.
 > We work on the EE network where we continue with the 2G 
and 4G upgrade rollout of low capacity sites.
 > Work continues on the roll-out of Ericsson 4G equipment 
to network operators' main sites in London. 
 > We are sole supplier for 4G overlay for Ericsson as the only 
approved service provider. 
Our progress in the UK wireless telecoms market Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
36
Operational review – Specialist Building
High quality residential
Recognised as a leading quality provider in the fit-out and 
refurbishment of prestigious private residential projects 
in and around London with specialist skills in developing 
engineering solutions to both extend properties below 
ground and to carry out major structural alterations.
Expertise
Opportunity
How we respond
 > Refurbishment of prestigious private residences
 > Specialist temporary works design and engineering
 > Major structural works both above and below the ground
The high quality residential market in London and the Home 
Counties remains strong with improved visibility. We have 
particular specialist engineering expertise in carrying out 
major structural alteration works.
This market requires knowledge and experience. Walter Lilly 
has a strong brand and an excellent reputation developed 
over many years in this market.
We focus on the high quality residential market in London 
and the Home Counties. We are recognised as a leading 
quality provider with expertise in fit-out and refurbishment 
of prestigious private residential projects in and around 
London. Our particular skills in listed and historical 
buildings and challenging structural works provide a 
differentiator in this market.
Our in-house specialist temporary works design and 
engineering capabilities are able to provide innovative 
solutions when extending properties below ground and 
carrying out major structural alterations. Our other 
services include design management, planning, traffic 
management and logistics support as well as expertise 
in specialist finishes.
Our progress in the UK high quality residential market
 > Completed projects include a 4 storey extension project in 
Wimbledon Village and a £9m project on the Wentworth 
Estate, Surrey both for private clients. 
 > A £6m residential fit out project for a private client 
was also completed at the Manresa Road Development 
in Chelsea. 
 > Work is under way on a £6.7m project to demolish and 
reconstruct a substantial country home in Burnham 
Beeches and on an £8.2m Grade II listed residence in 
London’s Belgravia district to consolidate two apartments.
 > We have secured in excess of £60m of projects for the 
2014/15 period. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
Strategic Report Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
38
Board approval
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 25 November 2014 and is signed on its behalf by:
B W May
Chief Executive
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
Corporate Governance
Committed to our social and 
environmental responsibilities
We balance our operations with consideration 
for our environment and the communities in 
which we operate.
Renew’s corporate social responsibility in 2014 
We strive to ensure our activities are carried out with sensitivity, limiting 
their impact whilst seeking to maximise the benefits of our work, beyond 
compliance with minimum legal requirements. Our responsibility to our 
employees, the communities in which we operate, as well as our clients, 
consultants and supply chain is integral to the work we undertake.
Community engagement and charitable giving
Our businesses recognise the importance 
of becoming valued members of the 
communities in which they operate and 
our teams work hard to engage with local 
communities and build relationships. The 
impact of our work on the local community 
is carefully considered in a project's design 
and planning stages with consultation and 
communication undertaken as necessary. 
Many of our sites use channels such as 
notice boards and newsletters to keep local 
people informed. 
Getting involved in the community extends 
beyond that of our commercial operations. 
During the year our businesses have been 
involved with many schemes, volunteering 
both time and resources as well as financial 
assistance to various community projects. 
At VHE, the Shawfields project team in 
Scotland helped a local school by installing 
foundation pads for a new school cabin. VHE 
also sponsored Hoyland Magpies under-1 1 
football team in the year.
Clarke Telecom has sponsored a number of 
local sports groups who provide activities 
and learning opportunities within the 
community as well sponsoring kit for the 
AFC Oldham Ladies 2013–14 season. 
Further afield, a number of graduates and 
trainees from Walter Lilly took part in the 
“All Out Africa: Build a Future” project 
where volunteers travel to Swaziland, 
South Africa, to help rural communities 
undertake building projects. 
Shepley Engineers supports a range of 
community schemes in Cumbria as well as 
volunteering apprentices to work on projects 
for the Calvert T rust. Also supporting the 
Calvert T rust, Seymour completed the 2014 
“Kielder Quest”, an annual corporate 
fundraiser where the team competed in a 
series of physical and mental challenges 
against other organisations from the region. 
Britannia Construction signed up to the 
Armed Forces Corporate Covenant where 
businesses show their support for the 
armed forces community. Volunteers from 
Seymour's T runk Mains Cleaning team as 
part of Northumbrian Water’s “ Just an hour” 
initiative, worked on a scheme to assist in 
the cleanup of Sugley Dene in Newcastle 
upon Tyne.
Many of our businesses undertook 
fundraising work for their chosen charities 
during the year. At Walter Lilly, staff and 
consultants participated in a Cyclothon 
event raising money for the Butterfly T ree 
Children’s Charity and the Rugby Football 
Union Injured Players Foundation. At VHE 
employees raised money for a number 
of charities including the Macmillan 
Charitable Trust.
Shepley Engineers supported the 
Cumbria Community Foundation that 
raises money to help improve the quality 
of life for disadvantaged people in the 
local community. Britannia Construction 
supported the Milestone School in 
Gloucester, a community special school 
that provides for children with special 
educational needs, as well as GEAR Projects, 
a charity helping homeless people in the 
Gloucester area. 
As corporate partner to the Hartlepool 
and District Hospice, Seymour organised 
a number of fundraising events including 
a charity ball and a gruelling 2 day, 153 mile 
coast to coast cycle ride from Cumbria to 
Hartlepool. Clarke Telecom supported 
Children In Need, raising money through 
cake bakes and “Pudsey Email Bingo” as well 
as supporting Dr Kershaw’s Hospice, a local 
charity that provides a specialist care facility 
for adults with life limiting illnesses. At AMCO, 
site teams raised money for various charities 
throughout the year including Help for 
Heroes. Lewis participates in the "Wessex 
for West Africa" initiative, a scheme designed 
to raise money for WaterAid.
Other charities supported across the 
Group in the year include the British 
Heart Foundation, Guide Dogs, Royal 
National Lifeboat Institution, Yorkshire 
Air Ambulance, Bradford Toy Library and 
Resource Centre and Ilkley Candlelighters.
Corporate social responsibility
Corporate Governance Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
40
Our commitment to improving the safety 
performance of our operations continued 
throughout 2014 and remains a key focus 
for the Group. Ensuring the safe working 
practices of our employees, subcontractors 
and those who work with us underpins the 
work we undertake and 2014 saw us 
consolidate a nine year improvement in our 
accident incidence rate to over 90%.
Safety is managed across Renew by the 
Safety and Environmental Management 
Group which co-ordinates activities and 
liaises with our team of locally based safety 
advisors. Working as part of an overall safety 
team our advisors are encouraged to share 
specialist knowledge and best practice 
from their individual, often unique, working 
environments. One of the most challenging 
areas the Group operates in is the nuclear 
environment. We have completed over 
5 million man hours of operations at the 
Sellafield Site in Cumbria since a lost time 
accident. Safety achievements were 
recognised by Sellafield with the award of 
the 2014 Resident Engineers Safety Award 
for “Outstanding Safety Performance” to our 
subsidiary, Shepley Engineers. Elsewhere 
we have undertaken 1 1 years at Magnox 
sites in the UK and 15 years on E.ON UK sites 
without a lost time accident.
The ongoing work to improve our safety 
performance includes various initiatives 
which reflect the specialist environments 
in which our businesses operate. The 
changing nature of our activities, with an 
increase in smaller teams often working 
remotely, has been recognised by an 
increased emphasis on behavioural safety 
training during the year. Schemes are 
designed to support the development 
of our safety culture and encourage 
open discussion within the business, 
helping to identify where improvements 
can be achieved.
Examples of our safety initiatives include 
the continual monitoring of sites through 
cross business inspections and audits. 
Our businesses undertake safety 
workshops and campaigns such as our 
safety whiteboard and “You said, we did” 
schemes. Working closely with our client, 
our rail business has adopted Network Rail’s 
“life saving rules” campaign as part of its 
safety culture. We implement ongoing 
programmes of safety and awareness 
training for employees and personnel 
who work alongside us. A number of our 
subsidiaries also present safety awards 
annually within their businesses to ensure 
safety remains the top of everyone’s agenda.
It is important our subcontractors are 
engaged with our safety objectives and 
we work closely with them to align our 
safety cultures. Initiatives include our 
supplier safety forums which have been 
ongoing during 2014.
Many of our businesses continued to 
be accredited and approved with various 
health and safety schemes including the 
Contractors Health and Safety Assessment 
Scheme, ConstructionOnline and 
SAFEContractor.
Environment and sustainability
Corporate social responsibility continued Corporate social responsibility continued
Safety
92%
Cumulative reduction in 
accident incidence rate 
over the last 9 years
5 years 
since a lost time 
accident at Sellafield
We are committed to considering 
the environment in which we operate. 
We develop and apply systems of 
environmental management as an 
integral part of our operational practice 
alongside management reporting and 
control procedures. We work with 
industry bodies, business partners 
and other organisations to promote 
environmental care, increase our 
knowledge and disseminate best 
practice within our businesses. 
Our business’ environmental management 
systems provide a framework for establishing 
and reviewing objectives, monitoring and 
communicating our requirements as well 
as monitoring our environmental impact 
and are regularly assessed across all 
levels of our business. Environmental 
impacts such as the disposal of waste 
to landfill and the release of carbon 
emissions are measured and managed. 
Innovative working practices such as the 
use of “emissions buster” technology to 
reduce the use of generators and fuel on 
site with the automatic charging of battery 
packs to deliver power to site systems at 
night, produce efficiencies as well as  
quieter nights for local residents.
Schemes designed to encourage our 
employees and subcontractors to adopt 
sound environmental understanding and 
practices use a mixed programme of 
training and awareness which aims to instil 
behavioural change. Internally within our 
business, examples include initiatives to 
reduce emissions through the hire, lease 
and procurement of more efficient plant, 
equipment and motor vehicles, and through 
the use of energy from renewable sources 
within our offices. Externally, schemes 
include the assessment of subcontractors 
where performance against environmental 
targets are measured. All our businesses 
systems are accredited to ISO:14001. 
“ We develop and apply 
systems of environmental 
management as an integral 
part of our operational 
practice alongside 
management reporting 
and control procedures.” Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
Corporate Governance
Our businesses provide a range of 
training and employment opportunities 
including occupational and professional 
apprenticeships, scholarships, work 
experience and management training 
programmes in partnership with the local 
communities in which they operate.   
VHE offers employment to a number 
of geo-environmental and quantity 
surveying students during their placement 
year as well as apprenticeships. 
Recognising the need for investment 
in traditional electrical and mechanical 
engineering skills, Shepley Engineers 
and AMCO continue to extend their craft 
apprenticeship training programmes. 
Walter Lilly remains committed to 
encouraging young people into the 
industry and has now been successfully 
sponsoring students from Loughborough 
University for over 15 years; disciplines 
include design management, 
construction management and quantity 
surveying. Walter Lilly also provides work 
experience opportunities for year 11 and 
12 pupils from three local schools in the 
Croydon area. 
Britannia Construction undertakes civil 
engineering apprenticeships, offering 
formal training to develop industry skills 
and experience.
Seymour continues as part of a 
memorandum of understanding between 
St. Hild’s School, Hartlepool College of 
Further Education and Construction 
Skills that supports pupils and staff 
through placement and promotes 
civil engineering. Seymour has also 
seen 9 engineers successfully complete 
the Institute of Civil Engineering 
Technician qualification. 
At VHE and Clarke Telecom, employees 
undertake ongoing programmes of 
training including specialist equipment 
training relevant to their site experience. 
“ Many of our businesses 
demonstrate sustainable 
working practices 
employing local people 
on their projects.”
Employment and training
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (“RoSPA”) 
 > VHE awarded a RoSPA President's Award for the third year 
running following twelve consecutive Gold awards.
 > PPS Electrical Ltd awarded a President’s award 
in recognition of achieving 14 Gold awards.
 > Shepley Engineers awarded a RoSPA sector commendation.
 > West Cumberland Engineering awarded a second RoSPA 
Gold award.
 > Britannia Construction awarded a Gold Medal in recognition 
of achieving 5 consecutive Gold awards. 
Other awards
 > A team which included Seymour and a number of 
Northumbrian Water suppliers, took the top award at the 
Institute of Civil Engineers’ North East Robert Stephenson 
Awards in the Under £4m category for a project at Barkers 
Haugh sewage treatment works in Durham.
 > PPS Electrical Ltd was awarded the 2014 Sellafield Resident 
Engineers Safety award for “outstanding safety performance” 
at the Sellafield site in Cumbria.
 > Clarke Telecom has won a prestigious British Safety Council 
International Safety Award for 2014. This award is given to 
organisations in recognition of their proven commitment to 
workplace health and safety.
 > Lewis Civil Engineering was presented with a Highly 
Commended Award for Best Innovative Idea at the Dwr 
Cymru Welsh Water Occupational Health and Safety 
Conference 2014.
 > AMCO’s Holme Tunnel project won the “Civil Engineering 
Achievement of the Year” award at this year’s prestigious 
National Rail Awards. 
 > Seymour won the customer focus category at Northumbrian 
Water’s “Going the Extra Mile” Awards 2014 for the Benfieldside 
Road Flood Protection Scheme in Consett.
 > AMCO was awarded Network Rail's Star Lite award for a 
pumping station project in Sudbrook. The award recognises 
high levels of health, safety and environmental risk control.
Awards Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
42
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Principal activities
For the year ended 30 September 2014 the principal activity of the Group was as contractors in Engineering Services and Specialist 
Building. The main activities are carried out in the United Kingdom with some development activities in the USA. More details of these 
activities, the year’s trading and future developments are contained in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the 
Strategic Report and the Financial Review. A list of the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group as at 30 September 2014 is listed 
in Note R to the Company’s financial statements.
Results and dividends
The Group profit for the year after accounting for discontinued operations was £5,182,000 (2013: £8,472,000). The Directors 
recommend the payment of a final dividend on the Ordinary Shares of 3.5p (2013: 2.50p) giving a total for the year of 5.0p 
(2013: 3.60p).
Business review
Information that fulfils the business review requirements applicable to the Group can be found in this report, the Chief Executive’s 
Review and the Strategic Report and is incorporated into this report by cross reference.
Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash and short-term deposits and obligations under finance leases. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial 
instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations. It is, and has been throughout the 
period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The main risks arising from the 
Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
Interest rate risk
Interest bearing assets comprise cash and bank deposits and earn interest at floating rates. The Group’s bank loan and overdraft 
facility bear interest at floating rates.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy is to ensure availability of operating funds by maintaining an appropriate cash balance in both current and deposit 
accounts and, when necessary, to establish appropriate levels of borrowing facilities to provide short-term flexibility.
Foreign currency risk
As a result of the investment in operations in the United States, movements in the US dollar/sterling exchange rate could materially 
affect the Group’s and the Company’s balance sheet. As at 30 September 2014, £3,868,000 (2013: £4,325,000) of the Group’s net 
assets are denominated in foreign currency. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments in its management of foreign 
currency risk.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash, amounts recoverable on contracts and trade receivables, which 
represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its amounts recoverable on contracts and trade receivables.
Credit risk is managed by monitoring the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one customer depending upon their credit 
rating. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts, estimated by the Group’s management 
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Payment of creditors
The Group recognises the importance of good relationships with its suppliers and sub-contractors and has established the following 
payment policy:
(a) agree payment terms in advance of any commitment being entered into;
(b) ensure suppliers are made aware of these terms by inclusion of the terms of payment on the order or contract; and
(c)  ensure that payments are made in accordance with the terms of the contract or order providing that the presented 
documentation is complete and accurate.
Employees
The Directors recognise the need for communication with employees at every level. All employees have access to a copy of the Annual 
Report and Accounts which, together with staff briefings, internal notice-board statements and newsletters, keeps them informed of 
the Group’s progress. The Group produces a quarterly in-house publication, Renews, which provides information to its employees 
about the activities and performance of the Group.
The Group continues to be committed to the health, safety and welfare of its employees and to observe the terms of the Health and 
Safety at Work Act 1974, and all other relevant regulatory and legislative requirements. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
Corporate Governance
Employees continued
It is the policy of the Group that there shall be no discrimination or less favourable treatment of employees, workers or job applicants 
in respect of race, colour, ethnic or national origins, religious beliefs, sex, sexual orientation, disability, political beliefs, age or marital 
status. Full consideration will be given to suitable applications for employment from disabled persons, where they have the necessary 
abilities and skills for that position, and wherever possible to re-train employees who become disabled, so that they can continue their 
employment in another position. Renew and its subsidiaries engage, promote and train staff on the basis of their capabilities, 
qualifications and experience, without discrimination, giving all employees an equal opportunity to progress within the Group.
Health and safety management
B W May continues as the designated Board Director of Health and Safety with Group responsibility for safety and environmental 
management. Health, safety and environmental management issues and reports are reviewed at every Group Board meeting with 
the Head of Department in attendance when necessary.
The Executive Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, discusses and progresses policy, legislative changes, best 
practice, training needs, inspections, audits (internal and external), performance measurement and statistical information. All topics 
are discussed with a specific focus on improvement. 
Control at business level remains with subsidiary Managing Directors who are required to appoint a Director who is responsible for 
safety and environmental matters. Health, safety and environmental issues are discussed as the first agenda item at monthly Board 
meetings. Each business safety and environmental meeting encourages open communication between all employees and is a key part 
of the Group’s efforts to gather and disseminate good practice for inclusion in business-based management systems. Minimum safety 
and environmental standards are contained within bespoke business Safety and Environmental Management Systems. This system is 
based on Group activities and provides specific standards, procedures, information, forms and advice which accommodate changes in 
legislation expected during the coming financial year. Management advice is provided by the Group Health, Safety and Environmental 
Department consisting of the Group Health, Safety and Environmental Director, an administrator and regional Group Safety and 
Environmental Advisors. 
Certain Group companies employ their own specialist advisors who liaise directly with the Group HSE Director on common issues. The 
Group maintains its membership with the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents and locally based construction safety groups. 
All safety and environmental department personnel hold membership with the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health. 
Attendance on the five day Construction Industry Training Board Site Safety Management Training Scheme continues to be a 
requirement for all construction management personnel, with a two day refresher required every five years. A one day Directors and 
Senior Managers course is available internally and is used to introduce new systems and detail changes to construction legislation. 
Short duration ‘tool box talks’ and ‘safety briefings’ are used to enhance the knowledge and competence of supervisory management. 
Group policy requires each business to report and record all injuries, diseases and dangerous occurrences, regardless of severity. An 
incident database is maintained to collate this information and provide statistical data allowing performance to be measured and 
determine system amendment and future training requirements. A system of Safety and Environmental Alerts ensures lessons learnt 
and changes to working practices are rapidly transmitted to our workforce, businesses and their contractors. The Accident Incidence 
Rate (“AIR”) for the year ended 30 September 2014, measured on the standard base line of 100,000 persons at work, is a key area 
where the Group measures its performance. 
Corporate social responsibility and the environment
The Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report, which includes its report on the environment, is on pages 39 to 41.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and their brief biographical details are set out below. 
Non-executive Directors
John Bishop – Director, 69, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director in October 2006. He is a Chartered Accountant 
with over 20 years’ PLC experience at main board level. Before retiring in 2005, John spent twelve years at Morgan Sindall Plc 
as Development Director and latterly as Finance Director. 
David Forbes – Director, 54, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director in June 2011. He qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1984 and has over 20 years’ experience in corporate advisory services with N M Rothschild & Son Limited. He is 
non-executive Chairman of entu (UK) plc and a non-executive director of Vertu Motors plc and Boohoo.com plc.
Roy Harrison OBE – Director, 67, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director in November 2003. Subsequently, he was 
appointed Executive Chairman in March 2004, reverting to non-executive Chairman with effect from 1 October 2005. He is a former 
chief executive of the Tarmac Group, a former director of BSS Group PLC and has a number of investing director positions in private 
construction materials companies. He is governor and chairman of a number of City Academies and a non-executive director of Fox 
Marble Holdings plc. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
44
Directors’ report continued
Executive Directors
Brian May – Director, 63, was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer in June 2005. He is a Chartered Civil Engineer. He 
progressed his career in Tarmac, subsequently holding a number of senior positions in Mowlem plc before becoming Chief Executive 
of Laing Construction plc and more latterly HBG Construction Ltd. 
Paul Scott – Director, 50, was appointed to the Board as Engineering Services Director on 21 July 2014. Paul has been with the Group 
for sixteen years, serving as Managing Director of Shepley Engineers Limited for seven years before taking up his current position in 
July 2013 prior to joining the Board.
John Samuel – Director, 58, joined the Board in May 2006 as Group Finance Director. He was previously Group Finance Director at 
Filtronic plc from 1991 until 2004 and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Zetex plc from July 2004 until February 2006. He 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1981 with Deloitte, Haskins and Sells before serving as a partner with Baker Tilly from 1987 
until 1991. 
An organogram with the Directors’ areas of responsibility can be found on the Company’s website: www.renewholdings.com.
Brian May retires by rotation at the 2014 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and will offer himself for reappointment. The Board 
recommends his reappointment as it considers that he continues to perform his role well. Additionally, Paul Scott, who was 
appointed as a Director with effect from 1 July 2014, seeks reappointment at the first AGM since his appointment. The Board 
recommends the reappointment of Paul Scott and considers that he brings considerable operational and management 
experience to the Group’s business.
The Articles of Association provide that each Director shall be indemnified by the Company against losses, costs and expenses he may 
sustain or incur in connection with the performance of his duties of office, to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Company has 
purchased and maintained throughout the year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of its Directors.
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors (and their immediate family members) in the shares of the Company and options for shares 
are set out on page 48. No Director has any interest in any other Group company. Details of the Directors’ remuneration and service 
contracts appear on pages 46 and 47.
Disclosable interests
As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified of the following disclosable interests in the voting rights of the Company: 
Number
of ordinary
shares
Percentage
of issued
share capital
Octopus Investments Nominees Limited 9,574,560 15.56%
Hargreave Hale Limited 7,265,370 11.81%
Brewin Dolphin Limited 2,800,783 4.55%
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 2,503,296 4.07%
Share capital
As at the date of this report, the total number of shares in issue (being ordinary shares of 10p each) is 61,517,948. 
During the year, the Company has not bought back any of its own shares. 114,280 new ordinary shares of 10p each were issued at 
52.5p during the year to satisfy the exercise of share options.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm the following:
> > so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s Auditor is unaware; and
> > each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to reappoint KPMG LLP as Auditor to the Group and to authorise the Directors 
to determine their remuneration.
Approval
The Board approved the Report of the Directors on 25 November 2014.
By Order of the Board
J Samuel FCA
Company Secretary
25 November 2014
Company number 650447 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
Corporate Governance
The Directors present the Directors’ Remuneration Report (the “Remuneration Report”) for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
As an AIM listed company, Renew is not required to prepare this Remuneration Report in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 or the recently enacted Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (together “the Regulations”). However, the Directors recognise the importance, and support the principles, of the 
Regulations and seek to follow them to the extent considered relevant for an AIM listed company. There are improved and extended 
disclosures in the report presented below and the Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor market practice to ensure that, 
in future, this report will include disclosures at least as good as market practice for AIM companies. The Auditor is not required to report 
to the shareholders on the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Board consults with major shareholders when any significant change in the structure or scale of directors’ remuneration is 
being considered. No material matters have been raised by shareholders relating to directors’ remuneration during the year.
At the last general meeting, votes on the advisory resolution relating to the Remuneration Report were cast as follows. 
In favour – 4,885,504 (99.7%)
Against – 16,618 (0.3%) 
Total votes cast  – 4,902,122 (100%)
Remuneration Committee
On his appointment as a Director on 1 June 2011, D M Forbes assumed the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee which also 
comprises R J Harrison and J Bishop. The Committee held four meetings during the financial year to discuss remuneration arrangements. 
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference include:
(a)  to determine and agree with the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration packages, including bonuses, incentive 
payments and share options or share awards, of the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Management;
(b)   to review and approve the design of all share incentive plans and performance related pay schemes for approval by the Board 
and shareholders as applicable;
(c)  to determine targets and awards made under share incentive plans and performance related pay schemes;
(d) to determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each Executive Director and other senior executives; and
(e)  to ensure contractual terms and payments made on termination are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is 
not rewarded. 
Non-executive Directors do not have any personal interest in the matters to be decided by the Committee other than as 
shareholders, nor any potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running 
of the Company. The Executive Directors and other senior personnel may be invited to attend meetings when appropriate to provide 
advice. However, no Director is present or takes part in discussions concerning his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration policy is that the remuneration package of the Executive Directors should be sufficiently competitive to 
attract, retain and motivate those Directors to achieve the Company’s objectives, without making excessive payments. The remuneration 
and employment terms of the Executive Directors are determined by the Committee by comparison with salaries paid and terms agreed 
with Directors in similar companies in the same sector and of a similar size and after a review of the performance of the individual.
It is the aim of the Committee to reward Executive Directors competitively and on the broad principle that they should be in the range 
of median to upper quartile of remuneration paid to senior management of comparable public companies. For guidance, the 
Committee refers to published survey data. The Board determines the terms and conditions of non-executive Directors. 
There are four main elements to the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other senior executives:
> > basic salary and benefits;
> > annual bonus awards;
> > long-term equity incentive plans; and
> > pension arrangements.
Basic salary and benefits
Basic salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, and adjusted where the Committee believes that 
adjustments are appropriate to reflect performance, changed responsibilities and/or market conditions.
Other benefits for Executive Directors include car allowances and certain medical cover for the Director and immediate family. 
The Company also has a permanent health insurance policy to provide cover for the Executive Directors.
Directors’ remuneration report Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
46
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy continued
Annual bonus awards
It is the Company’s policy to provide a bonus incentive scheme for Directors and senior executives of the operating companies, 
linked directly to the performance of the businesses for which they are responsible. In the case of Executive Directors, these relate 
to the performance of the Group as a whole. All performance criteria are subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee at the 
beginning of a year and all payments are made only when approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the Annual Bonus Scheme for the year under review and the following year are set out below. 
Long-term equity incentive plans
The Remuneration Committee has ceased to use the Renew Holdings plc 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) and 
implemented a new long term incentive plan (“LTIP”) which was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) held on 
25 January 2012. The LTIP has been designed so as to comply with ABI guidelines in all material respects and to align a material 
part of a Director’s remuneration more closely with shareholders. 
The performance criteria to be achieved by the Company in respect of the LTIP are as follows:
Vesting of one half of the options is dependent on absolute growth in the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’), and the other 
half dependent on the Company’s TSR performance as compared to the TSR achieved by other companies in a comparator group of 
companies selected by the Remuneration Committee. All TSR calculations are based on the average of the opening and closing 
share price over a 30 day period prior to the commencement and end of the performance period. 
The absolute TSR growth target requires the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period to have grown by more than 
25%. For TSR growth between 25% and 100%, the half of the option which is subject to the absolute TSR growth target vests on a 
straight-line basis from nil vesting at 25% growth, to 100% vesting at 100% growth. There is no vesting if TSR growth is 25% or less.
In the event of a material correction of any accounts of the Company used to assess satisfaction of any performance conditions, or in the 
event of a participant’s gross misconduct, options may be reduced, adjusted or cancelled as determined by the Remuneration Committee. 
To the extent that options have already been exercised, the Remuneration Committee may (having considered all the circumstances) 
require the participant to return any shares received, or the amounts of any proceeds of the sale of such shares (net of tax).
The ESOS and the Renew Savings Related Share Option Scheme were approved at an EGM held on 11 March 2004. There are no 
options outstanding under either scheme. The Remuneration Committee does not currently intend to grant any further options 
under the ESOS or the Renew Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Company’s policy to grant options or awards under the above schemes is at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion as and 
when considered appropriate.
Remuneration for the year ending 30 September 2014
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The Company’s policy is for all of the Executive Directors to have twelve month rolling service contracts that provide for a twelve 
month notice period. 
The fees of non-executive Directors are determined by the full Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association. 
The non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other benefits. The Directors are 
indemnified to the full extent permitted by statute under the Articles of Association. All non-executive Directors are subject 
to re-election every 3 years.
The service contracts of the Directors, who served during the year ended 30 September 2014, include the following terms:
Directors Executive/Non-executive Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period (months)
R J Harrison Non-executive 1 February 2009 Rolling one month 1
J Bishop Non-executive 1 September 2008 Rolling one month 1
D M Forbes Non-executive 1 June 2011 Rolling one month 1
B W May Executive 20 June 2005 Rolling one year 12
P Scott Executive 1 July 2014 Rolling one year 12
J Samuel Executive 17 May 2006 Rolling one year 12 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
Corporate Governance
Directors’ remuneration
Information is provided below for Directors who served during the financial year and as at 30 September 2014:
Total emoluments Total emoluments
Salary/fees Bonuses Benefits Pension 2014 2013
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
B W May 1,2,3,4 303 303 71 — 677 556
P Scott 2,3,4,5 33 19 2 8 62 —
J Samuel 2,3,4 233 233 56 — 522 439
1,261 995
Non-executive Directors
R J Harrison 58 — — — 58 57
J Bishop 31 — — — 31 31
D M Forbes 31 — — — 31 31
1,383 1,114
Notes:
1. The highest paid Director for 2014 and 2013 was B W May who received emoluments of £677,000 (2013: £556,000). 
2. Benefits include car allowances and certain medical cover for the Director and immediate family.
3.  B W May and J Samuel received payments amounting to 15 per cent of their basic salary, in lieu of Company pension 
contributions. These were paid through payroll and taxed as salary and are included in Benefits above. The Company pays 
15% of P Scott’s basic salary into his personal pension plan.
4.  Bonuses were earned by B W May, P Scott and J Samuel during the current financial year and will be paid in the year ending 
30 September 2015. P Scott was not a participant in the Executive Directors’ bonus incentive scheme for the year ended 
30 September 2014 and the bonus shown above is related to his former position as Managing Director of one of the Group’s 
operating subsidiaries.
5.  P Scott was appointed as a director with effect from 1 July 2014 and so emoluments shown above represent the three month 
period ended 30 September 2014.
Annual bonus awards
The Company provides a bonus incentive scheme for Executive Directors linked to the performance of the Group. 
At the beginning of each year, the Remuneration Committee agrees targets for operating profit before exceptional items for the Group. 
If the Group meets those targets then the Executive Directors receive an annual bonus equal to 50 per cent of their salary. The level of 
over and under performance causes the level of annual bonus to vary with the maximum bonus of 100 percent of salary being paid if the 
performance exceeds the target by 30 per cent. The Remuneration Committee make such adjustments to the target and/or results to 
remove distortions such as acquisitions and disposals during the year and other items as they believe are necessary. 
At the beginning of the year ended 30 September 2014, the Remuneration Committee agreed a target for operating profit 
before exceptional items for the Group based on the structure of the Group on that date of £12,600,000. The operating profit before 
exceptional items for the Group, adjusted to remove distortions caused by acquisitions and disposals during the year, exceeded the 
set targets by in excess of 30 per cent. Accordingly, under the terms of the scheme, the Executive Directors are entitled to receive 
an annual bonus equal to the maximum bonus of 100 per cent of salary.
Long-term equity incentive plans
The market price of the Company’s shares at 30 September 2014 was 301.5p and the range of market prices during the year was 
between 136.5p and 303.5p.
Information is provided below for Directors who served during the financial year and as at 30 September 2014:
Directors’ share options under the LTIP
Pursuant to the LTIP, the Board has granted the following options to the Executive Directors which are exercisable at a nominal cost 
subject to the achievement of performance criteria as follows:
Exercisable between
2 March 2015 &
1 March 2022
Exercisable between
21 December 2015 &
20 December 2022
Exercisable between
3 January 2017 &
2 January 2024
B W May 240,000 228,560 140,647
J Samuel 160,000 171,440 112,518
Performance criteria for the vesting of the share options under the LTIP are set out in the Remuneration Policy above and in Note 20 
to the accounts.
No options granted under the LTIP vested during the year. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
48
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ pension information
No Director had pension entitlements under the Company’s defined benefit pension scheme arrangements. The Group has 
established individual stakeholder plans for each employee who elects to join into which the Group makes contributions; B W May 
and J Samuel receive a sum equivalent to 15% of their basic salary in lieu of pension contributions from the Company. The Company 
pays 15% of P Scott’s basic salary into his personal pension scheme.
Following the adoption of new Articles of Association at the AGM on 28 January 2009, the restriction on the retirement age of the 
Executive Directors was removed.
Directors’ share interests
Those Directors serving at the end of the year and their immediate families had interests in the share capital of the Company 
at 30 September 2014 as follows:
Ordinary Shares of £0.10 each
30 September 2014 30 September 2013
R J Harrison 150,000 150,000
J Bishop 10,000 10,000
D M Forbes 20,000 20,000
B W May 844,193 844,193
P Scott — —
J Samuel 240,548 240,548
Remuneration for the year ending 30th September, 2015
Basic salary and benefits
The basic salaries of B W May, J Samuel and P Scott have increased by 3.5 per cent to £313,000, £241,000 and £207,000 respectively 
with effect from 1 October 2014. The level of increase in very closely aligned to the average annual pay award across the Group 
as a whole excluding rises for promotions or other changes in responsibility. 
There have been no material changes in the benefits which the Directors are entitled to receive.
Annual bonus awards
The annual bonus scheme for the year ending 30 September 2015 has been agreed. The structure of the scheme is similar to the 
scheme for the previous year as set out above, in all material respects (except for the targets). Executive Directors will therefore be 
entitled to receive a bonus of 50 per cent of their basic salary if the Group achieves target operating profit and a maximum of 100 
percent of their basic salary if the Group achieves 130 per cent of target operating profit.
Long-term equity incentive plan.
The Remuneration Committee have made annual awards under the LTIP since it was set up in 201 2. Each award has been made shortly 
after the publication of the Company’s annual results. It is expected that this will continue in the absence of unforeseen circumstances 
and that the next award will be announced shortly. Awards are limited in amount to 100 per cent of a Directors basic salary, unless the 
Remuneration Committee believe there are exceptional reasons that justify exceeding that limit. The first tranche of options granted 
under the LTIP , detailed above, will vest during the coming year subject to the performance criteria contained therein. 
Approval
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 25 November 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
D M Forbes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
Corporate Governance
Corporate governance
As an AIM listed company, Renew is not required to follow the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), 
as set out in the Financial Services Authority’s Listing Rules. The Directors, however, recognise the importance of, and accordingly 
support, the principles of good corporate governance as contained within the Code. The Directors normally seek to follow the Code 
to the extent considered relevant for an AIM listed company but are unable to achieve compliance with the Code in a number of 
areas this year, primarily because of the lack of independent non-executive Directors. These matters are explained in further detail 
in the sections below.
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and two 
independent non-executive Directors. Brief biographies of the Directors are given on pages 43 and 44. The Company is not compliant 
with the requirement of the Code that more than half of the Board should be comprised of independent non-executive Directors. 
Although the Board believes that Mr Harrison acts as an independent director, he is not regarded as such by the Code due to the period 
in 2004/2005 when he acted as Executive Chairman. 
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly. Appropriate training, briefings and induction are available to all Directors on 
appointment and subsequently as necessary, taking into account existing qualifications and experience. New Directors are subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. 
The Board met formally ten times in the year with all Directors in attendance. Committee meetings dealing with the daily business 
of the Company were held as necessary. The Board receives written and oral reports from the Executive Directors ensuring matters 
are considered fully and enabling Directors to discharge their duties properly. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision ensuring the maintenance of control over strategic, financial and operational matters. In addition, procedures are 
in place for the Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
Board committees
The Board operates with a number of Board Committees. J Bishop, the senior independent non-executive Director, acts as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and D M Forbes, an independent non-executive Director, acts as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by R J Harrison. 
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Each of the Board’s Committees 
has carefully drafted terms of reference. 
The Remuneration Committee, which comprises all of the non-executive Directors, determines and agrees with the Board the 
framework and policy of executive remuneration packages, including bonuses, incentive payments, share options or awards and 
pension arrangements. Further information concerning the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 45. 
The Nominations Committee, which comprises R J Harrison, J Bishop, D M Forbes and B W May, monitors the composition of the Board 
and recommends the appointment of new Directors. The Nominations Committee, with all Directors present, has held two meetings 
during the year to discuss nomination matters.
The Nominations Committee terms of reference include:
(a) to review the structure, size and composition of the Board;
(b) to consider succession planning for Directors and senior executives;
(c)  to identify and nominate, for approval by the Board, suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies; and
(d)  to make recommendations to the Board on the contents of letters of appointment, Directors’ duties, re-appointment or re-election 
of Directors upon conclusion of a specified term or retirement by rotation.
The Audit Committee has held three meetings to consider Audit Committee business. The Audit Committee consists of all three 
non-executive Directors. The Executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings but at least two meetings are held 
each year with the external Auditor at which the Executive Directors are not present. The Audit Committee considers the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the risk management and control systems of the Group, and reports the results to the Board. It reviews the scope and 
results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the objectivity of the Auditor. The Audit Committee monitors the non-audit work 
performed by the Auditor to help ensure that the independence of the Auditor is maintained. The Audit Committee also reviews the 
interim statement, the preliminary announcement and accounting policies. 
The Board forms a General Purposes Committee from time it time as it deems necessary. This Committee comprises any two of the 
Executive Directors as determined by the Board as appropriate and considers individual business matters, which have been 
specifically delegated to it by the Board.
R J Harrison OBE
Non-executive Chairman
John Bishop
Non-executive Director
David Forbes
Non-executive Director Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
50
Corporate governance continued
Internal controls
Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2014 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Group 
has fully complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and the Turnbull guidance, other than as disclosed above. The Directors 
acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing and monitoring its 
effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the Group 
is exposed and therefore provides a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against a company failing to meet its business objectives 
or against material misstatement or loss. Consequently, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing significant risks faced by the Group and that it is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
The Group operates a risk management process, which is embedded in normal management and governance processes. There is a 
system of self-examination of risk areas and controls by subsidiaries and departments within the Group. Where significant risks are 
identified, the probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact and the plans for managing and mitigating each of those risks 
is reported. The Group operates a series of controls which include the annual strategic planning and budgeting process, short-term 
cash monitoring achieved by means of weekly forecasts which are compared against budget and previous forecasts, clearly defined 
capital investment guidelines and levels of authority and a clear organisational structure within which individuals’ responsibilities are 
identified and monitored. These results and processes are monitored, updated, reviewed and considered by the Board. The Group has 
established a series of minimum standards in a number of financial and operational areas with which each business within the Group 
must comply. Group management monitors and reviews compliance with these requirements on a periodic basis. Due to the size and 
nature of the Group, the Board does not consider that a separate internal audit function is necessary. For the last seven years and 
including 2014, the Group has carried out a programme of internal audit conducted by the Group Commercial Director and by members 
of the various subsidiaries’ finance teams. This system of peer review promotes best practice as well as ensuring that Group minimum 
requirements as to procedures and internal controls are being complied with. The reports from these internal audits are made 
available both to the Board and to the external Auditor.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the budgets and forecasts prepared by the Group and its trading subsidiaries and consider that at the time 
of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, and information relating to the Directors’ remuneration and their 
interests in share options, is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Directors’ and officers’ indemnity
The Articles of Association provide that each Director or other officer or Auditor of the Company shall be indemnified by the Company 
against losses, costs and expenses he may sustain or incur in connection with the performance of his duties of office, to the fullest 
extent permitted by law.
Shareholder relationships
Members of the Board have dialogue with individual shareholders during the year. In addition to the Annual and Interim Report 
and Accounts, the Chairman addresses shareholders at the AGM and invites questions to any members of the Board. 
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and provides an opportunity for communication with those shareholders attending. 
Notice of the AGM is given to shareholders at least 21 days in advance and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially 
separate issue. Where resolutions at the AGM are dealt with by show of hands, the results of proxy votes for and against are 
still announced. 
Financial and other information about the Group is available on the Company’s website: www.renewholdings.com, from which 
shareholders can also access their shareholding details via a link to the website of Capita Registrars plc.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 28 January 2015, the Notice for which accompanies this Report and Accounts. The Notice contains special 
business relating to the renewal of the Board’s power to allot equity shares. Brief details of the purpose and effect of the proposed 
resolutions are enclosed with the Notice of AGM. 
Shareholders should complete the proxy form accompanying this document in accordance with the notes contained in the Notice of AGM.
Approval
The Board approved the Corporate Governance Report on 25 November 2014.
By Order of the Board
J Samuel
Company Secretary
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
Corporate Governance
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the Strategic Report, the Annual Report and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Review, the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. As required 
by the AIM Rules of the London Stock Exchange they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
> > select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
> > make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
> > for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
> > for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
> > prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company 
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
52
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Renew Holdings plc
We have audited the financial statements of Renew Holdings plc for the year ended 30 September 2014 set out on pages 53 to 85. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, 
and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
> > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2014 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
> > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
> > the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
> > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
> > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
> > the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
> > certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
> > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Iain Moffatt (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
1 The Embankment 
Neville Street 
Leeds 
LS1 4DW 
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
Accounts
Group income statement
for the year ended 30 September
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptional items and exceptional items and
items and amortisation items and amortisation
amortisation of intangible amortisation of intangible
of intangible assets of intangible assets Total
assets (see Note 3) Total assets (see Note 3) 2013
2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 (restated *)
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Group revenue from 
continuing activities 2 464,474 — 464,474 282,749 15,412 298,161
Cost of sales (411,413) — (411,413) (247,427) (11,141) (258,568)
Gross profit 53,061 — 53,061 35,322 4,271 39,593
Administrative expenses (36,623) (3,055) (39,678) (25,286) (968) (26,254)
Operating profit 3 16,438 (3,055) 13,383 10,036 3,303 13,339
Finance income 4 182 — 182 25 — 25
Finance costs 4 (427) — (427) (362) — (362)
Other finance (expense)/
income – defined benefit 
pension schemes 4 (87) — (87) 43 — 43
Profit before 
income tax 16,106 (3,055) 13,051 9,742 3,303 13,045
Income tax expense 6 (3,325) 611 (2,714) (2,315) (760) (3,075)
Profit for the year from 
continuing activities 12,781 (2,444) 10,337 7,427 2,543 9,970
Loss for the year from 
discontinued operations 3 (5,155) (1,498)
Profit for the year 
attributable to equity 
holders of the parent 
company 5,182 8,472
Basic earnings 
per share from 
continuing activities 8 16.83p 16.62p
Diluted earnings 
per share from 
continuing activities 8 16.59p 16.45p
Basic earnings 
per share 8 8.44p 14.12p
Diluted earnings 
per share 8 8.32p 13.98p
*  The prior year income statement has been restated following the reclassification of a discontinued business (see Note 3), and the impact of IAS 19 
(2011) on administrative expenses and other finance income (see Note 2). Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
54
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 September
2014 2013
Note £000 £000
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 5,182 8,472
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Movement in actuarial valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes 24 1,068 (6,770)
Movement on deferred tax relating to the defined benefit pension schemes (214) 1,429
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 854 (5,341)
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange movement in reserves 1 (24)
Total items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 1 (24)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to 
equity holders of the parent company 6,037 3,107
Called up Share Capital Cumulative Share based
share premium redemption translation payments Retained Total
capital account reserve adjustment reserve earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2012 5,990 5,893 3,896 775 289 (7,949) 8,894 
Transfer from income statement for the year 8,472 8,472 
Dividends paid (1,917) (1,917)
New shares issued 150 150 
Recognition of share based payments 101 101 
Exchange differences (24) (24)
Actuarial losses recognised in pension schemes (6,770) (6,770)
Movement on deferred tax relating to the pension schemes     1,429 1,429 
At 30 September 2013 6,140 5,893 3,896 751 390 (6,735) 10,335 
Transfer from income statement for the year 5,182 5,182 
Dividends paid (2,461) (2,461)
New shares issued 12 49 61
Recognition of share based payments (98) (98)
Exchange differences 1 1
Actuarial gain recognised in pension schemes 1,068 1,068
Movement on deferred tax relating to the pension schemes     (214) (214)
At 30 September 2014 6,152 5,942 3,896 752 292 (3,160) 13,874 
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
Accounts
Group balance sheet
at 30 September
2013
2014 (restated*)
Note £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 9 53,286 33,474
– other 9 7,770 3,959
Property, plant and equipment 10 15,283 8,188
Retirement benefit assets 24 1,456 962
Deferred tax assets 6 2,741 3,051
80,536 49,634
Current assets
Inventories 11 4,068 3,195
Trade and other receivables 12 85,557 75,868
Assets held for resale 9 1,250 —
Cash and cash equivalents 14 5,586 5,348
96,461 84,411
  
Total assets 176,997 134,045
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (15,500) —
Obligations under finance leases 17 (3,575) (1,984)
Retirement benefit obligations 24 — (3,545)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (1,749) (938)
Provisions 18 (1,232) (628)
(22,056) (7,095)
Current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (6,200) (2,500)
Trade and other payables 15 (131,041) (112,349)
Obligations under finance leases 17 (2,764) (1,509)
Current tax liabilities (694) (153)
Provisions 18 (368) (104)
(141,067) (116,615)
  
Total liabilities
(163,123) (123,710)
  
Net assets
13,874 10,335
Share capital 20
6,152 6,140
Share premium account 21 5,942 5,893
Capital redemption reserve 21 3,896 3,896
Cumulative translation adjustment 21 752 751
Share based payments reserve 21 292 390
Retained earnings 21 (3,160) (6,735)
Total equity 13,874 10,335
* Details of the restated balance sheet are set out in Note 28.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
R J Harrison OBE
Chairman
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
56
Group cashflow statement
for the year ended 30 September
2013
2014 (restated*)
£000 £000
Profit for the year from continuing operating activities 10,337 9,970
Amortisation of intangible assets 2,231 500
Depreciation 2,893 1,218
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (435) (110)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (323) 6,466
Decrease in receivables 1,324 2,490
Increase in payables 9,630 4,308
Current service cost in respect of defined benefit pension scheme 59 53
Cash contribution to defined benefit pension schemes (3,117) (2,946)
(Credit)/expense in respect of share options (98) 101
Finance income (182) (25)
Finance expenses 514 319
Interest paid (427) (362)
Income taxes paid (1,926) (429)
Income tax expense 2,714 3,075
Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 23,194 24,628
Net cash outflow from discontinued operating activities (4,691) (5,390)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 18,503 19,238
Investing activities
Interest received 182 25
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 647 1,854
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,559) (649)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (32,132) (9,384)
Net cash outflow from continuing investing activities (32,862) (8,154)
Net cash outflow from discontinued investing activities (106) (56)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (32,968) (8,210)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (2,461) (1,917)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 61 150
New loan 24,000 —
Loan repayments (4,800) (5,000)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (2,096) (958)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing financing activities 14,704 (7,725)
Net cash outflow from discontinued financing activities — —
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 14,704 (7,725)
Net increase in continuing cash and cash equivalents 5,036 8,749
Net decrease in discontinued cash and cash equivalents (4,797) (5,446)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 239 3,303
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 5,348 2,040
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1) 5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 5,586 5,348
Bank balances and cash 5,586 5,348
*  The prior year cash flow statement has been restated following the reclassification of a discontinued business (see Note 3), and the impact of IAS 19 
(2011) on administrative expenses and other finance income (see Note 2). Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
Accounts
Notes to the accounts
1 Accounting policies
Presentation of consolidated financial statements
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRSs”). The financial statements are presented in sterling since this is the currency 
in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated.
Accounting estimates and judgements
In the preparation of these financial statements the Board has made certain judgements and estimates which impact the 
measurement of various assets and liabilities in the Group balance sheet, the value of transactions recorded in the Group income 
statement and the movements in equity as shown in the Group statement of changes in equity. The actual financial outcomes may 
ultimately differ from that which is indicated by these judgements and estimates. Estimates and judgements are reviewed by 
management and the Board on an ongoing basis and changes which may arise in them are reflected in the financial statements 
for the period in which such changes are made.
The Board has determined that the following areas are those in which estimates and judgements have been made and where 
material impacts could arise in the financial statements were such estimates and judgements to be varied.
a) Accounting for construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” 
IAS 11 requires management to estimate the total expected costs on a contract and the stage of contract completion in order to 
determine both the revenue and profit to be recognised in an accounting period. The Group has control and review procedures in 
place to monitor, and evaluate regularly, the estimates being made to ensure that they are consistent and appropriate. This includes 
reviewing the independent certification of the value of work done, the progress of work against contracted timescales and the costs 
incurred against plan.
b) Impairment of goodwill in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”
In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is tested annually for impairment by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the 
recoverable amount which is determined by an estimation of the value in use of the related cash generating unit to which the 
goodwill is attributed. The calculation of the value in use requires estimates to be made of the future cash flows of the cash 
generating unit and the timescale over which they will arise. Estimated growth rates and discount factors are also used in the 
calculation to estimate the net present value of the cash flows. More information is given in Note 9 to these financial statements.
c) Accounting for the defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”
The independent actuaries calculate the Group’s liability in respect of the defined benefit schemes. The actuaries make assumptions as 
to discount rates, salary escalations, expected returns on scheme assets, future pension increases, mortality rates applicable to members 
and future rates of inflation. These assumptions are made under the Board’s direction. The Board determines the appropriateness of these 
assumptions by benchmarking them against those used by other schemes and by taking advice from the independent actuaries. If the actual 
experience of the schemes is different from the assumptions used then the pension liability may differ from that shown in these financial 
statements. More information is given in Note 24 to these financial statements.
d) Accounting for provisions in accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”
The Group makes provisions where the Board determines that liabilities exist but where judgements have to be made as to the 
quantification of such liabilities. A provision has been made for onerous lease contracts in respect of property leases where the 
Board has determined that the expected economic benefits to be derived from the leases are less than the unavoidable cost 
of meeting the Group’s obligations under the lease contract. This arises where the Group is the head lessee for a property lease 
contract where the property is not used by the Group and where the Group has not been able to sublet the property or has only 
been able to do so on terms which are less favourable than those of the head lease.
e) Accounting for deferred taxation in accordance with IAS 12 “Income Taxes”
The Group provides for deferred taxation using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect 
of tax losses where the Directors believe that it is probable that future profits will be relieved by the benefit of tax losses brought 
forward. The Board considers the likely utilisation of such losses by reviewing budgets and medium term plans for each taxable 
entity within the Group. If the actual profits earned by the Group’s taxable entities are different from the budgets and forecasts 
used then the value of such deferred tax assets may differ from that shown in these financial statements.
f) Accounting for discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations”
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its carrying 
amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is 
highly probable within one year. On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at 
the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss. The same applies 
to gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 
Any impairment loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, 
except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment 
property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated. In accordance with IFRS 5, the 
above policy is effective from the start of the accounting period in which the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held 
for sale. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or 
geographical area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to 
resale. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as 
held for sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement is restated 
as if the operation has been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
(i) Basis of accounting and preparation
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the 
historical cost convention. In determining that the going concern basis is appropriate the Directors have reviewed budgets, including 
cashflow forecasts, and concluded that Group has adequate cash resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
58
Notes to the accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
(i) Basis of accounting and preparation continued
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU. The Group 
has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and International Financial Reporting Committee 
relevant to its operations and which are effective in respect of these financial statements.
As a result of IAS 19 (2011), the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to the basis for determining the income or 
expense related to the net pension asset/liability. Under IAS 19 (2011) the Group determines net expense (or income) for the period 
on the net pension liability or asset by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of 
the annual period to the net pension liability or asset taking into account any changes in the net pension liability or asset during the 
period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Previously, the Group determined interest income on plan assets based on 
their long term rate of return. 
The following new or revised International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations will be adopted, where 
applicable, for the purpose of preparing future financial statements. The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these 
new or revised standards and interpretations will have a material impact on its financial position or results from operations.
International Financial Reporting Standards Applies to periods beginning after
IAS 2 – Separate Financial Statements January 2016
Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2012–14 cycle January 2016
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments January 2018
(ii) Basis of consolidation
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. The results and net assets 
of undertakings acquired are included in the Group income statement and balance sheet using the acquisition method of 
accounting. The results of undertakings acquired/disposed of are included from the date the Group obtains/loses control.
(iii) Revenue
Revenue, which excludes intra-group revenue and Value Added Tax, comprises:
 - value of work executed during the year on construction contracts based on monthly valuations; and
 - sales of developments and land which are recorded upon legal completion.
(iv) Construction contracts
Contract revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive 
payments to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and can be measured reliably. Contract revenue and 
expenses are recognised in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract. The stage of completion is determined 
by surveys of work performed. Contract costs incurred that relate to future activities are deferred and recognised as amounts 
recoverable on contracts. When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed contract revenue, the expected loss 
is recognised as an expense immediately. To the extent that progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits 
(less recognised losses) they are recognised as amounts due to construction contract customers.
(v) Segment reporting
The operating segments are based on the components that the Board, the Group’s principal decision-making body (the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”)), monitors in making decisions about operating matters. Such components are identified on 
the basis of information that is provided internally in the form of monthly management account reporting, budgets and forecasts 
to formulate allocation of resource to segments and assess performance. Revenue from reportable segments is measured on a 
basis consistent with the income statement. Revenue is principally generated from within the UK, the Group’s country of domicile. 
Segment results show the contribution directly attributable to each segment in arriving at the Group’s operating profit. Segment 
assets and liabilities comprise those assets and liabilities directly attributable to each segment. Group eliminations represent 
such consolidation adjustments that are necessary to determine the Group’s assets and liabilities.
(vi) Intangible assets
a)   Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is tested for impairment annually, or on such other occasions that events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
   On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill which has not been subject 
to impairment is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 
b)   Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of other intangible assets is 
amortised over their expected useful lives. These intangibles relate to customer relationships and contractual rights and are amortised 
over the period over which the Board has determined that future cash flows are likely to arise from these relationships and rights.
(vii) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less provision for impairment if required. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land. Provision is made at rates calculated 
to write off the cost of each asset, less estimated residual value, evenly over its expected useful life as follows:
Group occupied property
Freehold land   – no depreciation charge
Long leasehold land and buildings – shorter of fifty years and period of lease
Plant, vehicles and equipment – three to ten years Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
Accounts
1 Accounting policies continued
(viii) Impairments
Goodwill arising on acquisitions and other assets that have an indefinite useful life and are therefore not subject to amortisation, 
are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the recoverable amount of any asset 
is less than its carrying amount, a loss on impairment is recognised. Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less 
any costs which would be incurred in selling the asset and its value in use. Value in use is assessed by discounting the estimated future 
cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. For this purpose, assets are grouped into cash generating units which represent the 
lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed in future 
accounting periods. Reversals of other impairment losses are recognised in income when they arise.
(ix) Inventories
Inventories comprise developments, land held for development and raw materials and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost includes appropriate attributable overheads and excludes interest. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete 
slow moving and defective inventories.
(x) Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are initially recognised at their fair value and then at amortised cost.
(xi) Trade payables
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at their fair value and then at amortised cost.
(xii) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original 
maturities of less than three months, net of bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings within current 
liabilities in the balance sheet.
(xiii) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where 
it is probable that an outflow will be required to settle that obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
(xiv) Leasing commitments
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset have been transferred to 
the Group, are capitalised and are depreciated in accordance with the depreciation policy for the relevant class of asset or the lease 
term if shorter. The interest element of the rental obligation is charged to the income statement and represents a constant proportion 
of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(xv) Defined benefit pension schemes
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit 
actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency 
to the liability. Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Group’s defined benefit schemes expected to arise from 
employee service in the period is charged to operating profit. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the increase during 
the period in the present value of the schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income. Pension scheme surpluses, to the 
extent they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the Group balance sheet.
(xvi) Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
(xvii) Taxation
The tax charge is composed of current tax and deferred tax, calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income statement, except when 
they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the relevant tax is also dealt with in equity.
Current tax is based on the profit for the year. Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax on such assets and liabilities is not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition (other than in 
a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
(xviii) Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The income statements of 
overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average rate of exchange ruling throughout the financial year. The balance sheets 
of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising 
from this policy and arising on the retranslation of the opening net assets are taken directly to reserves. All other exchange differences 
are taken to the income statement. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
60
Notes to the accounts continued
1 Accounting policies continued
(xix) Financial instruments
Financial assets are divided into the following categories: trade receivables and financial assets at fair value. The Board assigns financial 
assets to each category on initial recognition dependant on the purpose for which the asset was acquired. The categorisation of these 
assets is reconsidered at each reporting date at which a choice of categorisation or accounting treatment is available. All financial assets 
are recognised whenever the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. All such assets are initially 
recognised at fair value. Derecognition of such assets occurs when the Group’s right to receive cash flows from the asset ceases or the 
rights and rewards of ownership have been transferred. All such assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually. Interest and other 
cash flows which arise from holding a financial asset are recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 39. Financial assets 
at fair value include assets classified as held for trading, and changes in fair value are recognised through the income statement. 
Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets with expected receipts which are not quoted in an active market and they arise when 
the Group provides goods or services. A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective 
evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have 
had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at 
amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying value amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows 
discounted at the original effective interest rate. All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Financial liabilities 
are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. All interest related charges 
are recognised as an expense in the income statement. Bank loans and hire purchase liabilities are entered into to provide financing 
for the Group’s operations and are recognised as funds are received. Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
(xx) Share based payments
IFRS 2 “Share Based Payment” requires a fair value to be established for any equity settled share based payments. Fair value has been 
independently measured using a Monte Carlo valuation model. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share 
based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Directors’ estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest.
(xxi) Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or 
loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the period. 
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees. 
(xxii) Rental income
Rental income from property is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives 
granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the lease. 
(xxiii) Finance income and expense
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in income or 
expense. Interest income is recognised as it accrues in income or expense, using the effective interest method. Finance expenses 
comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions and losses on hedging instruments that are 
recognised in income or expense. All borrowing costs are recognised in income or expense using the effective interest method. 
2 Segmental analysis
The Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) is responsible for the overall resource allocation and performance assessment of the 
Group. The Board approves major capital expenditure and its authority is required prior to the Group entering into any development 
projects. The Board assesses the performance of the Group and its progress against the strategic plan through monitoring of key 
performance indicators. The Board also determines key financing decisions such as raising equity, all loan or bank borrowing 
arrangements and the granting of security over the Group’s assets. As such the Group considers that the Board is the CODM.
Operating segments have been identified based on the internal reporting information provided to the CODM. From such information 
Engineering Services and Specialist Building have been determined to represent operating segments. Following the identification 
of the operating segments the Group has assessed the similarity of the characteristics of the operating segments. Given the different 
performance targets and markets operated within each operating segment it is not appropriate to aggregate the operating segments 
for reporting purposes and therefore both of the identified operating segments are disclosed as reportable segments. The information 
received by the CODM shows results both pre and post exceptional items. The Group had one customer within the Engineering Services 
sector which represented 40.6% (2013: 31. 1%) of Group revenue. No other customer represented more than 10% of the Group’s revenue.
These segments are:
Engineering Services, which comprises the Group’s engineering activities which are characterised by the use of the Group’s skilled 
engineering workforce, supplemented by specialist subcontractors where appropriate, in a range of civil, mechanical and electrical 
engineering applications and;
Specialist Building, which comprises the Group’s building activities which are characterised by the use of a supply chain of subcontractors 
to carry out building works under the control of the Group as principal contractor and;
Central activities, which include the sale of land for development, the leasing and sub-leasing of some UK properties and the 
provision of central services to the operating subsidiaries.
Subsequent to the year end the Group has entered into a contract to dispose of part of its Specialist Building segment. The results 
of that business are shown as a discontinued operation. Comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Prior year costs for central activities have been increased by £400,000 as a result of the impact of IAS 19 (2011). These costs were 
formerly dealt with in the statement of comprehensive income. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
Accounts
2 Segmental analysis continued
(a) Business analysis
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2013
2014 (restated)
£000 £000
Engineering Services 382,467 232,371
Specialist Building 82,112 50,621
Inter segment revenue (105) (246)
Segment revenue 464,474 282,746
Central activities — 3
Group revenue before exceptional items 464,474 282,749
Exceptional revenue — 15,412
Group revenue from continuing activities 464,474 298,161
Analysis of operating profit from continuing activities
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items and items and items and items and
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
of intangible of intangible of intangible of intangible
assets assets assets assets 2013
2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 (restated)
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Engineering Services 16,280 (2,231) 14,049 10,646 (500) 10,146
Specialist Building 2,157 — 2,157 1,287 (272) 1,015
Segment operating profit 18,437 (2,231) 16,206 11,933 (772) 11,161
Central activities (1,999) (824) (2,823) (1,897) 4,075 2,178
Operating profit 16,438 (3,055) 13,383 10,036 3,303 13,339
Net financing expense (332) — (332) (294) — (294)
Profit on ordinary activities 
before income tax 16,106 (3,055) 13,051 9,742 3,303 13,045
Balance sheet analysis of business segments
2014 2013 (restated)
Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Engineering Services 161,480 (130,907) 30,573 139,882 (85,475) 54,407
Specialist Building 68,516 (94,459) (25,943) 69,117 (95,067) (25,950)
Central activities 227,500 (217,641) 9,859 172,525 (195,128) (22,603)
Discontinued operations 42,042 (42,657) (615) 46,214 (41,733) 4,481
Group eliminations (322,541) 322,541 — (293,693) 293,693 —
Group net assets 176,997 (163,123) 13,874 134,045 (123,710) 10,335
Other information
2014 2013 (restated)
Capital Capital
additions Depreciation Amortisation additions Depreciation Amortisation
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Engineering Services 4,716 2,797 2,231 1,318 1,138 500
Specialist Building 168 83 — 84 68 —
Central activities 5 13 — 4 12 —
Discontinued operations 132 82 — — 70 —
5,021 2,975 2,231 1,406 1,288 500 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
62
Notes to the accounts continued
2 Segmental analysis continued
(b) Geographical analysis
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2013
2014 (restated*)
£000 £000
UK 464,474 298,161
USA — —
Group revenue from continuing activities 464,474 298,161
Non-current asset analysis of geographical segments
Assets Assets
£000 £000
UK 80,536 49,634
3 Operating profit 
2014 2013
£000 £000
Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Auditor’s remuneration – audit services 255 200
Depreciation of owned assets 2,181 668
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 712 550
Operating lease rentals – plant and machinery 691 831
Operating lease rentals – motor vehicles 792 497
Operating lease rentals – other 2,912 3,297
Rental income (362) (1,006)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (435) (110)
During the year, the following services were provided by the Group auditor:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the financial statements 38 51
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the financial statements of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 217 149
Other services related to tax and banking advice 8 14
263 214
Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets
2014 2013
£000 £000
Acquisition costs 824 196
Redundancy and restructuring costs — 272
Profit arising from sale of land — (9,190)
Write down of land stock in the USA — 4,919
Total losses/(gains) arising from exceptional items 824 (3,803)
Amortisation of intangible assets (see Note 9) 2,231 500
3,055 (3,303)
The Board has determined that certain items in the income statement should be separately identified for better understanding 
of the Group’s results.
During the year the Company acquired Forefront Group Ltd and Clarke Telecom Ltd and incurred £824,000 of costs associated with 
the acquisitions. In 2013 £196,000 of costs were incurred on the acquisition of Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd.
In 2013 the Group incurred £272,000 of exceptional redundancy and restructuring costs in respect of a regional non-specialist building office.
On 21 August 2013 the Company sold 71 acres of land near Rugby for a gross sum of £14,384,000 resulting in a profit of £9,190,000.
In 2013, as a result of changes to detailed planning and zoning agreements in respect of land owned by the Group in the USA, the 
Board wrote down the carrying value of these assets by £4,919,000.
The Board has also separately identified the charge of £2,231,000 (2013: £500,000) for the amortisation of the fair value ascribed to 
certain intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising from the acquisitions of Amco Group Holdings Ltd, Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd, 
Clarke Telecom Ltd and Forefront Group Ltd. Further details are given in Note 9. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
Accounts
3 Operating profit continued
Discontinued operations analysis
2014 2013
£000 £000
Revenue 49,992 51,536
Expenses (54,124) (54,279)
Loss before income tax (4,132) (2,743)
Income tax expense – deferred tax (1,023) 1,245
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (5,155) (1,498)
On 31 October 2014, Places for People Group Limited (“PFP”) acquired 50% of the ordinary share capital of Allenbuild Ltd, a Specialist Building 
subsidiary. Following the practical completion of a number of partly completed contracts, the benefit of which will accrue to the Group, PFP will 
acquire the remaining 50%. This is expected to be in approximately 1 2 months’ time. The trading result for this business has therefore been 
included within the loss for the year from discontinued operations and the comparative figures have been reclassified accordingly.
Discontinued expenses include the following exceptional items:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Provision against amounts recoverable on old Building contracts 2,528 2,767
Costs related to exceptional storm damage on a Building contract 1,500 500
4,028 3,267
The provision of £2,528,000 relates to settling final accounts and contractual issues on old contracts.
A further £1,500,000 of costs have been recognised following the exceptional storm damage experienced in 2013.
4 Finance income and costs 
Finance income
Finance income of £182,000 (2013: £25,000) has been earned during the year on bank deposits.
2014 2013
£000 £000
Interest payable:
On bank loans and overdrafts (232) (282)
Other interest payable (195) (80)
(427) (362)
Other finance (expense)/income – defined benefit pension schemes
Interest on scheme assets 5,664 6,080
Interest on scheme obligations (5,751) (6,037)
Net pension interest (87) 43
Further information on the defined benefit pension schemes is set out in Note 24 to the accounts.
5 Employee numbers and remuneration
2014 2013
Number Number
The average monthly number of employees, including Executive Directors, employed  
in continuing activities during the year was: 2,706 1,869
At 30 September: 3,121 2,149
Production 1,952 1,220
Administrative 754 649
2,706 1,869
Cost of staff, including Executive Directors, during the year amounted to:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 98,518 76,079
Social security costs 10,490 7,838
Other pension costs 2,669 2,454
Share based payments (98) 101
111,579 86,472
Directors’ emoluments
2014 2013
£000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 1,383 1,114
Highest paid Director: aggregate emoluments 677 556
Details of individual Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
64
Notes to the accounts continued
6 Income tax expense
(a) Analysis of expense in year
2014 2013
£000 £000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on profits of the year (2,265) (2,146)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (227) 10
Total current tax (2,492) (2,136)
Deferred tax – defined benefit pension schemes (594) (612)
Deferred tax – other timing differences (651) (540)
Total deferred tax (1,245) (1,152)
Income tax expense (3,737) (3,288)
Deferred tax in respect of discontinued operations 1,023 213
Income tax expense in respect of continuing activities (2,714) (3,075)
(b) Factors affecting income tax expense for the year
2014 2013
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 13,051 13,045
Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.0% (2013:23.5%) (2,871) (3,066)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (1,341) (116)
Timing differences not provided in deferred tax (158) 217
Change in tax rate (45) (94)
Net charge in respect of tax losses — (379)
Tax losses surrendered by discontinued operations 905 140
Deferred tax in respect of discontinued operations 1,023 213
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (227) 10
(2,714) (3,075)
The Group has available further unused UK tax losses of £42m (2013: £48m) to carry forward against future taxable profits. 
The Group also has unused USA tax losses of $17m (£10.5m) (2013: $16m (£10.2m)) to carry forward against future taxable profits 
in the USA. A substantial element of these losses relates to activities which are not forecast to generate the level of profits needed 
to utilise these losses. A deferred tax asset has been provided to the extent considered reasonable by the Directors, where recovery 
is expected to be recognisable within the foreseeable future. The unrecognised deferred tax asset in respect of these losses 
amounts to £10.6m (2013: £11.6m).
(c) Deferred tax asset
2014 2013
£000 £000
Defined benefit pension scheme (148) 709
Accelerated capital allowances 743 441
Other timing differences 279 122
Future tax losses 1,867 1,779
2,741 3,051
(d) Deferred tax liabilities
2014 2013
£000 £000
Defined benefit pension scheme (143) (192)
Fair value adjustments (1,606) (746)
(1,749) (938) Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65
Accounts
6 Income tax expense continued
(e) Reconciliation of deferred tax asset
2014 2013
£000 £000
As at 1 October 3,051 2,929
Acquisition of Forefront Group and Clarke Telecom 950 113
Origination of timing differences (403) (105)
Change of deferred tax rate — (481)
Defined benefit pension schemes – income statement (554) (549)
Defined benefit pension schemes – SOCI (303) 1,144
At 30 September 2,741 3,051
(f) Reconciliation of deferred tax liability
2014 2013
£000 £000
As at 1 October (938) (1,039)
Acquisition of Forefront Group and Clarke Telecom (1,306) —
Arising on fair value adjustments 446 (243)
Change of deferred tax rate — 99
Defined benefit pension schemes – income statement (40) (40)
Defined benefit pension schemes – SOCI 89 285
At 30 September (1,749) (938)
7 Dividends
2014 2013
Pence/share Pence/share
Interim (related to the year ended 30 September 2014) 1.50 1.10
Final (related to the year ended 30 September 2013) 2.50 2.10
Total dividend paid 4.00 3.20
£000 £000
Interim (related to the year ended 30 September 2014) 923 658
Final (related to the year ended 30 September 2013) 1,538 1,259
Total dividend paid 2,461 1,917
Dividends are recorded only when authorised and are shown as a movement in equity rather than as a charge in the income 
statement. The Directors are proposing that a final dividend of 3.50p per Ordinary Share be paid in respect of the year ended 
30 September 2014. This will be accounted for in the 2014/15 financial year.
8 Earnings per share
2014 2013 (restated)
Earnings EPS DEPS Earnings EPS DEPS
£000 Pence Pence £000 Pence Pence
Earnings before exceptional items 
and amortisation 12,781 20.80 20.51 7,427 12.38 12.25
Exceptional items and 
amortisation (2,444) (3.97) (3.92) 2,543 4.24 4.20
Basic earnings per share – 
continuing activities 10,337 16.83 16.59 9,970 16.62 16.45
Loss for the year from 
discontinued operations (5,155) (8.39) (8.27) (1,498) (2.50) (2.47)
Basic earnings per share 5,182 8.44 8.32 8,472 14.12 13.98
Weighted average number 
of shares 61,431 62,313 59,998 60,624
The dilutive effect of share options is to increase the number of shares by 882,000 (2013: 626,000) and reduce basic earnings per share by 
0.12p (2013: 0.14p). Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
66
Notes to the accounts continued
9 Intangible assets
Contractual
rights and
customer
Goodwill relationships
£000 £000
Cost:
At 1 October 2012 27,726 4,072
Additions 6,142 2,209
Hindsight adjustment (Note 28) 414 — 
At 1 October 2013 34,282 6,281
Additions 21,062 6,042
Reclassified as Assets held for resale (1,250) —
At 30 September 2014 54,094 12,323
Impairment losses/amortisation:
At 1 October 2012 808 1,822
Charge for year — 500
At 1 October 2013 808 2,322
Charge for year — 2,231
At 30 September 2014 808 4,553
Carrying amount:
At 30 September 2014 53,286 7,770
At 30 September 2013 33,474 3,959
At 30 September 2012 26,918 2,250
The carrying amounts of goodwill by operating segment are as follows:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Specialist Building 1,253 2,503
Specialist Engineering 52,033 30,971
53,286 33,474
£1,250,000 of goodwill has been reclassified as Assets held for resale in respect of the disposal of Allenbuild Ltd subsequent to the 
balance sheet date.
Goodwill of £6,142,000 was acquired on the acquisition of Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd and was reviewed for impairment one year 
after the acquisition and then will be on an ongoing basis as required by IFRS 3. No impairment was identified. Goodwill has 
increased by £414,000 as a result of a fair value hindsight adjustment. Details are set out in Note 28.
Clarke Telecom
Goodwill of £11,143,000 was acquired on the acquisition of Clarke Telecom Ltd and will be reviewed for impairment one year after 
the acquisition and then on an ongoing basis as required by IFRS 3. Details are set out in Note 26. 
Forefront Group
Goodwill of £9,919,000 was acquired on the acquisition of Forefront Group Ltd and will be reviewed for impairment one year after 
the acquisition and then on an ongoing basis as required by IFRS 3. Details are set out in Note 27. 
Amortisation charges in respect of intangible assets with a finite life are recorded within administrative expenses in the income 
statement. The amortisation policy is disclosed in the accounting policies and approximates to a period of 5 years.
In order to test goodwill for impairment the Group performs value in use calculations by preparing cash flow forecasts for each cash 
generating unit derived from the most recent financial budgets and strategic plans approved by management going forward 3 years, 
and then extrapolates cash flows based on conservative estimated growth rates which do not exceed GDP growth in the longer term 
according to management’s view of longer term prospects for each cash generating unit. The cash generating units are deemed to 
be the subsidiaries to which the goodwill relates. Management used growth rates deemed to be appropriate to each cash generating 
unit after reviewing the particular market conditions related to the sector in which the cash generating unit operates. Growth rates 
of between 3% and 6% per annum have been used. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 8% as the Board considers the 
rate appropriate in the current financial market as an approximation to the cost of funds to the Group. The calculation shows that 
there is substantial headroom, and the impairment calculations are not particularly sensitive to changes in the discount rate applied. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67
Accounts
10 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold Long leasehold Plant, vehicles
land and buildings land and buildings and equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 October 2012 1,826 75 5,011 6,912
Additions 8 — 1,398 1,406
Asset reclassification (187) — 187 —
Disposals (1,613) — (1,445) (3,058)
Acquisition of subsidiary 1,679 — 3,445 5,124
At 1 October 2013 1,713 75 8,596 10,384
Additions — — 5,021 5,021
Disposals — — (3,888) (3,888)
Acquisition of subsidiary — — 5,284 5,284
At 30 September 2014 1,713 75 15,013 16,801
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2012 75 75 2,072 2,222
Charge for year 14 — 1,274 1,288
Disposals — — (1,314) (1,314)
At 1 October 2013 89 75 2,032 2,196
Charge for year 16 — 2,959 2,975
Disposals — — (3,653) (3,653)
At 30 September 2014 105 75 1,338 1,518
Net book value:
At 30 September 2014 1,608 — 13,675 15,283
At 30 September 2013 1,624 — 6,564 8,188
At 30 September 2012 1,751 — 2,939 4,690
The net book value of assets under finance leases at 30 September 2014 was £7,376,000 (2013: £3,947,000). 
During the year £712,000 (2013: £550,000) of depreciation was charged against assets held under finance leases.
11 Inventories
2014 2013
£000 £000
Developments and undeveloped land 3,242 3,057
Raw materials 826 138
4,068 3,195
£1.1m (2013: £0.2m) of inventories are pledged as security for liabilities. 
12 Trade and other receivables
2014 2013
£000 £000
Trade receivables 84 110
Amounts due from construction contract customers 75,752 69,652
Other receivables 4,131 4,638
Prepayments and accrued income 5,590 1,468
85,557 75,868
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Included in trade and other receivables are debtors with a carrying value of £3.3m (2013: £2.8m) which are past due at the reporting 
date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group believes that 
the amounts are still considered recoverable since there is no objective evidence that these financial assets are impaired. The Group 
does not hold any collateral over these balances. The average age of these receivables is 255 days (2013: 328 days). Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
68
Notes to the accounts continued
12 Trade and other receivables continued
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables:
2014 2013
£000 £000
30–180 days 1,649 705
180–365 days 675 748
Greater than 1 year 932 1,386
3,256 2,839
13 Construction contracts
2014 2013
£000 £000
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
Amounts due from construction contract customers included in trade and other receivables 75,752 69,652
Amounts due to construction contract customers included in trade and other payables (3,499) (4,831)
72,253 64,821
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 2,902,146 2,649,406
Less: progress billings (2,829,893) (2,584,585)
72,253 64,821
At 30 September 2014 retentions held by customers amounted to £13.6m (2013: £1 1.6m). Advances received from customers for contract 
work amounted to £3.5m (2013: £4.8m).
Amounts due from construction contract customers which are past due at the reporting date amounted to £3.3m (2013: £2.8m).
This amount includes retention balances of £1.5m (2013: £2.1m). The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances or other 
trade and other receivables.
Contract revenue recognised in the year amounted to £464.5m (2013: £282.7m).
14 Cash and cash equivalents 
2014 2013
£000 £000
Cash at bank 5,570 5,339
Cash in hand 16 9
5,586 5,348
15 Trade and other payables
2014 2013
£000 £000
Amounts due to construction contract customers 3,499 4,831
Trade payables 36,840 28,979
Other taxation and social security 4,114 4,093
Other payables 9,643 7,127
Accruals and deferred income 76,945 67,319
131,041 112,349
16 Borrowings
2014 2013
£000 £000
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable:
Within one year 6,200 2,500
Within two to five years 15,500 —
21,700 2,500
The bank loans and overdrafts are secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Group’s assets. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
Accounts
17 Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease payments
Present value of minimum
lease payments
2014 2013 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 2,994 1,633 2,764 1,509
Within two to five years 3,874 2,147 3,575 1,984
6,868 3,780 6,339 3,493
Less: future finance charges (529) (287) — —
Present value of lease obligations 6,339 3,493 6,339 3,493
Less: amount due for settlement within twelve months (2,764) (1,509)
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 3,575 1,984
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its plant, vehicles and equipment under finance leases. The average outstanding lease 
term is 3 years (2013: 3 years). For the year ended 30 September 2014, the average effective borrowing rate was 3% (2013: 3%). 
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangement has been entered 
into for contingent rental payments.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying 
amount. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured on the asset to which the lease relates.
18 Provisions
Property
obligations
£000
At 1 October 2013 732
Amount provided during the year 868
At 30 September 2014 1,600
Non-current liabilities 1,232
Current liabilities 368
At 30 September 2014 1,600
Property obligations represent commitments on leases for properties which the Group does not occupy where the Group does not 
expect to receive income sufficient to cover the full commitment. The provision represents outflows which are expected to occur 
over the next five years.
19 Other financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash and short-term deposits and obligations under finance 
leases. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various 
other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
The disclosures below provide information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing deposits, loans and borrowings.
Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets/(liabilities)
Fixed rate Fixed Floating
interest rate rate rate Total
 % £000 £000 £000
2014
Assets
Sterling — — 5,488 5,488
Dollar — — 82 82
 — 5,570 5,570
Liabilities
Sterling 3.0 (6,339) (21,700) (28,039)
(6,339) (21,700) (28,039)
 % £000 £000 £000
2013
Assets
Sterling — — 5,127 5,127
Dollar — — 212 212
 — 5,339 5,339
Liabilities
Sterling 3.0 (3,493) (2,500) (5,993)
(3,493) (2,500) (5,993) Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
70
Notes to the accounts continued
19 Other financial instruments continued
Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities continued
The interest bearing assets accrue interest at prevailing market rates. Generally the Group holds deposits which are repayable on demand.
The sterling interest bearing liabilities accrue interest at a rate which is linked to the lender’s base rate or LIBOR. 
The maturity of the fixed rate financial liabilities is disclosed in Note 17 . The fixed rate liabilities have a weighted average period of 3 years 
(2013: 3 years). 
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
There are no material differences between fair value and the book value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities.
Financial risks
The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations. Risk management is governed by the 
Group’s operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures which are outlined in the Corporate governance statement. 
The key financial risks resulting from financial instruments are credit, liquidity, currency and market risk.
a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss if a customer fails to meet its financial obligations and results primarily from the Group’s trade and 
other receivables. The degree to which the Group is exposed to this risk depends on the individual financial situation of each specific 
customer. The Group does not have any risk from a concentration of trade or other receivables in any customer or group of customers. 
The Group assesses the credit worthiness of every customer prior to entering into any contract and requires appropriate evidence of 
financial capability on a case by case basis. The Group reviews trade and other receivables for impairment on a regular basis and 
information relating to the ageing of receivables is provided in Note 12.
b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Board is responsible for 
ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due and does so by monitoring cashflow 
forecasts and budgets. The Board has considered the cashflow forecasts for the next twelve months which show that the Group 
expects to operate within its working capital facilities throughout the year.
The Board aims to maintain a strong capital base so as to ensure investor and market confidence and to sustain the future of the 
business. The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to equity holders of the Company as disclosed in Note 20 
and reserves as disclosed in Note 21. The Group arranges loans and short term overdraft facilities and hire purchase facilities as the 
Board deems necessary. The Group does not have any derivative or non-derivative financial liabilities other than those disclosed in 
Notes 15 to 17 and the retirement benefit obligations disclosed in Note 24. An analysis of the maturity profile for finance lease 
liabilities is given in Note 17.
c) Currency risk
The only exposure of the Group to currency risk (i.e. exposure to gains or losses on foreign exchange which would be recognised in 
the income statement) is in respect of the unhedged portion of an inter-company loan. At 30 September 2014 the unhedged portion 
of the inter-company loan was $1,771,000 (2013: $771,000). The dollar closing exchange rate was $1.62: £1 (2013: $1.62: £1) resulting 
in a foreign exchange gain of £18,000 (2013: loss £23,000) being charged to finance costs. Consequently, to the extent that the 
inter-company loan is not fully hedged, the income statement may be impacted by exchange rate movements. Exchange rate 
movement on translation of Lovell America, Inc’s net assets are charged to the cumulative translation adjustment within total 
equity. The exchange gain arising on the translation of Lovell America Inc’s net assets was £1,000. The total equity statement would 
be impacted by £58,000 for each $0.01 movement in exchange rates.
All functional currencies of the Group operations are denominated in sterling, with the exception of the US operations whose 
functional currency is the US dollar.
d) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect the Group’s income or the carrying amount of its holding of financial 
instruments. The principal risk relates to interest rates where the Group’s risk is limited to the rates applying to its interest bearing 
short-term deposits and its bank loan. A reduction in market interest rates could lead to a reduction in the Group’s interest income 
and a reduction in its interest costs. Consequently a 1% decrease in market interest rates would reduce annual finance costs by 
£10,000 for every £1m of outstanding loan.
The Group’s hire purchase financial liabilities are all at fixed rates of interest.
20 Share capital
2014 2013
£000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
61,517,948 (2013: 61,403,668) Ordinary Shares of 10p each 6,152 6,140
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the Company.
During the year 114,280 Ordinary Shares were issued following the exercise of options under the Approved element of the Renew 
Holdings plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
Share options
Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme
The Group operates a share option scheme, the Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme. The scheme has both an 
Approved and Unapproved element. The difference between the two elements is that the Approved scheme has the advantage 
of certain HMRC approved tax benefits. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
Accounts
20 Share capital continued
Share options continued
Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme continued
Both elements have the same general terms and conditions. Options issued under the scheme must be held for three years before 
they can vest and become exercisable. They must be exercised within ten years from the date of grant.
All options granted under this scheme have vested and have been exercised.
Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan
At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 January 2012 the shareholders approved a new long term incentive plan (“LTIP”) which 
replaced the Renew Holdings plc 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme as the Directors believed that the LTIP was a more effective 
method of aligning executive and shareholder interests.
On 2 March 2012, the company granted options to subscribe for 400,000 Ordinary Shares pursuant to the LTIP. On 20 December 2012, 
options to subscribe for a further 400,000 Ordinary Shares were granted. On 3 January 2014, options to subscribe for a further 253,165 
Ordinary Shares were granted.
The options are exercisable at a nominal cost from 2 March 2015 in respect of those granted on 2 March 201 2, from 20 December 2015 in 
respect of those granted on 20 December 201 2, and from 3 January 2017 in respect of those granted on 3 January 2014 subject to the 
achievement of certain performance criteria.
Vesting of one half of the options is dependent on absolute growth in the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’), and the other 
half is dependent on the Company’s TSR performance as compared to the TSR achieved by other companies in a comparator group 
of nine companies selected by the Remuneration Committee. All TSR calculations are based on the average of the opening and 
closing share price over a thirty day period prior to the commencement and the end of the performance period.
The absolute TSR growth target requires the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period to grow by more than 25%. For 
TSR growth between 25% and 100%, the half of the option which is subject to the absolute TSR growth target vests on a straight-line 
basis from nil vesting at 25% growth, to 100% vesting at 100% growth. There will be no vesting if TSR growth is 25% or less.
The comparator group TSR performance target measures the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period against the TSR 
of a group of nine companies selected by the Remuneration Committee. If the Company’s TSR performance falls below the median 
performance of the comparator group then the options lapse forthwith. If the Company is ranked within the top decile of the comparator 
group the options shall vest in full. If the Company’s TSR performance is ranked between the median position and the top decile of the 
comparator group then the options shall vest on a straight line basis from nil, at or below the median position, to 100% at the top decile.
21 Reserves
Share Capital Cumulative Share based
premium redemption translation payments Retained
account reserve reserve reserve earnings
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2012 5,893 3,896 775 289 (7,949)
Transfer from income statement for the year 8,597
Dividends paid (1,917)
Recognition of share based payments 101
Exchange differences (24)
Actuarial loss recognised in pension scheme (6,895)
Movement on deferred tax relating  
to the pension scheme    1,429
At 1 October 2013 5,893 3,896 751 390 (6,735)
Transfer from income statement for the year 5,182
Dividends paid (2,461)
Recognition of share based payments (98)
New shares issued 49
Exchange differences 1
Actuarial gain recognised in pension scheme 1,068
Movement on deferred tax relating  
to the pension scheme    (214)
At 30 September 2014 5,942 3,896 752 292 (3,160)
There is no available analysis of goodwill written off against reserves in respect of subsidiaries that were acquired prior to 1989 
and therefore, in accordance with the guidance of IFRS 3, the Directors are not able to state this figure.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve represents the combined impact of share buy-backs in previous years.
Cumulative translation reserve
This reserve represents the foreign exchange movement on translating the opening net assets of Lovell America Inc.
Share based payments reserve
Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme
114,280 options were exercised during the year (2013: 1,504,741). 
Following the exercise of all outstanding options under this scheme, the fair value of those options as assessed at the date of grant has 
been charged against the share payments reserve. £259,000 has been credited (2013: Nil) to administrative expenses. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
72
Notes to the accounts continued
21 Reserves continued
Share based payments reserve continued
Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan
Fair value has been independently measured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP using a Monte Carlo model methodology. The fair 
value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Board’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
£161,000 has been charged (2013: £101,000) to administrative expenses. There is no impact on net assets since an equivalent 
amount has been credited to the share based payments reserve. No options were exercised during the year. The value per option 
represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable.
The expected volatility has been calculated based on weekly historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the three years prior to the 
date of grant. The risk free rate of return has been based on the yields available on three year UK government bonds as at the date of grant.
Options granted under the Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan over the Company’s Ordinary Shares at 30 September 2014 
were as follows:
Date of grant 2 March 2012 20 December 2012 3 January 2014 Total
Awards outstanding at 30 September 2014
– Directors 400,000 400,000 253,165 1,053,165
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p — 
Price at date of grant 75.0p 87.0p 180.0p — 
Maximum option life 10 years 10 years 10 years — 
Assumed option life for purposes of valuation 3 years 3 years 3 years — 
Expected volatility 46% 36% 32% — 
Dividend yield 4.0% 3.6% 2.0% — 
Risk free interest rate 0.43% 0.48% 1.03% — 
Value per option 40.0p 30.0p 87.5p — 
22 Capital and leasing commitments 
Land and Total Total
buildings Other 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Under one year 2,610 1,043 3,653 2,570
Two to five years 7,659 1,201 8,860 5,701
Five or more years 12,850 — 12,850 15,795
23,119 2,244 25,363 24,066
With regard to the operating leases held by the Group as lessor, the Group recognised £362,000 (2013: £1,006,000) of rental income 
in the income statement for 2014, relating to sub-letting of surplus premises.
The future minimum sub-lease receipts expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and Total Total
buildings Other 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Receivables under non-cancellable operating leases:
Under one year 153 — 153 195
Two to five years 295 — 295 400
Five or more years 48 — 48 95
496 — 496 690
The Group had no capital commitments at 30 September 2014 (2013: £229,000).
23 Contingent liabilities
Under the terms of the Group’s banking agreement, security over the Group’s assets has been granted to the Group’s bankers.
24 Employee benefits: Retirement benefit obligations
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, the Lovell Pension Scheme and the Amco Pension Scheme. Both schemes 
have been closed to new members and to further benefits accrual for many years.
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”
The Directors have adopted the accounting required by IAS 19 with effect from the transition date. The Directors have discussed the 
assumptions used in determining the actuarial valuations set out below with independent pensions advisors and have determined that 
they are appropriate. The Lovell scheme’s valuation at 30 September 2014 shows a surplus of £740,000 based on the assumptions set 
out below. The Amco scheme shows a surplus of £716,000 based on the assumptions used in its valuation which are similar to those 
used for the Lovell scheme except where the Directors, in consultation with the scheme’s advisors, consider it appropriate to vary them 
due to the different characteristics of the Amco scheme and its membership profile. The Directors have determined that it is 
appropriate to recognise these surpluses as, having reviewed the rules of both schemes, they are of the view that the employer 
has an unconditional right to them. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73
Accounts
24 Employee benefits: Retirement benefit obligations continued
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” continued
The following disclosures required by IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuation as at 30 September 2014 
carried out by Lane Clark & Peacock LLP, Consulting Actuaries, in respect of the Lovell scheme and Capita Employee Benefits 
(Consulting) Ltd in respect of the Amco scheme using the following assumptions:
As at As at As at
30 September 30 September 30 September
2014 2013 2012
Lovell Pension Scheme
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0% 4.0%
LPI increases to pensions in payment 3.0% 3.1% 3.2%
Discount rate 3.9% 4.5% 5.2%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 3.1% 2.2% 2.5%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.1% 3.2% 3.2%
Increases in deferred pensions 3.1% 2.2% 3.1%
Amco Pension Scheme
Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 3.2% 4.0%
LPI increases to pensions in payment 2.7% 2.7% 2.7%
Discount rate 3.9% 4.5% 4.4%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.3% 2.2% 2.0%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.3% 3.2% 2.7%
Increases in deferred pensions 2.3% 2.2% 2.7%
The mortality tables adopted for the valuation of the Lovell scheme are the S1NA tables with future improvements in line with the 
Continuing Mortality Investigations 2013 model with long term improvement rates of 1.25% per annum for both males and females. 
The Directors believe that this analysis provides a more reliable estimate of the mortality characteristics of the scheme’s membership. 
Under these assumptions, a 60 year old male pensioner is forecast to live for a further 27 .7 years and the life expectancy of a male aged 
60 in 2033 is 29.9 years.
The mortality tables adopted for the valuation of the Amco scheme are the S1PA Mortality tables based on the mortality experience of 
pension scheme members with projected longevity improvements and with an additional allowance for future longevity improvements 
known as the long cohort adjustment. The Directors believe that this analysis provides a more reliable estimate of the mortality 
characteristics of the scheme’s membership. Under these assumptions, a 65 year old male pensioner is forecast to live for a further 
21.6 years and the life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2034 is 23.4 years.
The assets in the Lovell scheme were:
Value as at Value as at Value as at
30 September 30 September 30 September
2014 Current 2013 Current 2012 Current
£000 allocation £000 allocation £000 allocation
Annuities 43,410 30% 43,136 34% 44,797 35%
Diversified portfolio 101,002 69% 84,631 66% 83,187 65%
Cash 1,180 1% (19) — (158) —
Total 145,592 100% 127,748 100% 127,826 100%
During 2011, the Trustees of the Lovell scheme, in consultation with the Directors, used scheme assets to purchase annuities which 
match certain pension liabilities in a transaction known as a “buy in”. This asset provides protection against falls in gilt yields and risks 
in the performance of other asset classes. 
The assets in the Amco scheme were:
Value as at Value as at Value as at
30 September 30 September 30 September
2014 Current 2013 Current 2012 Current
£000 allocation £000 allocation £000 allocation
Annuities 7,270 51% 6,950 52% — —
Diversified portfolio 6,427 45% 5,951 44% 6,358 44%
Gilts — — — — 3,556 24%
Bonds — — — — 4,195 29%
Cash 585 4% 594 4% 406 3%
Total 14,282 100% 13,495 100% 14,515 100%
During 2013, the Trustees of the Amco scheme, in consultation with the Directors, used scheme assets to purchase annuities which 
match certain pension liabilities in a transaction known as a “buy in”. This asset provides protection against falls in gilt yields and risks 
in the performance of other asset classes.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
7 4
Notes to the accounts continued
24 Employee benefits: Retirement benefit obligations continued
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” continued
The following amounts at 30 September were measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19.
Lovell Pension Scheme
2014 2013
£000 £000
Movements in scheme assets and obligations
Total fair value of scheme assets brought forward 127,768 127,826
Interest on scheme assets 5,664 5,537
Employer contributions 2,917 2,745
Benefits paid (7,105) (7,172)
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets 16,348 (1,168)
Total fair value of scheme assets carried forward 145,592 127,768
Present value of scheme obligations brought forward 131,313 128,395
Interest on scheme obligations 5,751 5,494
Current service costs 59 53
Benefits paid (7,105) (7,172)
Actuarial gains due to experience on benefit obligation — (80)
Actuarial losses/(gains) due to changes in financial assumptions 11,041 (502)
Actuarial losses due to changes in demographic assumptions 3,793 5,125
Total fair value of scheme obligations carried forward 144,852 131,313
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme 740 (3,545)
Deferred tax (148) 709
Net surplus/(deficit) 592 (2,836)
Amount charged to operating profit:
Current service cost (59) (53)
(59) (53)
Amount (charged)/credited to other financial income:
Interest on scheme assets 5,664 5,537
Interest on scheme obligations (5,751) (5,494)
Net pension interest (87) 43
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets 16,348 (1,168)
Actuarial losses due to changes in assumptions on scheme obligations (14,834) (4,543)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,514 (5,711)
Movement in the net scheme surplus/(deficit) during the year:
Net scheme deficit brought forward (3,545) (569)
Current service cost (59) (53)
Cash contribution 2,917 2,745
Other finance (costs)/income (87) 43
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,514 (5,711)
Net scheme surplus/(deficit) carried forward 740 (3,545) Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
Accounts
24 Employee benefits: Retirement benefit obligations continued
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” continued
The following amounts at 30 September were measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19.
Amco Pension Scheme
2014 2013
£000 £000
Movements in scheme assets and obligations
Total fair value of scheme assets brought forward 13,495 14,515
Expected return on scheme assets 550 543
Employer contributions 200 201
Benefits paid (694) (797)
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on plan assets 731 (967)
Total fair value of scheme assets carried forward 14,282 13,495
Present value of scheme obligations brought forward 12,533 12,695
Interest on scheme obligations 550 543
Benefits paid (694) (797)
Actuarial losses due to changes in financial and demographic assumptions 1,177 92
Total fair value of scheme obligations carried forward 13,566 12,533
Surplus in the scheme 716 962
Deferred tax (143) (192)
Net surplus 573 770
Amount credited to other financial income:
Interest on scheme assets 550 543
Interest on scheme obligations (550) (543)
Net pension interest — —
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets 731 (967)
Actuarial losses due to changes in assumptions on scheme obligations (1,177) (92)
Actuarial loss (446) (1,059)
Movement in the net scheme surplus during the year:
Net scheme surplus brought forward 962 1,820
Cash contribution 200 201
Actuarial loss (446) (1,059)
Net scheme surplus carried forward 716 962
Lovell Pension Scheme
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Actual return on scheme assets less interest 
on scheme assets £16,348,000 £(1,168,000) £6,891,000 £(10,685,000) £13,114,000
As a percentage of the assets at the end of the year 11.2% (0.9)% 5.4% (9.0)% 10.4%
Experience gains on scheme obligations — — — £1,349,000 £2,100,000
As a percentage of the obligations at the end 
of the year — — — 1.1% 1.7%
Total amount recognised in the statement 
of comprehensive income £1,514,000 £(5,711,000) £(3,972,000) £(5,151,000) £1,164,000
As a percentage of the obligations at the end 
of the year 1.0% (0.9)% (3.1)% (4.3)% 0.9%
The Lovell scheme has been in operation for many years and, after taking advice from the Group’s pensions advisors, the Directors 
have determined that it is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of the scheme between the various Group companies. 
As permitted by IAS 19, the Group has taken advantage of the multi-employer exemption and the surplus/(deficit) of the scheme is 
accounted for as an unallocated consolidation adjustment. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
76
Notes to the accounts continued
24 Employee benefits: Retirement benefit obligations continued
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” continued
Amco Pension Scheme
2014 2013 2012 2011
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets £731,000 £(967,000) £1,346,000 £(58,000)
As a percentage of the assets at the end of the year 5.1% (7.2)% 9.3% (0.4)%
Experience gains on scheme obligations — — — £490,000
As a percentage of the obligations at the end of the year — — — 4.1%
Total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income £(446,000) £(1,059,000) £530,000 £(114,000)
As a percentage of the obligations at the end of the year 3.3% (8.4)% 4.2% (1.0)%
The Amco scheme’s sole employer is the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Amalgamated Construction Ltd.  
Defined contribution pension scheme
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes and individual stakeholder pension plans for its employees. 
The Group made contributions of £2,669,000 (2013: £2,454,000) into these plans during the year. There are also £152,000 
(2013: £117,000) of accruals relating to these plans.
25 Related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management personnel who are the Main Board Directors: B W May, J Samuel, 
P Scott, R J Harrison, J Bishop and D M Forbes, whose total compensation amounted to £1,383,000 all of which was represented 
by short-term employment benefits.
There were no other transactions with key management personnel in the year.
26 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking – Clarke Telecom Ltd
On 29 April 2014, the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Clarke Telecom Ltd (“Clarke”) for a consideration 
of £17.1m, all of which was paid in cash. The acquisition was funded from the Group’s cash resources and a four year loan of £12m 
provided by HSBC Bank plc.
The value of the assets and liabilities of Clarke at the date of acquisition were:
Book value Adjustments Fair value
£000 £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 1,294 9,849 11,143
– other — 3,710 3,710
Property, plant and equipment 1,254 — 1,254
Deferred tax assets 1,074 (504) 570
3,622 13,055 16,677
Current assets
Inventories 253 — 253
Trade and other receivables 9,371 — 9,371
Cash and cash equivalents 383 — 383
10,007 — 10,007
Total assets 13,629 13,055 26,684
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases (407) — (407)
(407) — (407)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (7,625) (1,191) (8,816)
Obligations under finance leases (257) — (257)
Current tax liability (151) — (151)
(8,033) (1,191) (9,224)
Total liabilities (8,440) (1,191) (9,631)
   
Net assets 5,189 11,864 17,053
Goodwill of £11,143,000 arises on acquisition and will be reviewed for impairment one year after the acquisition as permitted by IFRS 
3. The goodwill is attributable to the expertise and workforce of the acquired business. Other intangible assets, provisionally valued 
at £3,710,000, representing customer relationships and contractual rights, were also acquired and will be amortised over their 
useful economic life in accordance with IFRS 3. Deferred tax has been provided on this amount. Amortisation of this intangible asset 
commenced from May 2014. 
Fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Board will review the fair value of assets and liabilities using information available up to 12 months 
after the date of acquisition. Fair value has been calculated using Level 3 inputs as defined by IFRS 13. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
Accounts
26 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking – Clarke Telecom Ltd continued
Fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition continued
Trade and other payables
Subsequent to the date of acquisition, two loss making contracts have been identified resulting in a fair value adjustment of £1.0m. 
Contract losses have been calculated based on projected cash flows from the date of acquisition until forecast contract completion 
date. Accruals have been adjusted by £0.2m to ensure that holiday pay is consistent with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, and bonus 
accruals are aligned with Group accounting policies. Deferred tax assets have been adjusted accordingly.
Goodwill impairment review
The Board has reviewed the goodwill arising on acquisition for impairment as required by IFRS 3. No such impairment was identified.
If the acquisition of Clarke had occurred on 1 October 2013, Group revenue would have been approximately £482m and profit from 
continuing activities for the year ended 30 September 2014 would have been approximately £12m.
27 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking – Forefront Group Ltd
On 1 August 2014, the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Forefront Group Ltd (“Forefront”) for a consideration 
of £14.8m, all of which was paid in cash. The acquisition was funded from the Group’s cash resources and a four year loan of £12m 
provided by HSBC Bank plc.
The value of the assets and liabilities of Forefront at the date of acquisition were:
Book value Adjustments Fair value
£000 £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill — 9,919 9,919
– other — 2,332 2,332
Property, plant and equipment 4,030 — 4,030
4,030 12,251 16,281
Current assets
Inventories 284 — 284
Trade and other receivables 5,474 — 5,474
Current tax asset 62 — 62
5,820 — 5,820
Total assets 9,850 12,251 22,101
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases (948) — (948)
Deferred tax liabilities (109) (465) (574)
(1,057) (465) (1,522)
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft (646) — (646)
Trade and other payables (5,072) (8) (5,080)
Obligations under finance leases (37) — (37)
(5,755) (8) (5,763)
Total liabilities (6,812) (473) (7,285)
   
Net assets 3,038 11,778 14,816
Goodwill of £9,919,000 arises on acquisition and will be reviewed for impairment one year after the acquisition as permitted by IFRS 3. 
The goodwill is attributable to the expertise and workforce of the acquired business. Other intangible assets, provisionally valued 
at £2,332,000, representing customer relationships and contractual rights, were also acquired and will be amortised over their 
useful economic life in accordance with IFRS 3. Deferred tax has been provided on this amount. Amortisation of this intangible asset 
commenced from August 2014.
Fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Board will review the fair value of assets and liabilities using information available up to 12 months 
after the date of acquisition. Fair value has been calculated using Level 3 inputs as defined by IFRS 13.
Trade and other payables
Accruals have been adjusted to ensure that holiday pay is consistent with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. Deferred tax has been 
adjusted accordingly.
Goodwill impairment review
The Board has reviewed the goodwill arising on acquisition for impairment as required by IFRS 3. No such impairment was identified.
If the acquisition of Forefront had occurred on 1 October 2013, Group revenue would have been approximately £486m and profit for 
the year from continuing activities ended 30 September 2014 would have been approximately £11m. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
78
Notes to the accounts continued
28 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking – Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd
On 9 August 2013, the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd (“Lewis”) for 
a consideration of £10.9m, of which £8.0m was paid in cash and £2.9m in deferred consideration. Immediately following the 
acquisition, the deferred consideration was satisfied by transferring non-cash assets to the value of £2.9m to the vendors.
The value of the assets and liabilities of Lewis at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value Fair value
as reported at as restated at
 30 September Hindsight 30 September
Book value Adjustments 2013 adjustments 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 260 5,882 6,142 414 6,556
– other — 2,209 2,209 — 2,209
Property, plant and equipment 5,616 — 5,616 (492) 5,124
Deferred tax assets 113 — 113 — 113
5,989 8,091 14,080 (78) 14,002
Current assets
Inventories 591 — 591 — 591
Trade and other receivables 4,063 — 4,063 — 4,063
Cash and cash equivalents 1,703 — 1,703 — 1,703
6,357 — 6,357 — 6,357
Total assets 12,346 8,091 20,437 (78) 20,359
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases (1,511) — (1,511) — (1,511)
Deferred tax liabilities — (442) (442) 98 (344)
(1,511) (442) (1,953) 98 (1,855)
Current liabilities
Borrowings (188) — (188) — (188)
Trade and other payables (6,105) — (6,105) (20) (6,125)
Obligations under finance leases (992) — (992) — (992)
Current tax liabilities (300) — (300) — (300)
(7,585) — (7,585) (20) (7,605)
Total liabilities (9,096) (442) (9,538) 78 (9,460)
     
Net assets 3,250 7,649 10,899 — 10,899
Fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Board reviewed the fair value of assets and liabilities using information available up to 12 months 
after the date of acquisition. Fair value has been calculated using Level 3 inputs as defined by IFRS 13.
Property, plant and equipment
The Directors reviewed the depreciation policy for property, plant and equipment which is now aligned with the Group policy. The impact 
was to reduce net assets, increase deferred tax assets and goodwill. These adjustments required the restatement of the Group balance 
sheet as at 30 September 2013. There was no impact on the Group profit for the years ending 30 September 2013 or 2014.
Goodwill impairment review
The Board also reviewed the goodwill arising on acquisition for impairment as required by IFRS 3. No such impairment was identified. 
Goodwill of £6,142,000 was acquired on the acquisition of Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd (“Lewis”) and was reviewed for impairment one 
year after the acquisition and then will be on an ongoing basis as required by IFRS 3. As a result of the fair value adjustment above, 
goodwill increased by £414,000. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79
Accounts
Company balance sheet
at 30 September
2014 2013
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets E 651 659
Investments F 101,449 69,560
102,100 70,219
Current assets
Stocks and work in progress G 226 91
Debtors: due within one year H 40,436 27,228
Cash at bank 66 —
40,728 27,319
Creditors: amounts falling due in less than one year I (83,104) (60,719)
Net current liabilities (42,376) (33,400)
Total assets less current liabilities 59,724 36,819
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year J (15,500) —
Net assets 44,224 36,819
Capital and reserves
Share capital L 6,152 6,140
Share premium account M 5,942 5,893
Capital redemption reserve M 3,896 3,896
Share based payments reserve M 292 390
Profit and loss account M 27,942 20,500
Equity shareholders’ funds N 44,224 36,819
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
R J Harrison OBE
Chairman
25 November 2014 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
80
Notes to the company accounts
A Accounting policies
(i) Basis of accounting
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK applicable accounting standards under the 
historical cost convention. In determining that the going concern basis is appropriate the Directors have reviewed budgets, including 
cashflow forecasts, and concluded that the Company has adequate cash resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future.
A summary of the more important Company accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, is set out below:
(ii) Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
(iii) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation for certain properties, less provision for impairment if required. Depreciation 
is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land. Provision is made at rates calculated to write off the cost of each 
asset, less estimated residual value, evenly over its expected useful life as follows:
Freehold land – no depreciation charge
Long leasehold land – shorter of fifty years and
and buildings  period of lease
Plant, vehicles and equipment  – three to ten years
(iv) Leasing commitments
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(v) Share based payments
FRS 20 “Share Based Payments” requires a fair value to be established for any equity settled share based payments. Fair value 
has been independently measured using either a Black Scholes or a Monte Carlo valuation model as was deemed appropriate by the 
Directors for the relevant options’ conditions. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Directors’ estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
(vi) Deferred taxation
The payment of taxation is deferred or accelerated because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
accounting and taxation purposes. Full provision for deferred taxation is made under the liability method, without discounting, 
on timing differences that have arisen, but not reversed by the balance sheet date, unless such provision is not permitted by 
FRS 19 “Deferred Tax”.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. In accordance 
with FRS 19 deferred tax is not provided for on:
a) revaluation gains on land and buildings, unless there is a binding agreement to sell them at the balance sheet date: 
b) gains on the sale of non-monetary assets, if the taxable gain will probably be rolled over; 
c) fair value adjustment gains to fixed assets and stock to uplift prices to those ruling when an acquisition is made; and 
d) extra tax payable if the overseas retained profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates are remitted in the future. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for taxable losses relating to trading to the extent that those losses are expected 
to be recoverable within the foreseeable future.
(vii) Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the 
transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate. Exchange 
differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
(viii) Defined benefit pension scheme
The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS 17 “Retirement Benefits”. The Directors have determined that it is not possible 
to allocate the assets and liabilities of the scheme between the various Group companies. Accordingly the scheme is not accounted 
for in the Company’s balance sheet. However, any increase in the present value of liabilities within the defined benefit scheme 
expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating profit in respect of the Company’s employees.
(ix) Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
(x) Dividends
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed 
in the notes to the financial statements.
(xi) Stocks and work in progress
Stocks comprise land held for development and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes appropriate 
attributable overheads and excludes interest. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks.
B Profit and loss account
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account. The profit 
after taxation for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £9,903,000 (2013: £11,226,000).
The audit fee charged within the profit and loss account amounted to £38,000 (2013: £51,000). Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81
Accounts
C Employee numbers and remuneration
2014 2013
Number Number
The average monthly number of employees, all of whom were administrative staff
including Executive Directors, employed in continuing activities during the year was: 27 26
At 30 September: 27 26
Cost of staff, including Executive Directors, during the year amounted to:
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 2,305 1,940
Social security costs 272 254
Other pension costs 168 194
Share based payments (98) 101
2,647 2,489
Directors’ emoluments
£000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 1,383 1,114
Highest paid Director: aggregate emoluments 677 556
Details of individual Directors’ emoluments and pension contributions can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
D Dividends
2014 2013
Pence/share Pence/share
Interim (related to the year ended 30 September 2014) 1.50 1.10
Final (related to the year ended 30 September 2013) 2.50 2.10
Total dividend paid 4.00 3.20
£000 £000
Interim (related to the year ended 30 September 2014) 923 658
Final (related to the year ended 30 September 2013) 1,538 1,259
Total dividend paid 2,461 1,917
Dividends are recorded only when authorised and are shown as a movement in equity rather than as a charge in the profit and 
loss account. The Directors are proposing that a final dividend of 3.50p per Ordinary Share be paid in respect of the year ended 
30 September 2014. This will be accounted for in the 2014/15 financial year.
E Tangible fixed assets
Freehold land Long leasehold Plant, vehicles
and buildings land and buildings & equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 October 2013 701 75 314 1,090
Additions — — 5 5
At 30 September 2014 701 75 319 1,095
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2013 47 75 309 431
Charge for year 10 — 3 13
At 30 September 2014 57 75 312 444
Net book value:
At 30 September 2014 644 — 7 651
At 30 September 2013 654 — 5 659
  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
82
Notes to the company accounts continued
F Investments
Subsidiary
undertakings
£000
Shares at cost:
At 1 October 2013 203,539
Additions 31,889
At 30 September 2014 235,428
Provisions:
At 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 133,979
Net book value:
At 30 September 2014 101,449
At 30 September 2013 69,560
On 29 April 2014, the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Clarke Telecom Ltd for a consideration of £17.1m.
On 1 August 2014, the Company acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Forefront Group Ltd for a consideration of £14.8m.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are included in Note R.
The investment in subsidiaries is supported by their net asset values and their discounted expected future cash flows.
G Stock and work in progress
2014 2013
£000 £000
Undeveloped land 226 91
H Debtors 
2014 2013
£000 £000
Due within one year:
Trade debtors 20 42
Due from subsidiary undertakings 34,580 25,660
Other debtors 2,566 981
Deferred tax 420 24
Prepayments and accrued income 2,850 521
40,436 27,228
I Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
2014 2013
£000 £000
Bank loans and overdrafts 42,021 24,290
Trade creditors 353 519
Other taxation and social security 673 1,450
Due to subsidiary undertakings 30,712 28,806
Other creditors 149 546
Accruals and deferred income 9,196 5,108
83,104 60,719
J Creditors falling due after more than one year
2014 2013
£000 £000
Bank loan 15,500 —
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable:
Within one year 42,021 24,290
Within two to five years 15,500 —
57,521 24,290 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
Accounts
K Derivatives and other financial instruments
Currency exposures
The only exposure of the Company to currency risk (i.e. exposure to gains or losses on foreign exchange which would be recognised 
in the profit and loss account) is in respect of the unhedged portion of an inter-company loan. At 30 September 2014 the unhedged 
portion of the inter-company loan was $1,771,000 (2013: $771,000).
The Company’s operations are denominated in sterling.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
There are no material differences between fair value and the book value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities.
L Share capital
2014 2013
£000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
61,517,948 (2013: 61,403,668) Ordinary Shares of 10p each 6,152 6,140
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the Company.
During the year 114,280 Ordinary Shares were issued following the exercise of options under the Approved element of the Renew 
Holdings plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
Share options
Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme
The Company operates a share option scheme, the Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme. The scheme has both 
an Approved and Unapproved element. The difference between the two elements is that the Approved scheme has the advantage 
of certain HMRC approved tax benefits.
Both elements have the same general terms and conditions. Options issued under the scheme must be held for three years before 
they can vest and become exercisable. They must be exercised within ten years from the date of grant.
All options granted under this scheme have vested and have been exercised.
Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan
At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 January 2012 the shareholders approved a new long term incentive plan (“LTIP”) which 
replaced the Renew Holdings plc 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme as the Directors believed that the LTIP was a more effective 
method of aligning executive and shareholder interests.
On 2 March 2012, the company granted options to subscribe for 400,000 Ordinary Shares pursuant to the LTIP. On 20 December 
2012, options to subscribe for a further 400,000 Ordinary Shares were granted. On 3 January 2014, options to subscribe for a further 
253,165 Ordinary Shares were granted.
The options are exercisable at a nominal cost from 2 March 2015 in respect of those granted on 2 March 201 2 and from 20 December 2015 
in respect of those granted on 20 December 2012, subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria.
Vesting of one half of the options is dependent on absolute growth in the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’), and the other 
half is dependent on the Company’s TSR performance as compared to the TSR achieved by other companies in a comparator group 
of nine companies selected by the Remuneration Committee. All TSR calculations are based on the average of the opening and 
closing share price over a thirty day period prior to the commencement and the end of the performance period.
The absolute TSR growth target requires the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period to grow by more than 25%. 
For TSR growth between 25% and 100%, the half of the option which is subject to the absolute TSR growth target vests on a straight-line 
basis from nil vesting at 25% growth, to 100% vesting at 100% growth. There will be no vesting if TSR growth is 25% or less.
The comparator group TSR performance target measures the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period against 
the TSR of a group of nine companies selected by the Remuneration Committee. If the Company’s TSR performance falls below the 
median performance of the comparator group then the options lapse forthwith. If the Company is ranked within the top decile 
of the comparator group the options shall vest in full. If the Company’s TSR performance is ranked between the median position 
and the top decile of the comparator group then the options shall vest on a straight line basis from nil, at or below the median 
position, to 100% at the top decile. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
84
Notes to the company accounts continued
M Reserves
Share Capital Share based
premium redemption payments Profit & loss
account reserve reserve account
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2013 5,893 3,896 390 20,500
Transfer from profit and loss account for the year 9,903
Recognition of share based payments (98)
New shares issued 49
Dividends paid   (2,461)
At 30 September 2014 5,942 3,896 292 27,942
Share based payments reserve
Renew Holdings 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme
114,280 options were exercised during the year (2013: 1,504,741). 
Following the exercise of all outstanding options under this scheme, the fair value of those options as assessed at the date of grant 
has been charged against the share payments reserve. £259,000 has been credited (2013: Nil) to administrative expenses.
Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan
Fair value has been independently measured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP using a Monte Carlo model methodology. The fair 
value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Board’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
£161,000 has been charged (2013: £101,000) to administrative expenses. There is no impact on net assets since an equivalent 
amount has been credited to the share based payments reserve. No options were exercised during the year. The value per option 
represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable.
The expected volatility has been calculated based on weekly historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the three years 
prior to the date of grant. The risk free rate of return has been based on the yields available on three year UK government bonds 
as at the date of grant.
Options granted under the Renew Holdings plc Long Term Incentive Plan over the Company’s Ordinary shares at 30 September 2014 
were as follows:
Date of grant 2 March 2012 20 December 2012 3 January 2014 Total
Awards outstanding at 30 September 2014
– Directors 400,000 400,000 253,165 1,053,165
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Price at date of grant 75.0p 87.0p 180.0p
Maximum option life 10 years 10 years 10 years
Assumed option life for purposes of valuation 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 46% 36% 32%
Dividend yield 4.0% 3.6% 2.0%
Risk free interest rate 0.43% 0.48% 1.03%
Value per option 40.0p 30.0p 87.5p
N Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
2014 2013
£000 £000
Profit for the year 9,903 11,226
Dividends paid (2,461) (1,917)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 61 150
Recognition of share based payments (98) 101
At 1 October 2013 36,819 27,259
At 30 September 2014 44,224 36,819
O Capital and leasing commitments
Land and Total Total
buildings Other 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Annual commitments under non-cancellable 
operating leases expiring in:
Under one year — 12 12 210
Two to five years 125 8 133 145
Five or more years 776 — 776 741
901 20 921 1,096
The Company had no capital commitments at 30 September 2014 (2013: £nil).  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85
Accounts
P Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed performance bonds in respect of certain contracts and leasing arrangements in the normal course 
of business of its subsidiary undertakings.
Under the terms of the Group’s banking agreement, security over the Company’s assets has been granted to the Group’s bankers.
The Company is a participant together with a number of subsidiary undertakings in the Group banking arrangements and 
as a result has risks associated with the financial status and performance of the other companies within the Group.
Q Defined contribution pension scheme
The Company operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes and individual stakeholder pension plans for its employees.
The Company made contributions of £168,000 (2013: £194,000) into these plans during the year. There are also £15,000 
(2013: £10,000) of accruals relating to these plans.
R Principal subsidiary undertakings 
Renew Holdings plc acts as the holding company of the Group. The principal activity of the Group during the year was as contractors 
in Engineering Services and Specialist Building. 
The principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Incorporation & Proportion of
principal place Ordinary Shares
of business held by the Company
Subsidiary undertakings
Britannia Construction Ltd Owned by subsidiary England and Wales 100%
Walter Lilly & Co Ltd Owned by subsidiary England and Wales 100%
Seymour (Civil Engineering Contractors) Ltd Owned by subsidiary England and Wales 100%
Amalgamated Construction Ltd Owned by subsidiary England and Wales 100%
V.H.E. Construction Plc Owned by Renew Holdings plc England and Wales 100%
Shepley Engineers Ltd Owned by Renew Holdings plc England and Wales 100%
Lewis Civil Engineering Ltd Owned by Renew Holdings plc England and Wales 100%
Clarke Telecom Ltd Owned by Renew Holdings plc England and Wales 100%
Forefront Group Ltd Owned by Renew Holdings plc England and Wales 100%
Lovell America, Inc Owned by Renew Holdings plc USA 100%
S Related parties 
The Company has a related party relationship with its key management personnel who are the Main Board Directors: B W May, 
J Samuel, P Scott, R J Harrison, J Bishop and D M Forbes, whose total compensation amounted to £1,383,000 all of which was 
represented by short-term employment benefits.
There were no other transactions with key management personnel in the year. Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Accounts
86
Directors, officers and advisors
Directors
R J Harrison OBE (Non-executive Chairman) 
B W May  (Chief Executive) 
J Samuel FCA (Group Finance Director) 
P Scott  (Group Engineering Services Director) 
J Bishop FCA (Independent Non-executive) 
D M Forbes (Independent Non-executive)
Registrars
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Auditor
KPMG LLP 
1 The Embankment 
Neville Street 
Leeds 
LS1 4DW 
Financial PR
Walbrook PR Ltd 
4 Lombard Street 
London 
EC3V 9HD
Nominated advisor and broker
Numis Securities Limited 
London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London  
EC4M 7LT
Company Secretary
J Samuel FCA
Company number
650447
Registered address
Yew Trees 
Main Street North 
Aberford 
Leeds 
LS25 3AA
Website address
www.renewholdings.com Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87
Accounts
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Annual General Meeting 28 January 2015
Results   Announcement of interim results – May 2015
    Preliminary announcement of full year results – November 2015
Share Portal 
The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily. To register for the Share Portal 
just visit www.capitashareportal.com. 
Dividend re-investment plan
Capita’s Dividend Re-investment Plan offers a convenient way for shareholders to build up their shareholding by using dividend 
money to purchase additional shares. For more information please call 0871 664 0381 (calls to this number cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras) or if calling from overseas +44 20 8639 3402. Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public 
holidays. Alternatively, you can email shares@capita.co.uk or log on to www.capitashareportal.com.
Donate your shares to charity
If you have only a small number of shares which are uneconomical to sell you may wish to donate them to charity free of charge 
through ShareGift (Registered Charity 10528686). Find out more at www.sharegift.org.uk or by telephoning 020 7930 3737.
Share fraud warning
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or 
non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own. These calls typically come from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are 
mostly based abroad. If you are offered unsolicited investment advice you should:
> > Check the Financial Services Register at http:/ /www.fca.org.uk to ensure they are authorised.
> > Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 1 1 1 6768 or use the share fraud reporting form at http:/ /www.fca.org.uk/scams.
If you use an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
Capita’s Customer Support Centre
By phone UK – 0871 664 0300 (UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras).  From overseas - +44 20 8639 3399. 
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
By email  shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88
Accounts
Our subsidiary businesses
Amco
Whaley Road 
Barugh 
Barnsley 
South Yorkshire 
S75 1HT 
Tel: 01226 243413
Shepley Engineers
Robinson House 
Westlakes Science Park 
Moor Row 
Cumbria 
CA24 3HY 
Tel: 01946 599 022
Seymour Civil Engineering
30–35 Navigation Point 
Hartlepool 
TS24 0UQ 
Tel: 01429 233 521
VHE
Whaley Road 
Barugh 
Barnsley 
South Yorkshire 
S75 1HT 
Tel: 01226 320150
Britannia
Britannia House 
Staverton Technology Park 
Cheltenham 
Gloucestershire 
GL51 6TQ 
Tel: 01452 859 880
Lewis Civil Engineering
Mwyndy Cross Industries 
Cardiff Road 
Pontyclun 
Rhondda Cynon Taff 
CF72 8PN 
Tel: 01443 449200
Walter Lilly
Knollys House 
17 Addiscombe Road 
Croydon 
Surrey 
CR0 6SR 
Tel: 020 8730 6200
Clarke T elecom
Unit E 
Madison Place 
Northampton Road 
Manchester 
M40 5AG 
Tel: 0161 785 4500
Forefront
30 Stephenson Road 
Leigh on Sea 
Essex 
SS9 5LY 
Tel: 01702 507 440 Discover more online
www.renewholdings.com
Keep up to date with our corporate website.
  Renew Holdings plc 
Yew Trees 
Main Street North 
Aberford 
Leeds  
LS25 3AA 
tel: 0113 281 4200 
fax: 0113 281 4210 
web: www.renewholdings.com
Company Number: 650447 
Registered in England & Wales
Renew Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
