 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2006
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant
55–57 High Street
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 1LP
A world
of advanced
materials
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
Annual report 2006
     Morgan Crucible: 
A world of advanced materials
From medical instruments, aerospace, power generation
and satellite communications to body armour , trains and 
fire protection systems: Morgan Crucible’s advanced
material technology is a fundamental component of many
of today’s sophisticated products.
With the rapid development of increasingly complex
technology, our customers are demanding more from 
the materials they use and are looking for a partner 
who can help them to respond to the pace of change.
Morgan Crucible’s knowledge, skills, design and technical
expertise, built up over 150 years in the business, mean we
can tailor our materials to deliver the specialist capability 
our customers require, while taking care of the impact 
our products have on the environment both during and 
after their useful life. 
Morgan Crucible’s advanced materials – technically
complex, added value, bespoke solutions – are the future. 
08 Chairman’s statement
10 Review of our strategy by the 
Chief Executive Officer 
12 The Group at a glance
14 Business review
14 Review of operations
24 Financial review
27 Risk management
30 Corporate responsibility 
35 Cautionary statement
36 Directors and Executive Committee
38 Directors’ report
40 Corporate governance
45 Remuneration report
51 Shareholder information
52 Report of the independent auditors
53 Consolidated income statement
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated statement of cash flows
56 Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
57 Notes to the financial statements
88 Company balance sheet
95 Statistical information under UK GAAP
96 Statistical information under adopted IFRS
This Report and Accounts is printed on Sovereign silk
and Kaskad puffin blue, which are totally chlorine
free (TCF) papers. 
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the
production support the growth of responsible 
forest management and are both accredited to
ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous
environmental improvement.
If you have finished reading this report and no 
longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other
interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. 
Thank you.
This annual report is available at
www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar (London)
Printed by CTD The Morgan Crucible Company plc 01
We aim to create consistent,
long-term value for our shareholders
by being a world leader in advanced
materials. We target mid-teen
underlying operating profit margins
*
in good times and are making good
progress, achieving almost 11% in
2006 up from 5% just three years ago.
We pursue our goals consistently
across all parts of the business by:
3Focusing on higher growth, higher 
margin and higher value-added
products and markets
3Establishing and maintaining
leading positions in our target
markets
3Continuously improving our
operational performance 
3Investing in our people
* Defined as operating profit before special items, divided by revenue. 02 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
problems Higher growth, higher margin, higher value-added 
products and markets 
Across our businesses we are investing in technological leadership,
rebalancing our mix of products to give greater weight to high value,
technically complex components. Our choice of markets is crucial to
success: we are moving away from economically cyclical, commoditised
markets and focusing our efforts on higher-growth markets such as medical
and defence, and emerging economic growth markets such as China,
India and Latin America. 
Morgan Crucible’s pursuit of profitable growth is focused on the long-term,
close relationships we have with our customers who come to us for highly
specialised engineering and superior materials. This often involves working
with customers’ R&D teams early in the development stages, helping them
create efficient technical processes and delivering components with the
right technical edge to bring a product successfully to market. 
7
We work side by side with
many customers to provide
bespoke solutions that solve
their individual needs.
solutions
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 03 innerspace
Leading positions in our target markets
In creating leading market positions for our businesses and products 
we are building from a position of strength. Many of Morgan Crucible’s
products are already established as leaders in their markets. As we develop
the higher value-added, higher margin parts of our business and move into
new markets, we aim swiftly to achieve leadership positions, then maintain 
and grow our lead.
04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc outerspace
71
Our Technical Ceramics
Division produces many
medical components such 
as ceramic hip joints, spinal
implants and cochlear
implants. We also produce 
several vital components 
for the aerospace and 
space industries.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 05 06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
west
13
Achieving an optimal
manufacturing footprint 
is vital to our operating
performance. We have
grown our operations in Asia
to support our customers as
they migrate to the region
and to take advantage of
rising economic demand. 
We have made significant
progress restructuring our
Western manufacturing
sites in order to make them 
as efficient as possible. east
Improved operational performance
Continuously improving our operational performance to make sure we have
the right economics in the business is fundamental to achieving our target
operating profit margins and delivering value to shareholders. Our aim is 
to make high-tech, higher-value products in lower-cost, higher-growth
locations, and we monitor our sites continuously to ensure they are delivering
the best value for money. In recent years we have consolidated and
simplified our operations, and increased the proportion of our sites in 
lower-cost locations, maintaining those in higher-cost locations where it
makes sense to do so to meet the needs of our customers.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 07 08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to be joining
Morgan Crucible at an exciting
time for the Company and on its
150th anniversary. We look
forward with confidence to the
next phase in our history. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09
Let me brieﬂy introduce both myself and your
new Chief Executive Officer. I am currently
Chairman of Travis Perkins plc and the Senior
Independent Director of Tribal plc; I also chair
the Governors of Oxford Brookes University. I
spent the majority of my management years at
Burmah Castrol plc where I was Chief Executive
from 1998 to 2000. 
Board changes
There have been some substantial changes to
your Board during the year, with both a new
Chairman and a new Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. 
Lars Kylberg retired from the Board in December
after a total of ten years at Morgan Crucible
including three as Chairman. Warren Knowlton
retired as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in August 2006
after three and a half successful years turning
the fortunes of your Company around. 
Morgan Crucible is in a very strong ﬁnancial
position and has delivered higher returns to you,
our shareholders, compared to the FTSE 350
index since 2003. Much of this is due to Warren’s
leadership. On behalf of the Board I should like
to wish both Lars and Warren well in the future.
Your new Chief Executive Officer is Mark
Robertshaw, who succeeded Warren on 
4 August. Mark joined Morgan Crucible in
October 2004 as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and
then Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, and has made a
vital contribution to the successful transformation
of the Company. I am much looking forward to
working with Mark and the Board in building
Morgan Crucible’s future success.
Kevin Dangerﬁeld succeeded Mark as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer after ﬁve years as Group
Financial Controller. His deep knowledge of 
the business will be of considerable beneﬁt to 
the Company.
David Coker retired as Company Secretary in
December after 18 years with Morgan Crucible.
I thank him on behalf of the Board for his hard
work and we wish him a happy and restful
retirement. Paul Boulton, our Group Legal
Counsel, replaced David with effect from 
1 January and, on behalf of the Board, 
we welcome the great contribution that 
he has made so far.
Reporting structure
After the positive feedback that we received
when we adopted the framework of the
Operating and Financial Review (OFR) in 
our 2005 Report, we have built on that by
providing a comprehensive Business Review 
for 2006. Providing transparent information 
to shareholders is important to us and our
Business Review provides shareholders, both 
large and small, with more information on our
performance, the risks and opportunities we
face and how we manage the business.
Bid approach
In August 2006 we announced that 
Morgan Crucible had received a preliminary
approach which might or might not have led 
to an offer for the Company. The Board and
management team are focused on delivering
value to you, our shareholders, and are fully
aware of their ﬁduciary responsibility to entertain
any serious offer. In October we announced
that discussions had not led to an offer that was
acceptable to the Board and that talks had thus
been terminated. The management team did
not solicit any offer and they, along with your
Board, are conﬁdent in the prospects of the
business and its strategy for delivering value to
you through proﬁtable growth.
Dividend
A ﬁnal dividend of 3.0 pence per share 
(2005: 2.5 pence per share) will be
recommended at the forthcoming AGM,
making a total dividend for the year of 
4.5 pence (2005: 2.5 pence).
Our people
The continuing momentum of the progress 
of Morgan Crucible is down to its people – our
employees. I know that we have many
dedicated and skilled people around the world
who strive for high standards in providing high
value-added, higher margin products. On your
behalf I should like to congratulate them for their
achievements and to thank them for all their
hard work and commitment.
Morgan Crucible is well placed to continue 
to make excellent progress. You may know 
that 2006 was the 150th anniversary of the
Company. Not many British companies can
claim the accolade of remaining an
independent business for 150 years.
We look forward with conﬁdence to 
the next phase in our history.
Tim Stevenson
Chairman  10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Review of our strategy 
by the Chief Executive Officer
The proﬁt improvement plan, which we
embarked upon three years ago, has been
successfully delivered, having achieved
double digit underlying operating proﬁt
margins* well ahead of schedule. 
The Group’s balance sheet is robust with
lower levels of net debt** leaving us well
placed to invest in growing the business
organically and through selective bolt-on
acquisitions in our core businesses.
* Defined as operating profit before special items, divided 
by revenue.
**Defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and 
bank overdrafts less cash and other cash equivalents. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11
Throughout 2006 we have made excellent
progress on our strategic objectives which 
is reflected in our good financial results.
Underlying operating proﬁt margins (operating
profit before special items, divided by revenue)
for the continuing Group were 10.9% compared
to 9.1% in 2005. Like-for-like revenues in
continuing businesses were up 11.2% and
underlying operating proﬁts were 33.0% higher
than in 2005.
Highlights of 2006
I am delighted to report that all our Divisions
have delivered improved ﬁnancial results in 2006.
Revenue of the Carbon Division was up 
6.9% compared to 2005 at £213.6 million 
(2005: £199.9 million), and underlying operating
proﬁt for the Division was up 23.4% at £33.8
million (2005: £27.4 million).
The Technical Ceramics Division had another
strong year. Its revenue increased by 12.2% 
to £162.5 million (2005: £144.8 million) and
underlying operating proﬁt increased by 
39.3% to £17.0 million (2005: £12.2 million).
The performance of the Insulating Ceramics
Division has also been robust. Revenues grew 
by 13.8% to £301.7 million (2005: £265.1 million)
and underlying operating proﬁt increased by
29.8% to £27.9 million (2005: £21.5 million).
The balance sheet for the Group is very strong
with only a modest £34.1 million of net debt
(defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings
and bank overdrafts less cash and other cash
equivalents) at the year end. Furthermore, I am
pleased to tell you that Morgan Crucible has
eliminated the deﬁcit in its UK pension fund
during 2006, thanks in no small part to the one-
off contribution of £40 million during the year. As
a result of this, combined with positive moves in
our scheme assets and liabilities, the UK pension
funds had a surplus of £3.1 million on the IAS 19
Employee Benefits accounting basis at the end
of 2006 compared to a deﬁcit of £66.2 million at
the end of the previous year.
Clearly, one of the major events in 2006, was the
approach we received to buy the Company in
August. Your Chairman has covered this in his
statement; however I would like to assure you
that our business operations were not distracted
by the takeover approach. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank our staff for 
the professionalism and commitment they
showed during a period of uncertainty.
There have also been changes in the 
Morgan Crucible management team during
2006. I would like to add my personal thanks to
Warren Knowlton who retired as Chief Executive
Officer in August. Warren successfully turned
Morgan Crucible around in the three and 
a half years that he was Chief Executive Officer
and I have inherited a very healthy company
as a result of his leadership.
Looking forward
Morgan Crucible celebrated its 150th
anniversary in 2006 which, in today’s fast-paced
and ever changing world, is an achievement 
we are proud of. As we look to the future, 
we must continue to anticipate the increasingly
sophisticated requirements of our customers 
and react to the growing intensity of the
competitive landscape, not least the 
low-cost manufacturing power of China, 
India and other fast developing economies.
Our strategy is to focus on higher growth, higher
value-added markets and to move away from
commoditised, economically cyclical market
segments. We aim to be the number one 
or two player in our chosen market segments.
This strategy has driven organic growth across
our divisions that has been higher than the GDP
growth in their markets. Our top-line growth, for
the ﬁrst time in recent years, has now overtaken
cost cutting as the major driver for our proﬁt
growth. This is the mark of a successful company. 
Our pricing position, which was negative for
many years, is now strongly positive – again a
testimony to the strength and quality of our
refocused product offering.
Of course, cost control and the constant 
drive for ongoing operational improvement
throughout the Group remain essential. 
As part of our successful proﬁt improvement 
plan we are demonstrating that cost discipline 
is now an integral part of our culture.
Investing in our people
Our employees are vital to the ongoing 
success of Morgan Crucible. We are investing 
in the development of our existing people 
and will also be searching for high quality staff
to supplement our talent pool. Over the past
three years our people have been faced 
with many challenges in the rebirth of 
Morgan Crucible. The management team 
and I have been delighted with their
commitment and enthusiasm to make 
Morgan Crucible a world class manufacturer 
of advanced materials. They have delivered on
many fronts, improving customer satisfaction,
enhancing our product portfolio and creating
value for you, our shareholders.
In my ﬁrst Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review I am
therefore pleased to report that your Company
is in robust ﬁnancial health, and is well placed to
continue its positive momentum into the future.
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer \
\
\
12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
The Group at a glance
2005
13.7%
2006
15.8%
2004
10.7%
2003
10.6%
Carbon
Our Carbon Division produces a wide variety of technological 
solutions from carbon, graphite, and silicon carbide. These include
carbon brushes for motors; body armour; graphite powder for the
synthetic diamond sector; seals and bearing solutions for the 
chemical processing and fluid pumping industries; and a variety 
of components for the aerospace, semiconductor processing and
space exploration industries.
2005
8.4%
2006
10.5%
2004
5.5%
2003
0.5%
Technical Ceramics
Our Technical Ceramics Division makes an extensive range of industrial
ceramics products for a wide variety of applications. These include
medical implants, power tubes used in airport security scanning devices
and aerospace components. Most of our production is bespoke. 
We offer full technical support and advice to customers thoughout 
their product development cycle.
2005
8.1%
2006
9.2%
2004
7.5%
2003
6.4%
Insulating Ceramics
Our Insulating Ceramics Division designs and manufactures a wide
variety of heat insulation products and is a world leader in insulation
and refractory technology, fibre, insulating firebricks and crucibles. We
provide services to several global markets including heat management
solutions for steel making, and fire protection systems for tunnels, fire
doors and ducting. Our world leading Superwool
TM
range of insulating
fibre is used in many applications ranging from automotive equipment
solutions to domestic appliances.
Underlying operating profit margins* Divisions
* Defined as operating profit before special items, divided by revenue. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 13
Growth markets
Our conductive carbon 
is used widely in rail
applications
We provide solutions for fluid
handling in chemical and
other processing industries
Our braze alloys are 
used for engine build and
repair and our ceramic
components and 
sub-assemblies are used 
in engine monitoring 
and control equipment
Medical implants use 
our ceramic coatings
Our power tubes are used 
in security scanning devices
Our leading Superwool
TM
range is used in automotive 
engineering solutions
Our heat management
solutions are crucial for
steel manufacturing
Our materials are used
in automotive exhaust
manufacturing as filter and
heat management systems
We manufacture the plates
for bullet proof vests 14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Carbon
Overview
Our Carbon Division produces a wide variety of
technological solutions from carbon, graphite,
and silicon carbide. These include carbon
brushes for motors; body armour; graphite
powder for the synthetic diamond sector; 
seals and bearing solutions for the chemical
processing and fluid pumping industries; 
and a variety of components for the aerospace,
semiconductor processing and space
exploration industries.
Divisional structure
With high quality manufacturing facilities and 
a skilled workforce of some 3,700 around the
world, our Carbon Division supports its global
customers, takes advantage of organic 
growth in local markets and utilises low-cost
locations where appropriate. The Division has 
39 manufacturing facilities in five continents. 
In 2006 revenues were £213.6 million, of which
30.2% was from Europe, 51.2% from the Americas
and 18.6% from the rest of the world.
2006 financial performance
%
2006 2005 increase
Revenue £213.6m £199.9m 6.9
Underlying operating profit* £33.8m £27.4m 23.4
Underlying operating
profit margin 15.8% 13.7%
*Operating profit before special items.
Financial performance in 2006 represents a
further strong improvement compared with 
prior years. The Division has benefited from good
sales growth in a number of markets and from
the large number of rationalisation projects 
that have had a major impact on both the
manufacturing and overhead cost bases.
Trading in almost all of the Americas’ businesses
was strong. Our traditional businesses benefited
from the underlying strength of the US economy.
Demand for armour products was very strong
throughout the year and significant capital
investment has been made to meet demand.
There has been improvement in some of our
European markets, but the main focus in Europe
during 2006 has been on successfully delivering
on the major site rationalisation plans.
In Asia, our Chinese businesses have had
another year of double digit growth and there
has been further significant investment in both
manufacturing capacity and capability to
ensure that this growth can be maintained.
Products
The Carbon Division produces a wide variety 
of products. These include:
• Carbon brushes and related components
including brush-holders, slip rings and 
terminal blocks for motors in industrial 
and traction applications.
• Rotary transfer systems for the transmission 
of current in rotating equipment.
• Bearings and seals for fluid handling
applications.
• Protective armour for personal and vehicle
protection.
• Graphite powder for the synthetic diamond
sector.
• High purity graphite parts for use in highly
demanding environments such as
semiconductor, nuclear and high temperature
furnace applications.
Business review
Review of operations Helping to
produce
cleaner energy
Carbon Division companies
are established suppliers 
to the expanding global
renewable energy market.
Our carbon brushes and
brush-holders are used 
for wind turbine current
collection and lightning
protection.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 15 16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations
Markets
The markets served by our Carbon 
Division include:
Electrical industrial and traction
We provide electrical current transfer systems
from carbon brushes through to collectors and
rotary current transfer products, serving both
original equipment manufacturers and the
aftermarket. Whilst this market is stable and
relatively mature, we have been able to take
advantage of the good economic and industrial
growth in the Americas; in areas of specific
product advantage, such as power stations;
and in areas of local organic growth, notably
China. We have global operations that match
the locations of our customers including low-cost
manufacturing bases in Mexico, Eastern Europe
and Asia.
Fluid handling
We supply carbon and silicon carbide
components for the seals and bearings which
are critical to the pumps and compressors 
used in many fluid handling industries such 
as chemical and food processing. The fluid
handling market has remained strong during
the year. We are continuing to invest in
capability and capacity in low-cost
manufacturing operations where our customers
are located, such as China and India.
Protective armour 
We produce a range of silicon carbide ceramics
for personal body, vehicle and aircraft armour
systems, working globally with defence ministries.
Continued Western military deployment, a high
level of government spending and a changing
ballistic threat means that demand for our 
armour products has been strong throughout
2006. We have invested significantly in
manufacturing capacity and in technical
resources to ensure that we are well placed to
serve this growing demand. During 2006, we
acquired Aceram, a Canadian-based business,
in order to complement further our armour
material portfolio.
Diamond synthesis
We continue to be the leading supplier of 
highly engineered graphite powder used 
in the manufacture of synthetic diamonds.
Strong construction and oil drilling sectors mean
that demand continues to be robust. We have
invested in developing technologies that help
our customers to achieve high yields and to
improve productivity and product quality.
Outlook
The Carbon Division continues to enjoy a strong
position in its traditional core markets. In addition
our material and process competencies have
allowed us to develop new product lines and
market opportunities, providing the Division with
an exciting business pipeline for the future.
The rationalisation of our manufacturing footprint
will continue in order to ensure that we manage
our cost base and provide the funds for further
investment in countries that provide both the
highest growth opportunities and lowest cost
operations. There is also a strong commitment 
to support our customers globally through our
worldwide manufacturing presence.
We are pleased to say that our robust financial
performance in 2006 has put us on a strong
footing for the future.
Keep on
moving
Our carbon pantographs 
are used on many of the
world’s tram and rail systems.
They are a vital component;
the pantograph collects the
current from the overhead
cable to power the tram or
train. We are renowned for
the reliability of our products -
many transportation systems
rely on them. Carbon is non-
abrasive, has low electrical
resistance and low mechanical
friction. All these advantages
result in lower total running
costs than alternative collector
materials. No wonder many 
of the world’s tram and
railway systems use Morgan
Carbon products. Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 17
Technical Ceramics
Overview
Our Technical Ceramics Division makes an
extensive range of industrial ceramics products
for a wide variety of applications. These include
medical implants, power tubes used in airport
security scanning devices and aerospace
components. Most of our production is bespoke.
We offer full technical support and advice to
customers thoughout their product
development cycle.
Divisional structure
Our Technical Ceramics Division operates
worldwide, offering value-added solutions,
world-class research and development,
innovative design and application engineering. 
The Division has sixteen manufacturing sites
across the USA, UK, Netherlands, Germany 
and China and employs approximately 2,100
people. Europe accounted for 44.9% of the 2006
divisional revenue of £162.5 million, 51.4% was
from the Americas, and 3.7% from the rest of the
world.
2006 financial performance
%
2006 2005 increase
Revenue £162.5m £144.8m 12.2
Underlying operating profit* £17.0m £12.2m 39.3
Underlying operating
profit margin 10.5% 8.4%
*Operating profit before special items.
The Division’s revenue rose 12.2% to £162.5 million
and underlying operating profit rose 39.3% 
to £17.0 million. The Division has experienced
good underlying trading in the second half of
the year which, combined with a particularly
strong first half, helped the Division achieve 
its short-term goal of double digit underlying
operating margins. The business remains focused
on continued operating profit margin
progression with improvements seen in all
regions in 2006, supported by investment in 
new product introductions. 
The 2006 revenues were somewhat flattered 
by the significant increases that we saw in
precious metal prices which were passed
through in our pricing to customers. 
This represented c2.5% year-on-year revenue
growth. Although other raw material and 
energy costs also increased compared to 2005,
these were countered by a combination of
operational efficiencies and price increases. 
Cracking
unique
challenges
ISIS is a world-class neutron
company based in the UK.
They commissioned highly
specialist metallised ceramic
components from our
Technical Ceramics Division
as part of a major expansion
project. A Senior Client
Project Manager comments:
“We have benefited from 
the considerable experience
of the Morgan Technical
Ceramics team at Rugby. 
It is great to have such
world-leading expertise 
on our doorstep.” Stimulating
bone growth
Our Technical Ceramics
Division has recently
developed a custom-
designed ceramic feed-
through for use in an internal
bone growth stimulator. 
Bone stimulators are used 
as a supplementary form of
therapy to help enhance the
body’s bone healing process.
They emit low electrical
currents, similar to those
created naturally by broken
bone, helping stimulate
growth and creating
successful fusion.
18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19
Coping with
the pressure
Our Technical Ceramics
Division has produced a
piezoelectric transducer
for use as a high-accuracy,
cost-effective blood pressure
monitor. Electronic sensors
provide greater accuracy
and long-term reliability 
over mechanical devices,
and, in addition to use in
conventional systems, 
they facilitate long-term
monitoring, allowing medical
staff to analyse trends in a
patient’s blood pressure.
Globally, the industrial equipment, medical,
aerospace and electronics segments continue
to show good growth. The US markets have
remained strong and our European business is
also seeing strong performance, particularly 
in laser and power tube products for
communications and security equipment. 
In Asia the additional capacity recently installed
to meet demand for the thermal processing
market is now fully utilised and we anticipate
further expansion as a result.
Products
The Division uses materials science and
applications engineering to make products 
from a wide range of ceramic materials with
properties tailored for use in a diverse range 
of markets. These include:
• Braze alloys for aero engine build and repair.
• Ceramic components and sub-assemblies for
engine monitoring and control equipment.
• Components and sub-assemblies for a broad
range of medical applications, primarily
implantable devices, prosthetics, and surgical
and diagnostic equipment.
• Components and sub-assemblies used in 
wafer handling and processing chambers,
serving both semiconductor processing
equipment manufacturers and wafer 
fabrication plants. 
Markets
The markets served by our Technical Ceramics
Division are:
Aerospace
We serve the new-build and aftermarket in both
the commercial and military aerospace sectors,
as a tier 2 supplier to the major manufacturers
and a supplier to MRO (maintenance, repair
and overhaul) companies. Increased demands
in passenger and cargo traffic are driving the
commercial market, resulting in growth in new
builds for single-aisle, twin-aisle, large cargo
aircraft and regional jets.
Medical
Long-term durability, biocompatibility and
specific mechanical and electrical properties
make ceramic materials ideal for a range of
medical applications. An ageing population
and a desire to employ non-invasive surgical
techniques have meant that this sector has a
need for ever smaller yet more complex
components. 
We have an extensive portfolio of materials
combined with processing techniques such as
injection moulding, engineered coatings and
ceramic-metal assemblies that are enabling
medical equipment manufacturers to address 
this opportunity.
Semiconductor processing
The majority of the components we
manufacture are classified as consumable
spares. The demand for integrated circuits 
in electronic equipment is the main driver of 
the equipment market, combined with the
introduction and adoption of new and updated
technology. The installed base of equipment
using our products is large and demand 
for spare parts continues through market
downturns. Overall demand slowed in 2005
but the market saw recovery in 2006 and
returned to positive growth.
Electronics
We supply niche applications within the
electronics market where our products are
differentiated by their superior material and/or
dimensional characteristics. Markets for
components and sub-assemblies include
telecommunications, lasers and optoelectronics
and IT hardware. The laser market continues 
to grow as devices find new applications and
become smaller and more affordable to users.
Applications include cosmetic surgery, dentistry,
product marking and spectroscopy. A major
driver of the optoelectronics market is the
demand for surveillance equipment in military
and commercial applications.
Within the IT hardware market, demand for data
storage has increased dramatically as more
people are using home PCs for music, pictures
and videos, and advances in technology create
options for TV recording and playback.
Outlook
Our Technical Ceramics Division has significant
potential for further revenue and profit growth.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on customers
and markets that are themselves growing and
are innovative in their approach. More than 40%
of the Division’s revenues are now in the growing
markets of medical, aerospace and specialist
electronics such as airport security detection
devices. We plan to increase our presence in 
the rapidly expanding Asian region, helped by
new capacity in Yixing, China. We are looking
carefully for bolt-on acquisition opportunities 
that would enhance our offering in our core
markets, which together with a strong new
business pipeline, leaves the Division well 
placed for the future. 20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations
Lightweight,
agile and fuel
efficient
Our new FireMaster Marine
Plus blanket produced by our
Thermal Ceramics business 
is used in the manufacture 
of aluminium fast ferries.
The new ultra-lightweight 
fire insulation is designed for
weight sensitive applications
and provides typically 20–30%
weight savings compared to
alternative solutions. Reducing
the weight of the ferry means
that the fuel economy is
improved, making it more
energy efficient and safety 
is also enhanced.
Insulating Ceramics
Overview
Our Insulating Ceramics Division designs and
manufactures a wide variety of heat insulation
products and is a world leader in insulation and
refractory technology, fibre, insulating firebricks
and crucibles. We provide services to several
global markets including heat management
solutions for steel making, and fire protection
systems for tunnels, fire doors and ducting. 
Our world leading Superwool
TM
range of
insulating fibre is used in many applications
ranging from automotive equipment solutions 
to domestic appliances.
Divisional structure
The Insulating Ceramics Division comprises
two businesses: Thermal Ceramics and 
Molten Metal Systems (formerly Crucibles).
Thermal Ceramics’ revenue for 2006 was 
£271.2 million (2005: £236.7 million) and 
Molten Metal Systems generated £30.5 million
(2005: £28.4 million).
The Division employs approximately 3,500 people
and has 35 manufacturing sites.
During 2006, the Division has continued to
implement its strategy of geographical
expansion through capital investment and
acquisitions. European operations accounted 
for 41.2% of the 2006 divisional revenue 36.3%
was from the Americas, and 22.5% was from 
the rest of the world. Profitability has followed a
similar profile, although, in general, the European
results have lagged behind, emphasising the
need for our ongoing rationalisation of sites
and functions.
2006 financial performance
%
2006 2005 increase
Revenue £301.7m £265.1m 13.8
Underlying operating profit* £27.9m £21.5m 29.8
Underlying operating
profit margin 9.2% 8.1%
*Operating profit before special items.
Our Insulating Ceramics Division’s revenue rose
13.8% to £301.7 million. Underlying operating
profit margins were up, despite a continuation 
of raw material and energy price increases 
from previous years. Underlying operating profit
was up 29.8% to £27.9 million. Energy and raw
material prices have finally started to reverse,
although they will still represent increases on 
2006 as multi-year contracts expire. Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21
Thermal Ceramics 
Large differences remain between the
geographical regions in which we operate.
Western European demand remained generally
flat; the industrial markets have suffered from
competition from Asia, Latin America and
Eastern Europe. However, we have seen
considerable growth in the Americas and Asia.
During 2006, we expanded operations in 
the west of India to take advantage of
developments in the key market of ceramics 
in that region, as well as to strengthen export
capabilities to the Middle East. Our new
acquisition in Russia has commenced trading
and has proved successful already. This is in 
line with the Group strategy of moving to 
lower-cost production countries and entering
new geographical markets.
In conjunction with these geographical
expansions we acquired the US and Polish 
fibre businesses from Cookson plc. Both of 
these operations have contributed to the
performance of those regions, operating as
immediate bolt-ons to our existing businesses.
Molten Metal Systems
Revenues in our Molten Metal Systems business
rose 7.4% in 2006, partly as a result of more
favourable trading conditions in Asia and in 
the Americas, whilst Europe remained flat. 
In the early part of the year, our position in the
growing Indian market was strengthened by 
the purchase of the minority shareholding of 
our partner in Morganite Crucible India Ltd.,
followed by the acquisition of the Diamond
Crucible Company in Gujarat. Despite significant
increases in the cost of energy and some raw
materials, operating margins were up as a result
of the restructuring measures undertaken in the
latter part of the previous year. We deployed
additional sales and management resources
in Asia during the year, in order to exploit
continuing market growth in the region. 
We also advanced plans for the establishment
of a manufacturing facility in China, which will
commence production in the early part of 2008.
Products
Our Insulating Ceramics Division has several
major product groups:
Thermal Ceramics
• Insulating fibres which include the
Superwool™, Kaowool™, Cerablanket™, 
Pyro-Bloc™ and Firemaster™ brands. In 2006
we launched the higher temperature
Superwool™ 607HT.
• Insulating firebrick and castable products
include the JM, K, TJM and Tri-Mor™ brands.
Molten Metal Systems
• Foundry crucibles
• Energy efficient melting and holding furnaces
• Heated molten metal transport ladles and
other foundry consumables used in 
metal handling, purification, flow control 
and temperature measurement.
Markets
Our Insulating Ceramics Division targets the
following key markets:
Iron and steel
We supply heat management solutions to steel
making and downstream processes, both direct
to the steel producers and through major
contractors. In 2006, global steel production is
estimated to have been up 9% on 2005, with
almost all regions very buoyant. Further growth
is expected in 2007.
Aluminium
Reducing heat loss and improving heat
containment is a major opportunity for
aluminium producers. Our product range
enables furnace design and performance to 
be improved. Our Superwool™ product range 
is used in consumable products to further
enhance energy efficiency performance.
Transportation and automotive
We have expanded our presence in these
markets with Superwool™ engineered products.
We have developed catalytic convertor mats,
heat shields and special adhesives in house and
with international partners in Japan, the USA 
and Europe. 22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations
The increased use of diesel engines offers 
further growth opportunities. Increased activity 
in domestic and international air travel has
raised our revenues from consumable products 
for the production of aero engine blades and
insulation. We also supply crucibles and foundry
consumables to the automotive sector which is
making increased use of components cast from
molten aluminium alloys with, for example,
increasing fitment rates of alloy wheels.
Petro-chemical
This market has shown strong performance in
2006 in the Middle East, India, China and
Eastern Europe, with 2007 expected to continue
this trend. Many of the opportunities are from
our new plants in the region and involve a
project-based approach including design,
supply and supervision.
In America and Europe we are also seeing
increased maintenance activity in this sector.
Ceramics
This industry is currently dominated by European
design and manufacturing companies. We are
a major supplier to these companies and are
following the relocation of capacity to China
and India. We design and engineer solutions 
in Germany and Italy and then supply materials
from any of our manufacturing facilities across
the world according to customer requirements.
Power generation
This market saw increased activity through 
2006 and the expectation for 2007 is also good.
Our Superwool™ business benefits from the
growth of heat recovery steam generation
systems which use insulation wools.
Precious metal processing
We provide crucibles and other foundry
consumables to the precious metal refining,
reclamation and manufacturing sectors. 
Good demand for precious metals for use 
in the auto-catalyst, electronics, jewellery 
and other areas has seen strong prices for a
number of precious metals, making refining 
and reclamation viable from sources that were
previously uneconomic. However, the positive
impact of this has been mitigated by a number
of customers consolidating their facilities and
closing plants in Europe.
In terms of new markets there is increasing
interest in the following areas:
Domestic appliances
Manufacturers in this sector are now utilising
Superwool™ in ovens, microwaves, gas and oil
boiler systems and water heating systems.
Fire protection
Our materials are used in various applications
including the protection of tunnels and the
construction of fire doors and ducting systems. 
A growing market opportunity in fire protection
for offshore and petro-chemical facilities is being
addressed through marketing partnerships to
offer customers a package of aligned products.
In 2006, we launched our new Firemaster Marine
Plus range which offers 20% weight savings to
shipbuilders compared with earlier solutions.
Outlook
Thermal Ceramics 
The outlook for Thermal Ceramics remains
positive, with demand for heat management
and insulating products increasing due 
to the high long-term cost of energy. 
Continued development has led to the
expansion of the Superwool™ range of fibre
products. An example of our expansion of
Superwool™ is engineered fibres for automotive
applications. Higher pollution control standards
are driving growth in this area.
Molten Metal Systems
The outlook for Molten Metal Systems in 2007 is
positive, particularly in Asia, where our efforts will
be focused on the establishment and expansion
of low-cost production sites to meet growing
local demand. Some rationalisation of our
European manufacturing base is anticipated 
as the Asian demand is increasingly satisfied 
by our local production capabilities. Business review: Review of operations
Cost efficient
processing
With increasing growth 
in the chemical processing
industry and the growing
awareness that we all need 
to use fuel and energy as
efficiently as possible, our
Thermal Ceramics business
offers its customers an
attractive choice of insulation
materials. We provide thermal
and heat management
solutions through products
such as our award winning
Superwool
™
and our
insulating firebricks.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23 24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review
Business review (cont.)
Financial review
This is the second year that we have produced
our results under International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
EU (adopted IFRS). All the figures referred 
to below are extracted from the financial
statements on pages 53 to 96 and comply 
with adopted IFRS.
We make reference to underlying operating 
profit and underlying earnings per share 
(EPS). Underlying operating profit is defined 
as operating profit before special items. 
EPS is defined in note 10 on pages 69 and 70.
We believe that underlying performance
indicators provide valuable additional
information on underlying trends, and we 
use them to measure and monitor performance.
Group revenue and underlying operating profit
Underlying
Revenue operating profit
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Carbon 213.6 199.9 33.8 27.4 
Technical Ceramics 162.5 144.8 17.0 12.2 
Insulating Ceramics 301.7 265.1 27.9 21.5 
Unallocated costs – – (5.0) (5.7) 
Continuing businesses 677.8 609.8 73.7 55.4 
Discontinued businesses – 135.9 – 10.6 
Total Group 677.8 745.7 73.7 66.0 
We have successfully delivered our three-year
profit improvement plan having achieved
double digit underlying operating profit margins
ahead of target in early 2006 and continued
profit margin enhancement into the second half
of the year.
Group revenue was £677.8 million (2005: £745.7
million). Continuing Group revenue, excluding
acquisitions, on a constant currency basis
(using 2006 actual rates), showed an increase
of just over 9% over 2005. Underlying operating
profit for the Group was £73.7 million
(2005: £66.0 million). 
Underlying operating profit from continuing
operations increased significantly by 33.0% 
over 2005 to £73.7 million. The underlying
operating profit margin for the continuing
business in 2006 was 10.9% (2005: 9.1%).
The table below highlights the half-yearly
improvement that we have made since 2005
with the second half of 2006 showing an 11.1%
underlying operating profit margin.
Continuing Group results
(actual currency rates used)
2006 2005
1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 336.3 341.5 301.0 308.8
Underlying operating
profit 35.7 38.0 25.6 29.8
Underlying operating 
profit margin 10.6% 11.1% 8.5% 9.7%
Restructuring costs in the year were £23.9 million
(2005: £29.7 million) and costs associated with
the settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation
were £3.8 million (2005: £2.3 million). 
The net finance charge was £3.4 million
(2005: £13.1 million). Net bank interest and similar
charges were £4.6 million (2005: £10.0 million), 
an improvement of £5.4 million from 2005 as our
cash position benefited from the receipts of the
Magnetics disposal in December 2005. Part of
the finance charge under adopted IFRS is the
net IAS 19 Employee Benefits income which was
£1.2 million (2005: £3.5 million charge). Fair value
movements on interest rate swaps represented
a net income of £nil (2005: £0.4 million).
A five-year summary of the Group’s financial
results is set out on pages 95 and 96 of this
report. Business review: Financial review The Morgan Crucible Company plc 25
Foreign currency impact
The principal exchange rates used in the
translation of the results of overseas subsidiaries
were as follows:
Average rate Year-end rate
2006 2005 2006 2005
US$ 1.8440 1.8195 1.9447 1.7597
Euro 1.4673 1.4622 1.4857 1.4557
Taxation
Group taxation for the year showed a net
charge of £10.6 million (2005: charge of 
£30.2 million). The effective tax rate before
special items was 23.0% (2005: 25%). 
Dividend
The Group is proposing a final dividend of 
3.0 pence per share bringing the total dividend
for the year to 4.5 pence per share.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share represented a profit per
share of 12.9 pence (2005: 18.1 pence).
Underlying earnings per share was 17.9 pence
(2005: 13.1 pence), an increase of 36.6%. Details
of these calculations can be found in note 10 on
pages 69 and 70.
Key performance indicators
Underlying operating profit margin
We use underlying operating profit margin as 
the main key performance indicator (KPI) for 
the Group. We have stated that our aim is 
to achieve mid-teen margins in good times 
(i.e. when the macro-economic environment 
is strong), and double digit margins when the
environment is more challenging. We use this KPI
regularly in our half and full-year presentations 
to the financial community as we believe that 
it indicates the growing success and strength 
of the Company.
Total employment costs as a percentage 
of sales
Managing our cost base in conjunction with
growing our top line is vital to Morgan Crucible’s
future success. Since 2003 our total employee
costs, which consist of salaries, plus all other costs
associated with employment such as bonuses,
pensions, healthcare etc, have consistently
reduced as a percentage of sales from 39.6% 
in 2003 to 31.7% for the second half of 2006. 
Our medium-term target is to improve that ratio
to 30%.
Economic value added ratio
Economic value added (EVA) compares the
returns made by our Divisions with the notional
costs of investing in them. We use this ratio to
ascertain where to make capital investments
within the Group. The basic calculation deducts
the cost of capital from the net operating profit
after tax, which is the underlying operating profit
less a notional tax charge that is based on the
medium-term expectation for statutory tax rates.
We expect that the returns will exceed the cost
of the investment and it is one of the measures
that we take into account when we are
evaluating competing investments.
Balance sheet
At the year end total equity was £203.1 million 
(2005: £195.7 million). With closing net debt of 
£34.1 million (2005: net cash of £50.5 million),
gearing at the year end was 16.8% (2005: nil).
Non-current assets were £333.8 million (2005:
£315.7 million) and total assets decreased from
£694.4 million in 2005 to £652.1 million at the 
end of 2006.
The net assets of the Group increased by 
£7.4 million from £195.7 million to £203.1 million
due mainly to a retained profit for the period 
of £39.7 million.
Cash flow
Net cash flow from operating activities, 
before a one-off payment of £40.0 million 
into the UK pension scheme, was £18.1 million
(2005: £48.5 million). This performance included 
a £22.9 million increase in working capital 
(2005: increase of £6.2 million) and was
achieved after £34.3 million (2005: £30.8 million)
of cash costs in the year from restructuring
projects and costs associated with prior period
litigation. The Group saw a £58.7 million negative
free cash flow for 2006 (2005: positive £12.7
million). During 2006, the Group purchased 
£18.9 million (2005: £3.5 million) of shares in
connection with the various share incentive
schemes. In addition, net cash outflow in
connection with the share buy back programme
announced in December 2006 was £0.5 million.
Subsequent to the year end a further £9.7 million
of shares were purchased up to 20 February
2007. At the year end, the Group had net
borrowings of £34.1 million (2005: net cash of
£50.5 million). The cash flow on page 26
highlights the main cash movements in 2006. 26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Financial review
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash from operating activities
before UK pension payment 18.1 48.5
UK pension payment (40.0) –
Net cash flow from operating activities (21.9) 48.5
Interest received 3.5 2.3
Net capital expenditure (32.9) (38.1)
Dividends (7.4) –
Free cash flow (58.7) 12.7
Cash flows from other investing activities (10.9) 190.8
Cash flows from financing activities (19.2) (1.8)
Exchange movement 4.2 (3.3)
Opening (net debt) 50.5 (147.9)
Closing net cash/(net debt) (34.1) 50.5
Treasury policy
Group Treasury acts as a service to Morgan
Crucible’s business, not as a profit centre.
It operates under policies approved by the
Board. Group Treasury seeks to reduce financial
risk and to ensure that the Group has sufficient
liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
It is responsible for all of the Group’s funding
requirements, cash management and other
treasury business. Group Treasury makes limited
use of derivative instruments to hedge foreign
currencies and interest rates; speculative
transactions are not permitted.
Group Treasury prepares a formal report 
on Treasury activities for the Board at least
biannually and reports to the Chief Financial
Officer monthly.
Foreign exchange risks
Subsidiaries are encouraged to manage all
material transactional foreign currency
exposures using forward contracts. Any items 
of a more complex nature require approval by
Group Treasury. Currency translation risks are
controlled centrally. The Group’s policy is to
manage the translation exposure of overseas
net assets by seeking to match the currency of
borrowings with the currency in which the net
assets are denominated. The objectives are 
to maintain a low cost of borrowing whilst
maintaining a balanced portfolio of net assets
by currency.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity
All of the Group’s borrowing facilities are
arranged by Group Treasury and the funds
raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries on
an arm’s-length basis. In a few cases operating
subsidiaries have external borrowings but these
are supervised and controlled centrally.
In 2006 the Group cancelled US$70 million of the
US$350 million bank syndication following the
disposal of the Magnetics Division. The revised
facility of US$280 million matures in February 2010.
Capital investment
The Group has well-established formal
procedures for the approval of investment in
new businesses and of capital expenditure to
ensure appropriate senior management review
and sign-off.
Interest rate risk
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that
between 30% and 70% of its exposure to
changes in interest rates on borrowings is on
a fixed rate basis.
Tax planning risk
The Group’s reported after tax income is
calculated based on the relevant tax legislation
in each of the jurisdictions that it operates in.
Changes in tax legislation (including tax rates)
could materially affect the Group’s after tax
income. The Group undertakes tax planning
initiatives where appropriate. The outcome of
such planning cannot be assured and could
materially influence the effective tax rate.
Accounting policies
We have adopted International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU
(adopted IFRS) in 2005. All accounting policies
shown on pages 57 to 62 are compliant with
adopted IFRS. 
Pensions
The Group operates a number of pension
schemes throughout the world, the majority of
which are of a funded defined benefit type. 
The largest of these are located in the UK and
the US with others in Europe. Net employee
benefit liabilities totalling £42.7 million are
included in the financial statements at the end
of the year, a decrease of £81.5 million
compared with the previous year. The main
movements are in the UK pension schemes
which show a surplus of £3.1 million on an IAS 19
basis, an improvement of £69.3 million in the
period. The two main one-off changes for the 
UK are a £40.0 million cash injection and a
£11.0 million curtailment to the deficit due to 
the changes implemented in the schemes.
Going concern
In accordance with the recommendations of
the Combined Code, the Directors have duly
considered the budgets, forecasts, cash flows
and the outlook from the operating companies
and consider that the Company and the 
Group have adequate financial resources
to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
these accounts. Business review The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27
We have continued to operate a consistent 
and systematic risk management process 
which follows the revised Turnbull guidance. 
We seek to ensure that:
a) all significant risks to Morgan Crucible have
been identified and prioritised;
b) systems of control are in place to manage
the risks; and
c) the effectiveness of these controls has been
measured and monitored. 
The Board reviews a formal risk report which
covers the following issues:
i) significant risks to the Group which have
been reviewed by the Executive Committee;
ii) the adequacy of the risk management
process; 
iii) assurances that internal controls are in place
to manage the risks; and
iv) confirmation that the process 
is ongoing.
We have operations in 31 countries worldwide
and we compete in numerous product and
service markets. We face various risk factors,
both internal and external, which could have a
material impact on long-term performance.
External risk factors include:
• global political and economic conditions;
• technology changes;
• foreign exchange movements;
• raw materials and energy; and
• legislation and regulation.
Internal risk factors include:
• reputation;
• pensions;
• competition;
• insurance;
• environmental health and safety;
• litigation;
• controls failure; and
• business continuity.
As described above, we seek to manage 
and mitigate risk and use insurance where 
this is cost effective. Our risk management
processes also help to identify business and
performance opportunities.
External risk factors
Global political and economic conditions
Our worldwide operations include activities in 
a number of developing countries. Whilst these
regions offer growth opportunities, business
activities in these areas expose us to economic,
political and business risks. The Group is subject
to varying legal and regulatory regimes in 
these areas, including those covering taxation,
environmental and other matters. Political risks
include the imposition of trade barriers,
expropriation of assets, changes in regulations,
wage controls and restrictions on the export 
of currency and the volatility of prices, taxes 
and currencies.
The diverse nature of our products and services
and the customers and markets served help to
mitigate the impact of any individual exposure
to economic conditions. However, some 36%
of our revenues are to customers in the USA and
thus we are particularly affected by economic
conditions in that region.
Business review (cont.)
Risk management Technology changes
We develop and launch new technologies and
products. Such development projects carry
business risks, including reputational risk, abortive
expenditure and potential customer claims
which may have a material impact on the
Group. Export control regulations may limit our
ability to transfer or share technology between
our sites in different countries.
Foreign exchange movements
We operate on a global basis, with a significant
proportion of our profits earned outside of the
UK. We have significant investments around the
world, with the greatest proportion being in the
USA. As such we are subject to translation risk
due to exchange rate movements between
world currencies which could adversely or
positively affect the Group’s results. The Group
has entered into certain hedging arrangements
to help mitigate the impact of currency
fluctuations and the Group’s relevant treasury
policies are summarised in the Financial review
on page 26.
Raw materials and energy
Our products use a range of raw materials 
and our operations require significant amounts
of energy. Volatility and increases in prices 
or scarcity of supply could have a material
impact on our business. Our raw materials are
sourced on the world market and in general
we have access to multiple sources of supply.
Where specific material properties require
particular sources of raw materials to be used,
the Group has processes in hand to bridge any
short-term interruption of supply and where
possible has identified alternative sources 
of supply.
Legislation and regulation
We are subject to varying laws and regulations
around the world. Changes in these could affect
the Group’s business. Following the events now
referred to as 9/11, various governments, notably
the USA, have significantly increased their export
control regulations. Considerable effort has been
expended in the USA and Europe to ensure that
we are in compliance with these regulations.
Internal risk factors
Reputation
Our reputation with all stakeholders is
fundamental to the success of the Group. 
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the
products and services we provide, the way that
we do business or in our financial performance,
could have a material effect on the Group.
These risks are mitigated through:
• our focus on quality, with over 90% of our
production capacity now accredited to 
ISO 9001;
• our corporate responsibility programme,
including our Statement of Core Values; 
• our Ethics Policy and Internal Compliance
Reporting Helpline; and
• our systems of internal control and risk
management. 
Pensions
We operate a number of defined benefit
pension plans with the largest of these being 
in the UK and the USA. 
The pension plans are exposed to the risk 
of changes in interest rates, the value and
performance of investments, inflation and the
increasing longevity of members. As stated 
at the time of the disposal of the Magnetics
Division, the Group has now made a further
contribution to the UK schemes which currently
now show a small surplus. We will continue to
keep funding levels under review. 
The Group’s main US defined benefit pension
scheme is overseen by The Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation which has powers to
apply to court to terminate the scheme if it
does not meet certain minimum solvency tests.
Were there ever to be a termination, the Group
would be required to meet the full cost of the
under-funded liabilities under the US scheme.
Competition
Given that we operate in highly competitive
markets, significant product innovations,
technical advances or increased price
competition could all affect the Group. 
In order to help ensure we remain competitive,
we work to minimise our cost base and invest
in research and development.
Insurance
Certain risks are transferred to insurers. 
Specialist third-party audits and internal
inspections, coupled with follow-up of any
corrective actions, help to ensure that major
insurable risks are adequately managed. 
The growth in our aviation and medical products
businesses has meant that this continues to be
an area of particular focus to ensure that our
products are consistently of the highest quality
and that contractual arrangements are clear. 
Environmental/health and safety
Our operations involve the normal
environmental and health and safety risks
associated with any manufacturing operation
such as spillage, noise, air and soil pollution and
so forth.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Risk management Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and
regulations relating to health, safety and the
environment around the world. Although we
believe that our operations are in compliance
with current regulation, violations of such laws
and regulations can lead to fines and penalties.
Specialist third-party and internal auditors make
regular site visits to ensure compliance with 
local regulations. An Environmental, Health 
and Safety Good Management Practices
Manual has been issued to sites worldwide.
Environmental, Health and Safety Managers
within each Division are tasked with ensuring 
that the practices outlined in the Manual 
are embedded in the manufacturing sites.
Litigation
From time to time and in the normal course 
of business, we are subject to certain litigation,
in particular in the USA. Provision for the
expected costs and liabilities are set out in 
note 22 to the accounts. If the liabilities arising
were significantly to exceed the amounts
provided for, our financial position could be
adversely affected. 
Controls failure
We operate internal controls as described in the
corporate governance report on pages 40 to 44.
With operations in 31 different countries
worldwide there has been a need to pay
particular attention to the auditing of internal
controls in some of the smaller sites which, given
their size, tend to have less segregation of duties.
As we continue to expand our manufacturing
footprint in lower-cost areas there is an increasing
proportion of Group revenues and profits coming
from countries that have different cultural and
business practice standards from our traditional
locations. Our risk-based internal audit
programme addresses this situation and develops
risk management strategies.
Business continuity
Business continuity plans are either fully
developed or in the course of development 
at all our sites. These plans describe how a 
site should respond to various risks and how
continuity of supply to our customers would be
maintained. In some cases there are possibilities
of short-term supply from an alternative site. 
The measures described, coupled with
appropriate insurance, help mitigate the 
effects of business interruption. A full review 
of these plans will be made during 2007.
Actions
During 2006 our internal audit function has
continued to use external professional auditors
to supplement internal resources in areas of the
Group’s operations where language, culture
and location have made this a sensible option.
Risk-based internal audits have focused on
ensuring that internal control systems are
functioning correctly and are adequate for the
risks in the business. Such audits are therefore 
not limited to financial matters but also cover
operational and regulatory compliance matters.
The Director of Operational Risk has worked with
the Divisional Chief Executives and Divisional
Controllers to identify and implement best
practice across all our sites. The concepts of 
risk assessment and risk management continue
to be embedded throughout our various
activities, and managers at all levels of the
organisation are becoming more adept at 
using these approaches.
The Corporate Ethics Policy which was agreed
by the Board at the end of 2005 is available to
every Morgan Crucible employee worldwide.
This lays a foundation for the determination of
appropriate conduct globally. Our internal
controls are designed not only to protect 
the Company’s assets but also to ensure
compliance with our Ethics Policy. In order to
assist with this, we have set up a Compliance
Helpline to enable any employee to seek 
advice or to report non-compliance. The Ethics
Policy and Compliance Helpline were featured
in the latest edition of the Company’s
internal magazine, 360, which is published
in eight languages and distributed to all
employees worldwide.
During 2006 a Risk Management Committee was
formed comprising of the Chief Financial Officer,
the Director of Operational Risk and the
Company Secretary. This committee reviews the
full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a
Group, ensures that there are adequate systems
in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
Where necessary, the Risk Management
Committee will initiate action to improve the
systems and ensure compliance.
We believe that progression from compliance 
to integrated risk management, through
improved internal controls, is an essential step
in the continuous improvement of our business
processes for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Business review: Risk management The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29 30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review
Corporate responsibility is integral to the way we
do business and is vital to the continued success
of our Company.
We report on:
• ethics and ethical trading;
• human resources;
• environmental, health and safety;
• community; and
• suppliers and customers.
Many of Morgan Crucible’s products are
designed to improve the environmental 
and health and safety performance of our
customers’ operations and products. We have
not sought to quantify this benefit, but we
continue to see the development of new and
improved products as a key contribution to the
sustainability of our own business and that of 
our customers.
Management
The Board is accountable for corporate
responsibility policies and processes. As 
Chief Executive Officer, Mark Robertshaw
is the executive in charge of all corporate
responsibility matters. He is supported by senior
management including the Chief Financial
Officer, the Director of Operational Risk and 
the Director of Human Resources of the Carbon
Division. The Chief Executive of each Division 
has operational responsibility for implementing
our policy.
Reporting and verification
This report follows the guidelines issued by 
the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and 
is supplemented by our social, ethical,
environmental, health and safety policies and
our 2006 EHS Report which will be published 
on the Company’s website in April 2007. 
As part of our work to promote and retain 
our reputation for managing our business in 
a responsible way and for contributing to the
societies in which we operate, a number of
initiatives are underway to improve corporate
responsibility performance and reporting.
Examples are included below with further 
detail to be published in our 2006 EHS Report.
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good
Index since 2005.
All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly
reviewed under the Group’s Compliance Audit
Programme and those sites and businesses
certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001
and other standards have regular external
audits. The Board has considered the potential
for further external verification of the Group’s
corporate responsibility performance and in
2006 has limited this to external professional
advice on specific health and safety and
environmental matters.
Core values
Our approach to corporate responsibility is
encapsulated in our Core Values Statement
which provides the framework for our policies,
programmes and procedures as we strive 
for continuous improvement in our social,
environmental and ethical performance. 
Our Core Values Statement, available on 
our website, applies to all our businesses and
employees worldwide.
Ethics and ethical trading
Policy
Our Ethics Policy, which is translated into local
languages for our sites worldwide, supplements
our Core Values Statement and provides
employees with practical guidance for their
everyday activities. The policy cross-refers
to our other policies and covers:
• environmental, health and safety;
• equal opportunities and UN guidance on
human rights;
• business behaviour, including dealing with
conflicts of interest, bribery and corruption;
• dealings with customers and suppliers,
including anti-competitive behaviour;
• compliance with laws and regulations,
including export controls;
• integrity in financial reporting; and
• communication and compliance, 
including employee reporting without fear 
of retribution through our Compliance Helpline.
Business review (cont.)
Corporate responsibility Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31
Management
Our Compliance Helpline enables employees
who are aware of or suspect misconduct, illegal
activities, abuse of Company assets or violations
of our Ethics Policy to report these confidentially
without fear of retribution should they feel they
cannot use a local channel. During the year, the
availability of the Helpline was promoted to
employees globally, in particular through
coverage in the global employee magazine
(see page 32).
Our global anti-competitive behaviour
compliance programme is ongoing with
appropriate employees across the Group
continuing to receive training. This is followed 
up with annual independent audits, with the
auditor attending the meetings of the Board 
and the Executive Committee at which the
audit report is discussed.
Human resources 
Our continued success relies on the capabilities,
vision and commitment of our employees. 
Our employment policies and practices are
designed to attract, retain and engage
employees and provide the working
environment needed to deliver the high
expectations of our business and customers. 
We actively encourage all our employees to
achieve their full potential and our leadership 
in technology is underpinned by our investment
in training and developing our people. 
Our Long-Term Incentive and Share Option Plans
and our employee communications all help to
inform, involve and motivate our people.
Policy
We endorse the UN guidance on human rights
and minimum working age to ensure freedom 
of association, equal opportunity and diversity
amongst employees, regardless of gender, race,
religion, culture, creed, age or disability and 
any other status protected by law. We would
endeavour to provide training and continued
employment of employees who become
disabled whilst in our employment.
As is set out in our Core Values Statement and 
in our Ethics Policy, every employee is entitled 
to fair treatment, courtesy and respect.
We will not tolerate sexual, racial or any 
other form of harassment.
Management
We have one set of human resources standards
that are implemented through our operating
Divisions, with appropriate support from Group
and regional resources. This approach helps to
ensure our people policies and practices are
aligned with the needs of our business and 
our customers.
Policy implementation, along with the
identification and benchmarking of best
practice, are facilitated by the Group-wide
General Managers’ forum and regional Human
Resources councils in Europe, the Americas 
and Asia.
The Director of Human Resources of the Carbon
Division also has responsibility for Group Human
Resources issues and, as such, reports to 
the Chief Executive Officer in this capacity.
Risks relating to Human Resources are covered
by the Group’s risk management process.
Loyal service
Mr William (Bill) Byrd receives a
loyal service award from Mark
Robertshaw, Chief Executive
Officer. Mr Byrd completed 
60 years of service at our
Augusta, USA plant and
continues to work with us 
as an Export Transportation
Specialist. Reporting
During the coming year we plan to update 
our processes for gathering and benchmarking
human resources data and key performance
indicators so as to help identify areas of best
practice and opportunities for improvement.
Training and development
We continue to invest in our employees and 
to encourage them to participate in their
development to achieve their full potential.
This is key to achieving our business goals and
we work to develop our people at all levels 
and on a global basis. 
We identify training and development needs
through our performance appraisal system that
has been adopted by all Divisions. This system
also furthers talent identification and succession
planning.
Group-wide training courses include
international market development, project
management and negotiating skills. 
Where appropriate we run regional training
programmes, for example in China. These are
available for all Divisions and includes leadership
skills and sales. 
The regional programmes support divisional
training that is aligned to the strategic needs 
of each business. For example, over the 
past three years some 100 high potential
employees have participated in the Thermal
Ceramics global management development
programme. This included exposure to the latest
management thinking, teaching them to apply
this thinking across the diverse cultures in which
we do business. In the Carbon Division there 
has been an intensive focus on developing
middle management and commercial skills
whilst Technical Ceramics has focused on the
development of technical and process skills.
Employee engagement
Communication channels
We communicate through a variety of channels,
including regular global newsletters; the twice
yearly 360 magazine which contains divisional,
site and community news; and Morgan Update
which keeps employees informed of Group
developments including our annual and interim
results and the results of our annual employee
survey. These newsletters are available in eight
languages and are supplemented by team
briefings and presentations.
The European Employee Forum, established in
1996, continues to be a powerful two-way forum
for communication and in 2006 was expanded
to include our businesses in the new member
states of the EU.
As discussed above, our Compliance Helpline
enables employees to seek guidance or raise
concerns on a confidential basis. This Helpline
supplements local procedures.
Employee surveys 
Following our first Group-wide employee 
survey in 2003, we identified a number of areas
for improvement. These included improving
overall communications with employees, 
helping employees develop a better
understanding of Group strategy and direction
and continuing to progress health, safety and
environmental performance. 
The results of the subsequent surveys enabled 
us to track progress and to tune our employee
engagement activities. The survey planned 
for 2006 was deferred until 2007 due to the
demands of the bid approach in 2006. 
We plan to publish a summary of the results on
our website as well as providing feedback to 
our Divisions, sites and employees. We will also
communicate results to shareholders in next
year’s Annual Report.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Corporate responsibility Environmental, health and safety
We are committed to minimising the impact of
our operations, products and services on the
environment and to enhancing the sustainability
of our business. As many of our operations
include high-temperature processes, minimising
energy use and climate change related
emissions is a key focus. We are also committed
to ensuring that the working environment is 
safe and that all individuals take responsibility 
for achieving this. Environmental, health and
safety (EHS) performance improvements 
are a fundamental part of the way we 
conduct business.
This commitment is reinforced in our Core Values
Statement which requires us to measure,
appraise and report our EHS performance.
Further details of our EHS performance and
programmes will be included in our 2006 EHS
Report to be published on our website in April
2007. The Report will also include case studies to
help highlight our approach to enhancing the
sustainability of our business.
EHS policy
The key features of the Group’s EHS policy,
are to:
• comply with EHS legislation, regulations and
other applicable requirements;
• minimise the environmental impact of historic,
current and future operations;
• conduct operations in such a manner as to
avoid unacceptable risk to human health 
and safety;
• supply products that will not present
unacceptable risk to human health and 
safety when used in compliance with 
product safety communications and 
common safety practices;
• establish measurement tools for and
continuously monitor EHS performance; and
• set objectives for the continuous improvement
of EHS performance.
EHS management and organisation
The management of EHS performance is aligned
with the operation of our day-to-day business. 
As noted above, the Chief Executive Officer 
has overall accountability for corporate
responsibility, including EHS policy and
performance. He is supported by Ben Bolton,
Director of Operational Risk who is a member of
the Risk Management Committee. Operational
responsibility is delegated to the Chief Executive
of each Division and to the manager of each
operation. Subsequent to the year end, the
Chief Financial Officer took over specific
responsibility for EHS policy and performance.
This structure is supplemented by EHS
professionals within each business. In practice, 
all of Morgan Crucible’s employees are
responsible for ensuring that our EHS policies are
implemented and for identifying additional
areas and opportunities for further development.
Environmental, health and safety risks are
covered by the Group’s risk management
systems. EHS performance and programmes are
reported and reviewed regularly on a site by site,
regional, Divisional and Group-wide basis.
Environmental management systems are in
place at 57 major sites, representing some 77%
of production capacity. This includes 23 sites
which are certified to ISO 14001. In 2007 and
2008 we plan to achieve further certifications 
in the USA, Australia, Japan, China, France 
and South Africa, in addition to the rolling
programme of re-certifications. Systems are in
place for managing health and safety across 
all our major operations, with a number of sites
certified or working to OHSAS 18001 where this 
is appropriate. Our Carbon Division facility in
Turkey achieved certification to OHSAS 18001
during the year.
Our EHS management processes also include
the EHS Compliance Audit Programme. 
This programme provides assurance and helps
ensure compliance with local regulations, and
good management practice. Twenty four sites
were audited during the year, using external
auditors in Europe and Asia and internal
resources in North America. These audits, and
the associated corrective action plans, help
ensure that site level environmental and health
and safety assessments are undertaken on a
consistent basis at the Group’s facilities world-
wide. This programme is supplemented by the 
Group’s EHS Good Management Practice
manual which is issued to all sites.
Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33 34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Corporate responsibility
Health and safety performance
We monitor accident statistics across the 
Group. As a result of proactive preventative
programmes and training, performance over
the past year has improved with a reduction 
in lost working time and in major and minor
incidents per 100,000 hours worked.
2006 2005
% lost working time 0.07% 0.09%
Major* incidents per 100,000 hours 0.41 0.62
Minor** incidents per 100,000 hours 0.19 0.26
*Major = work related injuries resulting in four or more days’ lost time.
**Minor = work related injuries resulting in one, two or three days’ lost time.
Environmental performance
Many of our operations involve high
temperature processes. Energy use and the
emissions associated with climate change are 
a key area of focus for the Group. Over the 
past year, key environmental performance
indicators show a reduction in CO2 emissions 
due to energy use when indexed to revenue.
This includes the effect of doubling our use of
electricity from specific renewable sources to
2.7% of all electricity consumed.
2006 2005
Tonnes CO 2* per £m revenue** 604 648
Tonnes waste per £m revenue** 89 96
% total waste recycled 31% 30%
m
3
water used per £m revenue** 3,896 3,668
(*CO 2 equivalent from all energy sources, including country specific electricity – 2005
restated accordingly).
(**Includes inter-company revenue).
In 2006 our waste management programmes
resulted in a reduction in the amount of waste
generated per unit of revenue, whilst increasing
awareness of recycling opportunities saw an
increase in the proportion of our total waste that
is recycled. Due to increased and improved
measurement and reporting, apparent water
use per unit of revenue increased during the
year. This was also due to a leak at one of our 
US sites, which has now been rectified.
Targets
Over the past year, we have worked to 
update our Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
and data collection processes. As will be further
detailed in our 2006 EHS Report, to be published
in April 2007, we have set new Group-level
targets which build on the progress to date.
We will further upgrade our KPI processes 
and integrate these into our management
information systems. In addition to Group 
targets, our businesses set targets and undertake
initiatives appropriate to their specific
opportunities for improvement.
Community
We engage with local communities in relation 
to matters of mutual interest and concern. 
At a local level, where we often have
long-established roots and are frequently a
major employer, this helps to foster
understanding and improves our credibility. In
addition, we engage with local and national
governments and agencies, both directly or
through professional bodies. Such engagement
is in part covered by our Ethics Policy which
prohibits donations to 
political parties or causes.
In addition to the time given to community
projects and for charitable purposes by our
employees around the world, in 2006 Morgan
Crucible also made charitable donations of
£146,240 (2005: £171,057).
Group activities
During 2006, we continued to support and fund
the joint Barnardo’s/Outward Bound initiative
which provides opportunities for young people
to develop life skills at centres in the UK.
We also supported a number of charitable 
and community initiatives, including medical
research, the care of physically or mentally
handicapped people and the education 
and development of young people.
Employee activities
Our staff support a variety of local and national
initiatives and projects, helping to raise funds
and giving their time. Examples include:
Asia
• an employee at Carbon Korea who 
assists in a facility for disabled teenagers;
• employees at Thermal Ceramics in India 
who donate blood, give books to the local
library with one employee sponsoring the
education, food, shelter and clothing of an
underprivileged child. Americas
• Our Advanced Ceramics plant in New Bedford,
Massachusetts, USA, has a tradition of strong
community involvement with a rolling
programme through the year. Initiatives
include support for the United Way and the
Day of Caring, facilitating payroll giving, raising
funds for the American Cancer Society and
the American Heart Foundation, supporting a
local softball tournament and conducting a
yearly “Blood Drive” when the local hospital
brings a mobile blood donation unit to the site
and employees donate blood throughout 
the day.
• Our Thermal Ceramics plant in Augusta,
Georgia, USA is also a sponsor of the United
Way and of the Juvenile Diabetes Research
Foundation.
• An employee based in Augusta with expertise
in emergency response planning helps with
the Community Emergency Response Team
which trains people to be better prepared to
respond to emergency situations in their
neighbourhoods.
Europe
• In the UK employees from Carbon and
Technical Ceramics participated in the 2006
London Marathon, raising money for Cancer
Research UK and the Multiple Sclerosis
Resource Centre.
• The sports and social committee at the
Ruabon site in North East Wales involved local
children in a competition to design a Christmas
card. The winning design was printed and sold
to raise money for schools and local charities.
Suppliers and customers
Our customer service strategy is to respond
quickly to changing customer demand, to
identify emerging needs and continuously to
improve product availability, quality and value.
Accordingly we seek to stay close to customers,
building long-term relationships. Our continuous
improvement programmes support our aim 
that our products should meet or exceed
customer requirements. Over 90% of the 
Group’s manufacturing capacity is accredited
to ISO 9001.
We aim to work with our suppliers and partners 
in mutually beneficial ways, and, so far as is
praticable, expect that our customers and
suppliers, business partners and contractors
throughout the supply chain, act in accordance
with our policies and values.
Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 35
Cautionary statement
This Business review has been prepared for 
and only for the members of the Company 
as a body and no other persons. Its sole
purpose is to assist shareholders to assess the
Company’s strategies and the potential for
those strategies to succeed. The Company, 
its Directors, employees, agents or advisers 
do not accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this document is shown or into whose
hands it may come and any such responsibility
or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
This Business review contains forward-looking
statements that are subject to risk factors
associated with, amongst other things, the
economic and business circumstances in the
countries, sectors and markets in which the
Group operates. These and other factors
could adversely affect the outcome and
financial effects of the plans and events
described. Forward-looking statements by their
nature involve a number of risks, uncertainties
and assumptions because they relate to
events and/or depend on circumstances 
that may or may not occur in the future and
could cause actual results and outcomes to
differ materially from those expressed in or
implied by the forward-looking statements. 
It is believed that the expectations reflected 
in these statements are reasonable but 
they may be affected by a wide range 
of such variables. 
No assurances can be given that the forward-
looking statements in this Business review will
be realised. The forward-looking statements
reflect the knowledge and information
available at the date of preparation and will
not be updated during the year but will be
considered in the Business review for next year.
This Business review has not been audited or
otherwise independently verified. Directors and Executive Committee
36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
09 10 12 11
01 02
05 06
03
04 07
08
Executive Committee
Non-executive Directors
Executive Directors The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37
Executive Committee
01 Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer
02 Kevin Dangerfield Chief Financial Officer
03 Mark Lejman CEO Carbon
08 Victoria Gould Director of Group
Communications
09 Andrew Hosty CEO Technical Ceramics 
10 Philip Wright CEO Molten Metals Systems
11 John Simons Executive Chairman Thermal
Ceramics
12 Paul Boulton Company Secretary
* Member of the Audit Committee
† Member of the Remuneration Committee
§ Member of the Nominations Committee
Executive Directors
01 Mark Robertshaw§
Chief Executive Officer
Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in
August 2006. Previous to this he was Chief Operating
Officer from February 2006 and Chief Financial Officer
from October 2004. Before joining Morgan Crucible he
was Chief Financial Officer of Gartmore Investment
Management Plc from 2000 to 2004. Mark is also a 
non-executive Director of Rathbones Brothers plc. 
He previously worked for the NatWest Group and also
spent nine years as a management consultant with
Marakon Associates.
02 Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer
Kevin was appointed to his current position as 
Chief Financial Officer on 4 August 2006, having 
joined Morgan Crucible in July 2000 as Deputy 
Group Financial Controller and then was 
subsequently promoted to Group Financial Controller.
Before joining Morgan Crucible he worked for 
London International Group plc and Virgin Retail
Europe Limited. He qualified as a chartered
accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers.
03 Mark Lejman
Chief Executive Officer, Carbon Division
Mark joined the Board on 1 March 2005 after joining
Morgan Crucible in February 2004. He has previously
held senior positions with Courtaulds plc and Acordis.
Mark is the Chief Executive Officer of Morgan
Crucible’s Carbon Division. In May 2006 Mark became
a non-executive Director of Delta plc, a listed
company on the London Stock Exchange and 
is also Chair of Delta’s remuneration committee. 
Non-executive Directors
04 Tim Stevenson OBE†§
Chairman
Tim was appointed Chairman of Morgan Crucible
in December 2006. He is also Chairman of 
Travis Perkins plc, a position that he has held since
November 2001, and is the Senior Independent
Director of Tribal plc. From 1975 to 2000, Tim held a
variety of senior management positions at Burmah
Castrol plc, including Chief Executive from 1998 to
2000. He is also a qualified barrister.
05 Joe MacHale*†§
Senior Independent Director
Joe was appointed a non-executive Director in
October 2003 and Chairman of the Audit Committee
in December 2003. He was appointed the Senior
Independent Director for Morgan Crucible in April
2006. He is a chartered accountant and has had
international experience with JP Morgan Incorporated.
He was Chief Executive for Europe, Middle East 
and Africa of JP Morgan Europe from 1997 to 2001. 
He is a non-executive Director of The Royal Bank 
of Scotland plc and a non-executive Director and
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at 
Brit Insurance Holdings Plc. He is also a trustee 
and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support. 
06 Martin Flower*†§
Martin was appointed a non-executive Director 
in December 2004. He is also Chairman of Croda
International Plc and of Alpha Airports Group plc 
and a non-executive Director of Low & Bonar plc. 
Martin held a variety of senior management positions
with Coats plc from 1968 to 2004 and was Group 
Chief Executive of that Group and Chairman of 
the Board from 2001 to 2004.
07 Simon Heale*†§
Simon was appointed a non-executive Director 
in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. He is Chief Executive of
China Now and is a non-executive Director of
Kazakhmys plc and of Panmure Gordon and Co plc.
He was Chief Executive of the London Metal
Exchange until October 2006. He qualified as an
accountant in 1978 with Price Waterhouse and has
had extensive experience in the Far East having held
senior positions with the Swire Group in Japan and
Hong Kong and with Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong. The Directors present their report together with the financial statements and auditors’ report for the year ended 4 January 2007. This Directors’
report was approved by the Board on 20 February 2007.
Principal activities and enhanced business review
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (“the Company”) comprises three reporting divisions (as outlined on pages 12 and 13) that design,
manufacture and market primarily carbon and ceramic components for applications for a wide range of markets. A review of developments
affecting the Group during the year and its prospects for the future appear on pages 14 to 22, to be read in conjunction with the cautionary
statement on page 35.
The Companies Act requires the Directors’ report to include a business review. Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the
business review can be found on pages 14 to 22 (Business review), 24 to 26 (Financial review) and 27 to 29 (Risk management), to be read 
in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 35.
Acquisitions
During 2006 the Company acquired the following companies/businesses:
Within the Insulating Ceramics Division, the fibre business of Vesuvius USA Corporation for a cash consideration of £10.8 million; the entire
issued share capital of Diamond Crucible Pvt. Limited for a cash consideration of £1.4 million, 51% of Morgan Thermal Ceramics Sukhoy Log
Limited for a consideration of £1.7 million, 75% of Beijing Yingtelai Morgan Thermal Ceramics Textiles Co. Ltd. for £4.7 million of which £2.5
million is payable after the year end; 51% of Morgan Luyang Thermal Ceramics Co. Ltd. for £0.5 million; and an additional 25.5% 
of Morganite India Limited for £2.0 million.
Within the Carbon Division, the business assets and certain liabilities of Aceram Materials and Technology Inc for a contingent maximum
consideration of £5.8 million, with £1.9 million paid during 2006.
Share capital
As at 4 January 2007, pursuant to an authority granted at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2006, the Company was
authorised pursuant to Companies Act 1985 to purchase up to 9.99% of its issued share capital.
Pursuant to that authority the Company has during the year under review purchased 200,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each (representing
0.07% of the ordinary issued share capital of the Company at 4 January 2007) for an aggregate consideration of £0.5 million (nominal value
£50,000). The Directors were of the opinion that the purchase of these shares was both in the best interests of shareholders generally and
would increase the Company’s earnings per share. The shares purchased by the Company have been cancelled. 
The Company’s share capital, together with details of shares issued and purchased during the year are set out in note 18 on pages 74 to 76.
Financial results
The profit for the year ended 4 January 2007 was £39.7 million (2005: £54.2 million). Profit before tax for the same period was £50.3 million
(2005: £20.4 million). Revenue was £677.8 million (2005: £745.7 million) and underlying operating profit before special items was £73.7 million
(2005: £66.0 million). Basic earnings per share was 12.9 pence (2005: 18.1 pence). Capital and reserves at the end of the year were 
£203.1 million (2005: £195.7 million). The retained profit of £39.7 million will be transferred to reserves. The Group’s accounting policies can
be found on pages 57 to 62.
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate of 3.0 pence per share on the ordinary share capital of the Company,
payable on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2007. Together with the interim dividend of 
1.5 pence per share paid on 8 January 2007, this final dividend, if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year to
4.5 pence per share (2005: 2.5 pence).
Disclosures of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company’s policy in relation to its suppliers is, where possible, to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and
to abide by those terms, provided that it is satisfied that the supplier provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms
and conditions. The Company and its subsidiaries do not follow any one code or standard on payment practice due to the diverse nature of
the global markets in which the Group operates.
The number of days’ purchases outstanding for payment by the Company at the end of the year was 66 days (2005: 45 days) and for the
Group was 62 days (2005: 48 days).
Research and development
The spending on research and development which excludes the amounts spent working with customers and others by way of product
enhancement and application engineering was £8.2 million during the year (2005: £12.5 million). The reduction from the prior year can be
attributed primarily to the disposal of the Magnetics Division.
Personnel
Details of the Company’s and the Group’s personnel policies (including its policy on equal opportunities for disabled employees) and
employee involvement are set out on pages 31 and 32.
38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Directors’ report
  Employee share and share option schemes
The Company operates a number of employee share and share option schemes. Fifty employees hold awards under the Morgan Crucible
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). One hundred and twenty-two employees have options under the Company’s Executive Share Option
Schemes and 556 employees participate in the Company’s UK Sharesave Plan. In addition 76 German employees are currently participating
in the German Employee Share Purchase Plan. There are currently no participants in the Company’s US Employee Share Purchase Plan.
Details of outstanding options are given in note 21 on pages 82 to 85.
Directors
Details of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 48. The Company has not been notified of any change
in their holdings in the period 5 January 2007 to 20 February 2007.
The executive Directors of the Company are also deemed, by virtue of Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985, to be beneficially interested
in the 10,182,157 ordinary shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust on 4 January 2007. In the period 4 January 2007 to
20 February 2007 94,970 shares were transferred out of the Trust to leave a balance of 10,087,187 shares on 20 February 2007. The trustees 
of the Trust have agreed to waive their entitlement to the payment of dividends on the shares held by the Trust. The Directors are not aware
that any other shareholders waived or agreed to waive any dividends or future dividends during the period under review.
All those who served as Directors throughout the year under review are listed on page 48.
Warren Knowlton retired as a Director on 3 August 2006 and Lars Kylberg retired as a Director on 30 November 2006. Kevin Dangerfield was
appointed as a Director on 4 August 2006 and Tim Stevenson was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 December 2006.
The details of those Directors who will be offering themselves for election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
on 20 April 2007 is set out in the Circular to shareholders which will be posted in March 2007.
Details of the background and experience of all the Directors can be found on page 37 and details of Board Committees on which they
serve can be found on pages 43 and 44.
Donations
Morgan Crucible companies made the following charitable donations.
United Kingdom £92,507 (2005: £96,915)
Overseas £53,733 (2005: £74,142)
£146,240 (2005: £171,057)
No political donations have been made.
Substantial shareholdings
The Directors have been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
as at 20 February 2007:
Number of
Company ordinary shares %
Standard Life Investments 33,619,111 11.49
Schroder Investment Management Limited 31,364,812 10.81
Aegon UK plc 12,720,723 4.34
Lazard Asset Management LLC 10,342,906 3.53
Legal & General Group Plc 9,439,042 3.25
Post balance sheet events
There have been no material events since the year end. The Company proposes to pay a final ordinary dividend of 3.0 pence per share 
in respect of the 2006 financial year.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office. A resolution for its reappointment as auditors and authority for the Directors
to determine the auditors’ remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 20 April 2007 at St Anne’s Manor Hotel, London Road, Wokingham,
Berkshire RG40 1ST. A Circular will be sent with this report to shareholders in March 2007 incorporating the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting and detailing any special business to be transacted at that time.
By order of the Board
Paul Boulton Secretary
20 February 2007
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP.
Registered in England, No. 286773
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 39 Directors’ report 40 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 
Throughout the year ended 4 January 2007 the Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the July 2003 edition of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) with the following exceptions: as a result of the process of Board refreshment, including the
appointment of a new Chairman on 1 December 2006, the Board considered the results of the performance review undertaken during 2005,
but did not undertake a full performance evaluation during the year. Further, whilst the Senior Independent Director led a meeting of 
the non-executive Directors, this meeting considered the role to be taken by a new Chairman and not the performance of the retiring
Chairman. The Board expects to undertake a performance review during 2007. The Board has considered, and where appropriate
implemented, the guidelines on corporate social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers. In accordance with the
recommendations of the Financial Reporting Council the Company has adopted the June 2006 version of the Code on a voluntary 
basis for the year beginning 5 January 2007. 
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code. It should be read in conjunction
with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 14 to 35 and pages 45 to 50 respectively.
The Board maintains a Corporate Governance Manual which is reviewed and updated annually. 
Directors 
The Board 
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the success of the Company. The Board is satisfied it has met 
the Code’s requirements for its effective operation. It has set the Company’s strategic aims, which were reviewed during the year and 
has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board set the
Company’s values and standards which are set out in the Statement of Core Values and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on 
page 30 in the Business review.
The Board met formally nine times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major
business decisions. There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, including the acquisition of companies, significant
contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate
responsibility. Various matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board.
During 2006, a number of important changes were made to the Board. On 20 February Mark Robertshaw became Chief Operating Officer,
in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer. Joe MacHale became Senior Independent Director on 20 April. Following the retirement 
of Warren Knowlton on 3 August, Mark Robertshaw was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and Kevin Dangerfield joined the Board as
Chief Financial Officer. Tim Stevenson was appointed as non-executive Chairman on 1 December, following the retirement of Lars Kylberg.
As at 4 January 2007, the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman; Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer; two other executive Directors
and three independent non-executive Directors. Joe MacHale is the Senior Independent Director. Biographies of the Directors are set out on
page 37.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years, and for reappointment by the shareholders at the first Annual
General Meeting following their appointment. Should a non-executive Director serve for more than nine years he would then be subject to
annual re-election.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination*
Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible 
Director to attend Attended
†
to attend Attended
†
to attend Attended
†
to attend Attended
†
Lars Kylberg 8 8 –––– 2 2
Tim Stevenson 1 1 –– 2 2– –
Warren Knowlton 3 3–––– 2 2
Mark Robertshaw 9 9 – –––– –
Kevin Dangerfield 6 6 ––––– –
Mark Lejman 9 9 – –––– –
Joe MacHale 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2
Martin Flower 9 9 55882 1
Simon Heale 9 854882 2
*The number of meetings of the Nomination Committee does not include meetings of the sub-committee established to progress the nominations made during 2006.
†Excludes meetngs attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
During 2006, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present. Following the previous Chairman’s
announcement to the Board of his intention to retire, the non-executive Directors, led by Joe MacHale, the Senior Independent Director, 
met without the Chairman present in order to assess the role to be played by his successor.
An appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy is in place. 
Corporate governance The Morgan Crucible Company plc 41 Corporate governance
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for
running the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for running the Company’s business, is clearly established and agreed
by the Board. 
Board balance and independence 
In the year under review, the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that there should be a balance of executive and 
non-executive Directors. At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company deemed to be independent on appointment,
the Board comprised three executive Directors and three independent non-executive Directors. 
Appointments to the Board 
As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 44, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for
appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development 
The Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties, with Board
papers generally sent out five days before each meeting.
All Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, and have letters of appointment confirming what is expected
of them.
Training needs are assessed as part of the Board Performance Review process and the Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and
knowledge, including their familiarity with the Company. In addition to the Directors visiting operations and meeting with management, each
year at least one Board meeting is normally held at an operating facility. During 2006 the Board meeting which had been planned for an
operating facility was moved to the head office location as this was during the period that the Company was subject to a possible offer. 
As part of his induction, the new Chairman has visited a number of operating facilities of the Group.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed. The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense in connection with their duties as Directors, and a procedure is in place to facilitate this. 
Performance evaluation 
As noted above, during the year the Board considered the results of the formal performance review undertaken during 2005 but due to the
refreshment of the Board during the year, including the appointment of the new Chairman on 1 December 2006, did not undertake a further
performance review during 2006. Further, although the Senior Independent Director led a meeting of the non-executive Directors, the
meeting considered the role to be played by the new Chairman, not the performance of the retiring Chairman. The Board plans to undertake
a further performance review during the course of 2007 with the Chairman’s performance to be reviewed in the latter part of the year.
Remuneration 
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 50. 
Accountability and audit 
The assessment of the Company’s position and prospects as required by the Code is included in the Business review on pages 14 to 35. 
The Board also presents updated information in its Interim reports and other price sensitive announcements. 
A summary of the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements is set out on page 44
and the “going concern” statement is set out in the Business review on page 26. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment
and the Company’s assets. Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually. 
This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems. Over the
past year, internal audits have been focused in emerging countries to help ensure that practices are brought into line with Morgan codes 
of conduct and business ethics. As is detailed further in the Business review, the anti-competitive behaviour compliance programme is
ongoing. The review of internal controls also includes consideration of the Turnbull Risk Review and the effectiveness of the various risk
management systems in place to manage the risks identified.
The Board delegates the establishment and implementation of the systems for internal control and risk management to the operating
Divisions which are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with 
the design and operation of suitable internal controls. The Board delegates the monitoring and review of the internal control and risk
management systems to the Audit Committee assisted by the Risk Management Committee. The Risk Management Committee, which is
chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate
systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness. Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee will initiate action to improve the
systems and ensure compliance. 42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance
The Directors believe that the Group’s system of internal financial controls provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the assets of the
Group are safeguarded; transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner; and that such controls would prevent
and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to
address key business and financial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks. The internal control framework complements the
Group’s management structure. The main features of the formal system for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are
summarised as follows:
• Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each Division exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved by
the Board. Businesses present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets for approval. Monthly results for the Group are presented to
the Executive Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget and the prior year. The Group’s annual and half yearly
results are reported externally, in addition to appropriate trading statements. The annual results are audited and the half yearly results are
reviewed by the auditors.
• Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee. A comparison of forecast and actual
results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget and the prior year. Divisional management also meets regularly 
to review performance. Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee by the Group’s Divisional
Chief Executive Officers. In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
• Risk management The identification of major business risks is an ongoing process, and, as noted in the Internal Control section, this is carried
out in conjunction with operating management. Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identified. The Board, either
directly or through the Audit Committee, receives reports on financial, treasury, taxation, insurance, pension, legal, information systems and
social, environmental and ethical risks from management. The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings
and the Director of Operational Risk helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Group’s operations.
• Risk factors Morgan’s businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macroeconomic trends and
are therefore outside the Company’s immediate control, although as described above and in the Business review, the identification 
and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
Audit Committee and auditors
The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the financial reporting and internal control
principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Company’s auditors. This requirement is met by the work of the Audit
Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Company’s external auditors, KPMG Audit plc. The Audit
Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc that its general procedures support the auditors’ independence and objectivity
in relation to non-audit services. After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors’ objectivity and
independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding 
of objectives. In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders as
appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the preliminary and interim announcements. The Senior Independent Director
holds separate meetings with major shareholders when requested. Non-executive Directors also attend investor briefings.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website includes details of stock exchange
announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other information relevant to investors.
Following the announcement of the Group’s Preliminary and Interim results and after other significant statements and presentations, 
an investor survey is carried out and the results are presented to and discussed by the Board.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors. The results of the
proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees. At the AGM held in April 2006, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business
presentation. Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting, and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other
members of senior management before and after the formal meeting. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43 Corporate governance
Board committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are on the Company’s website.
Audit
The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control. During the
year and as at 4 January 2007, membership of the Committee consisted of Martin Flower, Simon Heale and Joe MacHale who is the
Committee Chairman, all of whom are independent Directors. The Committee has the power to, and does, request the attendance at
meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee. 
The Committee also meets the auditors without the executive Directors or other members of management present. The Audit Committee
met five times during the year.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference include:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and any formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;
• reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls and the Company’s internal control and risk management systems;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function;
• making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of 
the external auditors;
• reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; and
• developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors; and to report to the Board, identifying any
matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 2006 included:
• reviewing the Group’s 2005 financial statements and 2006 interim results statements prior to Board approval;
• reviewing the impact of adopted IFRSs on the Group’s financial statements;
• assessing the Group’s main business risks and receiving regular updates on areas of risk in financial control in accordance with the 
Turnbull Committee guidance;
• reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit;
• confirmation of the external auditors’ terms of engagement and fee structures; and
• monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2006 included transaction services amounting to £0.8 million, mainly in
connection with the bid approach discussions which took place between August and October 2006. Other work, totalling £0.3 million, 
was carried out in conjunction with acquisitions in the USA and India, assurance services in connection with the transition to adopted 
IFRSs, internal control audits undertaken in a number of developing countries and tax services in various jurisdictions in connection with
compliance work.
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost
of the Company. The Director of Operational Risk has access to the Chairman of the Committee and meets, when appropriate, with the
Committee without other executives present.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit
services by the external auditors is that certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors and certain other services
require the approval of the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Committee. When the cost of services is expected to be in
excess of £200,000 a competitive tender process is normally used. The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their
independence and have written to the Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent. The Company last changed its
auditors in late 2001.
Remuneration
As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 50, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration
for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as share options and awards under the Company’s incentive plans,
pension rights and any compensation payments. The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior
management. As at 4 January 2007, membership of the Remuneration Committee consisted of Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Joe MacHale
and Simon Heale who is the Committee Chairman.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources of 
the Carbon Division, none of whom takes part in discussion of their own remuneration or votes on any resolution. The Committee also has 
the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered
appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee reviews contracts and authorises the remuneration, performance-related and discretionary bonuses (including performance
targets) and other benefits of the executive Directors. All executive Directors are on 12 months’ notice of termination. It is policy to disclose
the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company. During the year Mark Robertshaw served 
as a non-executive Director of Rathbones Brothers plc and Mark Lejman served as a non-executive Director of Delta plc. Warren Knowlton
served as a non-executive Director of Smith and Nephew plc and from 1 June 2006 as a non-executive Director of Filtrona plc. The fees
received by Mark Robertshaw, Mark Lejman and Warren Knowlton in this regard are shown on page 50.
As is further detailed in the Remuneration report, the Committee uses specialist consultants and advisers where appropriate. 44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance
The Committee sets relevant criteria for awards granted under the Company’s various share and share option schemes. The non-executive
Directors do not participate in share schemes and bonuses nor do they qualify for pension benefits.
During 2006 this Committee met on eight occasions. The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of Directors’
remuneration and Directors’ interests in options and shares is set out on pages 45 to 50.
Nomination
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment 
of new Directors. A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors. At 4 January 2007,
membership consisted of Tim Stevenson as Chairman, Martin Flower, Simon Heale, Joe MacHale and Mark Robertshaw.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting,
as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee met twice during 2006 and also established 
a sub-committee comprising Martin Flower, Simon Heale and Joe MacHale to progress the selection of the new Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer with effect from 4 August 2006, and the new Chairman with effect from 1 December 2006.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board; succession planning and the leadership
needs of the Group. In the light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection. Their letters of appointment set out 
the expected time commitment, since non-executive Directors are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their
commitments to the Company. Their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with a broad 
indication of the time involved and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes. The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors 
do not include a notice period.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
These procedures, including the use of independent search consultants to help evaluate both internal and external candidates, were 
used by the Committee in connection with the appointment of Mark Robertshaw as Chief Executive Officer and Kevin Dangerfield as an
executive Director and Chief Financial Officer, both with effect from 4 August 2006.
The procedures were also used in the appointment of Tim Stevenson as Chairman with effect from 1 December 2006. This included an
assessment of the time commitment expected from him, recognising the need for his availability in the event of major corporate activity.
Independent search consultants were used in connection with his appointment. Lars Kylberg, the former Chairman, was not a member of the
Nomination Committee or the sub-committee which recommended to the Board Tim Stevenson as his successor.
Statement of Directors' responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of
that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' report, Directors' Remuneration report and
Corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Paul Boulton Secretary
20 February 2007 Remuneration report
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 45
The Directors’ remuneration report is presented to shareholders by the Board. The report complies with the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations) and the Company complied with the provisions of the July 2003 edition of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance relating to Directors’ remuneration. As noted on page 40 the Company has voluntarily adopted the June 2006
version of the Code for the year beginning 5 January 2007 and accordingly, as noted on page 43, the Chairman is a member of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Auditable part
The schedule of Directors’ pay and benefits and accompanying notes on pages 48 and 49, the table of pension benefits and
accompanying notes on page 50 and the table of executive Directors’ share options on page 49 comprise the auditable part of the
Directors’ Remuneration report, being the information required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution inviting shareholders to approve this report will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 April 2007.
The Remuneration Committee
The members of the Committee are Simon Heale, Chairman; Tim Stevenson; Joe MacHale; and Martin Flower. Each of 
these Directors is regarded by the Board as independent and served throughout the year, apart from Tim Stevenson who was appointed 
to the Board on 1 December 2006 as Chairman and joined the Committee from that date. Tim Stevenson was independent at the time of his
appointment to the Board. No other Directors were members of the Committee during the year. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to
the Committee and the Chief Executive Officer attends meetings of the Committee by invitation. No executive Director or other attendee is
present when his or her own remuneration is under consideration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the
Board, specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on
our website.
The Remuneration Committee met eight times during the year and has the authority to obtain the advice of outside independent
remuneration consultants.
During the year, in addition to receiving advice and assistance from the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary, and the Director 
of Human Resources of the Carbon Division, the Committee referred to information compiled by Towers Perrin and Incomes Data Services.
During 2007 the Committee will undertake a full review of its terms of reference, its polices and processes, including its use of external advisors
with re-tendering processes where appropriate.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policies adopted by the Committee and which will continue to apply during 2007 are:
a) Total level of remuneration
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and
motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the Company successfully and to deliver value 
for shareholders. 
In assessing all aspects of pay and benefits, the Committee compares the packages offered by similar companies to ensure the
remuneration packages for executive Directors are competitive against the market in which we compete for talent. 
Comparator companies are chosen having regard to:
i the size of the company – its turnover, profits and number of people employed;
ii the diversity and complexity of its businesses;
iii the geographical spread of its businesses; and
iv its restructuring and expansion profile.
The intention is to ensure rewards are linked to corporate and individual performance. This policy takes account of the decentralised 
and differing nature of our businesses in addition to reflecting the technical challenges we face in a global market place. Individual
performance is assessed against personal objectives, and corporate performance of the relevant Division in respect of the remuneration 
of senior Divisional management and against the performance of the Group for the remainder of the Executive Committee.
b) Main components of remuneration
The policy of the Committee is to place greater emphasis on performance-related rewards with measurable targets. These are designed to
reduce the proportion of fixed remuneration and provide for a growing element of “at risk” pay, which is only available when good results
are achieved. In this way, there is a strong link between reward and performance which should be beneficial to shareholders, employees
and the Company. The targets are set on the basis of challenging performance criteria reflecting the objectives of the Company.
The main components of remuneration are:
i Basic salary and benefits in kind
Basic salary for each executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance of the
individual and information taken from independent sources based on companies of comparable size and complexity in the FTSE 350. 
Benefits include a company car or an allowance in lieu, health insurance and, where appropriate, relocation and other expenses.
Basic salaries for executive Directors and senior executive roles were reviewed during 2006. The current basic salaries for the executive
Directors are as follows: 
• Mark Robertshaw – £400,000 (effective from 4 August 2006)
• Kevin Dangerfield – £215,000 (effective from 4 August 2006)
• Mark Lejman – £270,000 (effective from 1 July 2006)
A salary review for executive Directors and senior executives will be carried out in July 2007.  46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Remuneration report
ii Annual bonus 
The targets for annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, balancing short- and long-term requirements of the Company.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid. This approach is intended to align executive reward with
shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets and fostering the continued development of inter-divisional co-
operation and collaboration. The annual bonus is not pensionable. 
The bonus scheme provides the opportunity of earning a maximum bonus of 100% of basic salary if certain “stretch” targets are achieved. 
Of this, 90% relates to financial targets and 10% relates to the achievement of personal objectives. For 2006 the financial element for
executive Directors and senior executives with Group responsibilities was based on the achievement of underlying operating profit targets
(up to 75% of salary) and operating cash flow performance (up to 15% of salary). For executive Directors and senior executives with
Divisional responsibilities the financial element was structured such that up to 65% of salary was payable on the achievement of operating
profit targets and up to 25% of salary was payable for the achievement of working capital targets.
For 2007, the financial element for executive Directors and senior executives with Group responsibilities will be based on underlying
operating profit performance (up to 80% of salary) and operating cash flow (up to 10% of salary). For executive Directors and senior
executives with Divisional responsibilities the financial criteria are tailored to each Division and include both underlying profit performance
and working capital criteria. The 10% for the achievement of personal objectives applies to all participants.
Operating profit is defined as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). For these purposes, operating profit excludes all special items
(e.g. certain restructuring costs, corporate disposals of businesses and property and significant one-off litigation costs relating to the prior
year) and any major one-off non-operating charges (e.g. special one-off pension contributions). 
Operating cash is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation costs (EBITA), adjusted for depreciation charge (non-cash item),
movements in working capital, provisions, capital expenditure, profit and loss on sale of plant and machinery, operating tax charges and
net finance charges. For these purposes operating cash flow excludes any one-off cash costs for special items defined above, plus major
one-off tax claims, dividends or any corporate cash flow such as rights issues or the purchase of shares.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the awards made. The average bonus awarded to executive Directors who served during the
year in relation to their performance in 2006 was 96% of salary. This was based on the Company’s strong results for the year and on each
Director’s individual performance.
iii Share schemes
We believe that share ownership by the executive Directors and senior executives helps align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Accordingly the Company operates a number of share schemes for the executive Directors and other senior employees, as follows: 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The LTIP was approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors and other senior
executives the opportunity to receive shares as a reward for outstanding performance. The scheme allows allocations of up to 150% of
basic salary, although in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make share awards of up to 200% of basic salary. The vesting
of the share allocation is subject to the achievement of performance targets measured over the three year period from the start of the
year in which the allocation is made. The performance criteria compares the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) over the
three-year period with that of a comparator group which comprises the FTSE 350 at the date of the grant. If, over the three year period, 
the Company’s total shareholder return performance places it at the median of the comparator group, 30% of an allocation will vest.
Allocations under the LTIP are released in full if the Company’s TSR places it in the upper quartile of the FTSE 350 comparator group. For
performance between median and upper quartile, awards vest on a straight-line pro-rata basis. In addition, awards will only vest if the
Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this is justified by the Company’s underlying financial performance over the period. 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) The ESOS was also approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors
and other senior executives the opportunity to receive options granted at the market price of the Company’s shares at the time of the
grant. The maximum value of option awards that can be made to executive Directors and other senior executives is 150% of salary,
although in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make option grants of up to 200% of basic salary. The ability to exercise
options is subject to the achievement of performance criteria based on the Company’s TSR performance measured over the three-year
period from the start of the year in which the option is granted. TSR is measured against a comparator group comprising the FTSE 350 
at the date of grant. If the Company’s TSR performance places it at the median of the comparator group, 30% of the option will be
exercisable, with 100% of the option being exercisable for upper quartile performance. For performance between median and upper
quartile, options are exercisable on a straight-line pro-rata basis. In addition, as with the LTIP awards, options will only become exercisable 
if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this is justified by the Company’s underlying financial performance over the period.
In 2006 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria for the existing LTIP and ESOS and confirmed that the
combination of the TSR performance measure, which takes into account long-term share price performance relative to the comparator
group, and the confirmation by the Committee that vesting/exercise is justified by the Company’s underlying financial performance over
the period, continues to be appropriate.
Awards under the LTIP and ESOS were made during the year to a very limited number of executive Directors and employees who were 
either promoted or appointed to key positions during 2006. In 2006 awards were made to 14 executives around the world, including certain
executive Directors, over 477,500 shares under the LTIP and 398,500 shares under the ESOS. The details of Options and Awards held by all
Directors are shown on page 49.
Award to CEO on appointment In February 2006 the Remuneration Committee resolved to grant a one-off performance related incentive
award to Mark Robertshaw as part of the remuneration package made available on his appointment as Chief Executive Officer. This
award was considered to be appropriate in order to retain his services in the role of Chief Executive Officer, and to incentivise him to
continue the strong performance achieved over the past three years.
The award is structured as a market value option over 1,000,000 shares subject to the achievement of performance conditions that also
apply for awards under the ESOS. No portion of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR is below the median of the FTSE 350 over three
years, with the award only vesting in full for upper quartile performance. The Committee must also be satisfied that the Company’s
underlying financial performance justifies the level of vesting. The structure of the award means that Mark Robertshaw will only be
rewarded where there has been real value created for shareholders. The terms on which the option was granted were, in all essential
matters, the same as the terms on which options are granted under the ESOS. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 47 Remuneration report
Due to the unsolicited approach received by the Company in August 2006, which could have led to a cash offer for the Company, the
grant of the award was effectively delayed from the time of Mark Robertshaw’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer in August until
December 2006. The option exercise price of 256 pence per share reflects the market value of the shares at the date of award which was
higher than at the date of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer. 
To the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied and the option is exercised, the exercise of the option will be satisfied by the
transfer of the relevant number of shares to Mark Robertshaw from the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust. No new shares will be issued to
satisfy this option, instead shares have been acquired in the market by the trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust.
At 4 January 2007, The Morgan Crucible General Employee Benefit Trust held a total of 10,182,157 shares.
Savings-related Share Option Scheme. As UK employees, the executive Directors may also participate in the Savings-related Share Option
Scheme on the same basis as other eligible employees and subject to UK legislation. Scheme members save a fixed amount per month
over three years and options have been granted at 80% of the market price. Those Directors who received options under this scheme are
shown in the table on page 49. No performance conditions apply to those options as they are a mechanism for all employees to acquire
shares in the Company at their own cost. 
c) Company policy on contracts of service
The Company’s policy is that executive Directors are employed on contracts subject to one year’s notice at any time with, where
appropriate, provision for the payment of predetermined damages in the event of termination of employment in certain circumstances.
The Company will apply the principle of mitigation to any payment of compensation on termination. Contracts may be terminated on 
12 months’ notice given by the Company or on six months’ notice given by the Director concerned. Contracts end on each Director’s
anticipated normal retirement date. The following table shows the date of the contract and the notice period for each executive Director
who served during the year.
Executive Director Date of contract Notice period
Kevin Dangerfield 3 August 2006 12 months
Warren Knowlton 9 December 2002 n/a
Mark Lejman 1 March 2004 12 months
Mark Robertshaw 4 August 2006 12 months
Mark Robertshaw’s service contract contains specific termination provisions such that the Company may terminate his contract by making a
payment in lieu of notice to include basic salary, pension contribution, car allowance and, at our discretion, bonus for the period of the
notice. If a discretionary bonus is paid, this shall be the pro-rata value of the average bonus paid to him in the two years prior to termination
or 35% of basic salary, which ever is the greater.
The service contracts for Kevin Dangerfield and Mark Lejman do not contain specific termination provisions. In the event of early termination,
the Company may be liable to pay an amount in damages having regard to salary, bonus and other benefits that would have been
received had the Director served out his notice period.
Warren Knowlton served up until his retirement on 3 August 2006 at which time his service contract ended. No compensation was paid on
termination of his contract.
d) Company pensions policy regarding executive Directors
The executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a contributory,
HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme. With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme switched
from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years. Its main features are now:
i a normal pension age of 65;
ii pension at normal pension age of two-thirds career average pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years’ employment (26 years
and eight months for new members);
iii life assurance of four times basic salary;
iv dependants pension on death.
Pensionable salary is the member’s basic salary restricted to an earnings cap (£108,600 for the 2006/7 tax year).
In addition, an executive Director receives a pension allowance derived from employer contributions based notionally on the registered
scheme pensionable salary in excess of the earnings cap as at 5 April 2006. The value of the pension allowance for each executive Director 
is set out in the Schedule of Pay and Benefits table below. The pension allowance was frozen in value at 5 April 2006 for members of the
scheme at that date and will not apply to new members.
Warren Knowlton retired on 3 August 2006 and was not a member of the above scheme. He received a pension allowance derived from
employer contributions based notionally on basic salary.
e) Total shareholder return
The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return (TSR) for the Company for the five-year period to 4 January 2007 against
the FTSE 350. Both are rebased to 100 as at 5 January 2002. The index selected was the FTSE 350 as it was considered to be a broad
comparator group of companies and was also relevant to the performance of the Company in respect of its LTIP and ESOS. 48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Remuneration report
The auditors are required to report on the following information:
Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares
Directors’ interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are as follows:
As at 5 January As at 4 January 
2006 or date of 2007 or date of 
appointment resignation 
Kevin Dangerfield (appointed 4 August 2006) 9,644 13,534
Martin Flower 15,000 15,000
Simon Heale 8,000 8,000
Warren Knowlton (retired 3 August 2006) 375,000 375,000
Lars Kylberg (retired 30 November 2006) 115,090 116,227
Mark Lejman 5,000 40,000
Joe MacHale 100,000 100,000
Mark Robertshaw 16,000 32,000
Tim Stevenson (appointed 1 December 2006) – 29,000
At the market price on 4 January 2007, Kevin Dangerfield, Mark Lejman and Mark Robertshaw held shares worth 17%, 39% and 21%
respectively of their basic salaries respectively.
The Company has not been notified of any changes in the interests of the Directors between 5 January 2007 and 20 February 2007.
Schedule of Directors’ Pay and Benefits 
Fees/AnnualOther Company pension Compensation Total
salary bonus benefits Total emoluments contributions for loss of office remuneration
2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
Tim Stevenson 
(appointed 
1 Dec 06) 10 –– 10 – – – – – 10 –
Executive Directors
Kevin Dangerfield 
(appointed 4 Aug 06) 89 89 5 183 – 18 – – – 201 –
Mark Lejman 265 228 13 506 441 91 78 – – 597 519
Mark Robertshaw 348 400 12 760 544 114 100 – – 874 644
Non Executive Directors
Martin Flower 38 – – 38 37 – – – – 38 37
Simon Heale 43 –– 43 30 – – – – 43 30
Joe MacHale 48 – –48 40 – – – – 48 40
Former Directors
David Godwin 
(retired 31 Dec 05) –– –– 40 – – – – – 40
Hartmut Eisele 
(resigned 8 Dec 05) – – – – 1,285* – 33 – – – 1,318
Warren Knowlton 
(retired 3 Aug 06) 360 312 112 784 1,265 144 216 – – 928 1,481
Lars Kylberg
(retired 30 Nov 06) 87 – – 87 95 – – – – 87 95
1,288 1,029 142 2,459 3,777 367 427 – – 2,826 4,204
* The emoluments for Harmut Eisele in respect of 2005 have been restated by an additional amount of £767,149 to correct an omission from last year’s report. This includes an additional
bonus and payments in respect of accelerated awards under the LTIP and ESOS, all of which related to the disposal of the Magnetics Division. Disclosure of the anticipated payments to be
made to Harmut Eisele in respect of the disposal was made in the Circular to shareholders dated 21 October 2005.
Total shareholder return for the five-year period 5 January 2002 to 4 January 2007
180
150
120
90
60
30
0
Jan 02
June 02
Jan 03
June 03
Jan 04
June 04
Jan 05
June 05
Jan 06
June 06
Jan 07
FTSE 350 Morgan Crucible The Morgan Crucible Company plc 49 Remuneration report
The other benefits referred to above include private medical insurance, the provision of a company car and fuel and, in respect of Warren
Knowlton, an overseas living allowance of £71,964 (2005: £108,000). Warren Knowlton’s removal costs and the costs of his professional tax,
insurance and inheritance advice are also included in his other benefits. Following his retirement, the Company undertook to cover the
further cost of a limited amount of professional tax, retirement and inheritance advice until August 2008 and to continue Warren Knowlton’s
inclusion under the Company’s healthcare programme for a period of five years. 
Executive Directors’ share options
At 5 January At 4 January 
2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2007 Earliest
or date of during during during or date of Exercise date of Expiry 
appointment the year the year the year resignation price exercise date
Kevin Dangerfield 10,520 – – – 10,520 180.08p 23.11.04 23.11.11
10,520 – – – 10,520 49.42p 13.12.05 13.12.12
50,000 – – – 50,000 129.05p 22.06.07 22.06.14
150,000 – – 150,000 256p 20.12.09 20.12.16
Warren Knowlton 1,841,000 – – – 1,841,000 56.54p 10.12.05 10.12.12
263,000 – – – 263,000 126.40p 19.03.07 19.03.14
Mark Lejman 200,000 – – – 200,000 129.05p 22.06.07 22.06.14
Mark Robertshaw 200,000 – – – 200,000 145.275p 01.11.07 01.11.14
– 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000 256p 20.12.09 20.12.16
Awards to Directors under the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan
Shares Shares
As at Allocations released lapsed As at Market price Market price
5 January during during during 4 January at date of at date of Performance
2006 the year the year the year 2007 allocation release periods
Kevin Dangerfield
2004 LTIP 98,941 – – – 98,941 129.05p n/a 04.01.04 – 04.01.07
2005 LTIP 101,803 – – – 101,803 171.9p n/a 04.01.05 – 04.01.08
2006 LTIP (December) – 107,500 – – 107,500 256p n/a 04.01.06 – 04.01.09
Warren Knowlton
2004 LTIP 623,887 ––– 623,887 129.05p n/a 04.01.04 – 04.01.07
2005 LTIP 518,324 – – – 518,324 171.9p n/a 04.01.05 – 04.01.08
Mark Lejman
2004 LTIP 265,414 – – – 265,414 129.05p n/a 04.01.04 – 04.01.07
2005 LTIP 211,751 – – – 211,751 171.9p n/a 04.01.05 – 04.01.08
Mark Robertshaw
2004 LTIP 283,944 – – – 283,944 129.05p n/a 04.01.04 – 04.01.07
2005 LTIP 223,967 – – – 223,967 171.9p n/a 04.01.05 – 04.01.08
2006 LTIP (May) – 250,000 – – 250,000 242.95p n/a 04.01.06 – 04.01.09
2006 LTIP (December) – 50,000 –– 50,000 256p n/a 04.01.06 – 04.01.09
Options under the Sharesave scheme 
As at As at 
5 January 4 January
2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2007 
or date of during during during or date of Exercise Exercise 
appointment the year the year the year retirement price periods
Kevin Dangerfield
2003 scheme 3,890 – 3,890 – – 94.8p 01.12.06 – 31.05.07
2006 scheme – 4,725 – – 4,725 200p 01.03.10 – 31.08.10
Warren Knowlton
2004 scheme 8,598 – – – 6,257 110.20p 01.12.07 – 31.05.08
Mark Lejman
2005 scheme 5,565 – – – 5,565 168p 01.12.08 – 31.05.09
Mark Robertshaw
2006 scheme – 4,725 – – 4,725 200p 01.03.10 – 31.08.10
Kevin Dangerfield exercised an option over 3,890 shares under the 2003 Sharesave scheme on 1 December 2006. The closing market price
on that day was 257.75 pence per share.
Pension benefits earned by the Directors
The three Executive Directors, Kevin Dangerfield, Mark Lejman and Mark Robertshaw participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension
and Life Assurance Scheme. This is a contributory, HMRC-registered, defined benefit, UK occupational pension scheme. As noted above, 
the scheme was amended on 6 April 2006. 50 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Remuneration report
Transfer value
of accrued
Increase in benefits at
accrued Increase in 4 January Transfer value Increase/
Accrued benefits accrued Transfer 2006 of accrued (decrease) in
benefit at excluding benefits value of (A) or date of benefits at transfer value 
4January inflation including less Directors’ appointment 4 January less Directors’ 
2007 (A) inflation contributions if later 2007 contributions
Executive Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Kevin Dangerfield
(1)
17 pa 1 pa 1 pa –1 92 110 14
Mark Lejman 10 pa 3 pa 3 pa 10 59 93 19
Mark Robertshaw 6 pa 3 pa 3 pa –1 19 35 1
Notes to pension benefits
a) The accrued benefit entitlement for Kevin Dangerfield, Mark Lejman and Mark Robertshaw is the pension which would be paid annually
on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
b) The transfer values for the pension benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial
Guidance Note GN11, less the Director’s contributions.
c) Members of the pension scheme had the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting
benefits are included in the above table.
(1) Kevin Dangerfield became a Director on 4 August 2006. The increase in accrued benefits reflects five months’ qualifying service 
as a Director.
Warren Knowlton, who retired on 3 August 2006, had a pension allowance of £143,928 (2005: £216,000) which is included in the Schedule of
Directors’ pay and benefits above.
Kevin Dangerfield, Mark Lejman and Mark Robertshaw also receive a pension allowance, details of which are set out in the Schedule of
Directors’ pay and benefits above.
External appointments
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, executive Directors may accept
external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
The total amounts of fees received by Mark Robertshaw, Mark Lejman and Warren Knowlton (up to his retirement on 3 August 2006) in
respect of non-executive directorships elsewhere were £28,500, £20,384 and £38,356 respectively. 
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, receive a basic fee plus re-imbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board, strategy
and other meetings. They were paid fees totalling £225,083 during the year (2005: £242,063). The remuneration of the non-executive Directors
is determined by the Board and during the year the basic fee for non-executive Directors was increased from £35,000 to £40,000 per annum,
having last been reviewed in 2004. Additional payments of £4,500 per annum are made to the Senior Independent Director, £7,500 to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee and £5,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The next review will take place in 2008. None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company although they do
have letters of appointment which contain no obligations relating to any notice period. There are no obligations on the Company to make
any payments in lieu of notice to any non-executive Director. The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or
share option plans. Each of the non-executive Directors is subject to re-election by shareholders every third year after their initial confirmation
by shareholders as a Director.
Share price range
The share price at the year end was 264.25 pence and the high and low during the year were 306.00 pence and 213.50 pence respectively.
The Directors’ remuneration report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by
Simon Heale Chairman, Remuneration Committee
20 February 2007 Shareholder information
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 51
Analysis of shareholdings as at 4 January 2007
Number of % of Number of % of
shareholders total shares share capital
Size of holding 1–2,000 6,951 75.27 3,967,823 1.35
2,001–5,000 1,353 14.65 4,266,387 1.45
5,001–10,000 373 4.04 2,648,088 0.91
10,001–50,000 278 3.01 5,756,106 1.96
50,001–100,000 51 0.55 3,635,398 1.24
100,000 and above 229 2.48 273,151,340 93.09
9,235 100 293,425,142* 100
Holding classification Individuals 8,045 87.12 11,748,074 4.00
Nominee companies 1,063 11.51 272,379,165 92.83
Trust (pension funds etc) 14 0.15 352,205 0.12
Others 113 1.22 8,945,698 3.05
9,235 100 293,425,142* 100
* 200,000 shares bought back by the Company prior to 4 January 2007 were not cancelled in the Register of Members until after the year end.
Key dates
Dividends Subject to the relevant detailed terms and approvals of the Board of Directors where applicable
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and 30 March 2007 and
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each 1 October 2007
Annual General Meeting 20 April 2007
Financial results The interim results are issued in August with the Report and Accounts 
for the year normally posted in March
Other information
Capital gains tax The market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 March 1982 were:
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each 30.5 pence
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each 28.5 pence
For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of 
rights issues. Any capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account 
of indexation allowances. Since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, 
shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers
Share price The price can be obtained on the Company’s website: www.morgancrucible.com
Company details
Registered office Quadrant 55–57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Registered in England No 286773
Telephone: 01753 837000
Fax: 01753 850872
Website: www.morgancrucible.com
Company registrars
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone: 0870 162 3100
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com 52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Independent auditors’ report to the members of The Morgan Crucible Company plc
We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) of The Morgan Crucible Company plc
for the year ended 4 January 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Company balance sheets,
the Consolidated statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes. These
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the
Directors’ Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent Company financial statements and
the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsiblites in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements on page 44.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in
the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information
presented in the Business review, Financial review, and Risk Management sections that are cross referred from the Principal Activities and
Enhanced Business review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs
as at 4 January 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation;
• the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of
the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at 4 January 2007;
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
20 February 2007
Report of the independent auditors Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 4 January 2007
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 53
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
operations operations operations operations
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2 677.8 – 677.8 609.8 135.9 745.7
Operating costs before 
special items 5 (604.1) – (604.1) (554.4) (125.3) (679.7)
Profit from operations before 
special items 2 73.7 – 73.7 55.4 10.6 66.0
Special items:
Restructuring costs and costs 
associated with settlement of prior 
period anti-trust litigation 9 (27.7) – (27.7) (29.9) (2.1) (32.0)
Gain on curtailment of 
United Kingdom employee
benefit schemes 11.0 – 11.0 – ––
Terminated bid approach costs (2.1) – (2.1) – ––
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property 0.3 – 0.3 (0.4) – (0.4)
Operating profit 2 55.2 – 55.2 25.1 8.5 33.6
Finance income 26.8 – 26.8 22.7 – 22.7
Finance expenses (30.2) – (30.2) (33.4) (2.4) (35.8)
Net financing costs 7 (3.4) – (3.4) (10.7) (2.4) (13.1)
Loss on partial disposal of business – (1.5) (1.5) (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 51.8 (1.5) 50.3 14.3 6.1 20.4
Income tax expense (all relates
to overseas tax payable) 8 (10.6) – (10.6) (4.8) (4.0) (8.8)
Profit/(loss) after taxation but 
before gain on sale of 
discontinued operations 41.2 (1.5) 39.7 9.5 2.1 11.6
Gain on sale of discontinued 
operations, net of tax 3 –– – – 42.6 42.6
Profit/(loss) for the period 41.2 (1.5) 39.7 9.5 44.7 54.2
Profit/(loss) for period attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 38.4 (1.5) 36.9 7.2 44.7 51.9
Minority interest 2.8 – 2.8 2.3 – 2.3
41.2 (1.5) 39.7 9.5 44.7 54.2
Earnings/(loss) per share 10
Basic 13.4p (0.5p) 12.9p 2.5p 15.6p 18.1p
Diluted 12.8p (0.5p) 12.3p 2.4p 14.8p 17.2p
Dividends
Interim dividend – pence 1.5p –
– £ million 4.4 –
Proposed final dividend – pence 3.0p 2.5p
– £ million 8.8 7.3
The proposed final dividend is based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date. 54 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 230.2 235.3
Intangible assets 12 66.4 46.6
Other investments 13 7.2 6.1
Other receivables 16 1.2 0.3
Deferred tax assets 14 28.8 27.4
Total non-current assets 333.8 315.7
Inventories 15 84.9 77.8
Trade and other receivables 16 136.0 140.9
Cash and cash equivalents 17 97.4 160.0
Total current assets 318.3 378.7
Total assets 652.1 694.4
Liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 93.2 57.3
Employee benefits 21 42.7 124.2
Grants for capital expenditure 0.1 0.3
Provisions 22 6.7 4.3
Non-trade payables 23 3.6 –
Deferred tax liabilities 14 28.4 28.1
Total non-current liabilities 174.7 214.2
Bank overdraft 17 24.5 27.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 13.8 25.0
Trade and other payables 23 210.3 195.8
Current tax payable 9.9 8.1
Provisions 22 15.8 28.4
Total current liabilities 274.3 284.5
Total liabilities 449.0 498.7
Total net assets 203.1 195.7
Equity
Issued capital 18 73.7 75.5
Share premium 18 85.2 85.0
Reserves 18 28.9 41.4
Retained earnings 18 (1.1) (19.6)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Company 186.7 182.3
Minority interest 16.4 13.4
Total equity 18 203.1 195.7
The accounts on pages 53 to 94 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 4 January 2007 Consolidated statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 4 January 2007
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 55
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Profit for the period 39.7 54.2
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 24.7 30.0
Amortisation 1.2 1.3
Interest expense 3.4 13.1
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.4) 0.6
Income tax expense 10.6 8.8
Equity settled share-based payment expenses 3.2 2.5
Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital and provisions 82.4 110.5
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (18.7) (5.8)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (11.3) (9.0)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 7.1 8.6
Non-cash operating costs relating to restructuring 4.2 8.5
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits (72.6) (1.9)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (8.9) 110.9
Interest paid (8.2) (13.7)
Taxation (6.3) (6.2)
Loss on partial disposal of business 1.5 0.1
Gain on sale of discontinued operations – (42.6)
Net cash from operating activities (21.9) 48.5
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (34.0) (43.6)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.1 5.5
Purchase of investments (1.8) (2.8)
Proceeds from sale of investments – 0.7
Interest received 3.5 2.3
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (20.7) (3.0)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of 11.6 195.9
Net cash from investing activities (40.3) 155.0
Financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.2 1.7
Purchase of own shares (19.4) (3.5)
Increase in/(repayment of) borrowings 32.3 (125.2)
Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.4) (1.2)
Dividends paid (7.4) –
Net cash from financing activities 5.3 (128.2)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (56.9) 75.3
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 133.6 56.3
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (3.2) 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents at period end 17 73.5 133.6
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings is shown in note 17. 56 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
2006 2005
£m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences (17.8) 5.0
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 15.2 (16.2)
Deferred tax associated with employee benefit schemes (1.2) –
Net gain/(loss) on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiary – (1.5)
Cash flow hedges:
Effective portion of changes in fair value (0.1) 0.2
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale 0.3 0.3
Income and expense recognised directly in equity (3.6) (12.2)
Profit for the period 39.7 54.2
Total recognised income and expense for the period 36.1 42.0
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 33.3 39.7
Minority interest 2.8 2.3
Total recognised income and expenses for the period 36.1 42.0
Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
for the year ended 4 January 2007 Notes to the financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 57
1. Accounting policies
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). 
The parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 88 to 94.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
Group financial statements.
Judgements made by the Directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements
and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 28.
(a) Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value:
derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the profit or loss or as available-for-sale.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently
are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in
preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent
that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to £ sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to £ sterling at foreign
exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to
£ sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated 
to £ sterling at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity. 
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to the
translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
(d) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational,
financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments 
for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately
in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of
the item being hedged (see accounting policy e). 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward
exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
  58 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies (continued)
(e) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the
hedging reserve. When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, 
or a forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging
reserve and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecasted transaction
subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly
in the hedging reserve are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed
affects profit or loss (i.e., when interest income or expense is recognised). For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding
two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement
in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is
recognised immediately in the income statement. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the
hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and is
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take
place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in the hedging reserve is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(ii) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or
liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective
hedge is recognised directly in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment
losses (see accounting policy k). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate
proportion of production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 5 January 2004, the date of transition 
to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation. Where parts 
of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant 
and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the
minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property,
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings 50 years
Plant and equipment – presses, kilns and furnaces 10–20 years
Other plant and equipment 10 years
Fixtures and fittings 10 years
Motor vehicles and IT equipment 3 years
Computer software 3–5 years
(g) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 5 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the 
cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded 
under UK GAAP. The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 5 January 2004 has not been
reconsidered. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is no longer amortised but is tested annually for impairment (see accounting policy k). The Morgan Crucible Company plc 59 Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies (continued)
(g) Intangible assets (continued)
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding,
is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has
sufficient resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate
proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment
losses (see accounting policy k). Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses
(see accounting policy k).
(iv) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives
are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet
date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Capitalised development costs 3 years
Computer software 3 years
Operating intangible assets 8–15 years
(h) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal value less impairment losses (see accounting policy k).
(i) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate
share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of 
cash flows.
(k) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy i) and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy
r), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the
asset’s recoverable amount is estimated (see (i) below).
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) 
on a pro rata basis. 
Goodwill was tested for impairment for the years ended 4 January 2006 and 4 January 2007. 
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even though
the financial asset has not been derecognised. The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between
the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in held-to-maturity securities and receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at
initial recognition of these financial assets). Receivables with a short duration are not discounted. The recoverable amount of other assets is
the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs. 60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies (continued)
(k) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of a held-to-maturity security or receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in
recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss. 
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal
recognised in profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount and when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(l) Share capital
(i) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the
Company’s option. Dividends on preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
(ii) Ordinary share capital
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine
its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses as at 5 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, were recognised. Actuarial gains and losses that
have arisen since 5 January 2004 have been recognised in the period they occur directly in equity through the statement of recognised
income and expense, reflecting the adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 for the years ended 4 January 2006 and 4 January 2007.
(iii) Long-term service benefits
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, 
or similar approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. The discount rate is the
yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations.
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards of shares are made to various key executives and under the Morgan Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 (2006
ESOP), the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 (2004 ESOS) and the Morgan Executive Scheme 1995 (1995 ESOS) share options are granted
by the Company. The Company also maintains an all-employee share save scheme available to employees in the UK and Germany. The fair
value of awards made and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is
measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models:
Morgan Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 Monte Carlo model
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 Monte Carlo model
Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 Monte Carlo model
Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 Binominal Lattice Option pricing model
UK Employee Share Save Plan 2003 Black-Scholes Merton model
UK Employee Share Save Plan 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model
UK Employee Share Save Plan 2004 (Germany) Black-Scholes Merton model
UK Employee Share Save Plan 2005 Black-Scholes Merton model
The choice of model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made and the options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only 
due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 61 Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies (continued)
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and,
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(i) Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(ii) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(o) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount.
(p) Revenue
(i) Goods sold and services rendered
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
(ii) Government grants
Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be
received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are
recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that
compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement as other operating income on a systematic basis
over the useful life of the asset.
(q) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge 
is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of 
the liability.
(iii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds
invested, dividend income, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see accounting policy e),
expected return on IAS 19 pension assets and interest on IAS 19 obligations. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it
accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s right to receive
payments is established.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
(r) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are 
not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit,
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount
of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
(s) Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products in a particular line of business (business
segment) or in providing products within a particular economic environment (geographic segment), which is subject to risks and rewards 
that are different from those of other segments. 62 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
1. Accounting policies (continued)
(t) Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business operations. Classification
as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement (including the comparative period) as a column analysing the post tax 
profit or loss of the discontinued operation and the post tax gain or loss recognised on the remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 
or on disposal of the assets/disposal groups constituting discontinued operations.
(u) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) 
only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments associated with financial
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
(v) Investments in debt and equity securities
Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any
resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary
items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss
previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using
the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
(w) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(x) Capitalisation of borrowing costs
Borrowing costs may be capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project, which will be a
significant productive asset.
(y) Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
(z) Own shares held by ESOP trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchases of shares in
the Company are debited directly to equity.
(aa) Adopted IFRSs not yet applied
The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements:
(i) Amendment to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures
(ii) IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures
(iii) IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2
The Group does not expect the above amendments to have any significant impact on the financial statements for the period commencing
5 January 2007.
With respect to the financial guarantee contracts, where the Group enters into such contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other
companies within the Group, the Group considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect the
Group treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Group will be required to 
make a payment under the guarantee. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 63 Notes to the financial statements
2. Segment reporting
The Group’s primary business segments are its divisions. A decription of the types of products and services sold by each divison is included 
in the business review. The Group’s secondary business segments are the geographical regions in which the Group operates.
Molten Metal Systems
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics (formerly Crucibles) Discontinued Consolidated
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from 
external customers 213.6 199.9 162.5 144.8 271.2 236.7 30.5 28.4 – 135.9 677.8 745.7
Segment profit 28.5 15.3 19.3 8.6 12.9 9.2 4.1 1.3 – 8.5 64.8 42.9
Unallocated costs (9.6) (9.3)
Operating profit 55.2 33.6
Net financing costs (3.4) (13.1)
Loss on partial 
disposal of business (1.5) (0.1)
Income tax expense (10.6) (8.8)
Gain on sale 
of discontinued 
operations, net of tax – 42.6
Profit for the period 39.7 54.2
Segment underlying 
operating profit* 33.8 27.4 17.0 12.2 24.7 19.7 3.2 1.8 – 10.6 78.7 71.7
Unallocated costs (5.0) (5.7)
Underlying 
operating profit* 73.7 66.0
*Underlying operating profit is defined as profit from operations before special items. This measure of profit is shown because the Directors use it to measure the underlying performance of
the business.
Discontinued operations for 2005 comprises the Magnetics Division.
Molten Metal Systems
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics (formerly Crucibles) Discontinued Consolidated
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets 174.7 170.1 128.4 133.4 253.1 217.4 27.3 24.0 – – 583.5 544.9
Unallocated assets 68.6 149.5
Total assets 652.1 694.4
Segment liabilities 61.2 99.4 46.3 82.4 89.4 99.3 9.8 17.1 – – 206.7 298.2
Unallocated liabilities 242.3 200.5
Total liabilities 449.0 498.7
Segment cash flows 
from operating 
activities 13.2 27.6 11.4 17.9 (8.8) 14.2 0.7 1.8 – 15.9 16.5 77.4
Unallocated 
cash flows (38.4) (28.9)
Cash flows from 
operating activities (21.9) 48.5
Cash flows from 
investing activities (40.3) 155.0
Cash flows from 
financing activities 5.3 (128.2)
Segment capital 
expenditure 12.1 13.0 5.7 7.0 12.0 16.1 1.3 0.9 – 8.1 31.1 45.1
Unallocated 
capital expenditure 0.6 0.2
Total capital 
expenditure 31.7 45.3 64 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
2. Segment reporting (continued)
Molten Metal Systems
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics (formerly Crucibles) Discontinued Consolidated
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment depreciation 6.9 6.9 7.9 7.7 9.0 8.3 0.9 1.0 – 6.0 24.7 29.9
Unallocated
depreciation – 0.1
Total depreciation 24.7 30.0
Segment amortisation 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.1 – 0.6 1.2 1.2
Unallocated
amortisation – 0.1
Total amortisation 1.2 1.3
During the year ended 4 January 2007, discontinued operations had cash outflows from investing activities of £nil (2005: £9.1 million) and cash
flows from financing activities of £nil (2005: £nil).
Far East Middle East
Europe Americas and Australia and Africa Discontinued Consolidated
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from 
external customers 261.9 237.6 302.4 268.2 100.0 90.5 13.5 13.5 – 135.9 677.8 745.7
Segment assets 277.1 255.9 210.8 202.9 89.4 79.6 6.2 6.5 – – 583.5 544.9
Unallocated assets 68.6 149.5
Total assets 652.1 694.4
Segment cash flows
from operating 
activities (40.4) 3.6 37.8 40.9 16.5 13.9 2.6 3.1 – 15.9 16.5 77.4
Unallocated 
cash flows (38.4) (28.9)
Cash flows from 
operating activities (21.9) 48.5
Cash flows from 
investing activities (40.3) 155.0
Cash flows from 
financing activities 5.3 (128.2)
Segment 
capital expenditure 11.0 12.8 14.8 13.6 4.7 10.1 0.6 0.5 – 8.1 31.1 45.1
Unallocated
capital
expenditure 0.6 0.2
Total capital 
expenditure 31.7 45.3 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 65 Notes to the financial statements
3. Discontinued operations
In September 2005 the Group sold its Magnetics Division, a separate business segment (see accounting policy note t). The net sale proceeds
after allowing for net debt cash in the business were £214.6 million, tax charge was £21.4 million, leaving a gain after tax of £42.6 million.
Effect of disposal on individual assets and liabilities of the Group:
2005
£m
Property, plant and equipment 96.4
Intangible assets 62.2
Other investments 1.0
Inventories 52.5
Trade receivables and other receivables 39.3
Cash and cash equivalents 2.8
Net interest bearing and non-interest bearing loans 13.6
Provisions (79.9)
Deferred tax (4.1)
Trade payables and other payables (36.5)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 147.3
Cash consideration received, net of disposal costs 210.2
Net borrowings disposed of (16.4)
Net cash inflow 193.8
4. Acquisitions
On 16 February 2006 the Group increased its stake in Morganite India Ltd from 50.5% to 76% and on 3 April 2006 acquired the distribution
rights for domestic Indian sales. Total consideration paid was £2.0 million. The company’s principal activity is the manufacture and sale of
crucibles and furnace related accessories. In the year to 4 January 2007 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £0.2 million to the
consolidated net profit for the year.
On 31 March 2006 the Group acquired the fibre business assets of Vesuvius USA Corporation and Vesuvius Skawina Materialy Ogniotrwale 
SP Zo.O for £10.8 million. The company’s principal activity is the manufacture of fibre products. In the nine months to 4 January 2007 the
subsidiary contributed net profit of £0.1 million to the consolidated net profit for the year. The revenue and profit of this acquisition, had this
acquisition taken place at the beginning of the period, is £9.7 million and £0.1 million respectively.
On 1 April 2006 the Group acquired 51% of the shares in Morgan Thermal Ceramics Sukhoy Log Limited for £1.7 million. The Company's
principal activity is the manufacture of ceramic fibre and fibre products for thermal insulation. In the nine months to 4 January 2007 the
subsidiary contributed net profit of £nil to the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 1 April 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the shares in Diamond Crucible Company Pvt. Limited for £1.4 million. The Company’s principal
activity is the manufacture of crucibles and furnace related accessories. In the nine months to 4 January 2007 the subsidiary contributed net
profit of £nil to the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 8 April 2006 the Group acquired 51% of the shares in Morgan Luyang Thermal Ceramics Company Limited for £0.5 million. The Company’s
principal activity is the manufacture of mullite sol-gel fibre for high temperature insulation. In the nine months to 4 January 2007 the subsidiary
contributed net profit of £nil to the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 20 July 2006 the Group acquired the assets of Aceram Materials and Technology Inc for a contingent maximum consideration of 
£5.8 million with £1.9 million paid during 2006. The Company’s principal activity is the manufacture of carbon products. In the five months 
to 4 January 2007 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £0.1 million to the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 26 October 2006 the Group acquired 75% of the shares in Beijing Yingtelai Morgan Thermal Ceramics Textiles Co. Limited for £4.7 million 
of which £2.5 million will be paid after the year end. The Company’s principal activity is the manufacture of textile products for thermal
insulation. In the two months to 4 January 2007 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £nil to the consolidated net profit for the year. 66 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
4. Acquisitions (continued)
Effect of acquisitions
The acquisitions had the following effect on the assets and liabilities of the Group:
Carrying
value before Provisional 
acquisition fair values
2006 2006
£m £m
Acquisition of Vesuvius USA Corporation and Vesuvius Skawina Materialy Ogniotrwale SP Zo.O
Intangible assets – 4.0
Property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.4
Other working capital 1.2 1.1
Provisions – (0.2)
Net assets acquired 6.3
Goodwill 4.5
Total consideration 10.8
Less: deferred consideration –
Net consideration paid 10.8
Other acquisitions
Intangible assets – 6.9
Property, plant and equipment 2.6 2.4
Other working capital 0.3 0.2
Provisions – (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 1.1
Minority interests – (2.6)
Net assets acquired 7.7
Goodwill 8.3
Total consideration 16.0
Less: deferred consideration (6.3)
Net consideration paid 9.7
Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being identified individually or recognised as
separate assets. This will include acquirer specific synergies such as cross selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies and
processes between existing and acquired sites.
Acquisitions in 2005
On 1 March 2005 the Group increased its stake in Yixing Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited from 50% to 51% and began consolidating 
the business. Total consideration paid was £0.9 million. The Company’s principal activity is the manufacture of insulating fire bricks. In the 
10 months to 4 January 2006 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £0.3 million to the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 19 April 2005 the Group acquired 80% of the shares in Thermal Ceramics Saveh Company Limited for £0.5 million. The Company’s
principal activity is the manufacture of ceramic fibres. In the eight months to 4 January 2006 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £nil to 
the consolidated net profit for the year.
On 25 April 2005 the Group acquired 70% of the shares in Morgan Kailong Thermal Ceramics Jingmen Limited for £1.6 million. The Company’s
principal activity is the manufacture of ceramic fibres. In the eight months to 4 January 2006 the subsidiary contributed net profit of £nil to the
consolidated net profit for the year. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 67 Notes to the financial statements
4. Acquisitions (continued)
Effect of acquisitions
The acquisitions had the following effect on the assets and liabilities of the Group:
Carrying
value before Provisional 
acquisition fair values
2005 2005
£m £m
Intangible assets 0.4 –
Property, plant and equipment 4.0 4.4
Other working capital 0.6 0.3
Provisions – (0.6)
Interest-bearing borrowings (0.6) (0.6)
Minority interests (0.6) (1.2)
Net assets acquired 2.3
Goodwill 1.3
Total consideration 3.6
Less: deferred consideration –
Net consideration paid 3.6
5. Operating costs before special items
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Change in stocks of finished goods
and work in progress 0.5 – 0.5 3.5 (6.0) (2.5)
Raw materials and consumables 166.3 – 166.3 146.6 48.6 195.2
Other external charges 114.4 – 114.4 103.7 12.1 115.8
Employee costs:
– wages and salaries 170.5 – 170.5 168.6 42.6 211.2
– share-based payments 3.2 – 3.2 2.2 0.3 2.5
– social security costs 34.9 – 34.9 37.7 7.0 44.7
– other pension costs 10.3 – 10.3 10.5 3.2 13.7
Total 218.9 – 218.9 219.0 53.1 272.1
Depreciation:
– owned assets 24.4 – 24.4 23.5 5.7 29.2
– assets held under finance leases 0.3 – 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.8
Total 24.7 – 24.7 24.0 6.0 30.0
Rentals under operating leases:
– hire of plant and machinery 1.6 – 1.6 1.2 0.7 1.9
– other operating leases 6.5 – 6.5 6.2 0.1 6.3
Total 8.1 – 8.1 7.4 0.8 8.2
Other operating charges and income:
– foreign exchange losses 2.5 – 2.5 1.6 0.4 2.0
– other operating charges 73.0 – 73.0 54.1 13.1 67.2
– foreign exchange gains (2.4) – (2.4) (3.1) (0.3) (3.4)
– other operating income (3.1) – (3.1) (3.1) (3.1) (6.2)
– amortisation of intangible assets 1.2 – 1.2 0.7 0.6 1.3
Total 71.2 – 71.2 50.2 10.7 60.9
Total operating costs before special items 604.1 – 604.1 554.4 125.3 679.7
The Group recognised £8.2 million in expense in respect of research and development (2005: £12.5 million). 68 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
5. Operating costs before special items (continued)
A summary of the audit and non audit fees in respect of services provided by KPMG charged to operating profit in the year ended 4 January
2007 is set out below:
2006 2005
£m£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation and other services 0.9 0.7
– tax services 0.2 0.1
– other services 0.1 0.4
1.6 1.6 
In addition, in respect of the terminated bid approach, £0.8 million was paid to KPMG. As part of the prior year costs incurred in respect of
the disposal of the Magnetics Division £1.2 million was paid to KPMG.
6. Staff numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2006 2005
United Kingdom 1,391 1,442
Rest of Europe 1,840 1,946
The Americas 3,260 3,126
Far East and Australasia 2,614 2,374
Middle East and Africa 279 285
9,384 9,173
Discontinued – 2,456
9,384 11,629
Carbon 3,736 3,825
Technical Ceramics 2,105 2,033
Thermal Ceramics 3,003 2,828
Molten Metal Systems (formerly Crucibles) 540 487
9,384 9,173
Discontinued – 2,456
9,384 11,629
7. Net finance income and expense
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest income 3.5 1.3
Expected return on IAS 19 scheme assets 23.3 21.0
Fair value gain on interest rate swaps – 0.4
Finance income 26.8 22.7
Interest expense (8.1) (11.3)
Interest on IAS 19 obligations (22.1) (24.5)
Finance expense (30.2) (35.8) The Morgan Crucible Company plc 69 Notes to the financial statements
8. Taxation – income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2006 2005
£m£m
Current tax expense
Current year 12.5 36.0
Adjustments for prior years 0.6 0.3
13.1 36.3
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.9 4.0
Benefit of losses recognised (5.4) (10.1)
(2.5) (6.1)
Total income tax expense in income statement 10.6 30.2
Included in the total income tax expense is £nil (2005: £25.4 million) tax charge related to the sale of discontinued operations.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 50.3 84.4
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 15.1 30.0 25.3 30.0
Non-deductible expenses 2.3 4.6 14.7 17.4
Effect of tax losses utilised (7.3) (14.5) (10.1) (12.0)
Under provided in prior years 0.6 1.2 0.5 0.6
Other (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
10.6 21.1 30.2 35.8
2006 2005
Reconciliation of profit before tax £m £m
Shown on income statement 50.3 20.4
Add: gain on sale of discontinued operations, gross of tax – 64.0
Profit before tax shown above in tax rate reconciliation 50.3 84.4
9. Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of anti-trust litigation
Costs of restructuring were £23.9 million (2005: £29.7 million) and legal costs associated with settlement of anti-trust litigation were £3.8 million
(2005: £2.3 million).
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 4 January 2007 was based on the profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible
Company plc of £36.9 million (4 January 2006: £51.9 million) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
period ended 4 January 2007 of 287,110,574 (4 January 2006: 286,553,767) calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 36.9 51.9
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Issued ordinary shares at 5 January 293,188,372 290,200,179
Effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company (6,077,798) (3,646,412)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at period end 287,110,574 286,553,767
Basic earnings per share (pence) 12.9p 18.1p 70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
10. Earnings per share (continued)
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 4 January 2007 was based on the profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible
Company plc of £36.9 million (4 January 2006: £51.9 million) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
period ended 4 January 2007 of 298,938,120 (4 January 2006: 301,088,360), calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 36.9 51.9
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 287,110,574 286,553,767
Effect of share options/incentive schemes 11,827,546 14,534,593
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 298,938,120 301,088,360
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 12.3p 17.2p
Underlying earnings per share
The calculation of underlying earnings per share at 4 January 2007 was based on profit from operations before special items less net finance
costs, income tax expense (excluding tax credit arising from special items of £5.6 million, (4 January 2006: £4.3 million)) and minority interest 
of £51.3 million (4 January 2006: £37.5 million) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 
4 January 2007 of 287,110,574 (4 January 2006: 286,553,767) calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations before special items less net finance costs,
income tax expense and minority interest 51.3 37.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Issued ordinary shares at 5 January 293,188,372 290,200,179
Effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company (6,077,798) (3,646,412)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at period end 287,110,574 286,553,767
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 17.9p 13.1p
Underlying diluted earnings per share
The calculation of underlying diluted earnings per share at 4 January 2007 was based on profit from operations before special items less net
finance costs, income tax expense (excluding tax credit arising from special items £5.6 million (4 January 2006: £4.3 million)) and minority
interest of £51.3 million (4 January 2006: £37.5 million) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period
ended 4 January 2007 of 298,938,120 (4 January 2006: 301,088,360) calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations before special items less net finance costs,
income tax expense and minority interest 51.3 37.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 287,110,574 286,553,767
Effect of share options/incentive schemes 11,827,546 14,534,593
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 298,938,120 301,088,360
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence) 17.2p 12.5p The Morgan Crucible Company plc 71 Notes to the financial statements
11. Property, plant and equipment
Plant and 
Land and equipment
buildings and fixtures Total
£m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 5 January 2005 174.8 445.0 619.8
Acquisitions through business combinations 2.2 2.2 4.4
Additions 7.4 36.3 43.7
Disposals (54.3) (108.6) (162.9)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 1.0 7.7 8.7
Balance at 4 January 2006 131.1 382.6 513.7
Balance at 5 January 2006 131.1 382.6 513.7
Acquisitions through business combination 1.1 2.5 3.6
Additions 5.8 24.9 30.7
Disposals (1.4) (14.2) (15.6)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange (7.5) (20.6) (28.1)
Balance at 4 January 2007 129.1 375.2 504.3
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 5 January 2005 38.6 261.4 300.0
Depreciation charge for the year 4.0 26.0 30.0
Disposals (8.4) (46.7) (55.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange (0.4) 3.9 3.5
Balance at 4 January 2006 33.8 244.6 278.4
Balance at 5 January 2006 33.8 244.6 278.4
Depreciation charge for the year 3.4 21.3 24.7
Disposals (0.8) (12.3) (13.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange (2.2) (13.7) (15.9)
Balance at 4 January 2007 34.2 239.9 274.1
Carrying amounts
At 5 January 2005 136.2 183.6 319.8
At 4 January 2006 97.3 138.0 235.3
At 4 January 2007 94.9 135.3 230.2 72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
12. Intangible assets
Operating Computer 
Goodwill intangibles software Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 5 January 2005 100.2 – 15.2 115.4
Acquisitions through business combinations 1.3 – – 1.3
Additions – externally purchased – – 1.6 1.6
Disposals (57.8) – (8.8) (66.6)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.2 – (0.1) 0.1
Balance at 4 January 2006 43.9 – 7.9 51.8
Balance at 5 January 2006 43.9 – 7.9 51.8
Acquisitions through business combinations 12.8 10.1 – 22.9
Additions – externally purchased – – 1.0 1.0
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange (2.7) – (0.3) (3.0)
Balance at 4 January 2007 54.0 10.1 8.1 72.2
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 5 January 2005 – – 8.3 8.3
Amortisation charge for the year – – 1.3 1.3
Disposals – – (4.4) (4.4)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – – –
Balance at 4 January 2006 – – 5.2 5.2
Balance at 5 January 2006 – – 5.2 5.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 0.4 0.8 1.2
Disposals – – (0.4) (0.4)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 4 January 2007 – 0.4 5.4 5.8
Carrying amounts
At 5 January 2005 100.2 – 6.9 107.1
At 4 January 2006 43.9 – 2.7 46.6
At 4 January 2007 54.0 9.7 2.7 66.4
Amortisation of operating intangibles and computer software costs is included within operating costs before special items in the 
income statement.
Impairment test for cash-generating units containing goodwill
The following units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill:
2006 2005
£m £m
Carbon 16.3 14.2
Technical Ceramics 20.0 21.8
Insulating Ceramics 17.7 7.9
54.0 43.9
The recoverable amount of the above units is based on value in use calculations. Those calculations use cash flow projections based on
forecast operating results for the current period and budgeted operating results for the subsequent period. Cash flows for a further five year
period are extrapolated using a 2.25% growth rate. This growth rate is consistent with the long-term average growth rate for the industry and
reflects management’s estimate of the growth through the economic cycle. A pre-tax discount rate of 13.0% has been used in discounting
the projected cash flows and calculating the terminal value at the end of year five.
13. Other investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current investments
Equity securities available-for-sale 7.2 6.1 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 73 Notes to the financial statements
14. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment – – 24.7 26.0 24.7 26.0
Intangible assets – – 0.4 1.7 0.4 1.7
Employee benefits (12.0) (17.9) 2.1 – (9.9) (17.9)
Provisions (2.4) (1.5) – – (2.4) (1.5)
Tax value of loss carried forward recognised (13.0) (7.6) – – (13.0) (7.6)
Other items (1.4) (0.4) 1.2 0.4 (0.2) –
(28.8) (27.4) 28.4 28.1 (0.4) 0.7
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deductible temporary differences (5.1) (22.8)
Tax losses (21.6) (15.4)
(26.7) (38.2)
£7.7 million of the deferred tax asset relating to losses will expire between 2019 and 2026. The balance of the losses are available to carry
forward without time restriction.
Movements in temporary differences during the year
Recognised Recognised
Balance Recognised directly Balance Recognised directly Balance
4 Jan 05 in income in equity 4 Jan 06 in income in equity 4 Jan 07
Property, plant and equipment 30.6 (4.6) – 26.0 (1.3) – 24.7
Intangible assets 0.9 0.8 – 1.7 (1.3) – 0.4
Employee benefits (22.2) 4.3 – (17.9) 6.8 1.2 (9.9)
Provisions (1.8) 0.3 – (1.5) (0.9) – (2.4)
Tax value of loss 
carry forward utilised (1.7) (5.9) – (7.6) (5.4) – (13.0)
Others 5.1 (5.1) – – (0.4) 0.2 (0.2)
10.9 (10.2) – 0.7 (2.5) 1.4 (0.4)
15. Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 27.3 25.1
Work in progress 22.3 20.2
Finished goods 35.3 32.5
84.9 77.8
Inventories stated at fair value less costs to sell 4.1 6.3
Carrying amount of inventories subject to retention of title clauses 7.9 4.4
The Group holds consignment inventory amounting to £9.5 million (2005: £7.2 million) which is not reflected in the balance sheet. The majority
of this balance is for precious metals which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when the material 
is required.
16. Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current
Non-trade receivables and prepayments 1.2 0.3
Current
Trade receivables 114.4 104.1
Non-trade receivables and prepayments 21.6 36.7
Fair value derivatives – 0.1
136.0 140.9 74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
17. Cash and cash equivalents/bank overdrafts
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank balances 70.2 69.0
Cash deposits 27.2 91.0
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 97.4 160.0
Bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements (23.9) (26.4)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement 73.5 133.6
Bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements (23.9) (26.4)
Other bank overdrafts (0.6) (0.8)
Total bank overdrafts (24.5) (27.2)
In accordance with IAS 32, bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements are not offset against cash and cash equivalents.
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings
2006 2005
£m £m
Opening borrowings (83.1) (204.2)
(New)/Repayment of borrowings (32.3) 125.2
Payment of finance lease liabilities 0.4 1.2
Effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings 7.4 (5.3)
Closing borrowings (107.6) (83.1)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement 73.5 133.6
Closing (borrowings)/net cash and equivalents (34.1) 50.5
18. Capital and reserves
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Share-
Fair based Capital Total
Share Share Translation Hedging value payment Special redemption Other Retained parent Minority Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 
5January 2005 74.8 84.0 (2.5) – 0.2 1.9 6.0 28.0 1.4 (51.4) 142.4 10.7 153.1 
Adjustments in 
respect of adoption 
of IAS 32 and IAS 39 
on 5 January 2005, 
net of tax – – – (0.1) – – – – – (0.4) (0.5) – (0.5)
Total recognised 
income and expense – – 3.5 0.2 0.3 – – – – 35.7 39.7 2.3 42.0 
Other movements – – – – – – – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
Share options 
exercised by 
employees 0.7 1.0 – – – – – – – – 1.7 – 1.7 
Equity-settled 
share-based 
payment transactions, 
net of tax – – – – – 2.5 – – – – 2.5 – 2.5 
Own shares acquired – – – – – – – – – (3.5) (3.5) – (3.5)
Balance at 
4 January 2006 75.5 85.0 1.0 0.1 0.5 4.4 6.0 28.0 1.4 (19.6) 182.3 13.4 195.7  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 75 Notes to the financial statements
18. Capital and reserves (continued)
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves (continued)
Share-
Fair based Capital Total
Share Share Translation Hedging value payment Special redemption Other Retained parent Minority Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 
5 January 2006 75.5 85.0 1.0 0.1 0.5 4.4 6.0 28.0 1.4 (19.6)182.3 13.4 195.7 
Total recognised 
income and expense – – (17.8) (0.1) 0.3 – – – – 50.9 33.3 2.8 36.1
Own shares acquired 
for share buy back 
programme – – – – – – – – – (1.7) (1.7) – (1.7)
Other movements –––– ––– –––– 0.2 0.2
Cancellation of 
non-voting deferred 
shares (1.9) – – – – – – 1.9 – – – – – 
Share options 
exercised by 
employees 0.1 0.2 – – – – – – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Equity-settled 
share-based 
payment transactions, 
net of tax – – – – – 3.2 – – – – 3.2 – 3.2 
Own shares 
acquired for share 
incentive schemes – – – – – – – – – (18.9)(18.9) –(18.9)
Dividends – – – – – – – – –(11.8)(11.8) (11.8)
Balance at 
4 January 2007 73.7 85.2 (16.8) – 0.8 7.6 6.0 29.9 1.4 (1.1)186.7 16.4 203.1
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations
that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment
in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment is
derecognised.
Share-based payment reserve
The share-based payment reserve comprises the increase in equity that corresponds to the expense recognised in the income statement for
the Group’s various share option programmes.
Special reserve
A Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium Account was passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 
11 June 1993. This cancellation was confirmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993. The amount 
of £88.9 million standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the Special reserve against which
goodwill on consolidation can be written off. This reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on
12 October 1990 of £71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred following previous
Orders of the High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and Share 
Premium Account.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable profits. 
The 2006 movement relates to the cancellation of non-voting deferred shares.
Retained earnings
The Company has acquired own shares under a share buy back programme. The Company has also acquired own shares to satisfy the
requirements of the various share option incentive schemes. The number of treasury shares held by the Company at the year end was
10,632,157; 10,182,157 shares were held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust and 450,000 shares were held by the Company. 76 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
18. Capital and reserves (continued)
Called up share capital
Authorised Issued
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Equity share capital
427,523,111 (2005: 427,523,111) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 106.9 106.9 
Fully paid: 293,225,142 (2005: 293,188,372) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 73.3 73.2
106.9 106.9 73.3 73.2
Preference share capital
125,327 authorised and issued 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 
£1 each, fully paid 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
311,954 authorised and issued 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares 
of £1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 
7,127,765 authorised and issued Non Voting Deferred shares of 25 pence each – 1.9 – 1.9 
Total non-equity share capital 0.4 2.3 0.4 2.3 
Total share capital 107.3 109.2 73.7 75.5
Ordinary shares issued
During the year, the Company issued the following Ordinary shares:
Number Description
236,770 In respect of options exercised under the various Morgan share option schemes
As at the date of this report 289,610,142 ordinary shares have been issued (2005: 293,326,518).
The following options were outstanding in respect of ordinary shares:
Normal exercise dates ranging
Number of shares Exercise price(s) from to
678,524 The Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 49.42p–453.77p 17 October 1999 18 March 2014
26,597 The Morgan Sharesave Scheme 1995 58.77p–94.80p 1 December 2004 31 May 2008
1,340,316 The Morgan Sharesave Scheme 2004 110.20p–168.00p 1 October 2007 31 May 2009
184,491 The Morgan Sharesave Scheme 2004 – Germany b1.6213 1 December 2007 31 May 2008
4,183,082 The Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 129.05p–171.90p 22 June 2007 13 May 2015
1,000,000 The Morgan Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 256.00p 20 December 2009 20 December 2016
The 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 
31 December respectively in every year. The First and Second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to attend or
vote at any general meeting unless either:
(i) the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock,
or increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the Articles of Association of the Company, or winding-up, or sanctioning a sale 
of the undertaking, or altering the Articles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering their
respective rights and privileges; or
(ii) at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment
date of any half yearly instalment.
On a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied:
First, in payment to the holders of the First Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.5%
per annum.
Second, in payment to the holders of the Second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate
of 5.0% per annum.
Third, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary shares.
Fourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid up on
their respective holdings of shares in the Company. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 77 Notes to the financial statements
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about
the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 20.
2006 2005
£m£m
Non-current liabilities
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 28.2 36.4
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 12.6 18.6
Bank and other loans 50.7 0.3
Finance lease liability 1.7 2.0
93.2 57.3
Current liabilities
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 4.7 –
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 4.2 4.7
8.76% US Dollar Senior Notes 2006 – 1.0
Bank and other loans 4.3 18.6
Finance lease liability 0.6 0.7
13.8 25.0
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 0.7 0.1 0.6 0.8 0.1 0.7
Between one and five years 1.8 0.2 1.6 1.8 0.3 1.5
More than five years 0.1 – 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.5
2.6 0.3 2.3 3.2 0.5 2.7
Bank and other loans include £2.1 million of loans secured on the assets of the Group.
Included within banks and other loans are short-term drawings of £50.0 million (2005: £nil). These were repayable between 22 January 2007
and 29 January 2007, but have been classified as long-term loans as they are drawn under the Bank Syndication which extends to February
2010.
As at 4 January 2007 the Group had available headroom under the Bank Syndication of £94.0 million (2005: £198.9 million). 
The 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 are repayable in seven yearly instalments from 6 March 2007 to 6 March 2013. The 6.23% US Dollar
Senior Notes 2010 are repayable in four yearly instalments from 6 March 2007 to 6 March 2010. The 8.76% US Dollar Senior Notes 2006 were
repaid on 1 December 2006.
20. Financial instruments
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. Derivative financial instruments are used
to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with whom the Group has a signed agreement as well as a
sound credit rating.
The Group has sterling notional cash pooling agreements in place with Barclays and National Westminster banks. Under the notional cash
pooling agreement the Group has the legal right to offset liabilities on undrawn bank accounts against surplus balances. As at 5 January
2007 the Group had no intention to settle these balances either simultaneously or on a net basis and hence the financial assets and liabilities
within the notional cash pool are not presented on a net basis in the financial statements.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the
carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet. 78 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
20. Financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk
Hedging
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 30% and 70% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed rate
basis. Interest rate swaps, denominated in Euro and US dollars were entered into in 2004 to achieve the appropriate mix of fixed and floating
rate exposure for 2005. All the interest rate swaps matured in December 2005. At 4 January 2007, the Group had interest rate swaps with a
notional contract amount of £nil (4 January 2006: £nil).
Effective interest rates and repricing analysis
In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates
at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature or, if earlier, reprice. All the US Dollar Senior Notes bear interest at fixed rates.
2006
Effective Less than More than
interest Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years
rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% (32.9) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (9.4)
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% (16.8) (4.2) (4.2) (4.2) (4.2) – –
8.76% US Dollar Senior Notes 2006 8.76% – – – – – – –
Bank syndication 5.0%–6.0% (50.0) (50.0) – – – – –
Other loans 4.0%–7.0% (5.0) (4.3) (0.5) (0.2) – – –
Bank overdrafts 5.0%–7.0% (24.5) (24.5) – – – – –
Obligations under finance leases 6.0% (2.3) (0.6) (0.5) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) –
Cash and cash equivalents 2.0%–5.0% 97.4 97.4 – – – – –
2005
Effective Less than More than
interest Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years
rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% (36.4) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (10.4)
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% (23.3) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.6) (4.6) –
8.76% US Dollar Senior Notes 2006 8.76% (1.0) (1.0) – – – – –
Bank syndication – – – – – – – –
Other loans 4.0%–6.0% (18.9) (18.6) (0.3) – – – –
Bank overdrafts 5.0%–6.0% (27.2) (27.2) – – – – –
Obligations under finance leases 6.0% (2.7) (0.7) (0.5) (0.4) (0.3) (0.7) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents 2.0%–5.0% 160.0 160.0 – – – – –
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than pound
sterling. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars and the euro.
The Group aims to hedge all material trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency. At any point in time the
Group also hedges up to 75% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases over the following 
12 months. The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. Most of the forward exchange contracts have
maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than pound sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept
to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
Forecasted transactions
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts at 5 January 2005 was adjusted against the opening balance of the hedging reserve at 
that date. The net fair value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 4 January 2007 was £nil (2005: 
£0.1 million), comprising assets of £nil (2005: £0.1 million) and liabilities of £nil (2005: £nil) that were recognised in fair value derivatives.
Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and
for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement. Both the changes in fair value of the forward contracts
and the foreign exchange gains and losses relating to the monetary items are recognised in the income statement. The fair value of forward
exchange contracts used as economic hedges of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at 4 January 2007 was £nil (2005: £nil)
recognised in fair value derivatives. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 79 Notes to the financial statements
20. Financial instruments (continued)
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiary
The Group designates the US dollar and euro drawdowns under the US$280 million Syndication as a hedge of the Group’s investment in
subsidiaries in the United States and in Europe. There were no US dollar and euro drawdowns during 2006. In 2005 a foreign exchange loss of 
£1.5 million was recognised in equity on translation of these loans.
Sensitivity analysis
As at 4 January 2007 the Group had drawn £50 million under the US$280 million Syndication. A 1% increase in interest rates would increase the
finance charge by £0.5 million. The remaining debt is primarily at fixed rates of interest.
It is estimated that a general adverse movement of 1% in the value of sterling against other foreign currencies would have decreased the
Group’s underlying operating profit by £0.8 million.
Fair values
The fair values together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 (32.9) (34.5) (36.4) (38.1)
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 (16.8) (17.2) (23.3) (23.7)
8.76% US Dollar Senior Notes 2006 –– (1.0) (1.0)
Bank and other loans (55.0) (55.0) (18.9) (18.9)
Bank overdrafts (24.5) (24.5) (27.2) (27.2)
Obligations under finance leases (2.3) (2.3) (2.7) (2.7)
Trade and other payables (220.2) (220.2) (203.9) (203.9)
Cash at bank and in hand 97.4 97.4 160.0 160.0
Other investments 7.2 7.2 6.1 6.1
Trade and other receivables 136.0 136.0 140.9 140.9
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Equity securities
Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and
deducting the current spot rate. For interest rate swaps broker quotes are used. Those quotes are back tested using pricing models or
discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount
rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the balance sheet date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on
market related data at the balance sheet date.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value
The interest rates used to determine the fair value of loans and borrowings and finance leases are as follows:
2006 2005
Derivatives ––
Loans and borrowings 5.0%–6.0% 5.0%–6.0%
Finance leases 6.0% 6.0% 80 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits
Morgan Crucible operates a number of defined benefit arrangements as well as defined contribution plans. The defined benefit plans 
are primarily in the UK, US and Europe and predominately provide pensions based on service and career average pay. In addition post-
retirement medical plans are operated in the US.
All figures are quoted at year end exchange rates.
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
Pension plans and employee benefits £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (7.9) (19.8) (0.3) (28.0)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (323.4) (84.9) (0.9) (8.9) (418.1)
Fair value of plan assets 326.5 69.1 0.5 7.3 403.4 
Netsurplus/(obligations) 3.1 (23.7) (20.2) (1.9) (42.7)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
At 5 January 2006 (334.6) (103.4) (20.8) (7.5) (466.3)
Current service cost (3.8) (1.9) (1.3) (0.9) (7.9)
Interest cost (16.0) (5.2) (0.7) (0.2) (22.1)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 7.0 2.9 (0.3) (1.6) 8.0
Benefits paid 15.1 5.0 1.1 0.8 22.0
Contributions by members (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Past service costs (0.4) – (0.1) – (0.5)
Curtailments and settlements 11.0 – 0.9 – 11.9
Exchange adjustments – 9.8 0.5 0.2 10.5
At 4 January 2007 (323.4) (92.8) (20.7) (9.2) (446.1)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
At 5 January 2006 268.4 67.8 0.5 5.4 342.1
Expected return on plan assets 18.7 4.4 – 0.2 23.3
Actuarial gains/(losses) 5.1 0.5 – 1.6 7.2 
Contributions by employer 47.7 7.8 2.0 0.9 58.4 
Contributions by members 1.7 – – – 1.7
Benefits paid (15.1) (5.0) (1.1) (0.8) (22.0)
Curtailments and settlements – – (0.9) – (0.9)
Exchange adjustments – (6.4) – – (6.4)
At 4 January 2007 326.5 69.1 0.5 7.3 403.4
Actual return on assets 23.8 4.9 – 1.8 30.5
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
Pension plans and employee benefits £m £m £m £m £m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost (4.2) (1.9) (1.4) (0.9) (8.4)
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (16.0) (5.2) (0.7) (0.2) (22.1)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 18.7 4.4 – 0.2 23.3
Gain on curtailment of United Kingdom employee benefit schemes 11.0 – – – 11.0
Total expense 9.5 (2.7) (2.1) (0.9) 3.8
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement:
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating costs (8.4) (11.7)
Finance income 23.3 21.0
Finance expense (22.1) (24.5)
Gain on curtailment of United Kingdom employee benefit schemes 11.0 –
3.8 (15.2)
The curtailment gain has arisen from changes made to the UK pension schemes from 6 April 2006. These include the conversion of both 
UK Schemes from final salary to career average schemes, future increases for pensions from past service being llinked to general inflation 
rather than salary inflation and, in addition, normal retirement being increased from 60/62 to 65 in the senior scheme. This curtailment gain 
is disclosed as a special item on the face of the income statement.
The Group has adopted the policy of recognising actuarial gains and losses immediately on the balance sheet through the statement 
of recognised income and expense. Cumulative actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 
5 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are £40.0 million. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 81 Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits (continued)
The fair value of the plan assets were as follows:
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 107.2 48.3 – – 155.5 
Bonds 157.3 20.6 – – 177.9 
Other 62.0 0.2 0.5 7.3 70.0 
Total 326.5 69.1 0.5 7.3 403.4
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
%%%
Discount rate 5.25 6.00 4.50
Expected rate of return on plan assets 
– Equities 7.75 8.25 n/a
– Bonds 4.75 5.50 n/a
Salary increase n/a 3.00 2.75
Inflation 3.00 2.50 2.25
Pensions increase 3.15/3.00 n/a 2.25
Mortality – post-retirement PA92 YOB 1958/1938 
(The Morgan Pension Scheme) 83 GAM Heubeck2005G
PA92 YOB 1956/1936 
(The Morgan Senior Staff Pension 
and Life Assurance Scheme)
Expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by
weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Balance sheet
Present value of defined benefit obligation (446.1) (466.3) (480.7)
Fair value of plan assets 403.4 342.1 297.7 
(Deficit) (42.7) (124.2) (183.0)
Defined contribution plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 
£2.2 million (2005: £2.0 million).
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
Pension plans and employee benefits £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (0.9) (19.8) (1.0) (21.7)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (334.6) (102.5) (1.0) (6.5) (444.6)
Fair value of plan assets 268.4 67.8 0.5 5.4 342.1
Net (obligations) (66.2) (35.6) (20.3) (2.1) (124.2)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
At 5 January 2005 (289.9) (90.0) (93.7) (7.1) (480.7)
Current service cost (4.9) (1.9) (3.9) (1.0) (11.7)
Interest cost (15.8) (5.7) (3.0) – (24.5)
Actuarial (losses) (34.9) (4.8) (2.4) (0.1) (42.2)
Benefits paid 12.3 5.3 4.8 0.6 23.0
Contributions by members (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Curtailments and settlements – – 75.0 – 75.0
Exchange adjustments – (6.3) 2.4 0.1 (3.8)
At 4 January 2006 (334.6) (103.4) (20.8) (7.5) (466.3)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
At 5 January 2005 229.5 62.3 0.5 5.4 297.7
Expected return on plan assets 16.0 5.0 – – 21.0
Actuarial gains/(losses) 27.9 (1.9) – – 26.0
Contributions by employer 5.9 3.5 4.8 0.6 14.8
Contributions by members 1.4 – – – 1.4
Benefits paid (12.3) (5.3) (4.8) (0.6) (23.0)
Exchange adjustments – 4.2 – – 4.2
At 4 January 2006 268.4 67.8 0.5 5.4 342.1
Actual return on assets 43.9 3.1 – – 47.0 82 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits (continued)
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
Pension plans and employee benefits £m £m £m £m £m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost (4.9) (1.9) (3.9) (1.0) (11.7)
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (15.8) (5.7) (3.0) – (24.5)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 16.0 5.0 – – 21.0
Total expense (4.7) (2.6) (6.9) (1.0) (15.2)
The fair value of the plan assets were as follows:
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 178.5 47.0 – – 225.5
Bonds 49.9 20.8 – – 70.7
Other 40.0 – 0.5 5.4 45.9
Total 268.4 67.8 0.5 5.4 342.1
Principal actuarial assumptions were: %%%
Discount rate 5.00 5.75 4.00
Expected rate of return on plan assets – Equities 7.50 8.00 –
– Bonds 4.50 5.25 –
Salary increase 4.75/3.75 3.00 2.50
Inflation 2.75 2.50 2.00
Pensions increase 3.15/2.75 n/a 2.00
Mortality – pre-retirement 23.1/22.7 83GAM Heubeck 2005 G
– post-retirement 24.9/24.6 83GAM Heubeck 2005 G
The actual liability in respect of global employee benefits will not be known until the last payments have been made. In placing a current
estimate on the Company’s past service benefit obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required. For defined benefit
schemes, the Directors make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover,
inflation rates and life expectancy. In making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors consider advice provided by external advisers,
such as actuaries.
Share-based payments
During 2004, the Group established a new Long Term Incentive Plan and a new Executive Share Option Scheme. Grants were also made out
of the existing Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995. During 2004, the Company also renewed its all Employee Share Save Scheme
and took the opportunity to extend a similar scheme to employees in Germany. In 2006, the Group established a new Directors’ Share
Option Plan. 
During 2005 and 2006, the Group made additional awards out of the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan, the 2004 Executive Share Option
Scheme and the Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006. Also in 2005, the Company renewed its UK all Employee Share Save Scheme.
Additionally, equity settled share option grants and awards made under a previous Long Term Incentive Plan made prior to 7 November 2002
are outstanding. In accordance with the transitional provisions under IFRS 1, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not
been applied to these grants. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 83 Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits (continued)
The terms and conditions of all awards and grants made since 7 November 2002 are as follows; all awards and option exercises are settled
by physical delivery of shares:
Number of Contractual 
Grant date/Employees entitled instruments Vesting conditions life of option
Options granted to senior employees in 2006 
under the Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 1,000,000 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2006 
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 398,500 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2006 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 477,500 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2005
under Employee Share Save Scheme 2005 976,614 Three years of service 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2005 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 3,804,820 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2004 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 5,084,031 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2005 
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 2,097,000 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 3,157,500 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2004 
under UK Employee Share Save Scheme 2004 521,884 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to German employees in 2004 
under German Employee Share Save Scheme 2004 516,844 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2003 
under UK Employee Share Save Scheme 2003 779,421 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 
under Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 263,000 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2002
under Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 1,780,000 Three years of service plus satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Performance criteria for Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2004
The extent to which awards will vest will depend on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) ranking against the TSR of the other
companies in the FTSE 350 measured over the performance period.
If the Company’s TSR places it at the median, then 30% of the awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
If the Company’s TSR places it at the upper quartile, then 100% of the option will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Between the median and upper quartile, the option will vest on a straight-line basis. Below the median, none of the shares will vest.
In addition, an improvement must be shown in the Company’s underlying financial performance.
Performance criteria for Executive Share Option Scheme 1995
The diluted earnings per share for the Company must grow by at least 2% per annum in excess of retail price inflation over the period of date
of grant to date of vesting.
The fair values of services received are in return for awards made and share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services
received is measured based on an appropriate model as shown in accounting policy note m. In the case of the Binomial Lattice model and
Monte Carlo model the contractual life of the options and awards are used as an input. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into
both of these models. 84 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits (continued)
Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date 73.99p No awards No awards No awards No awards
Share price 256.00p
Exercise price 256.00p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average 
volatility used in the model) 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 10 years
Expected dividends 2%
Risk-free interest rate 5.1%
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date 146.51p–161.65p 104.57p 72.87p–89.75p No awards No awards
Share price 242.25p–256.00p 176.5p123.37p–152.00p
Exercise price N/A N/A N/A
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted 
average volatility used in the model) 40% 40% 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividends 2% 2% 2%
Risk-free interest rate 4.7%–5.1% 4.3% 4.6%–5%
Executive Share Option Scheme 2004
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date 73.99p–78.10p 54.80p 43.80p–48.15p No awards No awards
Share price 242.25p–259.00p 176.5p136.00p–152.00p
Exercise price 242.95p–256.00p 171.90p129.05p–145.28p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted 
average volatility used in the model) 40% 40% 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 10 years 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends 2% 2% 2%
Risk-free interest rate 4.7%–5.0% 4.3% 4.7%–5.2%
Employee Share Save Schemes UK
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date No awards 83.99p 53.78p 56.32p No awards
Share price 221.50p 142.50p 139.00p
Exercise price 168.00p 110.20p 94.80p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted 
average volatility used in the model) 40% 40% 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividends 2% 2% 2%
Risk-free interest rate 4.2% 4.7% 4.6% The Morgan Crucible Company plc 85 Notes to the financial statements
21. Employee benefits (continued)
Employee Share-Save Schemes Germany
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date No awards No awards 60.95p No awards No awards
Share price 152.00p
Exercise price 110.20p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted 
average volatility used in the model) 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 3 years
Expected dividends 2%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6%
Employee Share Option Scheme 1995
Post 
7 November 2002 
2006 awards 2005 awards 2004 awards 2003 awards awards
Fair value at measurement date No awards No awards 51.43p No awards 22.04p–23.41p
Share price 132.21p 57.00p–58.00p
Exercise price 126.40p 49.42p–56.54p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted 
average volatility used in the model) 40% 40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average 
life used in the modelling) 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends 2% 2%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.3%
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options)
adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average Number average Number
exercise price of options exercise price of options
4 January 2007 4 January 2007 4 January 2006 4 January 2006
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 72.24p 17,178,934 71.05p 16,453,717
Granted during the period 189.41p 1,876,000 76.97p 6,963,434
Forfeited during the period 153.86p (1,056,011) 83.23p (3,106,284)
Exercised during the period 69.45p (2,772,123) 59.20p (2,989,958)
Lapsed during the period 58.77p (19,540) 201.16p (141,975)
Outstanding at the end of the period 81.55p 15,207,260 72.24p 17,178,934
Exercisable at the end of the period 94.8p 26,597 56.56p 1,994,367
The weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 257.76 pence (2005: 232.49 pence).
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range 49.42 pence to 453.77 pence and a weighted average
contractual life of 2.7 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimates of the fair value of the services received is measured based on either a Monte Carlo model, a Binomial Lattice option 
pricing model or a Black-Scholes Merton model. The choice of model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the options
were granted.  86 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
22. Provisions
Closure and
restructuring Other Environmental
provisions provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 5 January 2006 16.2 14.3 2.2 32.7
Provisions made during the year 9.1 3.1 1.5 13.7
Provisions used during the year (13.6) (7.9) (0.7) (22.2)
Provisions reversed during the year (0.3) (0.7) – (1.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.3) (0.3) (0.1) (0.7)
Balance at 4 January 2007 11.1 8.5 2.9 22.5 
Current 7.0 7.2 1.6 15.8
Non current 4.1 1.3 1.3 6.7
11.1 8.5 2.9 22.5 
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Group’s “Profit Improvement Programme” and represent committed expenditure 
at the balance sheet date. The Group expects to incur the majority of the liability in 2007.
Other provisions include the settlement of the US class actions, together with the associated legal costs, and the possible future legal defence
costs of the Group’s former Chief Executive, Ian Norris, against extradition to stand trial in the United States.
Environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years. In a number of jurisdictions
companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
23. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current
Non-trade payables 3.6 –
Current
Trade payables 72.1 64.3
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 138.2 131.5
210.3 195.8
24. Operating leases
Leases as lessee
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Less than one year 5.4 5.9
Between one and five years 18.3 17.4
More than five years 24.8 29.4
48.5 52.7 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 87 Notes to the financial statements
25. Capital commitments
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these
accounts amounts to £0.5 million (2005: £1.5 million) for the Group.
26. Contingencies
There are contingent liabilities on bills discounted by the Group amounting to £0.3 million (2005: £0.4 million).
The Group has been subject to legal claims in the US and Canada. Settlements for the majority of these have been agreed and provided for
at the amount of £1.6 million (2005: £8.4 million). The Board, having taken legal advice, are of the opinion that the remainder of these actions
will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position.
In an international Group a variety of claims arise from time to time. Provision has been made in these accounts against those claims which
the Directors consider meet the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely to result in
significant liabilities.
27. Related parties
Identification of related parties
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (a list of Principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 45) and with its
Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its Directors, under which the Directors receive a salary 
or a fee and other emoluments.
The key management of the Group and parent Company consists of the Board of Directors and members of the Chief Executive Officer’s
Committee.
Their compensation charged in the year was:
2006 2005
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 6.2 7.8
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.8 0.7
Share-based payments 1.4 1.4
Termination payments 0.8 –
Non-executive Directors’ fees and benefits 0.2 0.3
Total compensation of key management personnel 9.4 10.2
Information on executive Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 50.
Transactions in connection with former Directors 
During the year the Group made payments on behalf of its former Chief Executive Ian Norris of £1.1 million (2005: £1.3 million) to cover the
costs of his legal defence against extradition to stand trial in the United States.
28. Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. The following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty:
Provisions
Note 22 contains information about provisions. Provisions for environmental issues and settlement of litigation are judgemental by their nature.
Amounts provided are the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Impairment of goodwill
Note 12 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 20 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Pension assumptions
The principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 21. The actuarial evaluation of pension assets and liabilities is
based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates. Relatively small
changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net pension liability
included in the balance sheet.
29. Subsequent events
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the Directors proposed a final dividend of 3.0 pence per ordinary share. The final dividend of £8.8 million has
not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. Company balance sheet
as at 4 January 2007
88 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 33 1.5 1.3
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 34 716.7 835.9
Other investments 35 0.4 0.4
718.6 837.6
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 36 53.4 46.1
– due after one year 36 – –
Total debtors 53.4 46.1
Cash at bank and in hand 32.5 93.4
85.9 139.5
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 37 33.8 41.2
Net current assets 52.1 98.3
Total assets less current liabilities 770.7 935.9
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 336.8 474.0
Borrowings 38 50.0 –
386.8 474.0
Provisions for liabilities and charges 39 10.4 12.7
397.2 486.7
Net assets 373.5 449.2
Capital and reserves
Equity shareholders’ funds
Called up share capital 18 73.3 73.2
Share premium account 40 85.2 85.0
Merger reserve 40 91.6 91.6
Capital redemption reserve 40 29.9 28.0
Share-based payment reserve 40 7.6 4.4
Profit and loss account 40 85.5 164.7
373.1 446.9
Non-equity shareholders’ funds
Called up share capital 0.4 2.3
Shareholders’ funds 373.5 449.2
The accounts on pages 53 to 94 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield Chief Financial Officer The Morgan Crucible Company plc 89 Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
30. Accounting policies
The accounting policies are set out below together with an indication of the effects of their adoption. FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts has
had no material effect as it imposes the same requirements for comparatives as hitherto required by the Companies Act 1985.
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements are, other than those covered by the exception permitted by FRS 25 Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, restated in accordance with the new policies. FRS 25 permits the corresponding amounts not to be
restated and the Company has adopted this approach. The financial instruments policy set out below provides further details of the current
year and comparative year basis.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and under the historical costs
accounting rules.
Under Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the
cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statement.
Fixed assets and depreciation
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their
estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Buildings – 50 years
Motor vehicles – 3 years
Fixtures – 10–20 years
Computer software – 3–5 years
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at 
the rate of exchange under the related forward currency contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are
included in the profit and loss account.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Post retirement benefits
The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on career average pensionable pay. The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of
the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it
were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to
the scheme in respect of the accounting period. Refer to note 42 for the additional disclosures required by FRS 17.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds)
only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share
premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 90 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
30. Accounting policies (continued)
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company (continued)
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments
associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds (see dividends policy), are dealt with as appropriations
in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for separately in the balance sheet. Gains and losses on both are included in 
profit for the year when they arise (fair value hedges) or when the hedged transaction occurs having first recorded those on the hedging
instrument in equity (cash flow hedges, to the extent effective).
Certain financial assets and liabilities have been designated as fair value through profit or loss and are recognised in the balance sheet at
fair value. Changes in the fair value of such instruments during the year were recognised immediately in the income statement.
Own shares held by ESOP trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares in
the Company are debited directly to equity.
Share-based payments
The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 
and those not yet vested as at 5 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair 
value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which
the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except
where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment
under the guarantee.
31. Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2006 2005
Directors and head office staff 25 29
Global business units’ staff 13 13
38 42
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 7.0 7.3
Share-based payments (see note 21) 3.2 2.5
Social security costs 0.6 2.0
Other pension costs 1.2 2.1
Total overhead employee cost 12.0 13.9
32. Dividends
Dividends payable for the First and Second Preference shares were £22,490 (2005: £33,753) of which £22,490 (2005: £22,490) was outstanding
at the balance sheet date.
For proposed ordinary dividends see the consolidated income statement on page 53. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 91 Notes to the financial statements
33. Tangible assets
Plant, equipment
and fixtures
£m
Cost
At 5 January 2006 1.8
Additions 0.6
At 4 January 2007 2.4
Aggregate depreciation
At 5 January 2006 0.5
Amount provided for in the year 0.4
At 4 January 2007 0.9
Net book amounts at 4 January 2007 1.5
Net book amounts at 4 January 2006 1.3
34. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Shares Loans Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 5 January 2006 583.7 362.7 946.4
Additions 0.4 32.6 33.0
Less: disposals/loan repayments (1.1) (150.3) (151.4)
At 4 January 2007 583.0 245.0 828.0
Amounts provided
At 5 January 2006 106.8 3.7 110.5
Provided in the year 0.8 – 0.8 
At4 January 2007 107.6 3.7 111.3
Net book amounts at 4 January 2007 475.4 241.3 716.7
Net book amounts at 4 January 2006 476.9 359.0 835.9
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 45.
35. Other investments
Capitalised
acquisition costs
£m
At 5 January 2006 0.4
Additions –
Transferred to investment in subsidiary undertakings –
At 4 January 2007 0.4
36. Debtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Due within one year:
Trade debtors 0.7 0.2
Other debtors 0.5 4.3
Derivative financial assets – 0.1
Taxation 0.7 –
Prepayments and accrued income 0.8 1.2
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 50.7 40.3
53.4 46.1 92 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
37. Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
2006 2005
£m £m
Due within one year:
Bank overdrafts 8.2 18.3
Trade creditors 4.7 6.0
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 2.6 3.7
Other creditors, including social security 3.0 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 10.9 12.9
Interim dividends 4.4 –
33.8 41.2
38. Borrowings
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank and other loans 50.0 –
Bank overdrafts 8.2 18.3
58.2 18.3
Less: amount repayable within one year included within current liabilities (8.2) (18.3)
Total repayable after more than one year 50.0 –
39. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Closure and
restructuring Other Environmental Deferred
provisions provisions provisions taxation Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 5 January 2006 4.3 3.2 1.0 4.2 12.7
Provided in the year – 2.5 1.0 – 3.5
Utilised in the year (0.7) (0.9) – (4.2) (5.8)
At 4 January 2007 3.6 4.8 2.0 – 10.4
Closure and restructuring provisions relate mainly to an onerous lease provision for Morgan House, the Company’s previous registered address.
Environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Company will rectify over the next few years. The Company has 
a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
The deferred taxation provision is analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
United Kingdom:
Accelerated capital allowances 3.9 4.3
Other timing differences (3.9) (0.1)
– 4.2
40. Share premium and reserves
Capital
Share Merger redemption Share-based Profit and 
premium reserve reserve payment reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m £m
At 5 January 2006 85.0 91.6 28.0 4.4 164.7
Cancellation of deferred shares – – 1.9 – –
Charges in relation to share based payments for the year – – – 3.2 –
Premium on share issues, less expenses 0.2 – – – –
Purchase of shares for LTIP – – – – (18.9)
Morgan share buy back – – – – (1.7)
Retained (loss) for the year – – – – (58.6)
85.2 91.6 29.9 7.6 85.5
During the year shares with a nominal value of £2.0 million were purchased to satisfy awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plans.
These have been recognised as a deduction from shareholders’ funds. The shares are held in a trust administered by Bermuda Trust (Jersey)
Limited and are distributed by them in a discretionary settlement governed by the rules of the 2004 and 2005 LTIP and the Trust deed dated 
1 March 1996.
The total number of own shares held by the Trust at 4 January 2007 is 10,182,157 (2005: 4,720,080) and at that date had a market value 
of £26,906,350 (2005: £11,802,799). The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93 Notes to the financial statements
40. Share premium and reserves (continued)
A Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium Account was passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 
11 June 1993. This cancellation was confirmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993. The amount 
of £88.9 million standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the Special reserve against which
goodwill on consolidation can be written-off. This reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on
12 October 1990 of £71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred following previous
Orders of the High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and Share Premium Account.
The amount of reserves of The Morgan Crucible Company plc that may not be distributed under Section 264(3) of the Companies Act l985 
is £208.4 million (2005: £206.5 million).
41. Leasing commitments
Operating leasing commitments during the next year, for which no provision has been made in these accounts, are:
Land and Land and
buildings buildings
2006 2005
£m £m
Less than one year – 0.1
Between one and five years 0.2 0.2
More than five years 0.8 0.8
1.0 1.1
42. Pension costs
The Morgan Pension Scheme and The Morgan Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
The Company participates in two defined benefit schemes in the UK. The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered
funds, The Morgan Pension Scheme (“MPS”) and The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (“SSS”). Given that the
Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17
Retirement Benefits, the schemes have been accounted for in these financial statements as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The latest actuarial valuations of the “MPS” and the “SSS” were carried out as at 6 April 2004 and 1 April 2004 respectively, and updated 
for FRS 17 purposes to 31 December 2006 by a qualified independent actuary. The results for these schemes in respect of the Group are
shown below:
2006 2005
Assumptions: %%
RPI inflation 3.00 2.75
Discount rate 5.25 5.00
Pension increases in payment 3.15/3.00 3.15/2.75
General salary increases n/a 4.75/3.75
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Expected Expected
return return
Asset distribution and balance sheet reconciliation: % £m % £m
Equities 7.8 107.8 7.5 179.3
Bonds 5.3 30.2 5.0 29.8
Gilts 4.3 127.9 4.0 20.3
Property 6.3 33.7 5.8 31.5
Other 4.3 29.9 4.2 10.1
Total market value of assets 329.5 271.0
Present value of liability (323.4) (334.6)
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme 6.1 (63.6)
Related deferred tax liability at 30% (1.8) 19.0
4.3 (44.6)
Employer contributions due within one year (1.3) (1.3)
The contribution for the year was £48.1million (2005: £6.9 million).
43. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment
under the guarantee.
There are no other contingent liabilities in the Company as at 4 January 2007. 94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Notes to the financial statements
44. Related parties
The Directors have reviewed transactions with related parties (as defined in FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures) and have concluded that there
are no material transactions which require disclosure which have not been acknowledged elsewhere in the Annual report and Accounts.
45. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Country of incorporation
and principal
place of business
Carbon companies
Morganite Electrical Carbon Limited England
*Morgan Rekofa GmbH Germany
*Morgan Carbon Italia s.r.l Italy
*Morganite Luxembourg S.A. Luxembourg
*National Electrical Carbon B.V. Netherlands
*Morganite South Africa Pty. Limited South Africa
*Morgan Korea Limited (93.2% interest) South Korea
*Morgan Advanced Materials and Technology Inc. USA
*National Electrical Carbon Products Inc. USA
Ceramics companies
Carbo San Luis (69% Interest) Argentina
Morganite Brasil Limitada Brazil
Shanghai Morgan Carbon Co Limited China
Shanghai Morgan Matroc Technical Ceramics Company Limited (90% interest) China
Dalian Morgan Refractories Limited (70% interest) China
Morgan Advanced Ceramics Limited England
Morgan Electro Ceramics Limited England
Morganite Crucible Limited England
*Thermal Ceramics (UK) Limited England
*Thermal Ceramics de France S.A. France
*Carl Nolte Söhne GmbH and Co K.G. Germany
*Thermal Ceramics Deutschland GmbH & Co K.G. Germany
*W Haldenwanger Technische Keramik GmbH and Co K.G Germany
Wesgo GmbH Germany
*Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited (51% interest) India
*Thermal Ceramics Italiana S.r.l. Italy
Shinnika Thermal Ceramics Corporation (50% interest) Japan
Grupo Industrial Morgan S.A. de C.V. Mexico
*Thermal Ceramics South Africa Pty. Limited South Africa
*Graphite Die Mold USA
*Morgan Advanced Ceramics Inc. USA
*Thermal Ceramics Inc. USA
Other subsidiary undertakings
*Morganite Canada Corporation Canada
Morganite Industries Inc. USA
100% ownership of Ordinary share capital, unless otherwise stated.
*Denotes companies some or all of whose shares are owned by a subsidiary.
The following German subsidiaries which are included in the Group consolidated accounts are utilising the regulations of article 264 
paragraph III and article 264b German Commercial Code to be liberated from preparing audited statutory accounts:
– W Haldenwanger Technische Keramik GmbH & Co K.G.
– Thermal Ceramics Deutschland GmbH & Co K.G.
46. Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 4 January 2007
2006 2005
£m £m
Retained loss for the financial year (58.6) (18.7)
Cash flow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair values – 0.6
Purchase of shares for share incentive schemes (18.9) (3.5)
Charge in relation to share-based payments 3.2 2.5
New share capital subscribed (net of issue costs) 0.3 1.7
Morgan share buy-back (1.7) –
Net addition to shareholders’ funds (75.7) (17.4)
Opening shareholders’ funds 449.2 466.6
Closing shareholders’ funds 373.5 449.2 Statistical information
Under UK GAAP
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 95
2002 2003
Restated*
£m £m
Turnover 880.3 849.6 
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
and operating exceptionals 34.1 42.6 
Operating (loss) before goodwill amortisation (23.2) (24.7)
Goodwill amortisation (7.7) (7.5)
Group operating (loss) (30.9) (32.2)
Corporate exceptional items (15.0) (30.1)
Net finance charges and similar items (12.8) (15.7)
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation (58.7) (78.0)
Taxation 0.5 2.4 
Loss on ordinary activities after taxation (58.2) (75.6)
Minority interests and preference dividends (3.3) (2.6)
Loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders (61.5) (78.2)
Ordinary dividends – –
Retained (loss) for the period (61.5) (78.2)
Assets employed
Goodwill 130.5 112.2 
Tangible fixed assets 433.6 386.3 
Investments 7.2 5.6 
Net current assets 96.7 143.0 
Total assets less current liabilities 668.0 647.1 
Term loans and exchangeable redeemable preference shares 178.6 230.6 
Provisions and other items 139.0 156.7 
350.4 259.8
Financed by
Shareholders’ funds 340.1 249.5 
Minority interests 10.3 10.3 
350.4 259.8
Ordinary dividends per share – –
Earnings/(loss) per share
– basic (26.5p) (31.9p)
– basic before goodwill amortisation (23.2p) (28.9p)
– diluted (26.5p) (31.9p)
– underlying 1.7p 6.0p 
– underlying before goodwill amortisation 5.0p 9.1p
*The Group has complied with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts. This has resulted in the reclassification of own shares held in employee trusts from investments to shareholders’
funds and has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment, £0.7 million. In addition, the results of the prior year have been restated for the impact of the Rights issue during 2004. 
The results of earlier years have not been restated for the impact of the Rights issue. 96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Statistical information
Under adopted IFRSs
2004 2005 2006
£m £m £m
Revenue 795.9 745.7 677.8
Profit from operations before special items 55.8 66.0 73.7
Special items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation (58.7) (32.0) (27.7)
Gain on curtailment of United Kingdom employee benefit schemes – – 11.0
Terminated bid approach costs –– (2.1)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property (3.8) (0.4) 0.3
Operating profit/(loss) (6.7) 33.6 55.2
Net financing costs (16.1) (13.1) (3.4)
Profit/(loss) on partial disposal of businesses (8.2) (0.1) (1.5)
Profit/(loss) before taxation (31.0) 20.4 50.3
Income tax expense (2.5) (8.8) (10.6)
Profit/(loss) after taxation but before gains/(loss) on sale of discontinued operations (33.5) 11.6 39.7
Gain/(loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax (26.7) 42.6 –
Profit/(loss) for the period (60.2) 54.2 39.7
Assets employed
Property, plant and equipment 319.8 235.3 230.2
Intangible assets 107.1 46.6 66.4
Investments and other receivables 9.1 6.4 8.4
Deferred tax assets 31.2 27.4 28.8
Net current assets 54.3 94.2 44.0
Total assets less current liabilities 521.5 409.9 377.8
Employee benefits 183.0 124.2 42.7
Provisions and other items 143.3 61.9 103.6
Deferred tax liabilities 42.1 28.1 28.4
153.1 195.7 203.1
Equity
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 142.4 182.3 186.7
Minority interest 10.7 13.4 16.4
Total equity 153.1 195.7 203.1
Ordinary dividends per share – 2.5p 4.5p
Earnings/(loss) per share
– basic (22.2p) 18.1p 12.9p
– diluted (22.2p) 17.2p 12.3p
– underlying 10.0p 13.1p 17.9p
– underlying diluted 9.8p 12.5p 17.2p Morgan Crucible: 
A world of advanced materials
From medical instruments, aerospace, power generation
and satellite communications to body armour , trains and 
fire protection systems: Morgan Crucible’s advanced
material technology is a fundamental component of many
of today’s sophisticated products.
With the rapid development of increasingly complex
technology, our customers are demanding more from 
the materials they use and are looking for a partner 
who can help them to respond to the pace of change.
Morgan Crucible’s knowledge, skills, design and technical
expertise, built up over 150 years in the business, mean we
can tailor our materials to deliver the specialist capability 
our customers require, while taking care of the impact 
our products have on the environment both during and 
after their useful life. 
Morgan Crucible’s advanced materials – technically
complex, added value, bespoke solutions – are the future. 
08 Chairman’s statement
10 Review of our strategy by the 
Chief Executive Officer 
12 The Group at a glance
14 Business review
14 Review of operations
24 Financial review
27 Risk management
30 Corporate responsibility 
35 Cautionary statement
36 Directors and Executive Committee
38 Directors’ report
40 Corporate governance
45 Remuneration report
51 Shareholder information
52 Report of the independent auditors
53 Consolidated income statement
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated statement of cash flows
56 Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
57 Notes to the financial statements
88 Company balance sheet
95 Statistical information under UK GAAP
96 Statistical information under adopted IFRS
This Report and Accounts is printed on Sovereign silk
and Kaskad puffin blue, which are totally chlorine
free (TCF) papers. 
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the
production support the growth of responsible 
forest management and are both accredited to
ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous
environmental improvement.
If you have finished reading this report and no 
longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other
interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. 
Thank you.
This annual report is available at
www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar (London)
Printed by CTD The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2006
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant
55–57 High Street
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 1LP
A world
of advanced
materials
The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
Annual report 2006
    
