 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Annual report 2008
 Ad va n c e d
materials
 for t e c h n ic a l ly      
 c o m plex
 a ppl ic a t ions Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review
What we do
Contents
Morgan Crucible is a world 
leader in advanced materials.
Our highly skilled, dynamic 
people provide high 
technology solutions for 
specialised applications 
in diverse markets around 
the world.
01 Operational and ﬁnancial highlights
02 Overview 
14 Chairman’ s statement
16 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’ s review
19 Key performance indicators 
20 Review of operations 
32 Corporate responsibility
40 Financial review
43 Risk management 
45 Key contractual relationships
45 Cautionary statement
46 Directors and Executive Committee
48 Directors’ report
52 Corporate governance
58 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
59 Remuneration report
68 Shareholder information 
69 Independent auditors’ report
70 Consolidated income statement
71 Consolidated balance sheet
72 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
73 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense
74 Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
115 Company balance sheet
116 Notes to the Company balance sheet
124 Group statistical information
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 01
Operational and 
ﬁnancial highlights
Revenue 
Continuing businesses £m 
000.0 
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
835.0
693.2
677.8
609.8
581.6
Highlights 
   Revenue for the full year grew to £835.0 million, up 20.5% on the previous year
   Group underlying operating proﬁt margin *
improved to 11.8% compared to 11.4% 
for the full year 2007
   Underlying EPS improved by 18.8% to 23.4 pence from 19.7 pence
   The technical ceramics businesses acquired from the Carpenter T echnology Corporation 
in March 2008 have performed well with 
revenues and proﬁts ahead of expectations
* Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying operating proﬁt margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
11.8
11.4
7.0
3.8
(2.0) Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 02
Clear positioning...
Our vision
Our aim
Our strategic priorities
 Focus on higher growth, higher margin, 
non-economically cyclical markets
 Be high value-added to our customers
 Be number one or number two in our 
chosen market segments
 Have a culture of operational excellence 
and cost efﬁciency
 Find, keep and develop the right people
     Our vision is to be one of the world’ s very best advanced materials companies
      Our aim is to create long-term superior shareholder value Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 03
T echnical Ceramics
Division
2 1 2.2m
Divisional revenue
£
...and structure
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
2008 2007 2006
45.6
37.5
28.6
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
Carbon
Division
239 .9m
Divisional revenue
£
The Carbon Division is a global provider 
of advanced materials technology with 
extensive expertise in the processing 
and applications of carbon, graphite, 
silicon carbide, oxide ceramics and 
other related materials. Working at the 
forefront of materials technology, Carbon 
develops value-added customer solutions 
through engineering innovation and 
an understanding of industry-speciﬁc 
needs, opportunities and challenges. 
Core products/applications:
Electrical brushes Seals and bearings Protective ballistic armour Ultra high temperature insulation Markets: 
Transportation Industrial equipment Fluid handling Defence and aerospace Renewable energy Insulating Ceramics 
Division
The Insulating Ceramics Division designs, 
manufactures and installs a wide variety 
of engineered solutions from its range 
of world renowned advanced insulation 
and thermal management products. 
These solutions help customers to protect 
equipment and personnel and also to 
reduce dramatically energy consumption 
in their processes and, in many applications, 
also help reduce emissions to the 
environment. 
Core products/applications:
Thermal management solutions Insulating ﬁbres Insulating ﬁre bricks Crucibles and furnaces Markets: 
Petrochemical Power generation Ceramics and glass Metals Transportation 382.9m
Divisional revenue
£
The Technical Ceramics Division utilises 
advanced ceramic, glass, precious metals, 
piezoelectric and dielectric materials combined 
with innovative design and applications 
engineering to provide an extensive range 
of ceramic components, assemblies and 
related products for niche technological 
applications in selected markets. In many 
applications, the technology provided by 
Technical Ceramics deﬁnes the performance 
of the customer’s end product. 
Core products/applications:
Electron tube components and assemblies Ceramic cores for turbine blades Piezoelectric ceramic actuators Laser components Markets: 
Aerospace Electronics Medical Power generation and distribution Security and defence The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
2008 2007 2006
31.6
20.0
17 .2
2008 2007 2006
36.3
35.2
34.1
* Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating proﬁt before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 04
A global business...
* Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets.
Operations by geography
Americas
£55.3m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008 
Morgan Crucible has operations 
in 40 countries and employs 
over 10,000 people worldwide.
+
24.5%
Group underlying operating proﬁt* 
£m 
2008 2007
98.2
78.9
56.3% Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 05
...growing profits 
worldwide 
EM EA
(Europe, Middle East and Africa)
Asia
(Including Australia and New Zealand)
£22.4m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008
£20.5m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008 
22.8%
20.9% Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 06
Lead i ng edge
sol utions for 
a demand i ng
world
New global research  
and development centre
Thermal Ceramics: Investing in technology
Improved thermal and energy efﬁciency is a key global imperative 
for the 21st century. As part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, the 
Thermal Ceramics business is well placed to help address this need 
with its differentiated advanced technology insulation solutions, 
including the bio-soluble Superwool™ range of materials. Thermal 
Ceramics is building on its success in high temperature bio-soluble 
insulating ﬁbre having invested in 2008 in a new global R&D centre 
at Bromborough, UK. The new R&D centre houses pilot equipment 
dedicated to developing and trialling the next generation of materials.  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 07
Efﬁciency in the world’s  
power stations
Carbon: Generations of world leading technology
World demand for electricity is increasing and the carbon brushes 
designed and manufactured by the Carbon Division provide the 
key technology which allows electricity to be transferred from 
a high rotational speed modern generator into the electricity 
distribution grid. 
To perform this task the Carbon Division has developed unique 
graphite materials technology for excitation slip rings, with good 
life, ﬁlm forming and electrical current sharing properties. It is this 
technology that has enabled the Carbon Division to maintain its 
position as a long-term, world leader, approved and used by original 
equipment manufacturers around the world.
Innovation improves disk drive 
storage capacity
Technical Ceramics: Growth through innovation
Total demand for data storage has been growing by over 50% 
annually in recent years and high capacity storage is now required 
in ever more devices including HD-TV recorders and increasingly 
powerful PCs. Increasing the physical size of such devices is not 
an option and so the Technical Ceramics Division has been working 
with major players in the ﬁeld to increase disk drive capacity. Fitting 
more data onto the same size of disk requires increasingly accurate 
control of the read/write head and Technical Ceramics’ piezoelectric 
actuator plates enable the head to be positioned with extraordinary 
accuracy and vibration control. This leading edge technology 
increases disk drive capacity by 15-20%, opening up opportunities 
for Morgan and its customers. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 08
Superwool 607 diesel particulate 
ﬁlters production
Thermal Ceramics: Long-term partnerships
Thermal Ceramics, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, has 
a comprehensive technical and supply agreement with the leading 
manufacturer of diesel particulate ﬁlters. Demand for these ﬁlters 
is being driven by increased use of diesel engines and increasingly 
stringent global vehicle emission standards. Advanced technology 
insulation is used to enable the ﬁlter to reach the high temperatures 
necessary for ‘self cleansing’. Working with its customer, Thermal 
Ceramics achieved a technological breakthrough which enables 
bio-soluble Superwool 607HT™ to be used, delivering beneﬁts 
to our customer, in manufacture, in service and at end-of-life. 
Recuperative furnace
Molten Metal Systems: Addressing customer needs
Traditional brick lined gas-ﬁred metal-melting furnaces are energy 
hungry. Much of the energy goes into heating the brick lining 
or goes up the stack. As a result an aluminium melting furnace 
may only be 18% efﬁcient. The MkV ‘R’ furnace from Morgan 
Molten Metal Systems, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, 
uses recuperative burner systems to recycle waste heat from the 
furnace stack to preheat the combustion air entering the burner. 
This is combined with the most efﬁcient low thermal mass materials 
for the furnace lining so the MkV ’R‘ furnace can be more than 
twice as efﬁcient as a traditional one – a real breakthrough. In 
addition, advanced burner technology means lower NOx emissions, 
enabling the furnace to be operated both safely and with minimum 
environmental impact.
Strong 
pa rtnersh ips and 
g round breaking
tech nology 40
40 years of collaboration 
and innovation
Technical Ceramics: Joint technology development
During 2008, Technical Ceramics and leading pump manufacturer 
Grundfos celebrated 40 years of working together. The two 
companies have collaborated on multiple innovations over the 
years, including the development of a ceramic solution intrinsic 
to the performance of the circulator pumps to be found in most 
modern central heating systems. Millions of these pumps are 
made annually so it was appropriate that the 40 year celebration 
also included the formal opening of the new Volume Precision 
Ceramics department at Technical Ceramics’ Stourport, UK site 
and the award by Grundfos of a new multi-million euro contract. 
Preben Jakobsen, Grundfos Technical Manager, said: 
“The reliability and durability of the components that 
Technical Ceramics supplies are absolutely critical to us. 
Without the reassurance they offer we would not be 
able to stand by our lifetime and performance guarantees, 
on which our reputation in the industry relies.”
Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 09
Medical diagnostic imaging 
demands technical solution
Technical Ceramics: Global technology solution
Technical Ceramics works closely with its customers in the 
healthcare sector, helping to push forward the frontiers of material 
technology to produce ceramic based components which are critical 
to the performance of the latest high deﬁnition medical diagnostics 
and imaging equipment. For example, ceramics are increasingly 
used in the vacuum tubes at the heart of the latest x-ray and 
CAT scanning machines, replacing traditional glass components. 
The high purity, engineered components supplied by Technical 
Ceramics have speciﬁc electrical and physical properties which help 
equipment manufacturers to produce machines which offer longer 
life, higher power and better images. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 10
En hanci ng 
global 
sustainability
Getting the power from 
the wind into the grid
Demand for clean, sustainable, CO 2 free energy has never been 
greater and Carbon is well placed to help original equipment 
makers to develop this growth market. The Division supplies the 
key enabling technologies for wind power generation – for both 
turbines and the generators within. Long life and reliability are 
essential for all the key components in a wind turbine. Many 
are installed in harsh and corrosive marine and high altitude 
environments where access is difﬁcult and repeated maintenance 
is not an easy option. 
Carbon: Helping make a difference Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 11
A bright future for solar energy
Group-wide: Co-operating to add value
The Earth receives an impressive 10,000 times more energy from 
the sun than mankind consumes every year. The three Divisions 
of Morgan Crucible are involved in the challenge to harness this 
solar energy for our everyday use.
Technical Ceramics is working with leading companies who are 
developing photovoltaic (PV-Cell) power. Utilising materials science 
and applications engineering their contribution takes the form 
of optimised products for both the PV-cell manufacturing process 
and the ﬁnished panels. 
The Carbon Division is leveraging its world leading capability in 
high temperature insulation for solar silicon manufacturers around 
the globe, helping to increase efﬁciency and making solar energy 
a more viable source of long-term, sustainable electrical power. 
Thermal Ceramics’ advanced insulation systems are used in 
the emerging ‘concentrated solar power’ sector where arrays 
of tracking reﬂectors are used to focus solar energy to create a 
high temperature in a deﬁned space. This includes ‘power tower’ 
applications where the concentrated sunlight melts salt and the 
heat energy is then used to generate electricity and also ’Sterling 
engine’ applications whereby heat energy is directly converted 
into mechanical power which is used to generate electricity.
The solar energy market is set for a bright future and Morgan 
is well positioned to support its ongoing growth and success.
Heat recovery steam 
generators boost efﬁciency
Thermal Ceramics: Reducing CO
2
 emissions per unit of electricity
The most efﬁcient way of converting fossil fuel into electricity is 
in a combined cycle power station which combines a gas turbine 
with a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) which recovers 
exhaust heat from the gas turbine to make steam to power 
a second generator. The HRSG boosts efﬁciency and thermal 
efﬁciency is key to achieving this. Thermal Ceramics has a leading 
position in supplying the advanced insulation solutions required. 
The market is set to see further growth as gasiﬁcation technology 
is used to convert coal and heavy crude oil into ‘syngas’ which 
can then be used in a gas turbine rather than being limited to 
use in a traditional coal or oil ﬁred power station. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 12
Finding the right people 
worldwide
Thermal Ceramics: Global recruitment
Thermal Ceramics is using its global presence to help identify, 
attract and retain the right people worldwide. For example the 
European and Asian operations are working with Chinese MBA 
students attending the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers 
(CNAM) in Paris. Whilst the students are in Europe they have the 
opportunity to spend time with Thermal’s European operations, 
carrying out special projects which support the business and their 
studies whilst also learning about Thermal Ceramics’ advanced 
insulation technologies. On completion of their studies they have 
the opportunity to join the Thermal Ceramics team of over 800 
employees in China bringing world-class business, technical and 
language skills. Recent participants came from backgrounds in 
ﬁnance, automation, biotechnology and engineering. 
D eve l o p i n g  
an d re tainin g
the rig ht people Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 13
Graduate recruitment 
programme 
T echnical Ceramics: The next generation
To help ensure Technical Ceramics continues to attract the best 
talent, the Division initiated a Graduate Recruitment Programme 
at the end of 2007. The programme targets graduates in both 
North America and Europe and emphasises the opportunity to
join a global business and to work with cutting edge materials 
technology. Following a series of assessment days, ﬁve graduates 
and post-graduates are selected from a variety of disciplines, 
including mechanical, systems, materials and biomaterials, 
ceramics and chemical engineering.
Ken Ash, HR Manager, Technical Ceramics Stourport, said: 
“This program has enabled us to identify a really high quality 
batch of new engineers. In the coming years they will help 
sustain the technical expertise in Technical Ceramics while 
bringing fresh ideas into the business.”
Developing our people to 
achieve their full potential
Group-wide: e-learning to share the vision
Our aim is to enable our people to achieve their full potential by 
developing the depth and breadth of their skills and capabilities 
that will help to achieve our vision of being one of the world’s 
very best advanced materials companies. 
In August 2008 we launched our ﬁrst worldwide e-learning 
programme, ‘Business English’. With businesses around the globe, 
Morgan Crucible’s e-learning programmes extend the range and 
power of training and development that we can offer our people. 
The ‘Business English’ programme will help and encourage our 
people to communicate with greater effect across borders, countries 
and continents and improve the overall performance of our business. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 14
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report 
another successful year 
for Morgan Crucible. Our 
performance demonstrates 
the success of our focused 
strategy to be a world-leading 
advanced materials company.
Tim Stevenson
Chairman Overview
I am delighted to report that 2008 was 
another successful year for Morgan Crucible 
despite an economic environment which 
has proved to be increasingly difﬁcult. 
This performance clearly demonstrates 
the successful implementation of our vision 
to be a world-leading advanced materials 
company. The ﬁve strategic priorities 
highlighted in the Group CEO’s report 
which underpin this vision are being 
rigorously implemented across our three 
Divisions with demonstrable success. The 
formula is one which is transforming the 
nature of Morgan’s business. The Board 
believes that this will stand your Company 
in good stead for the difﬁcult economic 
circumstances that surely lie ahead of us 
in 2009 and potentially beyond. 
The Group beneﬁts from many years of 
investment in customer-focused research 
and development and in global manufacturing 
capability. From this customer-centric 
approach, we have continued to build 
on our strong technological and market 
positions. Selected examples are included 
in the case studies on the preceding pages. 
Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 15
Acquisitions 
Both of the acquisitions we announced 
in 2007 – the technical ceramics businesses 
of Carpenter Technology Corporation 
and our initial 49% stake in NP Aerospace – 
performed extremely well in 2008, ahead 
of our expectations at the point of purchase. 
The complex task of integrating the former 
Carpenter businesses into our Technical 
Ceramics Division has been carried out with 
great commitment and efﬁciency. Together 
these two acquisitions represent an 
important part of the strategy of moving 
Morgan into higher growth, higher margin 
and less economically cyclical markets. I am 
also delighted to report that, since the year 
end, we have increased our stake in NP 
Aerospace to 60%. This additional stake will 
help further accelerate plans to realise the full 
potential of the combined NP Aerospace and 
Morgan Crucible businesses in the armour 
systems market. 
Board 
Our non-executive Directors play a vital role 
in the governance of the Company and a 
key measure of the success of the Board is 
its ability to add real value to the work of 
the executive team. As I announced in my 
statement last year, Joe MacHale retired 
from the Board following the AGM held 
on 18 April 2008. Joe joined the Board in 
2003 and made an invaluable contribution 
to the strategic development of the Group 
both as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and Senior Independent Director. Following 
Joe’s retirement Andrew Given became 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
Martin Flower was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director. 
This year’s appraisal of the effectiveness of 
the Board, reported on later in this Annual 
Report, demonstrated that it is working 
effectively. Of particular importance is the 
effort to ensure that a number of our 
Board meetings each year involve visits to 
operations in different parts of the world, 
giving the Board both real insight into 
the business, and exposure to senior 
management. 
Dividend
The Board has proposed a ﬁnal dividend 
of 4.5 pence per Ordinary share. This brings 
the total dividend for the year to 7.0 pence 
(2007: 6.75 pence) and reﬂects the Board’s 
conﬁdence in the ﬁnancial health of 
Morgan Crucible.
People 
In my second year as Chairman, I have 
continued the process of visiting Morgan 
sites and meeting as many of our people 
as I can. Again I have been impressed by the 
consistent quality of our senior, middle and 
junior management; their understanding 
of our businesses and the markets in which 
they operate, and their commitment to the 
success of the Group. In particular, we are 
proud to have many employees who have 
worked for the business for many years – 
in 2008 we celebrated 20 further staff 
achieving 40 years of service with Morgan 
Crucible. We make particular effort to 
ensure the cross-fertilisation of experience 
across and within Divisions, and to keep 
senior employees abreast of developments 
in the business as a whole. 
I would like to extend my personal thanks 
to all of the Group’s employees for their 
dedication and energy in driving the business 
forward in 2008 such that we enter 2009 
having made further signiﬁcant progress 
towards our vision of being one of the world’ s 
very best advanced materials companies with 
the aim of creating long-term superior 
shareholder value. 
Tim Stevenson
Chairman
* Based on proﬁt after tax and minority interest, before 
amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying earnings per share*
pence 
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
23.4
19.7
13.3
18.6
(21.7) Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 16
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer’s review
Given the increasingly 
challenging market 
environment in 2008, 
it is pleasing to report that 
all three Divisions delivered 
year-on-year increases in 
sales and operating proﬁts. 
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 17
Strategic priorities...
Morgan‘s vision is to be one of 
the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies.
Our aim is to create long-term 
superior shareholder value.
To help implement this vision and 
achieve our aim we have set ﬁve 
strategic priorities. We use these to 
ﬁlter new investment opportunities, 
to screen our businesses for ﬁt with 
the existing Group and to identify 
areas requiring strategic attention 
and action.
Strategy
 T o be number one 
or number two 
in our chosen 
market segments
 T o be high 
value-added to 
our customers 
T o focus on 
higher growth, 
higher margin, 
non-economically 
cyclical markets
T o have a culture 
of operational 
excellence and 
cost efﬁciency
T o ﬁnd, keep 
and develop 
the right people
Underlying operating proﬁt margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
11.8
11.4
7.0
3.8
(2.0)
Underlying operating proﬁt*
Continuing businesses £m
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
98.2
78.9
56.4
25.8
(7.2)
* Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 18
Group results
I am pleased to report that Morgan Crucible 
has delivered another healthy set of ﬁnancial 
results in 2008 against the backdrop of an 
increasingly difﬁcult economic environment. 
Group revenues were up 20.5% on last
year at £835.0 million. For the ﬁrst time 
in a number of years, currency translation 
effects have actually been in our favour on 
the income statement with our reported 
ﬁnancials beneﬁting from the strength of 
the US dollar and the euro against sterling. 
We also saw nine months of good ﬁnancial 
contribution from the advanced ceramics 
businesses acquired from Carpenter 
Technology Corporation at the end 
of March.
Overall organic sales growth, that is to say 
excluding the additional revenue from these 
acquired businesses, was a very respectable 
4% on a constant currency basis.
This revenue growth, allied with strong 
ongoing operational management of the 
cost base, helped the Group to show 
continued improvement in proﬁt margins 
despite the headwinds caused by inﬂationary 
pressures in raw material and energy costs. 
Underlying operating proﬁt margins for the 
year were a healthy 11.8% compared to 
11.4% in 2007. Our goal as a Group remains 
mid-teen operating proﬁt margins in good 
times and double digit in bad times.
Pre-tax proﬁt for the Group was £82.8 million; 
up 15.5% on the prior year. Underlying 
earnings per share at 23.4 pence compared 
to 19.7 pence last year also showed double 
digit levels of year on year growth.
Divisional highlights
Given the increasingly challenging market 
environment in 2008 it is pleasing to report 
that all three Divisions delivered year-on-year 
increases in sales and operating proﬁts.
Progress was particularly encouraging in the 
Insulating Ceramics Division – the Group’s 
largest Division by revenue – which saw 
revenues rise 18.2% from £324.0 million 
to £382.9 million; 6.1% on a constant 
currency basis. This was driven in particular 
by large project orders into the chemical 
John brings a wealth of experience to the 
role on the back of his 18 years service with 
Morgan Crucible during which time he has 
lived and worked across the globe for the 
Group in a range of different roles and 
businesses. John replaces Phil Wright who, 
after 16 years of loyal and committed service 
to Morgan Crucible, retired from the Group 
at the end of the year. Phil has successfully 
brought about signiﬁcant changes to the 
manufacturing footprint of the Molten Metal 
Systems business leaving it well positioned 
for the future. I would like to thank Phil 
personally for all of his contributions over 
the years.
Looking forward
Unprecedented volatility in the global 
economy clearly makes it much more 
difﬁcult than usual to forecast the demand 
outlook accurately. However, our ongoing 
strategy of moving towards less economically 
cyclical markets has successfully reduced 
the Group’s exposure to some of the sectors 
which came under particular pressure in 
the latter half of 2008 such as automotive, 
consumer goods and semiconductors. 
Demand in markets such as defence and 
medical remained strong which to date has 
offset the softening we have seen in some 
sectors which are more aligned with the 
general industrial cycle. In those markets 
where we have seen weakening demand 
we have taken decisive actions to reduce 
the cost base. Going forward, we remain 
watchful and prepared to respond 
proactively to any other signs of slowdowns 
in our end markets as they emerge. 
The general economic environment is 
clearly more difﬁcult now than it has been 
for many years but I remain conﬁdent that 
Morgan Crucible is a higher quality, more 
resilient business than in the past. As we 
look to the future, we are committed to 
demonstrating this quality and resilience 
over the next 12 months.
Mark Robertshaw 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
and petroleum markets along with robust 
demand in emerging market economies. 
The focus on operational excellence in 
the Division through the World Class 
Manufacturing (WCM) programme yielded 
good improvements in our manufacturing 
processes. Our commitment to remaining 
at the forefront of world technical leadership 
in the insulating ceramics ﬁeld was 
underpinned by the opening of a new 
global R&D centre in Bromborough, UK.
The Technical Ceramics Division also had 
an excellent year with revenues up from 
£152.6 million in 2007 to £212.2 million 
in 2008, representing 3.3% growth on 
a constant currency basis and excluding 
acquisitions. There was good progress in 
the underlying business particularly in 
medical market applications with divisional 
performance also bolstered by the new 
revenue and earnings stream from the 
Carpenter businesses. I am pleased to 
report that these newly acquired businesses 
– which predominantly serve the aerospace 
and power generation markets – have 
delivered an excellent set of results in 
their ﬁrst nine months with the Group.
The Carbon Division also reported 
year on year growth in revenues and 
operating proﬁts. Revenues increased 
from £216.6 million to £239.9 million; 
representing 1.3% growth on a constant 
currency basis. This revenue progress was 
achieved despite delays to the US military 
procurement programme for the next 
generation of US body armour, X-SAPI. 
Encouragingly, the NP Aerospace business in 
which we acquired a 49% equity stake last 
year ﬁnished a very successful 2008 with a 
strong order book for 2009 having secured 
additional contracts from the UK military for 
vehicle armouring applications. 
Management
A major priority for me as Group Chief 
Executive remains to continue to develop 
and enhance the senior management team 
of Morgan Crucible with the next generation 
of home grown talent. I am therefore 
delighted to report that John Maxwell 
was appointed CEO of the Molten Metal 
Systems business unit (formerly known as 
the Crucibles business) on 1 October 2008. 
...delivering substantial 
progress Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 19
Key performance 
indicators
To support the Group’s strategy and to 
monitor performance, the Board of Directors 
and the Executive Committee uses a number 
of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial key performance 
indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are selected as 
being important to the success of the Group 
in delivering its strategic objectives. Progress 
is assessed by comparison with the Group’s 
strategy, its budget for the year and historic 
performance. At a business level, a range of 
further benchmarks and other KPIs are also 
used as part of the Divisional planning and 
performance review processes. In order to 
measure the underlying performance of 
the business, management further analyse 
the headline KPIs to exclude the impact 
of acquisitions and foreign exchange. 
As Morgan’s businesses grow and evolve 
we will review and update the list of KPIs 
selected to ensure they remain important 
to the success of the Group.
Financial and non-ﬁnancial performance is 
reviewed in more detail in the Divisional, 
Financial and Corporate Responsibility sections 
of this Business review. 
* Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible assets.
** Based on proﬁt after tax and minority interest, before amortisation of intangible assets.
  Non-ﬁnancial KPIs are at constant currency.
† 2008 HR data covers 96% of employees (2007: 66%).
KPI
Performance
Relevant strategic objective 2008 2007
Financial KPIs
Revenue growth 20.5% 2.3% Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets EBITA* growth 24.5% 39.9% Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets To be high value-added to our customers Operational excellence and cost efﬁciency EBITA* margin 11.8% 11.4% Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher margin markets Operational excellence and cost efﬁciency Total employment costs as % of sales 31.5% 31.2% To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efﬁciency
Free cash ﬂow before dividends £23.2m £23.7m Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Underlying earnings per share** 23.4p 19.7p Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Dividend per share 7.0p 6.75p Creating consistent, long-term value for shareholders Non-ﬁnancial KPIs
  Year-on-year pricing change 3.5% 2.7% To be high value-added to our customers Average employee tenure (years)
†
7.0 7.1 To ﬁnd, keep and develop the right people Training hours per employee
†
14.9 13.5 To ﬁnd, keep and develop the right people Lost time accident frequency
(per 100,000 hours worked)
0.69 0.55 To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efﬁciency
To ﬁnd, keep and develop the right people Tonnes CO
2
 per £m revenue 482 537 To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efﬁciency
Tonnes waste per £m revenue 78 96 To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efﬁciency Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 20
Review of operations
Business description
The Insulating Ceramics Division is a global 
supplier of thermal management and metal 
melting solutions for high temperature 
applications which beneﬁt technically, 
ﬁnancially and environmentally from 
increased thermal and energy efﬁciency 
and management. The Division consists of 
two global businesses: Thermal Ceramics 
and Molten Metal Systems (MMS).
Thermal Ceramics
Thermal Ceramics is a world leader in the 
design and supply of heat management 
solutions, and insulation and refractory 
technology, to a diverse range of markets 
and end users. These range from the 
insulation of furnaces and petrochemical 
process plants to the protection of aircraft 
ﬂight data recorders. 
Thermal Ceramics’ core products are 
manufactured from advanced insulating 
materials and include insulating ﬁbres, 
insulating ﬁre bricks and monolithics. These 
are marketed under a number of leading 
brands including Superwool™, JM™, 
Pyro-Bloc™, FireMaster™ and Tri-mor™.
Thermal Ceramics employs over 3,200 
people** across a network of 34 
manufacturing facilities and 50 sales ofﬁces 
world-wide. The business is structured 
geographically, with regional teams 
supported by global engineering, sales and 
marketing, technology and research and 
development functions. Major sites are 
located in the USA, France, UK, Italy, 
Mexico, Brazil, Korea, Japan, India 
and China.
Thermal Ceramics’ strategic objective is to 
be the world’s leading provider of advanced 
insulation solutions. This is implemented 
through:
Focusing on high growth, high margin and high value-added products and 
markets.
Establishing and maintaining leading positions in target markets.
Changing the scale and location of manufacturing operations to deliver 
the best value.
Driving operational excellence through World Class Manufacturing.
Satisfying customers. Ensuring that Thermal Ceramics is ’A Great Place to Work’.
Thermal Ceramics targets growth 
opportunities in the following key markets:
Petrochemical As petrochemical and 
reﬁning processes and technology 
develop, high temperature heat 
management and energy efﬁciency 
become increasingly critical. Thermal 
Ceramics targets both new and retro-ﬁt 
projects supplying the areas of ﬁred 
heaters, sulphur recovery units, ﬂuid 
catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and 
boilers. Sector growth is geared to 
population expansion and so is expected 
to remain buoyant. 
Operati ng in 
niche markets 
around the 
world...
Insulating Ceramics
* Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating 
proﬁt before restructuring costs, other one-off items 
and amortisation of intangible assets.
** As at 4 January 2009.
Key performance indicators
Increase
2008 2007 %
Divisional revenue £382.9m £324.0m 18.2%
Divisional EBITA * £45.6m £37.5m 21.6%
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
45.6
37.5
28.6
21.9
19.1
Divisional EBITA margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
11.9
11.6
9.5
8.3
7.6 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 21
Power Generation Increasing 
demand for electricity across the 
world, and particularly in the emerging 
economies, is driving expansion in the 
sector. Environmental and energy/cost 
efﬁciency issues make heat and 
thermal management a key issue 
for all operators. Thermal Ceramics’ 
Superwool™ is used for duct insulation 
in heat recovery steam generators 
(HRSG), offering high temperature 
resistance with the important 
reassurance that the materials are
low bio-persistent providing a more 
environmentally friendly solution. 
The new Superwool Plus™ improves 
HRSG design by reducing heat losses 
or reducing panel thickness. As with 
petrochemical, this sector is closely 
linked into population growth and 
so is expected to remain strong. 
Ceramics and Glass Thermal Ceramics 
ﬁbre products offer multiple beneﬁts in 
the sector, including saving energy by 
reducing kiln car mass. Over 1,000 kilns 
ﬁring ceramic products from tiles to 
tableware or from sanitary ware to ﬁne 
bone chinaware have been lined with 
our range of insulating products. Sold 
under the JM™, K™ and TJM™ brands, 
our insulating ﬁre bricks are used in 
roller kilns, shuttle kilns, tunnel kilns 
and hobby kilns. The sector is linked into 
building and construction and so has 
seen softening demand in the last year 
but the outlook remains good longer term.
Iron and Steel Despite the recent 
downturn, the demand for steel is 
forecast to continue rising into the 
next decade fuelled by industrialisation, 
population growth and construction 
activities. Steel producers seek new 
solutions to tackle environmental 
concerns, rising energy costs and to 
increase operational efﬁciency. Typical 
applications for Thermal Ceramics 
include monolithics in blast furnaces, 
ﬁbre modules in reheating and heat 
treatment furnaces, and insulating ﬁre 
bricks for hearth and reheating furnaces.
Thermal Ceramics’ Saint-Marcellin plant in France 
is the pilot plant for the Division’s World Class 
Manufacturing (WCM) programme. This involves 
all of the plant’s employees and is a holistic vision 
for market-leading performance. The focus is on 
continual improvement in quality, cost, lead time, 
ﬂexibility and customer service using a variety of 
tools in a process driven approach. The emphasis 
on eliminating waste and non-productive activity is 
resulting in higher productivity and reduced resource 
intensity. The programme has been running since 
mid 2008 and already the beneﬁts are being realised 
as the team works towards the objective of reducing 
production costs by 10%. Saint-Marcellin will 
become a working model for the implementation of 
WCM at other Thermal Ceramics plants world-wide.
World Class Manufacturing in Saint-Marcellin 
With Thermal Ceramics’ range of high-technology, 
differentiated insulation materials, having the 
right people in applications engineering is a key 
competitive advantage. Thermal Ceramics’ Brazilian 
applications engineering team is a prime example, 
having worked with the business as students they 
joined the graduate programme and today they 
form the core of the applications and customer 
service team. The early identiﬁcation of talent has 
paid off. Thermal Brazil’s sales grew by over 20% 
last year and the talent management programme 
is stronger than ever.
Developing our team in Brazil
Transportation Thermal Ceramics works 
with the commercial aviation, military 
aircraft and space exploration sectors, 
offering the Min-K™ micro-porous 
insulation used, for example to protect 
the electronics in a ﬂight data recorder. 
In automotive, the Thermal Ceramics 
business supplies critical insulation 
products engineered in co-operation 
with Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers, for 
catalytic converters and diesel particulate 
ﬁlters (DPF). Thermal Ceramics’ work 
in containing molten super-alloy has 
positioned our advanced insulation 
materials at the heart of the growth in 
turbo-chargers in diesel engines. In the 
truck and bus sector, Thermal Ceramics’ 
ﬁbre blankets and papers provide 
thermal and acoustic solutions for areas 
such as the engine compartment, ﬂoor, 
motor compartment and tunnel and 
exhaust systems.
Fire Protection Thermal Ceramics’ 
FireMaster™ Fire Protection Systems are 
comprehensively certiﬁed and extensively 
tested to meet national and international 
standards, offering customers the 
security of proven ﬁre performance 
in assorted market sectors including 
commercial buildings, hotels, airports, 
industrial plants, offshore platforms, 
cruise ships, military vessels, as well 
as tunnels and other underground 
construction. Though the construction 
sector is currently experiencing 
a downturn, the increasing regulatory 
requirements for ﬁre protection continue 
to drive opportunities for growth. 
In 2009, process upgrades in Thermal 
Ceramics plants in Europe and USA will 
allow a new generation of Firemaster™ 
products to be offered bringing signiﬁcant 
advantages of reduced weight to 
many users. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 22
Molten Metal Systems (MMS)
MMS has a leading position in the supply of 
crucibles to the non-ferrous metals industry. 
MMS also manufactures equipment and 
foundry products used in the melting, 
holding and processing of metals and alloys. 
MMS uses its advanced materials and 
manufacturing technologies to design 
and manufacture crucibles for metal melting 
and holding which offer technical and cost 
advantages. MMS’s leading edge range 
of furnaces are designed to reduce energy 
consumption and costs, offering energy 
savings of up to 50% compared to brick 
lined furnaces. MMS’s furnaces also use 
advanced recuperative burner technology to 
reduce NOx and carbon monoxide emissions. 
MMS employs over 500 people* at its 
10 locations worldwide. These include 
marketing and technical facilities in the UK, 
the USA, France, Mexico and South Africa 
and manufacturing in Germany, Brazil, India 
(2) and China. 
MMS’s strategy is to deliver targeted 
solutions for metal casters, focused on 
improving their metal quality, increasing 
efﬁciency and reducing energy consumption. 
This is implemented by:
Focusing on high value/high challenge opportunities.
Striving for operational excellence worldwide.
Developing a growth-culture throughout the business.
MMS’s key growth opportunities lie in the 
development and implementation of a 
solutions based approach for high-value 
metal casters and processors. These 
customers in turn serve a wide variety 
of markets, including:
The production of pure aluminium for electronics applications.
The recycling and reﬁning of precious metals from mining projects.
The production of metal powder for the cosmetics, aerospace and defence markets.
Non-ferrous castings for the automotive, marine and rail markets.
Copper and brass castings for the construction, chemical processing 
and oil and gas sectors.
Review of operations
continued
As part of the implementation of its operational 
excellence and growth strategies, Molten Metal 
Systems has been investing in the development of 
its production capabilities in India and China. The 
combination of leading materials and production 
technologies have been successfully put in place 
with the help of our technology centres in Europe. 
The plants will produce a signiﬁcant proportion of 
MMS’s global output. Both will be brought fully on 
stream during 2009.
Investing in growth – India and China
Thermal Ceramics’ newly commissioned insulating 
ﬁre brick plant in Yixing, China incorporates the 
best productivity enhancing technology utilised by 
other Thermal Ceramics plants around the world. 
The new facility is adjacent to the Division’s existing 
Yixing plant and its output is more than the total 
of the two existing production lines with much 
higher efﬁciencies. The plant is the Asian regional 
production centre for insulating ﬁre bricks and the 
increased automation offers customers higher and 
more consistent quality products whilst employees 
have an improved work environment with reduced 
manual handling and related hazards. 
Global productivity – New automated plant in China
* As at 4 January 2009. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 23
Divisional performance 
Revenues within the Insulating Ceramics 
Division rose by 18.2% to £382.9 million 
(2007: £324.0 million) and on a constant 
currency basis by 6.1%. The ongoing focus 
on pricing as well as improving operational 
efﬁciencies has yielded another year of 
improving margins. This has been achieved 
despite the increasing costs of energy, raw 
materials and freight. EBITA was up by 
21.6% at £45.6 million (2007: £37.5 million) 
with divisional EBITA margins increasing to 
11.9% (2007: 11.6%).
Thermal Ceramics
The Thermal Ceramics business had an 
excellent year, with revenues up 19.0% (6.7% 
on a constant currency basis) to £347.4 
million (2007: £291.9 million). Growth was 
driven primarily by demand from emerging 
market economies. The Thermal Ceramics 
business continued to make good proﬁt 
progress with EBITA rising 23.6% to 
£41.4 million (2007: £33.5 million), a 
margin of 11.9% as signiﬁcant inﬂationary 
pressure on input costs was more than 
offset through operational efﬁciencies 
and pricing action. In the second half of the 
year the business did see the effects of the 
economic downturn with markets such as 
automotive, building products and iron and 
steel all slowing. In contrast the chemical 
and processing (CPI) sectors remained 
buoyant and regionally Asia, the Middle East 
and Latin America continued to grow albeit 
at reduced levels.
Molten Metal Systems
MMS revenues rose by 10.6% in 2008 (1.0% 
on a constant currency basis) to £35.5 million 
(2007: £32.1 million). Sales into Asia grew 
particularly strongly, whilst Europe and the 
Americas both advanced against the previous 
year. EBITA increased by 5.0% to £4.2 million 
(2007: £4.0 million), a margin of 11.8%, 
as the business experienced unprecedented 
increases in raw materials and energy costs. 
In addition, the strengthening of the euro, 
particularly against sterling and the US 
dollar, reduced the margins on some exports 
from our German manufacturing plant. 
Business developments
In June 2008, Thermal Ceramics opened its 
new global R&D centre in the UK. This is 
equipped with state of the art instrumentation 
and pilot manufacturing facilities for advanced 
product development and accelerated speed 
to market.
During 2008 Thermal Ceramics has continued 
its strong development in emerging markets 
by signiﬁcantly expanding its insulating ﬁre 
brick facility in China. Furthermore, in 2009, 
new ﬁbre capacity will come on line in Russia.
The new products Superwool Plus™ and 
Superwool HT™ will play a strong role in the 
development of Thermal Ceramics’ sales in 
2009. Superwool Plus™, announced in June 
2008, offers improved insulation properties 
over all high temperature insulation wools 
currently available and will offer signiﬁcant 
advantages in ﬁre protection systems and 
energy saving. T o manufacture these products, 
our large ﬁbre production lines in the USA 
and France have been upgraded during 2008 
while Brazil and India will be upgraded 
during 2009.
Within its own manufacturing facilities, 
Thermal Ceramics is focused on reducing 
the energy losses in its high temperature 
processes. Progress in this area is part of a 
strategy to reduce carbon footprint and to 
counter the effects of volatile energy prices. 
Also started in 2008 and planned to grow 
throughout 2009 and 2010 is the ‘World 
Class Manufacturing’ programme. The 
objective of the programme is to increase 
productivity overall by improving health, safety 
and environmental performance, quality, 
cost, logistics and customer service using 
techniques pioneered in Japanese industry.
The MMS UK manufacturing operation 
was closed in April 2008 and additional 
manufacturing capacity was commissioned 
in Germany and in India. In addition, our new 
manufacturing plant in Suzhou China was 
completed and commenced pilot production 
in December 2008, on schedule. The plant 
will be fully commissioned in Q1 2009.
Outlook
The long-term outlook for Thermal Ceramics 
remains positive, driven by the growth 
in global population and the continuing 
industrialisation of emerging economies. 
These factors, combined with the need 
to reduce energy expenditure and the 
increasingly stringent environmental 
regulations, will drive demand for our 
products. The rollout of High Temperature 
Superwool™ production in North America 
and the worldwide launch of Superwool 
Plus™ are also both progressing well. 
Despite MMS’ s strong order intake throughout 
2008, there is some expectation of a softening 
of demand going into 2009, as a consequence 
of the worsening economic forecasts for all 
regions. However, with over 50% of its 
manufacturing capacity now established in 
low-cost countries, MMS is well placed to 
manage the effects of any slowdown and 
to take advantage of available opportunities. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 24
Review of operations
continued
...delivering
high-tech
solutions...
Technical Ceramics
The Technical Ceramics Division’s strategy 
is aligned with the Group’s strategy and 
in summary is to:
Focus on niche applications in growth markets.
Use applications engineering and distinctive competencies to provide 
customers with differentiated solutions.
Be the supplier of choice in our chosen markets, exhibiting excellent customer 
service.
Demonstrate dissatisfaction with the status quo and through continuous 
improvement and best practice initiatives 
achieve higher levels of business 
performance.
Through recruitment, development and training ensure we have the strongest 
teams in all areas of the business.
Constantly review our manufacturing footprint and its ability to deliver our 
growth and proﬁt objectives. 
Business description
Technical Ceramics is a leading supplier of 
bespoke, applications engineered industrial 
products. These are manufactured from 
advanced materials including ceramic, glass, 
precious metals, piezoelectric and dielectric 
materials. Applications include medical 
implants, electron tubes used in airport 
security scanning devices and ceramic cores 
used in the manufacture of turbine blades. 
The Technical Ceramics Division operates 
worldwide with 23 manufacturing sites 
across the USA, UK, Germany, Mexico, 
Australia and China. The Division employs 
over 3,000 people** and offers full technical 
support and advice to customers throughout 
their product development cycle, working 
closely with them to provide engineered 
solutions that add value and help 
differentiate their end products.
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
31.6
20.0
17.2
12.3
7.4
Divisional EBITA margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
14.9
13.1
10.6
8.5
5.5
* Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating proﬁt 
before restructuring costs, other one-off items and 
amortisation of intangible assets.
** As at 4 January 2009.
Key performance indicators
Increase
2008 2007 %
Divisional revenue £212.2m £152.6m 39.1%
Divisional EBITA* £31.6m £20.0m 58.0% Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 25
The Division is structured regionally with 
global support from marketing, technology, 
business development, strategy and ﬁnance. 
Technical Ceramics offers an extensive range 
of products for hundreds of high technology 
application niches, including: 
Ceramic cores used in the casting of turbine blades for aero engine and 
industrial gas turbines. 
Braze alloys for aero engine build and repair and ceramic components and 
sub-assemblies for aero engine 
monitoring and control equipment. 
Components and sub-assemblies for a broad range of medical applications, 
primarily implantable devices, prosthetics, 
surgical and diagnostic equipment.
Ceramics and assemblies for electron tubes; devices used in a range of 
medical, security, industrial and research 
applications, such as airport security 
scanners, TV and Radio broadcast and 
X-Ray equipment.
Engineered ceramics used in ﬂuid handling equipment.
Piezoelectric ceramic actuators used in data storage.
Components and assemblies used in a variety of lasers for product marking, 
medical and industrial applications. 
Technical Ceramics’ product range serves 
nine main markets – aerospace, automotive, 
electronics, household goods, industrial 
equipment, medical, power generation and 
distribution, process control and monitoring 
and security and defence. The ﬁve key 
markets are further described below.
Aerospace 
As engines run hotter in order to increase 
efﬁciency, demands on the materials used 
in their construction become greater as does 
the need to monitor and control operating 
conditions. Technical Ceramics produces 
braze alloys for engine build and repair, 
ceramic components and sub-assemblies for 
engine monitoring and control equipment. 
Our Certech business manufactures cores 
used in the casting of turbine blades.
Finger print swipe sensors are a key biometric 
tool for identity veriﬁcation, security and crime 
detection. Robustness, consistency, reliability and 
accuracy in operation are all essential features. A 
scratched or worn sensor will disrupt the scan, 
making the scanner useless. Technical Ceramics can 
supply ’Diamonex’ diamond-like carbon coatings 
that will extend the life of the swipe sensor by up 
to ﬁve times – this robustness will be a key feature 
as handheld mobile scanners become more widely 
used by security personnel and police.
Diamond-like coating for ﬁnger print swipe sensors
The ongoing Technical Ceramics leadership 
development programme formed a key element 
of the strategy to rapidly and fully integrate the 
Carpenter Technology Corporation businesses 
which became part of the Division on 31 March 
2008. The programme has so far involved 145 
of the Division’s senior team and is designed to 
further develop their strategic leadership skills and 
behavioural capabilities. The programme includes 
both on-site and off-site modules and feedback 
from the participants from both businesses showed 
that the early involvement of the former Carpenter 
team made it a fast-track way of getting to know 
their new colleagues, understanding their respective 
cultures and forming synergistic working 
relationships. 
Leadership development programme Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 26
Review of operations
continued
Divisional performance
Revenue for the Technical Ceramics 
Division rose 39.1% to £212.2 million 
(2007: £152.6 million), including that 
contributed by the businesses acquired from 
the Carpenter Technology Corporation at 
the end of March 2008. Organic revenue 
growth for the year (at constant currency 
and excluding acquisitions) was 3.3%.
The Division made good proﬁt progress with 
strong underlying trading in the second half 
of the year, combined with a solid ﬁrst half 
performance. EBITA rose to £31.6 million 
(2007: £20.0 million) and margins for 
the year improved to 14.9%. The former 
Carpenter businesses contributed a margin 
of 16% in the nine months of ownership. 
Although raw material and energy costs 
increased compared to 2007, these were 
countered by a combination of operational 
efﬁciencies and price increases. 
Globally the industrial equipment, 
medical, power generation and security 
and defence markets performed well. In 
the USA, demand was robust for aerospace 
applications in our metals business, and
for our advanced medical components. In 
combination, these businesses offset some 
softness in more economically cyclical 
end-markets such as consumer electronics. 
Our European business also performed well, 
led by aerospace and medical applications. 
In Asia the additional capacity recently 
installed to meet demand for the thermal 
processing market is now fully utilised and 
we anticipate further expansion as a result. 
The consumer facing markets such as 
automotive, semiconductor equipment 
manufacturing and telecommunications 
slowed during the year; however, these 
make up a much smaller portion of our 
business than in previous years.
Electronics 
Consumer demand for mobile devices 
to offer increasing functionality, together 
with increased requirements for data 
storage, drives this market to develop and 
introduce a constant ﬂow of new products. 
Our components are used in hand-held, 
land-based and satellite communications 
equipment and networks for the 
telecommunications sector; as well as 
PCs, servers, data storage and a range 
of peripheral equipment for IT hardware 
producers. In addition, the laser market 
continues to ﬁnd new applications that 
drive growth in healthcare, product 
marking and process control.
Medical 
An ageing population and step change 
improvements in procedural practice 
maintain growth rates consistently above 
GDP in this market. Technical Ceramics 
produces components and sub-assemblies 
for a broad range of application niches, 
primarily within medical devices, including 
implants, prosthetics and surgical 
equipment. In addition we supply key 
components for diagnostic equipment 
such as ultrasonic imaging, CAT and 
MRI scanners.
Power generation and distribution 
Increasing global demand for power and 
dramatic increases in energy costs have 
placed more emphasis on environmental 
issues and the need for renewable energy. 
We supply a range of products that are used 
in the manufacture of thin ﬁlm photovoltaic 
cells for the solar industry and our Certech 
business manufactures cores used in the 
manufacture of turbine blades used for 
industrial gas turbines.
Security and defence 
Ceramic materials are used extensively in 
armour systems for personnel and vehicle 
armour. The latter has seen a resurgence 
of interest because it supports rapid 
deployment strategies and protects against 
the type of threats seen in modern battleﬁeld 
scenarios. Scanners used in border controls 
use metal/ceramic assemblies at the heart of 
the equipment and commercial and domestic 
security has created interest in ‘diamond-like’ 
carbon coatings for ﬁngerprint scanners.  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 27
Business developments
The ceramics businesses acquired from
the Carpenter Technology Corporation 
at the end of the ﬁrst quarter have made 
an excellent start with both revenues and 
proﬁts ahead of expectations and a good 
order book going into 2009.
In May 2008 we announced the closure of 
our Shanghai operation as we continue to 
focus on technically differentiated products. 
Many of its products had reached the end of 
their life cycle and the site was also surrounded 
by residential and ofﬁce developments which 
threatened utilities supplies.
Outlook
The Technical Ceramics Division has 
signiﬁcant potential for further revenue and 
proﬁt growth. Our strategy is to continue 
to focus on customers and markets that 
are themselves growing and are innovative 
in their approach. 
Growth was achieved in six of our key 
markets during 2008, which now account 
for over 75% of the Division's revenues. 
These include aerospace, our largest market, 
medical, specialist industrial equipment 
and power generation and distribution. 
The acquisition of the Carpenter Advanced 
Ceramics businesses demonstrates our 
commitment to increasing our presence 
in these markets. 
The business remains focused on continued 
operating proﬁt margin progression with 
improvements seen in all regions in 2008, 
supported by investment in new product 
introductions. The operational disciplines 
developed over the last few years will 
continue to be a focus for the business 
so that we can mitigate as much as 
possible the effects of the downturn 
in the general economy.
We plan to increase our presence in the 
Asian region to address the expanding 
market there. This has been helped by new 
capacity in Yixing, China installed in response 
to demand from the solar power industry. 
We are looking carefully for further bolt-on 
acquisition opportunities that would enhance 
our offering in our core markets, which 
together with a strong new business pipeline, 
leaves the Division well placed for the future.
The acquisition of the Certech and Carpenter 
Advanced Ceramics businesses was completed 
on 31 March 2008. Fundamental to this strategic 
acquisition are operational, commercial, marketing 
and technical synergies. One example of a synergy 
beneﬁt is the development of a rapid prototyping 
service for customers in the aerospace and industrial 
gas turbine sectors. By combining Certech’s 
specialist design skills and Technical Ceramics 
process technology, customers can now achieve 
a competitive advantage from lead time advantages 
on new products.
“The two businesses are an excellent ﬁt,” said 
Mark Moore, Technical Ceramics’ Director of 
Strategy Implementation. “As we look to the future, 
part of the post acquisition process is to make sure 
that we make best use of our combined strengths 
to optimise results. We are very positive about our 
future together and are already seeing synergy 
beneﬁts in our results.”
Acquisition synergies
Over recent years, Technical Ceramics has invested 
to develop its freeze-casting capabilities. This 
technology enables ceramics to be made into very 
large and complex shapes. The Division has been 
using the tight geometrical tolerances and heat 
resistance properties of freeze-cast ceramics in its 
work to optimise the ceramic moulds for the Bentley 
Motor Company’s unique metal/composite body 
panels. These lightweight metal and carbon ﬁbre 
panels are made by spraying a freeze-cast ceramic 
mould with a thin layer of metal. The resulting metal 
shell is then strengthened with a composite ﬁbre 
backing to create a strong lightweight panel. The 
VW Audi Group now plans to trial the moulding 
technology across its premium marques using the 
Technical Ceramics freeze-cast forms.
Freeze-casting to optimise the Bentley’s bumper Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 28
Review of operations
continued
Business description
The Carbon Division is a global supplier 
of engineered solutions for applications 
which beneﬁt from the unique properties 
of carbon, graphite, silicon carbide, oxide 
ceramics and related advanced materials. 
These properties, which include electrical 
conductivity, self lubrication, heat and 
corrosion resistance, high compressive 
strength, highly pure forms and non-toxicity, 
are leveraged to meet the speciﬁc 
and specialist requirements of multiple 
demanding applications; from body armour 
to railway trains, aerospace and electronics. 
The Carbon Division has a truly global 
presence with a workforce of over 3,700** 
operating in more than 25 countries. 
With this coverage we provide a local service 
to our customers whilst beneﬁting from 
a global infrastructure and market presence. 
This includes signiﬁcant operational capability 
in a number of low-cost countries, including 
Mexico, China and within Eastern Europe, 
providing a competitive manufacturing 
footprint that we leverage across all 
our markets. 
Carbon
The Division’s strategy is aligned with the 
Group’s priorities and in summary is to:
Add value to advanced materials and technology to deliver engineered 
solutions to chosen markets.
Engender a culture of operational excellence with a focus on continually 
improving the value we deliver to 
our customers.
Establish and fully embed a mindset for growth through focused business 
development, speciﬁcally on high 
growth and high margin markets.
Invest in our future through our technology centres of excellence 
and through acquisitions, alliances 
and partnerships.
Fully engage our entire workforce and to instill a culture of continuous 
reinvention.
Continuously seek and develop the right people.
...applying mark et 
leading techn ical       
expertise.
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
36.3
35.2
34.1
27.6
21.2
Divisional EBITA margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
15.1
16.3
16.0
13.8
10.8
* Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating 
proﬁt before restructuring costs, other one-off items 
and amortisation of intangible assets.
** As at 4 January 2009.
Key performance indicators
Increase
2008 2007 %
Divisional revenue £239.9m £216.6m 10.8%
Divisional EBITA* £36.3m £35.2m 3.1%  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 29
The Division is structured regionally and 
is able to leverage its global footprint and 
infrastructure as necessary to ensure that 
the best possible resource is deployed to 
offer advanced materials and technologies 
in the form of engineered solutions to the 
following global markets: 
Industrial and railway electrical 
applications 
Electrical current transfer systems are critical 
enablers for many industries. The Carbon 
Division supplies electrical current transfer 
systems from carbon brushes through to 
collectors and rotary current transfer products. 
The Division utilises a core technology 
portfolio and a global network providing 
regional support and is a leading supplier 
of component solutions to the railroad, 
transit industry and to industrial markets. 
Fluid handling
Seals and bearings are critical to the 
pumps and compressors used in many ﬂuid 
handling applications in industries such as 
chemical and food processing. The Carbon 
Division has a wide and expanding range 
of carbon and silicon carbide materials. 
Morgan is a globally recognised provider 
of seal faces, bearings, rotors, vanes and 
other technical solutions required for a 
large variety of ﬂuid handling applications. 
Defence
We provide critical components for the 
world’s sea, ground and air defence, from 
nuclear submarines and aircraft carriers 
to tactical and strategic ground vehicles 
and weapon systems, and ﬁxed and rotor 
winged ﬁghters. In each case, the distinctive 
characteristics of our advanced materials 
provide a special solution to a design 
need. Our supply of a range of oxide and 
non-oxide ceramic technology solutions 
for vehicle and body armour applications 
ensures protection against new and 
emerging threats. 
The Carbon Division is a world leader in ultra 
high temperature thermal management, offering 
products capable of working at service temperatures 
up to 3,000ºC in inert or vacuum environments. 
The Division was ﬁrst in the world to process carbon 
cloth and today its technology spans carbon and 
graphite felt and cloth, rigid board and machined 
graphite components, combined with industry 
leading puriﬁcation measured in parts per billion. 
These high-level technical capabilities are key 
enablers required by the aerospace, semiconductor, 
photo-voltaic cell, optical ﬁbre and other specialist 
manufacturing sectors.
Leader in ultra high temperature insulation
Through the Group’s strategic investment in NP 
Aerospace, the Carbon Division has expanded 
its geographic spread, materials capability and 
customer base in the armour market. NP Aerospace 
is a major supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence 
for personal and vehicle protection. NP Aerospace’s 
composite technology, combined with Carbon’s 
ceramic technology, is driving the innovation of 
new, lighter and more resilient protection systems 
to help counter ballistic threats. With NP Aerospace, 
the Carbon Division is at the forefront of vehicle and 
personal protection systems.
Countering ballistic threats Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 30
Review of operations
continued
Energy
We provide the critical components that 
enable the power generation requirements 
for today and the new emerging technologies 
of tomorrow. Whether it’s traditional power 
generation companies, the nuclear industry, 
solar power or wind energy generation, 
Morgan is supplying advanced materials 
solutions to enable their growth. In the solar 
industry, Carbon is a world leader in the 
supply of carbon and graphite felt and 
cloth, machined and puriﬁed rigid board 
and graphite components for solar silicon 
manufacture. For wind power generation, 
we supply material solutions and rotary 
transfer systems that are able to perform 
in the harshest environments around 
the globe.
Divisional performance
The Carbon Division performed well in 
2008 with all regions delivering growth. 
Revenues for the full year were up by 10.8% 
to £239.9 million (2007: £216.6 million).
On a constant currency basis year on year 
revenue growth was 1.3%. We experienced 
strong performance in high temperature 
products business during the year, as well as 
continued growth across all sectors in Asia. 
Weakening demand in the semiconductor 
sector during the second half, and a 
softening at the year end in our electrical 
carbon brush and seals and bearings 
businesses dampened the Division’s 
year-on-year growth.
Divisional EBITA improved by 3.1% to 
£36.3 million (2007: £35.2 million), a margin 
of 15.1%. The ‘lock out’ situation in one of 
our India facilities was resolved at the end of 
October after nearly 12 months. This situation 
along with the capacity constraint issues 
experienced during the ﬁrst quarter in our 
US silicon carbide armour business impacted 
full year earnings and EBITA margins. On a
constant currency basis EBITA was down 
by 5.3%.
Aerospace
Critical components manufactured of 
carbon and graphite materials are required 
for a range of demanding aerospace 
applications, including jet engine main 
shaft bearing seals, electrical brushes for 
alternators and generators, bearings for fuel 
pumps, and high temperature carbon fabrics 
for insulating systems. The Carbon Division 
plays a vital role in the world’s aerospace 
industry, from commercial airlines and 
military aircraft to the NASA Space Shuttle. 
Semiconductor processing
Carbon is at the heart of many electronic 
innovations shaping today’s world and is 
used in semiconductor manufacturing 
processes such as ion implantation, epitaxy 
and compound crystal growth. With the 
drive to faster, smaller and less expensive 
devices, semiconductor processing 
equipment companies are dependent on 
advanced materials being able to work at 
higher temperatures and having higher 
purity levels to achieve the desired 
performance. We now offer state-of-the-art 
puriﬁcation capability and are working with 
leading equipment OEM’s to develop and 
incorporate new materials technology. 
Carbon also supplies products used in the 
manufacture of components such as optical 
ﬁbres, laser diodes, and transistors for 
mobile and satellite communications.
The development of the Carbon Division’s facility in 
Mexico demonstrates how operational excellence 
and continuous improvements in customer value 
delivery underpin the Division’s strategy. From 
its beginnings 50 years ago, following heavy 
investment in manufacturing technology the 
Mexican facility is a centre of excellence for the 
ﬁnishing of electrical brushes and mechanical seal 
and bearing components for the North American 
market. The quality and cost proﬁle of the plant’s 
output gives Carbon a competitive advantage in a 
number of market sectors and investment continues 
to ensure this position is sustained. 
Mexico facility set for continued growth Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 31
Our traditional business in electrical carbon 
brushes and seals and bearings held up well 
through most of the year. Our brush business 
ﬁnished slightly below 2007 in Europe and 
in the Americas, impacted by the global 
downturn in the last two months of the 
year. Growth in Asia was tempered by 
the downturn, but again showed strong 
year-on-year performance. Our global seals 
and bearings business had solid growth in 
the ﬁrst half of the year but was also affected 
by the global slowdown, particularly in the 
fourth quarter. On a year-on-year basis sales 
to these sectors at constant currency were 
broadly ﬂat.
After several years of double digit growth, 
our semiconductor business experienced a 
major contraction in the second half of the 
year along with the whole of that industry. 
Our rotary business was impacted by the 
slow down in the construction industry 
and major capital spend at a number of 
customers, though further progress was 
made in China and in the global wind 
energy sector.
Our armour business in the Americas 
showed good growth and signiﬁcant 
progress has been made in establishing 
armour capability and capacity in Europe. 
We continue to invest in our materials and 
ballistic technologies to develop our product 
offering for both personal and tactical vehicle 
armour solutions. Our investments have been 
strategically targeted to offer leading edge 
solutions to both the US and European 
defence industries and have positioned 
us well for future defence programmes. 
Building upon technologies developed in 
support of the US space shuttle programme, 
our high temperature insulation business 
grew signiﬁcantly in 2008. Demand for 
these products is driven by the processing of 
advanced materials for markets such as solar 
energy and semiconductors. A new rigid 
product line was successfully commissioned 
in the second quarter, and additional 
capacity for our soft felt product line was 
introduced in the third quarter. Market 
demand is expected to continue to grow and 
our global presence means that we are well 
positioned to take advantage of this trend.
Business developments
During the course of 2008 we continued to 
advance the Division’s technology portfolio, 
breadth of market reach, and presence 
in high growth non-cyclical markets. The 
expansion of our high temperature product 
range has broadened our presence in the 
high growth solar energy sector and 
provides a solid foundation for continued 
growth and increased market penetration.
During the second and third quarters we 
successfully transferred our Ceramor™ 
armour technology from Canada to the 
UK in order to strengthen the Division’s 
presence in the UK and Continental 
European armour markets. Subsequent to 
the year end Morgan Crucible increased its 
equity stake in NP Aerospace from 49% to a 
60% majority. These two strategic initiatives 
have positioned Morgan as the major 
armour systems supplier in the UK with 
the ability to offer this capability across a 
number of regions. NP Aerospace will be 
fully consolidated into the Morgan Crucible 
accounts for 2009.
Outlook
The Carbon Division continues to focus 
on business segments that will provide us 
with long-term attractive growth potential. 
The progress made in 2008 in developing 
segments such as armour and high 
temperature insulation means that we 
are less dependent on the more traditional, 
slower growth markets and have more 
exposure to global markets where we are 
able to fully exploit our advanced materials 
and technology portfolio and provide high 
value added, engineered solutions to a 
discerning customer base.
We will continue to review our operational 
footprint and will ensure that we make full 
use of our low-cost manufacturing base. 
The actions taken in recent years mean 
that the Division is well placed for 2009. 
Although our traditional businesses face 
the challenges presented by the global 
economic conditions, we do expect solid 
growth in high temperature products and 
our newly acquired majority stake in NP 
Aerospace provides an exciting new 
platform for growth and a very strong 
order book through 2009. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 32
Corporate responsibility
Business ethics 
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s Ethics Policy, and 
reports to the Board on its effectiveness. 
The existing Morgan Crucible Ethics Policy is 
going through a review and update process 
and an updated policy together with a new 
training programme will be rolled out across 
the Group in the coming year. The Group’s 
Ethics Policy, Core Values Statement and 
the related training programme provide 
employees with guidance for both their 
everyday activities and other circumstances. 
Our Core Values Statement and Ethics 
Policy oblige all employees to operate 
in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations and speciﬁcally prohibits the 
giving or receiving of bribes. These policies 
apply, so far as is appropriate, to our 
business partners, including contractors, 
agents, joint ventures and suppliers. The 
Company also requires that no employee 
shall suffer discrimination as a result of 
refusing to pay or receive a bribe.
Our Anti-Trust Compliance Programme helps 
ensure that we comply with anti-trust and 
competition laws around the world. The 
programme has been in place since 2002 
and was refreshed during the year to include 
new training materials and an updated 
programme structure.
Community
Our practice is to engage with local 
communities in relation to matters of mutual 
interest and concern. At a local level, where 
Morgan Crucible often has long-established 
roots and is frequently a major employer, 
this helps to foster mutual understanding 
and credibility. In addition, Morgan Crucible 
engages with local and national governments 
and agencies, both directly, and through 
professional bodies. Donations to political 
parties or causes are prohibited.
Customers and suppliers
Morgan Crucible’s customer service strategy 
is to respond quickly to changing customer 
demand, to identify emerging needs and 
to continuously improve product availability, 
quality and value. We stay close to our 
current and potential customers, building 
long term relationships. 
At Morgan Crucible, corporate 
responsibility is integral to our business, 
supporting each of our ﬁve strategic 
priorities. In this section we report on our 
policies, procedures and performance in 
respect of business ethics, community 
relations and suppliers and customers. The 
following pages cover Environment, Health 
and Safety and Our People. In addition, our 
2008 EHS Report, planned for publication 
on our website in April 2009, will provide 
a more comprehensive review of our 2008 
environmental and health and safety 
performance.
The Board is accountable for corporate 
responsibility policies and procedures. The 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Mark Robertshaw, 
is the executive in charge of all corporate 
responsibility matters including internal 
and external stakeholders. 
Corporate responsibility policies 
and procedures
Core values
Morgan Crucible’s approach to corporate 
responsibility is encapsulated in our Core 
Values Statement which was ﬁrst published 
in 2004 and is regularly reviewed. As we 
work to implement our strategic priorities 
our Core Values Statement provides the 
framework for our policies, programmes 
and relevant procedures. The statement is 
available on our website and applies to all 
Morgan Crucible businesses and employees 
worldwide. 
T aking our 
responsibilities 
seriously ... Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 33
Over 90% of the Group’s manufacturing 
capacity is accredited to ISO 9001 and our 
quality management systems help ensure 
that our products meet or exceed customer 
requirements. Management of the supply 
chain is a key part of ISO9001 and 
ISO14001 accreditation and includes 
supplier questionnaires as appropriate.
We aim to work with our customers, 
suppliers and other partners in mutually 
beneﬁcial ways, and, so far as is practicable, 
require that our customers and suppliers, 
joint venture partners and contractors 
throughout the supply chain, act in 
accordance with our policies and values. 
Our support for the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, referred to in the Our 
People section below, commits us in respect 
of all those who work for the Company 
and those who have dealings with it, 
including suppliers. 
Corporate responsibility 
policy implementation
The implementation of our corporate 
responsibility related policies and procedures 
is aligned with the overall governance 
structure of the Group. The implementation 
of our environmental, health and safety and 
people related policies is covered in more 
detail on the following pages.
Below we describe some of the processes 
for implementing and monitoring our 
key corporate responsibility policies and 
procedures and in respect of veriﬁcation 
of our ESG disclosures.
Business ethics
The Board of Morgan Crucible is committed 
to ensuring that the Company’s policies 
relating to business integrity are upheld. Our 
Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy are 
to be translated into appropriate languages 
for our sites worldwide. The statement and 
policy are promoted to employees globally, 
in particular through coverage in the global 
employee magazine which is available in 
eight languages. Appropriate training is 
provided, including induction training for 
new employees and via e-learning. Both the 
Ethics Policy and the Core Values Statement 
are available on our website.
The Morgan Crucible Ethics and Compliance 
Helpline enables employees and other 
stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, 
misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse 
of Company assets or violations of Morgan 
Crucible’s Ethics Policy to report these 
conﬁdentially without fear of retribution should 
they feel they cannot use a local channel. 
Morgan Crucible’s global Anti-Trust 
Compliance Programme is ongoing with 
training for appropriate employees across 
the Group. Anti-Trust Compliance Ofﬁcers 
within each business report to the Company 
Secretary as Global Compliance Director 
in this regard. The Anti-Trust Compliance 
Programme includes independent audits, 
the results of which are considered by the 
Company Secretary who reports to the 
Executive Committee and the Board on 
the effectiveness of the programme and 
on any issues arising.
Morgan Crucible has made a three year 
commitment to help support the Army Cadet 
Force Association Outreach Project. This UK-wide 
and ambitious project helps socially disadvantaged 
young people who are vulnerable to crime to 
become better citizens. Young people, usually aged 
between 12 and 14, are referred by youth offending 
teams, referral panels, police and schools. Typically 
they have been subject to a police reprimand, or 
warning, excluded from school, or are showing 
behavioural problems. Statistics indicate that the 
behaviour or attitude of 60% of the young people 
referred shows a signiﬁcant improvement after 
nine months. The Army Cadet Force uses 8,000 
volunteer instructors and Morgan Crucible is proud 
to be able to help. For further details see www.
armycadets.com
Literacy is a national priority in South Africa. 
Thermal Ceramics in Springs has been supporting 
the National Skills Development Strategy with an 
hour of training included at the beginning or end 
of the working day. Employees match this time 
commitment and start with reading and writing 
before moving on to computer, maths and life 
skills such as ﬁnancial budgeting.  Over the past 
seven years many have been awarded certiﬁcates 
of competence and a number have completed 
post-school qualiﬁcations. Most employees have 
completed their literacy and maths training and the 
focus for 2009 will be on technical and work-related 
subjects. The beneﬁts of the programme are two 
way as employees grow their skills, helping the 
Company to meet the need for an educated and 
motivated workforce.
Morgan commits to ACFA project
Morgan helps extend literacy in South Africa Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 34
Corporate responsibility
continued
Our staff also support a variety of local and 
national initiatives and projects, helping to 
raise funds and giving their time. Examples 
of employee activities include:
Employees at the Technical Ceramics New Bedford, MA, USA site continue 
to be strong community supporters. 
Working closely with United Way, 
employees pledge payroll deductions 
to local charities, make donations to 
the local United Way Food Pantry and 
participate in the United Way Day 
of Caring, when they help with 
landscaping, painting, and other 
community tasks. 
One of the ﬁnance team at Carbon’s Durham, CT, USA facility works with 
Covenant to Care for Children, a 
non-denominational organisation, 
to help abused, neglected and 
impoverished children. Through their 
‘Adopt a social worker’ programme over 
27,000 children have received help in 
the past year.
Employees from the Technical Ceramics plants at Corby and Derby in the UK 
collaborated to raise over £2,000 to 
combat breast cancer by participating 
in the Edinburgh Moon Walk and Breast 
Cancer Awareness Day.
Mark Moore, Technical Ceramics Director of Strategy Implementation, ran the 
2008 Dublin marathon to raise funds for 
the Alzheimer’s Society. He achieved his 
target time (under 3 hours 50 minutes) 
and, sponsored by a number of 
colleagues, raised over £1,000. 
Two days after the Wenchuan earthquake in May 2008, the staff at the plant in 
Yixing, China, organised a donation to 
help support the earthquake victims. 
The employees and the company jointly 
donated 50,000RMB (approx £5,000). 
provided. In respect of the Anti-Trust 
Compliance Programme, the independent 
audits referred to above conﬁrm the 
continued effectiveness of the programme. 
Customers and suppliers
Morgan Crucible continues to beneﬁt from 
long term relationships with many customers 
and suppliers, reﬂecting the effectiveness 
of our customer service and supplier related 
strategies. Some examples of our customer 
relationships are included on pages 8 and 9 
and elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Community
In 2008 Morgan Crucible made charitable 
donations of £114,736 (2007: £193,598). 
This is in addition to the time given and 
donations made by Morgan Crucible 
employees around the world.
During 2008, Morgan Crucible supported 
a number of initiatives at Group, Divisional 
and site level. The main emphasis of this 
support is to help disadvantaged young 
people and sponsor local community 
projects which can also engage and involve 
employees. Example initiatives include:
The Group’s most signiﬁcant commitment in 2008 was to provide 
£60,000 over three years to support the 
Army Cadet Force Association (ACFA) 
Outreach Project as detailed in the case 
study on page 33. 
Morgan continues to support the joint Barnardo’s/Outward Bound initiative 
which provides opportunities for young 
people to develop life skills at a centre in 
Ullswater, UK.
Our Divisions sponsor a number of local sports facilities and the teams that use 
them. For instance, Technical Ceramics 
Stourport, UK provides a football pitch 
for the local team, and in the USA, the 
Carbon Division supports a number of 
athletic teams in St Mary’s, PA.
In South Africa, Thermal Ceramics continues to run its voluntary literacy 
and life skills programme for shop ﬂoor 
employees as detailed in the case study 
on page 33. 
Community
The implementation of our community-
related policies and procedures is aligned 
with the management of our overall 
business and is focused at site level on 
engagement and initiatives which are 
relevant to the local community and to 
our business. Divisional and Group support 
is made available where appropriate. 
All charitable and other donations are 
fully accounted for.
Customers and suppliers
The Chief Executive of each of our Divisions 
has speciﬁc responsibility for customers 
and suppliers and the related policies and 
procedures within their respective Divisions.
Veriﬁcation of ESG disclosures
Our Company Secretary and the Director 
of Risk Assurance work with external 
independent consultants to review and 
where appropriate verify our environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) disclosures. 
This process covers the environmental, 
health and safety and human resources 
related non-ﬁnancial key performance 
indicators included in this report. 
All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly 
reviewed under the Group’s Compliance 
Audit Programme and those sites and 
businesses certiﬁed to ISO9001, ISO14001, 
OHSAS18001 and other standards have 
regular external audits. The Group also uses 
external professional advisers in relation to 
speciﬁc health and safety and environmental 
matters as required.
The Board considers that these procedures 
provide a reasonable level of assurance that 
the Group’s ESG disclosures are free from 
material misstatement whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
Corporate responsibility 
policy effectiveness
Business ethics
Ethics-related issues raised through the 
Ethics and Compliance help line or via 
other channels are initially investigated 
by the Director of Risk Assurance. Further 
investigations may be conducted through 
the Audit Committee as required. Where 
appropriate disciplinary action is taken 
and/or additional guidance and training  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 35
Environmental management systems are in 
place at 84 sites worldwide, representing 
over 90% of production capacity, including 
28 major sites or 41% of capacity certiﬁed 
to ISO14001. The nine sites acquired from 
the Carpenter Technology Corporation were 
not certiﬁed and two ISO14001 certiﬁed 
sites were closed during the year. Plans 
are in place for a number of the former 
Carpenter sites and a number of other sites 
to achieve certiﬁcation in 2009-10. This is 
in addition to the ongoing programme of 
re-certiﬁcations.
Morgan Crucible’s environmental 
management processes also include the 
EHS Compliance Audit Programme. This 
programme provides assurance and helps 
ensure compliance with local regulations 
and good management practice using 
external auditors in Europe and Asia and 
in-house resources in North America. We 
audit all the Group’s manufacturing facilities 
on a three year rolling cycle and audited 
23 sites during 2008, including the nine sites 
acquired from the Carpenter Technology 
Corporation, having deferred scheduled 
audits of the Group’s Chinese facilities 
pending completion of the EHS training 
programme (see below). Our target for 2009 
is to audit a further 36 sites.
Training is an integral part of our EHS policy 
implementation programme and during 
2008 we implemented an in-depth EHS 
assessment and training programme at 
all of the Group’s Chinese facilities. The 
work was carried out with the assistance 
of external consultants and included 
comprehensive training of senior management 
and the development and installation of 
an EHS management system at all sites.
Environmental policy effectiveness
The Group monitors the effectiveness of its 
environmental policy through a series of 
environmental key performance indicators 
(KPIs) which are reported Group-wide on 
a monthly basis. The Executive Committee 
and the Board review environmental 
matters regularly.
Veriﬁcation of our environmental, social 
and governance disclosures is discussed 
on page 34.
Our Environmental Policy and implementation 
programmes support our ﬁve strategic 
priorities and our Core Values Statement 
which commits us to strive to minimise the 
impact of our operations on the environment 
and to environmental sustainability in our 
product development programmes. 
This report includes a summary of our 
Environmental Policy and its effectiveness as 
demonstrated through our performance and 
programmes. Further detail will be included 
in our 2008 EHS Report to be published 
on our website in April 2009. The EHS 
Report will also include case studies to help 
demonstrate our approach to enhancing 
the sustainability of our business.
Environmental policy
The Group’s Environmental Policy forms 
part of our EHS Policy Statement which 
is available throughout the Group and 
is published on our website and in our 
EHS Report. 
Our policy applies Group-wide and requires 
high standards at all sites with the objective 
of continuous improvement in environmental 
performance in support of our strategic 
priorities and is based on risk assessment 
and the management and mitigation of 
identiﬁed risks. 
In the coming year we plan to review and 
externally benchmark our EHS policies and 
any revisions will be agreed by the Executive 
Committee and approved by the Board.
Environmental policy implementation
Our Group Environmental Policy forms the 
basis of our environmental management 
systems and processes. The management 
of our environmental performance is aligned 
with the operation of our day-to-day business. 
The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer has speciﬁc 
responsibility for EHS policy and performance, 
supported by the Director of Risk Assurance. 
Operational responsibility is delegated to the 
Chief Executive of each Division and the 
manager of each operation. In practice all 
employees are responsible for ensuring that 
our EHS policies are implemented and for 
identifying additional areas and opportunities 
for further development.
Environment
*CO
2
 equivalent from all energy sources, including 
country speciﬁc electricity.
** Constant currency basis, includes inter-company sales.
† Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including 
recycled material.
CO
2
 intensity*
Tonnes/£m revenue** 
2008 2007 2006
482
537
578
Waste intensity †
Tonnes/£m revenue** 
2008 2007 2006
78
96
104
Water intensity
m
3
/£m revenue** 
2008 2007 2006
3,039
3,716
4,948 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 36
Corporate responsibility
continued
Case study heading 
Across the Group many sites improved their energy 
efﬁciency to help reduce Morgan Crucible’s emissions 
intensity in 2008. Example initiatives include:
 The efﬁciency programme at the Technical 
Ceramics site at New Bedford, OH, USA resulted 
in the replacement of two old air compressors 
with one oil free variable speed drive compressor. 
This saved 69,000 kWh of electricity, cutting 
related CO
2
 emissions by some 40 tonnes.
 The new automated Thermal Ceramics insulating 
ﬁrebrick plant in Yixing, China incorporates best 
manufacturing practice from Thermal plants 
around the world. The new plant uses 20% less 
energy per unit of output relative to the existing 
Yixing plant. 
Morgan Crucible has been working to reduce its 
use of this ﬁnite and increasingly scarce resource 
and has been cutting water use worldwide.
 The Technical Ceramics site in Rugby, UK uses 
waste de-ionised water from its processes 
to service the site toilets. This was previously 
discharged to the sewer. Combined with other 
reduction initiatives this helped reduce site water 
use by 19% and 25% relative to sales. 
 MMS in Brazil has been working to maximise 
water recycling in their production processes. 
This site’s annual water use is down by 1,500m
3
since 2006, a 40% reduction in water use 
intensity over two years.
Reducing CO
2
 emissions through energy efﬁciency
Saving water worldwide
Wherever possible we work to minimise the 
impact of our business on the environment 
and to maximise the positive environmental 
beneﬁt of our products. Selected examples 
of this work are included here, on pages 8, 
10 and 11 and in the Review of operations.
During 2008 we extended our 
environmental reporting to cover the 
nine production sites acquired from 
the Carpenter Technology Corporation 
and the data in this report includes the 
environmental impacts of these businesses 
during their nine months of ownership. 
Where necessary, historic data has been 
restated to reﬂect changes to the business 
and the KPIs reported are at constant 
currency. The summary KPI charts on the 
previous page present our performance in 
real terms, covering 100% of production 
site sales during the year.
Our target for the two years 2007-8 was to 
reduce the intensity of our CO
2
 emissions 
due to all sources of energy use by 5% in 
real terms. Including the former Carpenter 
businesses CO
2
 intensity was down by 17% 
over the two years (9% reduction excluding 
Carpenter). In absolute terms total CO
2
emissions due to energy use were some 
453,000 tonnes (437,000 tonnes excluding 
Carpenter), against 437,000 tonnes in 2007 
and 422,000 tonnes in 2006. Our waste 
intensity was down by 25% over the two 
years (18% down excluding Carpenter), 
ahead of our 5% reduction target. The 
proportion of total waste which was recycled 
was 29% in 2008, the same as the prior 
year and we did not achieve our target to 
recycle 35% of total waste (excluding the 
Carpenter businesses 30% of total waste 
was recycled). Our water intensity was down 
39% over the two years (31% down 
excluding Carpenter). This was ahead of 
the targeted 10% reduction over the two 
years, with improved measurement and 
a variety of reduction programmes helping 
to improve performance.
We will again be targeting reductions in our 
energy, emissions, waste and water intensity 
over the two year period 2009-10. Further 
details will be included in our EHS report to 
be published on our website in April 2009. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 37
Morgan Crucible is committed to 
conducting all its activities in a manner 
which achieves the highest practicable 
standards of health and safety for its 
employees and others affected by our 
operations. This commitment aligns 
with our ﬁve strategic objectives and 
our Core Values Statement.
In this report we summarise our policy 
implementation and effectiveness with 
further detail and case studies to be included 
in our 2008 EHS report which will be 
published in April 2009.
Health and Safety policy
The Group’s Health and Safety Policy forms 
part of our EHS policy statement which 
is available throughout the Group and 
is published on our website and in our 
EHS report. 
Our policy applies Group-wide and requires 
high standards at all sites with the objective 
of continuous improvement in health and 
safety performance. 
In the coming year we plan to review and 
externally benchmark our EHS policies and 
any revisions will be agreed by the Executive 
Committee and approved by the Board.
Health and Safety policy 
implementation
Our Group Health and Safety Policy 
forms the basis of our health and safety 
management systems and processes. 
As with environmental performance, 
the management of our health and safety 
performance is aligned with the operation 
of the business. In practice all employees 
are responsible for ensuring that our health 
and safety policies are implemented and 
for identifying additional areas and 
opportunities for further development.
All of our major sites worldwide have 
health and safety management systems 
in place, with nine sites certiﬁed or working 
to OHSAS18001.
Our health and safety management 
processes also include the EHS Compliance 
Audit Programme which is described in more 
detail under the Environmental section.
The training programmes mentioned in the 
environmental section also cover health 
and safety.
Health and Safety policy effectiveness
Our health and safety key performance 
indicators include accident frequencies and 
causes and related lost working time. These 
are used to monitor the effectiveness of our 
health and safety policy and related systems 
on a monthly basis. The Executive 
Committee and the Board receive regular 
reports. During the year, reporting was 
extended to cover 100% of all employees 
(2007: 99%), including the businesses 
acquired from the Carpenter Technology 
Corporation. Veriﬁcation of our health and 
safety and other ESG disclosures is covered 
on page 34.
Our long-term objective is to have no 
accidents and we are working to extend 
our accident preventative and training 
programmes, for example in China. One 
impact of this has been an increase in 
accident reporting rates, which, when 
combined with the effect of the former 
Carpenter businesses saw 2008 increase to 
0.69 lost time accidents per 100,000 hours 
worked. This is a marginal improvement on 
the 2006 rate of 0.70. Manual handling cuts 
and abrasions are the most common cause 
of accidents and a small number of more 
severe cases, combined with the impact of 
the Carpenter businesses, saw health and 
safety related lost time up to 0.15% of total 
working time. 
Our objectives for 2009 are to work towards 
our long-term goal of zero accidents and 
to continue coverage of 100% of our 
employees. The emphasis on increasing 
reporting rates will continue with particular 
focus on those sites with below average 
performance and on reductions in the 
average time lost per lost time accident. 
Health and Safety
* Lost time accident (LTA): accidents resulting in one 
or more days lost time.
Lost time accident frequency*
LTAs/100,000 hours 
2008
0.69
2007
0.55
2006
0.70
Lost time
% of total working time 
2008
0. 15
2007
0.08
2006
0.03
Lost time per LTA*
Days per LTA 
2008
26.3
2007
19.2
2006
13.8 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 38
Corporate responsibility
continued
Our people
brieﬁngs, employee forums, Divisional 
newsletters and through the Morgan 
Crucible ‘360°’ magazine. In addition 
we undertake regular employee surveys, 
as highlighted opposite.
We believe in celebrating the success of the 
business with our employees in recognition 
of their commitment. In 2008 we marked 
the 50th anniversary of the Morgan Crucible 
businesses in Brazil and Mexico, and 
of the GBC Materials business in Latrobe, 
Pennsylvania, USA. Our Thermal Ceramics 
business in Wissembourg, France celebrated 
its 40th anniversary and our Diamond 
Crucible Company in Mehsana, India 
celebrated its 25th anniversary. During this 
period 20 employees around the world 
celebrated 40 years of loyal service with 
Morgan Crucible.
People development
We provide blended learning solutions 
for employees at all levels. This helps them 
achieve their full potential by developing 
the depth and breadth of various skill sets. 
Development opportunities are aligned with 
our vision of being one of the very best 
advanced materials companies in the world. 
Our individual annual performance review 
process sets goals for the forthcoming year, 
identifying development necessary to help 
ensure the successful completion of 
those goals.
Our organisation talent review process links 
the long-term strategy of our businesses 
with the capabilities needed now and in the 
future so that we can develop the skills of 
our employees to support the development 
and growth of our businesses. 
We are growing our Group-wide development 
programmes, including e-learning via the 
internet, to reach our employees globally. 
We launched a ‘Business English’ learning 
programme in 2008 and have 290 participants 
from over 15 countries across all regions, 
including over 100 participants in China. 
We are hugely encouraged by the 
enthusiasm of our employees to grow their 
ability to operate in a global environment. 
In 2009 we will have a number of compliance 
training programmes available via e-learning, 
including Ethics and Human Rights.
To keep ahead of our competitors and 
to grow our businesses we rely on the 
capabilities of our people to deliver added 
value to our customers. We leverage the 
diversity and creativity of our people around 
the world to create a network that reaches 
our customers and supports their individual 
needs globally. Hence, our people are key 
to our success and one of the ﬁve strategic 
priorities for Morgan Crucible is ‘ﬁnding, 
keeping and developing the right people’. 
Assessing the capabilities of our people, 
meeting development needs and creating 
an effective organisational structure are 
essential as we empower our people to 
be successful. 
People policies
Our policy is to provide equal opportunities 
for employees in recruitment, learning and 
development and reward, including for 
those with disabilities. Should existing 
employees become disabled, our policy 
is to provide continuing employment and 
training, wherever practicable.
We support the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and our policy commits us 
to protect the rights of everyone who works 
for the Company and all those who have 
dealings with it. The principles of our policy 
cover; child labour, forced labour, health 
and safety, freedom of association, 
discrimination, discipline, working hours 
and compensation and the policy is 
published on our website. We aim regularly 
to communicate the policy and provide 
training to ensure its implementation in our 
businesses. Our Ethics and Compliance 
Helpline enables employees who are aware 
of or suspect issues under our Human Rights 
Policy to report these conﬁdentially. 
Implementation of our 
people-related polices
People engagement
The retention of employees is closely related 
to their degree of engagement with the 
business. Ensuring our people are informed 
of what is happening throughout the 
Company and enabling them to connect 
with one another across businesses and 
disciplines supports Morgan Crucible’s 
strategy to keep the right people. We 
communicate regularly through team 
2008
2.4
2007
2.5
Total lost time*
% of working time
2008
7.0
2007
7.1
Employee tenure*
years
2008
14.9
2007
13.5
Training*
hours/employee
* 2008 data covers 96% of employees (2007: 66%).
(for comparison purposes these KPIs exclude the Indian 
facility which was subject to a ‘lock-out’ during part 
of 2007 and 2008). Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 39
People policy effectiveness
Key performance indicators
On average during the year, Morgan Crucible 
employed 10,621 people, up from 9,607, 
including the employees who joined the 
Group as a result of the acquisition of the 
technical ceramics businesses of Carpenter 
T echnology Corporation, with 33% of 
employees in Europe, Middle East and 
Africa, 32% in the Americas, and 35% in 
Asia-Paciﬁc. Of these employees 90% are 
‘permanent’ and 74% are male. During the 
year we extended our processes to gather 
and benchmark employee metrics 
Group-wide and to cover businesses 
acquired during the year. These metrics 
support our strategic priority to ﬁnd, keep 
and develop the right people and as is 
shown in the charts on the previous page 
lost time as a proportion of total working 
time was down in the year and training 
levels were increased. Average employee 
tenure, including both voluntary leavers 
and redundancies, fell from 7.1 to 7.0 years.
People surveys
Since 2003, our people have provided 
feedback through our regular global 
employee surveys. Listening to our people 
with their signiﬁcant knowledge and 
experience of Morgan Crucible is essential 
if we are to continuously improve and grow 
our business over the long-term. 
The 2008 survey was conducted in 16 
languages with 40 questions covering: 
‘Vision, direction and goals’; ‘Communication’; 
‘the global company’ and ‘Your work and 
your site’. The survey could be completed 
online or in hard-copy. This generated
a 75% response rate, a year-on-year 
improvement of 30% with almost 2,000 
more participants than in the previous year. 
With more people participating this has 
created additional challenges as some 
employees are both new to the process 
and to Morgan Crucible following recent 
acquisitions. Consequently, whilst the overall 
results are very positive, there are some 
areas for further attention. We see this as 
an opportunity to involve our employees 
in creatively developing new methods of 
communicating globally and to further 
develop initiatives on employee 
development, reward and recognition. 
With a decentralised organisation, engaging 
people at site level to understand how they 
can contribute directly to the success of their 
site is critical and the feedback conﬁrms that 
our managers are continuing to work very 
hard on this initiative. Results from the 
survey indicate that 84% of our employees 
understand how their job/role contributes to 
the site goals. Additionally, over two thirds 
stated that there are opportunities for them 
to suggest improvements to do things better. 
Involving our employees by utilising their 
knowledge, skills and understanding of 
our products and processes supports the 
engagement and retention of talent in 
our organisation.
Heath and safety and the environment 
are critical to all our businesses around 
the world and this is reinforced with every 
employee on a continuous basis. The survey 
results conﬁrm that 70% of participants 
stated that they have received sufﬁcient 
information and training on health and 
safety matters and understand their role 
in this respect. 
We value the feedback we receive from 
our employees and will endeavour to 
reach as many Morgan Crucible employees 
throughout the world as possible as we 
continue to involve our people whenever 
and wherever possible in building a robust 
business.
People surveys*
      Agree         Neither        Disagree
I understand how my job/role 
contributes to site goals:
There are opportunities for me 
to suggest ideas for improvements 
(how we could do things better):
2008 67% 17% 16%
2007 65% 19% 16%
2005 63% 21% 16%
I receive sufﬁcient information and 
training on H&S matters and 
understand my role in this respect:
69 % 18% 1 3%
2005 67% 20% 13%
2007 69% 18% 13%
2008 70% 16% 14%
2008 84%10% 6%
2007 81% 11% 8%
2005 80% 13% 7%
* An employee survey was not conducted in 2006. Thus 
2005 is used as the base year. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 40
Financial review
Continued progress in 
underlying operating proﬁt 
margins in 2008 with our 
underlying EPS improving 
to 23.4 pence, an increase 
of 18.8% over the 
previous year.
Kevin Dangerﬁeld
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 41
Introduction
These results are produced under 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs). All 
the ﬁgures referred to below are extracted 
from the ﬁnancial statements on pages 
70 to 123 and comply with adopted IFRSs.
We make reference to underlying operating 
proﬁt* and underlying earnings per share 
(EPS). EPS is deﬁned in note 10 on pages 
88 and 89. These measures of earnings are 
shown because the Directors consider that 
they give a better indication of underlying 
performance.
* Underlying operating proﬁt is deﬁned as operating proﬁt 
before amortisation.
Group revenue and operating proﬁt
Revenue Divisional EBITA**
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m 
Carbon 239.9 216.6 36.3 35.2 
Technical Ceramics 212.2 152.6 31.6 20.0 
Insulating Ceramics 382.9 324.0 45.6 37.5
Unallocated costs – – (4.7) (4.6)
Total Group 
revenue 835.0 693.2
Total divisional EBITA** 108.8 88.1
One-off items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated 
with prior period anti-trust litigation (11.4) (9.0) 
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of property 0.8 (0.2)
Total one-off items   (10.6) (9.2)
Underlying operating proﬁt 98.2 78.9
Amortisation of intangible assets (3.2) (1.6)
Operating proﬁt   95.0 77.3
** Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating proﬁt 
before one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Group revenue was £835.0 million (2007: 
£693.2 million). Continuing Group revenue, 
excluding acquisitions, on a constant 
currency basis increased by 4.0% over 
the previous year. 
Foreign currency impact
The principal exchange rates used in the 
translation of the results of overseas 
subsidiaries were as follows:
Average rate Year end rate
2008 2007 2008 2007
US$ 1.8552 2.0003 1.4450 1.9742
Euro 1.2582 1.4615 1.0408 1.3363
Taxation
Group taxation for the year showed a net 
charge of £20.1 million (2007: £15.2 million). 
The effective tax rate was 24% (2007: 21%). 
Dividend
The Group is proposing a ﬁnal dividend 
of 4.5 pence per share bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 7.0 pence per share. 
This total dividend represents a 3.7% 
increase over the prior year.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share was 
23.4 pence (2007: 19.7 pence), an increase 
of 18.8%. Basic earnings per share was 
22.2 pence (2007: 19.1 pence), an increase 
of 16.2%. Details of these calculations can 
be found in note 10 on pages 88 and 89.
Balance sheet
At the year end total equity was 
£208.0 million (2007: £196.3 million) 
with closing net debt of £290.4 million 
(2007: £119.7 million).
Non-current assets were £583.8 million 
(2007: £391.7 million) and total assets 
increased from £737.2 million in 2007 to 
£1,078.7 million at the end of 2008. The 
most signiﬁcant elements of these increases 
were due to the acquisition of the Carpenter 
Group of companies in March and the 
translation effect of the strength of the 
US dollar and the euro, in particular, in
the second half of the year.
Group underlying operating proﬁt margins 
continued to show strong progress to 
11.8% from 11.4%, driven by improved 
pricing, operational efﬁciencies and a 
margin enhancing acquisition. 
Group operating proﬁt increased by 22.9% 
to £95.0 million (2007: £77.3 million), 
with operating proﬁt margins increasing 
to 11.4% from 11.2%. 
The table below highlights the half-yearly 
improvement that we have made since 2007 
with the second half of 2008 showing a 
11.9% underlying operating proﬁt margin.
Continuing Group results
(actual currency rates used)
2008 2007
1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 401.2 433.8 347.8 345.4
Underlying 
operating proﬁt 46.4 51.8 39.9 39.0
Underlying operating 
proﬁt margin 11.6% 11.9% 11.5% 11.3%
The continuing rationalisation and 
restructuring of our manufacturing footprint 
cost £10.5 million in 2008 (2007: £9.8 
million) and costs associated with the 
settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation 
were £0.9 million (2007: a cost recovery of 
£0.8 million). 
The net ﬁnance charge was £12.7 million 
(2007: £5.5 million). This net ﬁnance 
charge was comprised of three elements. 
Net bank interest and similar charges were 
£14.3 million (2007: £7.2 million). Foreign 
exchange gains on net investment hedge 
were £1.5 million (2007: £nil). The ﬁnal 
part of the ﬁnance charge under adopted 
IFRSs is the net IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts
income which was £0.1 million (2007: 
£1.7 million charge).
A ﬁve-year summary of the Group’s ﬁnancial 
results is set out on page 124 of this report. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 42
type. The largest of these are located in 
the UK and the US with others in Europe. 
Net employee beneﬁt liabilities totalling 
£101.8 million are included in the ﬁnancial 
statements at the end of the year, an increase 
of £54.1 million compared with the previous 
year. Of this increase, £37.6 million was in the 
US and the main elements are shown in note 
21, which include exchange adjustments of 
£8.1 million. The US pension schemes show 
a deﬁcit of £61.4 million on an IAS 19 basis.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business review on pages 16 
to 45. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, 
its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described earlier in 
this Financial Review. In addition, note 20 to 
the ﬁnancial statements includes the Group’s 
policies and processes for managing 
ﬁnancial risk; details of its ﬁnancial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital requirements through local banking 
arrangements that are supported by a 
committed bank syndication facility of 
$420 million. The Group’s forecasts and 
projections, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, 
show the Group operating within the level 
of its current facility. The Group is well 
advanced in the reﬁnancing of its bank 
syndication facility, which is due for renewal 
in March 2010, and expects to complete this 
exercise in the ﬁrst half of 2009.
The current economic climate will have an 
impact on the Group, its customers and 
suppliers, but it is too early to be precise 
about the scale and duration of these effects. 
The Board fully recognises the challenges 
that lie ahead, but after making enquiries, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
Annual Report and accounts.
by Group Treasury. Currency translation risks 
are controlled centrally. The Group’s policy is 
to manage the translation exposure of 
overseas net assets by seeking to match the 
currency of borrowings with the currency in 
which the net assets are denominated. The 
objectives are to maintain a low cost of 
borrowing whilst maintaining a balanced 
portfolio of net assets by currency.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity
All of the Group’s borrowing facilities are 
arranged by Group Treasury and the funds 
raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries 
on an arm’s-length basis. In a few cases 
operating subsidiaries have external 
borrowings but these are supervised 
and controlled centrally.
The Group is currently looking to reﬁnance 
the existing $420 million facility which will 
mature in March 2010.
Capital investment
The Group has well-established formal 
procedures for the approval of investment 
in new businesses and of capital expenditure 
to ensure appropriate senior management 
review and sign-off.
Interest rate risk
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that 
between 30% and 70% of its exposure 
to changes in interest rates on borrowings 
is on a ﬁxed rate basis.
Tax planning risk
The Group’s reported after tax income is 
calculated based on the relevant tax legislation 
in each of the jurisdictions that it operates in. 
Changes in tax legislation (including tax rates) 
could materially affect the Group’s after tax 
income. The Group undertakes tax planning 
initiatives where appropriate. The outcome 
of such planning cannot be assured and could 
materially inﬂuence the effective tax rate.
Accounting policies
We have adopted International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(adopted IFRSs) in 2005. All accounting 
policies shown on pages 74 to 81 are 
compliant with adopted IFRSs. 
Pensions
The Group operates a number of pension 
schemes throughout the world, the majority 
of which are of a funded deﬁned beneﬁt 
Financial review
continued
Cash ﬂow
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 
was £111.2 million (2007: £89.5 million). 
This performance included a £21.8 million 
increase in working capital (2007: increase 
of £18.5 million). Cash costs in the year 
from restructuring projects and costs 
associated with prior period litigation were 
£11.5 million (2007: £11.4 million). The 
Group saw a £23.2 million free cash ﬂow 
before dividends for 2008 (2007: £23.7 
million). Net cash outﬂow in connection 
with the share buy-back programme 
announced in December 2006 was
£12.1 million (2007: £46.9 million) and, in 
addition, the Group purchased £nil million 
(2007: £0.8 million) of shares in connection 
with the various share incentive schemes. At 
the year end, the Group had net borrowings 
of £290.4 million (2007: £119.7 million). 
The cash ﬂow on page 72 highlights the 
main cash movements in 2008.
2008 2007
£m £m
Net cash inﬂow from 
operating activities   111.2 89.5
Net capital expenditure   (31.5) (33.1)
Restructuring costs and 
other one-off items (11.5) (11.4)
Net interest paid (16.9) (8.8)
Tax paid (28.1) (12.5)
Free cash ﬂow before dividends 23.2 23.7
Dividends (18.8) (18.8)
Cash ﬂows from other 
investing activities (86.2) (45.7)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities (12.1) (47.7)
Exchange movement   (76.8) 2.9
Opening net debt (119.7) (34.1)
Closing net debt   (290.4) (119.7)
Treasury policy
Group Treasury acts as a service to Morgan 
Crucible’s business, not as a proﬁt centre. 
Group Treasury seeks to reduce ﬁnancial risk 
and to ensure that the Group has sufﬁcient 
liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs. 
It is responsible for all of the Group’s funding 
requirements, cash management and other 
treasury business. Group Treasury makes 
limited use of derivative instruments to 
hedge foreign currencies and interest rates; 
speculative transactions are not permitted.
Foreign exchange risks
Subsidiaries are encouraged to manage 
all material transactional foreign currency 
exposures using forward contracts. Any items 
of a more complex nature require approval  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 43
Risk management
Financial
Operating in a number of countries, 
we are exposed to events in the ﬁnancial 
environment that impact the Group 
including commodity and energy prices, 
currency exchange, the current credit crisis 
and other ﬁnancial market incidents, market 
volatility, interest rates, liquidity, pension 
funding, tax planning, etc. These risks are 
mitigated through proactive assessment, 
contingency planning and the use of 
appropriate mitigation. 
Examples of mitigation include:
Optimising exchange rate exposure through the supply chain by raw 
material sourcing, manufacturing and 
selling to minimise exchange rate impact.
Minimising the impact on the Group of a major currency devaluation. 
Fixing long-term pricing for the purchase of energy and other materials.
Entering into certain hedging arrangements to help manage the 
impact of currency ﬂuctuations; 
the Group’s relevant treasury policies 
are summarised in the Financial review 
on page 42.
Managing pension funds using independent, competent Trustee 
Boards and external advisers.
Further details of the Group’s pension 
plans and employee beneﬁts are included 
in note 21 on page 105.
Introduction
Our risk management processes are 
designed to identify, manage and mitigate 
business risks that could impact the Group’s 
short and long-term performance and value. 
The processes will not eliminate risks but 
rather mitigate them to an acceptable 
level within the context of the business 
environment in which we operate.
Management of business risk is an integral 
part of delivering performance and is the 
responsibility of all managers. Our risk 
management decision-making and reporting 
procedures are integrated in our formal 
business reporting up to the Board. We 
benchmark best practices to ensure that our 
processes are evolving and effective. Key 
risks are monitored by the Risk Management 
Committee and effectiveness of risk 
management and internal control is 
monitored by the Audit Committee. 
The risks described below include the main 
areas of risk that could impact Morgan 
Crucible. These cover most areas of known 
and emerging business risk. They include 
internal risks where we have a greater 
degree of control and inﬂuence as well as 
external risks where our ability to completely 
control them may be more limited. They are 
nevertheless assessed and managed down 
to an acceptable level.
Strategic planning risks 
Such risks relate to the appropriateness 
of strategy, business model or product 
portfolio, acquisitions and disposals. 
The risks to planning and delivery of
the strategy are also included.
External risks
Political, economical and social
We are exposed to these risks in a number 
of countries in which we operate as part of 
realising business opportunities. We operate 
within the local conditions while monitoring 
the political, economic and social changes in 
these countries and adjusting our business 
plan and operations accordingly. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 44
From time to time and in the normal 
course of business, we are subject to certain 
litigation, in particular in the USA. Provision 
for the expected costs and liabilities are set 
out in note 22 to the accounts. If the 
liabilities arising were signiﬁcantly to exceed 
the amounts provided for, there could be 
a material ﬁnancial effect on the value of 
the Group. 
Health, safety and environmental
Our operations involve the normal 
environmental, health and safety risks 
associated with manufacturing operations 
in the countries in which we operate. 
Although we believe that our operations 
are in compliance with current regulations, 
we cannot eliminate the risk of all accidents 
or non-compliance.
Further detail of the programmes in place 
to manage these risks are included on 
pages 35 to 37.
Business conduct risks
Risks such as a potential breach of our 
Core Values Statement in the area of 
ethical behaviour could impact the 
Group’s reputation or image. 
Our reputation with our stakeholders is 
fundamental to the continued success of the 
Group and we mitigate such risks through 
various means, including:
Our corporate responsibility programme, and our Statement of Core Values. 
Our Ethics Policy and Internal Compliance Reporting Helpline.
Our systems of internal control and risk management.
The Group’s Ethics Policy and Anti-Trust 
Compliance Programme are further 
described in the Corporate responsibility 
section. The programmes address the risk 
of unethical business behaviour and are 
supported by mandatory training and the 
Group’s Ethics and Compliance Helpline.
Operational risks 
Financial, physical property, intellectual 
property and information
The Group’ s ﬁnancial, physical and intellectual 
property assets are exposed to risks such as 
theft, loss, natural catastrophe, accidental 
disclosure, etc. Such incidents can also 
impact the continuity of the business.
These risks are managed through internal 
controls, proactive design and protection 
of facilities and business continuity measures 
to minimise the impact of an incident. 
Audits by experts in their ﬁelds (including 
ﬁnancial auditors) review and assess the 
effectiveness of such measures.
In some cases, risks are partially transferred 
through insurance programmes.
Human resources risks
The Group maintains human resource 
policies and processes to manage the risks 
relating to our people. e.g. reward and 
recognition, health and safety, talent 
management including succession planning, 
skills assessment and development, 
performance management and employee 
consultation. 
Product development, performance 
and safety risks
Our products are used in many industrial 
sectors including medical, aerospace and 
defence. These sectors require high quality 
and conformance to speciﬁcation as well 
as consideration of the health and safety 
of the end users. 
Robust research and development processes, 
both in house and where undertaken in 
co-operation with our customers minimise 
product development risks. Our design, 
testing and quality assurance processes, 
including ISO 9001 accreditations, help 
to control manufacturing risks. 
Market dynamics and competition
Our products tend to be technologically 
advanced and use complex and high added 
value manufacturing techniques. We operate 
in a business environment where we need 
to be proactive with respect to market 
dynamics including customer preference, 
new technology and new competition.
We monitor our current areas of business, 
working with our customers to ensure that 
we continue to satisfy their evolving needs. 
We adjust our strategies and business plans 
to reﬂect changing conditions, thereby 
helping to ensure that risks are managed 
within acceptable limits.
Compliance and ethics risks 
Legal, regulatory and litigation
We are subject to varying laws and 
regulations around the world. Changes in 
these could affect the long and short term 
value of the Group. As a listed company 
we are exposed to the risks of ensuring 
compliance with listing requirements. 
We cannot predict whether future 
developments in laws and regulations 
concerning our businesses will have 
an adverse or a positive effect.
For example, a failure to comply with 
export control regulations could have a 
negative impact, whilst new environmental 
performance legislation which affects our 
customers could increase the demand for 
our energy conserving products and services 
which can help our customers to address the 
requirements of such legislation. 
Risk management
continued Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 45
Morgan Crucible beneﬁts from contractual 
and other relationships with multiple 
stakeholders, including customers and 
suppliers, employees, and joint venture 
partners. These have been built up over 
many years to support the Group’s 
competitive positioning. However, as is 
described below, no one contractual or 
other relationship is considered essential 
to the business of the Group as a whole. 
Further information on the Group’s 
stakeholder relationships are included 
elsewhere in this Business review, including 
in the Corporate responsibility section 
on pages 32 to 39. As referred to in the 
Directors report on page 50, a number of 
commercial and contractual agreements 
include change of control provisions which 
come into effect in the event of a change 
in ownership of the Company following 
a takeover.
Commercial relationships
Morgan Crucible beneﬁts from close 
commercial relationships with a large 
number of customers and suppliers 
none of which are individually essential 
to the business of the Group as a whole. 
Notwithstanding this the Group devotes 
signiﬁcant resources to ensure these 
relationships continue to operate satisfactorily. 
Employees
Morgan Crucible’s most important resource 
is its people and we employ a highly skilled 
and qualiﬁed workforce. Succession plans 
are in place covering key management and 
technical roles and as such no individual 
employee is considered essential to the 
business of the Group as a whole. 
The Directors' contracts are referred to 
on page 64 and are available for inspection 
prior to the AGM and at the Company’s 
registered ofﬁce.
Key contractual relationships
Patents and intellectual property
The Group beneﬁts from technological 
know-how and other forms of intellectual 
property, some of which is covered by 
patents. Collectively this intellectual property 
supports the development and manufacture 
of new products and services to meet 
customer needs, but no one single patent 
is considered essential to the business of 
the Group as a whole.
Joint venture partners
In a number of territories around the world, 
the Group has established joint ventures 
with local partners. Many of these joint 
ventures have been in operation for many 
years; however, no one individual joint 
venture agreement is considered to be 
essential to the business of the Group as 
a whole. 
Banking and other ﬁnancial relationships
Details of signiﬁcant banking and other 
relationships are referred to on page 50 
in the Directors report. However, no one 
individual banking relationship is considered 
to be essential to the performance and value 
of the Company. 
Cautionary statement
This Business review has been prepared for 
and only for the members of the Company 
as a body and no other persons. Its purpose 
is to assist shareholders to assess how the 
Directors have performed their duties, the 
Company’s strategies and the potential for 
those strategies to succeed and for no 
other purpose. The Company, its Directors, 
employees, agents or advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into 
whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. This Business review contains 
forward looking statements that are 
subject to risk factors associated with, 
amongst other things, the economic 
and business circumstances occurring 
from time to time in the countries, sectors 
and markets in which the Group operates. 
These and other factors could adversely 
affect the outcome and ﬁnancial effects 
of the plans and events described. Forward 
looking statements by their nature involve 
a number of risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions because they relate to events 
and/or depend on circumstances that may 
or may not occur in the future and could 
cause actual results and outcomes to differ 
materially from those expressed in or 
implied by the forward looking statements. 
It is believed that the expectations reﬂected 
in these statements are reasonable but 
they may be affected by a wide range 
of such variables. No assurances can be 
given that the forward looking statements 
in this Business review will be realised. 
The forward looking statements reﬂect 
the knowledge and information available 
at the date of preparation and will not
be updated during the year but will be 
considered in the Business review for next 
year. This Business review has not been 
audited or otherwise independently veriﬁed. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 46
Directors and 
Executive Committee
Mark Robertshaw
§
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Mark was appointed as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer in August 2006. Previous to this he 
was Chief Operating Ofﬁcer from February 
2006 and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer from 
October 2004. Before joining Morgan 
Crucible he was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of 
Gartmore Investment Management Plc from 
2000 to 2004. Mark is a non-executive 
Director of Rathbones Brothers plc. He 
previously worked for the NatWest Group 
and also spent nine years as a management 
consultant with Marakon Associates.
Executive Directors Non-executive Directors
Kevin Dangerﬁeld
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer in August 2006, having joined 
Morgan Crucible in July 2000 as Deputy 
Group Financial Controller before being 
promoted to Group Financial Controller. 
Before joining Morgan Crucible Kevin 
worked for London International Group plc 
and Virgin Retail Europe Limited. He 
qualiﬁed as a chartered accountant with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Tim Stevenson OBE
†§
Chairman
Tim was appointed as Chairman of Morgan 
Crucible in December 2006. He is also 
Chairman of Travis Perkins plc, a position 
that he has held since November 2001. He 
was a non-executive Director of Tribal Group 
plc from 2004 to 2008 and was latterly the 
Senior Independent Director. From 1975 
to 2000, Tim held a variety of senior 
management positions at Burmah Castrol 
plc, including Chief Executive from 1998 
to 2000. He is a qualiﬁed barrister.
Martin Flower
*†§
Senior Independent Director
Martin was appointed as a non-executive 
Director in December 2004 and Senior 
Independent Director in April 2008. He is 
also Chairman of Croda International Plc 
and of Alpha Group Plc and is a non- 
executive Director of Low & Bonar PLC and 
Autogrill Group Inc. Martin held a variety of 
senior management positions with Coats plc 
from 1968 to 2004 and was Group Chief 
Executive of that Group and Chairman of 
the Board from 2001 to 2004.
From left to right
Tim Stevenson
Simon Heale
Andrew Given
Martin Flower
Kevin Dangerﬁeld
Mark Robertshaw
Paul Boulton
Amanda Wooding
Tim Hayter 
Andrew Hosty
Don Klas Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 47
Executive Committee
Mark Robertshaw 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Don Klas 
CEO Carbon 
Andrew Hosty 
CEO Technical Ceramics 
Tim Hayter 
CEO Thermal Ceramics
Paul Boulton 
Company Secretary
Amanda Wooding 
Director of Human Resources
Simon Heale
*†§
Simon was appointed as a non-executive 
Director in February 2005 and is the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
He is a non-executive Director of Kazakhmys 
plc, Panmure Gordon and Co plc, 
PZ Cussons plc and Marex Group Limited. 
He was Chief Executive of China Now from 
2007 to 2008 and was Chief Executive 
of the London Metal Exchange from 2001 
to 2006. Simon qualiﬁed as an accountant 
with Price Waterhouse and has had 
extensive experience in the Far East having 
held senior positions with the Swire Group 
in Japan and Hong Kong and with Jardine 
Fleming in Hong Kong.
Andrew Given
*†§
Andrew was appointed as a non-executive 
Director in December 2007 and is the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is 
currently the senior non-executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee at VT 
Group plc and was previously the Senior 
Independent Director and Chair of the 
Audit Committee of Spectris plc. He was 
also formerly a non-executive Director and 
Chair of the Audit Committee of Spirent 
Communications plc. He has extensive 
experience within the manufacturing and 
technology sectors having been Deputy 
Chief Executive of Logica CMG plc and 
in the 1980s held senior management 
positions in Plessey and Nortel Networks.
* Member of the Audit Committee
† Member of the Remuneration Committee
§ Member of the Nomination Committee Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 48
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report together with the ﬁnancial statements and auditors’ report for the year ended 4 January 2009. This 
Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 19 February 2009.
Principal activities and business review
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiary undertakings comprise three reporting Divisions (as outlined on 
page 3) that design, manufacture and market primarily carbon and ceramic components for applications for a wide range of markets. 
A review of developments affecting the Group during the year and of its prospects for the future appears on pages 16 to 45, to be read 
in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 45.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors’ report to include a Business review. Certain information that fulﬁls the requirements 
of the Business review can be found in this Directors’ Report and on pages 20 to 31 (Review of operations), 40 to 42 (Financial review), 
43 and 44 (Risk management), and 32 to 39 (Corporate responsibility), to be read in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 45.
Financial results
The total proﬁt for the year ended 4 January 2009 was £62.7 million (2007: £56.5 million). Proﬁt before tax for the same period was 
£82.8 million (2007: £71.7 million). Revenue was £835.0 million (2007: £693.2 million) and operating proﬁt was £95.0 million 
(2007: £77.3 million). Basic earnings per share was 22.2 pence (2007: 19.1 pence). Capital and reserves at the end of the year were 
£208.0 million (2007: £196.3 million). The total proﬁt of £62.7 million will be transferred to equity. The Group’s accounting policies 
can be found on pages 74 to 81.
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment of a ﬁnal dividend at the rate of 4.5 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, 
payable on 9 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 June 2009. Together with the interim dividend 
of 2.5 pence per share paid on 7 November 2008, this ﬁnal dividend, if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the 
year to 7.0 pence per share (2007: 6.75 pence).
Acquisitions and disposals 
On 31 March 2008 the Company acquired Carpenter Technology Corporation’s Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics businesses 
for £74.6 million.
On 30 October 2008, the Company acquired a further 6.39% of the issued share capital of Carbo San Luis S.A. for £0.7 million bringing 
its interest in Carbo San Luis to 75.6%.
Post balance sheet events
On 6 January 2009 the Company announced an increase in its equity stake in NP Aerospace from 49% to 60% by acquiring 
an additional 11% of the equity for £12.2 million.
The Company proposes to pay a ﬁnal ordinary dividend of 4.5 pence per share in respect of the 2008 ﬁnancial year.
Share capital
As at 4 January 2009, pursuant to an authority granted at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2008, the Company 
was authorised pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 to purchase up to 9.99% of its issued share capital. This authority expires on the 
date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 April 2009 at which the Directors will seek to renew this authority for a further year. 
Pursuant to this authority the Company has during the year under review purchased 6,250,000 Ordinary shares with a nominal value 
of 25 pence each (representing 2.3% of the ordinary issued share capital of the Company as at 4 January 2009) for an aggregate 
consideration of £12.1 million (nominal value £1.6 million). The Directors were of the opinion that the purchase of these shares was both 
in the best interests of shareholders generally and would increase the Company’s earnings per share. The shares purchased by the 
Company have been cancelled. 
The Company’s share capital and details of shares issued and purchased during the year are set out in note 18 on pages 95 to 97. The 
Company’s Ordinary shares represent 99.36% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% cumulative ﬁrst Preference shares 
representing 0.18% and the 5.0% cumulative second Preference shares representing 0.46%. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary. The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: 
to receive dividends, when declared; to receive the Company’s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at general meetings of the 
Company; to appoint proxies; to exercise voting rights. Details of the structure of the Company’s Preference share capital and the rights 
attached to the Company’s Preference shares are set out on page 97. No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Unless expressly speciﬁed to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 49
Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company’s policy in relation to its suppliers is, where possible, to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction 
and to abide by those terms, provided that it is satisﬁed that the supplier provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed 
terms and conditions. The Company and its subsidiaries do not follow any one code or standard on payment practice due to the diverse 
nature of the global markets in which the Group operates.
The number of days’ purchases outstanding for payment by the Company at the end of the year was 33 days (2007: 42 days) and for 
the Group was 68 days (2007: 60 days).
Research and development
Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue to be crucial to the successful development of new products and 
solutions to customer demands. The Company has research and development facilities at its key manufacturing sites. The spend on 
research and development which excludes the amounts spent working with customers and others by way of product enhancement and 
application engineering was £11.4 million during the year (2007: £8.7 million), including £1.6 million of capitalised developme nt costs 
(2007: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of ﬁnancial instruments, together with information on policies and exposure to credit, interest rate and currency 
risks, can be found in note 20 on pages 99 to 105.
Human resources
Details of the Company’s and the Group’s personnel policies (including its policy on equal opportunities for disabled employees) and 
employee involvement are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Following an update of Executive Directors’ service contracts during the year, there are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Employee share and share option schemes
The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of its shares through the provision of a number of employee share and share 
option schemes. 137 employees hold awards under the Morgan Crucible Long Term Incentive Plan, 31 employees hold awards under the 
Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan, 83 employees have options under the Company’s Executive Share Option Schemes 
and 562 employees participate in the Company’s UK Sharesave Plan. There are 95 participants in the Company’s German Employee Share 
Purchase Plan. There are currently no participants in the Company’s US Employee Share Purchase Plan. Details of outstanding options are 
given in note 21 on pages 105 to 112. 
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would normally 
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Morgan General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’) held 2,593,799 shares on 4 January 2009 in connection with awards granted 
under the Company’s Employee Share Schemes. In the period 4 January 2009 to 19 February 2009 no shares were transferred out of the 
Trust. The trustees of the Trust (‘Trustees’) have agreed to waive their entitlement to the payment of dividends on the shares held by the 
Trust. The Directors are not aware that any other shareholders waived or agreed to waive any dividends or future dividends during the 
period under review. 
The Trustees have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to voting any shares held in the Trust at any general meeting. Their policy 
is not to vote the shares. If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, the Trustee will have absolute and unfettered 
discretion on whether or not to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held by them.  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 50
Directors’ report
continued
Directors
All those who served as Directors throughout the year under review are listed on pages 46 and 47. Joe MacHale resigned as a Director on 18 
April 2008.
Details of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 65. The Company has not been notiﬁed of any change 
in their holdings in the period 5 January 2009 to 19 February 2009.
None of the Directors will be offering themselves for election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2009 
as all of the current Directors have been elected or re-elected at the last two Annual General Meetings.
The Company’s Articles of Association (‘the Articles’) give the Directors power to appoint and replace directors. Under the terms of 
reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the 
Board of Directors. The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting 
following appointment and all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the third Annual General Meeting following 
their appointment or re-election.
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the 
business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Directors also seek authority from shareholders at each Annual General Meeting to allot shares, to disapply pre-emption rights and to 
make market purchases of the Company’s Ordinary shares. These powers may be exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company 
passed at its Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify all of the Directors, to the extent 
permitted by law and the Company’s Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of 
their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Donations
During the year, Morgan Crucible companies made charitable donations of £114,736 (2007: £193,598).
Further details of charitable donations and activities of the Group are given on page 34. No political donations have been made.
Signiﬁcant agreements 
As referred to in the Key contractual relationships section on page 45, the Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various 
banking groups. These facility agreements generally include change of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the 
Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities. 
The most signiﬁcant such agreements are: the US$420 million Multicurrency Revolving Facility Agreement which was signed in March 2005 
and subsequently amended by an Amendment Agreement in July 2007 and the US$80 million and US$350 million Note Purchase and 
Guarantee Agreements signed in March 2003 and December 2007 respectively. 
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint-venture agreements. No such individual contract is considered to be signiﬁcant in 
terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 51
Substantial shareholdings
As at 19 February 2009, the Directors have been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share 
capital of the Company:
Number of
Company Ordinary shares %*
Standard Life Investments Ltd 46,169,109 17.09
Prudential Plc group of companies (inc. M&G) 13,822,557 5.12
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 13,591,569 5.03
Schroders plc 12,494,272 4.62
Lloyds TSB Group plc 10,907,770 4.04
Legal & General Group plc 10,790,668 3.99
Aegon UK 10,619,504 3.93
Lazard Asset Management LLC 10,342,906 3.83
BAE Systems Pension Funds Management Ltd 10,142,618 3.75
* The number of Ordinary shares is expressed as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital as at 19 February 2009 in each case.
Disclosures of information to auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Directors’ report conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in ofﬁce. Resolutions for its reappointment as auditors and authority for the 
Directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 17 April 2009 at The Oakley Court Hotel, Windsor Road, Water Oakley, 
Windsor, Berkshire, SL4 5UR. A Circular will be sent with this report to shareholders in March 2009 incorporating the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting and detailing any special business to be transacted at that time.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
We conﬁrm to the best of our knowledge:
The Group ﬁnancial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs), including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB) and those sections of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs as adopted in the EU, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group taken as a whole.
The parent Company ﬁnancial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
ﬁnancial position and loss of the Company.
The Business review contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principle risks and uncertainties 
they face.
For and on behalf of the Board
Paul Boulton 
Secretary
19 February 2009
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP
Registered in England, No. 286773 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 52
Corporate governance
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the year ended 4 January 2009 the Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the June 2006 edition of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code).
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code. It should be read in conjunction 
with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 16 to 45 and pages 59 to 67 respectively. 
Directors
The Board 
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the success of the Company. The Board is satisﬁed it has met the 
Code’s requirements for its effective operation. It has set the Company’s strategic aims, which were reviewed during the year, and has 
ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board sets the 
Company’s values and standards which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on 
page 32 in the Business review.
The Board met formally eight times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major 
business decisions. There is a schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved for the Board including signiﬁcant contractual commitments 
(including the acquisition or disposal of companies/businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions), the review of the 
effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility. Various matters are delegated to duly 
authorised sub-committees of the Board.
During the year a number of Board changes were made. Joe MacHale retired following the Annual General Meeting held on 18 April 2008 
and effective on the same date, Andrew Given was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin Flower was appointed as 
Senior Independent Director. 
As at 4 January 2009, the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman; Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; Kevin Dangerﬁeld, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and three independent non-executive Directors. Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main 
commitments are set out on pages 46 and 47. 
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for 
re-election at least once every three years. Should a non-executive Director serve for more than six years, his re-election would be subject 
to particularly rigorous review. Should any Director serve for longer than nine years he would then be subject to annual re-election. 
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below. 
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible
Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended
Tim Stevenson* 8 8 – –552 2
Mark Robertshaw 8 8 – – – – 2 2
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 8 8 – – – – – –
Joseph MacHale*
#
3 311110 0
Martin Flower* 8 855552 2
Andrew Given* 8 6 5 4542 2
Simon Heale* 8 8 5 5552 2
Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
* Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent, or in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
# Retired from the Board following the AGM on 18 April 2008.
During 2008, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on two occasions. During the 
year, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. On his retirement, Joe MacHale did not express any such concerns.
An appropriate Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance policy is in place. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 53
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The 
Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is responsible for running the Company’s business.
Board balance and independence
Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, 
should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent. At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom 
the Company deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised two executive Directors and three further non-executive 
Directors deemed by the Board to be independent. In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Board’s assessment of a 
non-executive Director’s independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major 
suppliers or with charities receiving material support from the Company. 
During the year the structure and shape of the Board was reviewed. As the Board has regular access to and interaction with senior 
management, and in order to prevent the total size of the Board from becoming unwieldy, it was considered that the current level of 
executive representation on the Board remains appropriate. 
Appointments to the Board
As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 57, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 
for appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisﬁed that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development
The Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties, with Board 
papers generally sent out ﬁve working days before each meeting. 
All Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board. Each Director’s experience and background is taken into 
account in developing a tailored programme.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit operating sites and to meet with management. In addition to visits by individual Directors 
and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility. During 2008 the Board visited three sites in the 
USA, two in Germany and one in the UK. Formal Board meetings took place at the Technical Ceramics site in Southampton, UK, the 
Carbon Division’s Ahrweiler site in Germany and at the Carbon Division’s manufacturing site in Greenville, SC, USA.
Training and development needs are assessed as part of the Board Performance Review process and the Directors regularly update and 
refresh their skills and knowledge. The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed. A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to 
seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and of the individual Directors during the year. The review 
consisted of a structured interview between the Chairman and each Director and the Company Secretary. The one-to-one discussions were 
complemented by a questionnaire and provided each Director with the opportunity to raise broader issues relating to the Company’s 
strategy and governance. The results of the review were communicated to the Board with one-to-one feedback where appropriate. 
The evaluation concluded that the Board was of the right size; works effectively in that there are open and frank discussions covering the 
right and relevant issues; governance obligations are covered effectively; and the Board adds value to the executive team. A number of 
recommendations are being implemented following the review, including increased reporting between meetings; enhancing the exposure 
of the Board to senior management, particularly the Divisional Chief Executives; and Board meetings are to be held at manufacturing 
locations as often as feasible. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairman’s 
performance during the year, taking into account the views of the executive Directors. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 54
Corporate governance
continued
Remuneration
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 59 to 67.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects as required by the Code is included in the 
Business review on pages 16 to 45. The Board also presents updated information in its Interim and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements is set out on 
page 58 and the ‘going concern’ statement is set out in the Business review on page 42.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Company’s assets. Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system 
annually and did so during the year. This review covered all material controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls, 
and risk management systems. The Audit Committee is assisted by the Risk Management Committee. The Risk Management Committee, 
which is chaired by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are 
adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness. Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee initiates action to improve 
the systems and ensure compliance.
The Directors believe that the Group’s system of internal ﬁnancial controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the assets 
of the Group are safeguarded; transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner; and that such controls would 
prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
risk and to address key business and ﬁnancial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks. The internal control framework 
complements the Group’s management structure. The main features of the Group’s systems for internal control and for assessing the 
potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows:
Control environment The Group’s management processes include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties with 
documented polices and manuals. These cover ﬁnancial procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other areas. In 
addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The Group’s Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and other supporting 
policies and procedures set out the Group’s commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide 
guidance for employees. The Ethics and Compliance Helpline is available to support employees and others in this regard.
Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each Division exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved 
by the Board. Businesses present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets for approval. Monthly results for the Group are 
presented to the Executive Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget and the prior year. The Group’s annual 
and half yearly results are reported externally, in addition to interim management statements. The annual results are audited.
Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee. A comparison of forecast and 
actual results is considered, including cash ﬂows and comparisons against budget and the prior year. Divisional management teams 
also meet regularly to review performance. Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee 
by the Group’s Divisional Chief Executive Ofﬁcers. In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
Risk management The identiﬁcation of major business risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating 
management. Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identiﬁed. The Board, either directly or through the Audit 
Committee, receives reports on ﬁnancial, taxation, insurance, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks from 
management. The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings and the Director of Assurance Risk helps 
to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Group’s operations. 
Risk factors Morgan’s businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are inﬂuenced by macroeconomic trends and are 
therefore outside the Company’s immediate control, although, as described above and in the Business Review, the identiﬁcation and 
management of such risks is carried out systematically. 
Internal audit The Group’s internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes. The Audit Committee 
approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly. Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed 
with management. The head of the internal audit function has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 55
Audit Committee and auditors 
The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the ﬁnancial reporting and internal control 
principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Company’s auditors. This requirement is met by the work of the Audit 
Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Company’s external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc. The Audit 
Committee has received conﬁrmation from KPMG Audit Plc that its general procedures support the auditors’ independence and objectivity 
in relation to non-audit services. After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors’ objectivity 
and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit Plc.
Conﬂicts of interest
During the year the Board adopted procedures to address the requirements of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the 
duty of the Directors to avoid conﬂicts of interest. Prior to 1 October 2008, the date on which Section 175 became effective, and in 
accordance with the GC100 guidance, the Board undertook a review of Directors’ outside interests to identify actual or potential conﬂicts 
of interest, including the interests of connected persons where such interests could give rise to an indirect conﬂict. The only potential 
conﬂicts of interest identiﬁed were outside directorships. The Board considered each Director’s situation and authorised any potential 
conﬂicts for a period of 15 months from October 2008, to be reviewed annually. Such authorisation is revocable at any time at the Board’s 
discretion. In the event of an actual conﬂict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman (the Chairman would notify the Senior 
Independent Director) and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision. 
As of 1 October 2008, Directors are required to continue to (1) disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order to enable 
a prior assessment of any actual or potential conﬂict; and (2) disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives ri se to an actual 
or potential conﬂict. Once an actual or potential conﬂict has been identiﬁed, the Board shall consider whether to authorise the situation 
and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
The Board is responsible for undertaking a regular review of authorisations given and will itself, or through one of its committees, ensure 
that the procedures for reporting and, if appropriate authorising, conﬂicts and potential conﬂicts of interest are operated correctly. In 
addition, the Nomination Committee will review the outside interests of a proposed Director to identify actual or potential conﬂicts of 
interest and will make recommendations to the Board as to whether the situation should be authorised.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders 
The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding 
of objectives. In this respect, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer make themselves available to major shareholders as 
appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the Preliminary and Interim announcements. The Chairman also discusses 
governance and other matters directly with shareholders. The Chairman and the non-executive Directors are invited to investor brieﬁngs 
and attend meetings with major shareholders if requested. The Senior Independent Director is available to attend separate meetings with 
major shareholders on request. 
Following the announcement of the Group’s Preliminary and Interim results and after other signiﬁcant statements and presentations, 
investor opinion is canvassed and any feedback is made available to the Board. In addition, the Board is provided with brokers’ reports 
and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the Company’s website includes details of Stock Exchange 
announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors. At the AGM held 
in April 2008, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer made a short business presentation. Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the 
meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior management before and after the formal meeting. 
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and 
published on the Company’s website as soon as practicable after the meeting. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 56
Board committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are available on the Company’s website.
Audit
The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for ﬁnancial reporting and corporate control. Martin 
Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the Committee throughout the year. Joe MacHale was the Committee Chairman 
until his retirement as a Director on 18 April 2008 when Andrew Given was appointed Committee Chairman. All members of the 
Committee are independent Directors and the Chairman of the Committee has the requisite ﬁnancial experience. 
The Audit Committee met ﬁve times during the year and has the power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, 
auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee. At the end of each meeting the 
non-executive Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors without the executive Directors or other members of 
management present. 
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference include: 
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the ﬁnancial reporting process, the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Company’s ﬁnancial performance and reviewing 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting judgments contained in them.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management systems. Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of 
the external auditors.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors. 
Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken. 
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost 
of the Company. The Director of Risk Assurance has access to the Chairman of the Committee and meets, when appropriate, with the 
Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 2008 included: 
Reviewing the Group’s 2007 ﬁnancial statements and 2008 interim statements prior to Board approval. Consideration of the Group’s main business risks and receiving regular updates on areas of risk. Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit and risk management systems. Consideration of the work and plans for the internal audit function. Appraisal of the Company’s whistleblowing and related procedures and policies. Conﬁrmation of the external auditors’ terms of engagement and fee structures. Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2008 included services amounting to £0.2 million, mainly in connection with the acquisitions completed during the year and tax assistance.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows:
Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors, including the review of their own work; they may not make management decisions; their work must not create a mutuality of interest; and they may not put themselves in the position of 
advocate.
Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditors with a fee in excess of £200,000 should be referred to the Audit Committee. 
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
The proportion of the auditors’ fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee has declined from 36% in 2007 to 11% in 2008.
Corporate governance
continued Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 57
The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their independence and have written to the Committee conﬁrming that, in their 
opinion, they are independent. The Company last changed its auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditors 
which included a re-tender presentation during 2007. The Committee recommended to the Board that the Group’s audit work should not 
be put out to third party tender during 2008.
Remuneration
As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 59 to 67, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting 
remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including beneﬁts such as share options and awards under the Company’s 
incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments. The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration 
for senior management. 
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee 
throughout the year. Joe MacHale was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 18 April 2008. The Committee 
is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources, none of whom takes 
part in discussion of their own remuneration or votes on any resolution. The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of 
any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the 
Committee. The Committee met ﬁve times during the year.
It is the Company’s policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company. During 
the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Rathbone Brothers plc. The fees received by Mark Robertshaw in this 
regard are shown on page 64. 
The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of the Committee’s responsibilities and terms of reference and of the 
Directors’ remuneration and Directors’ interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 59 to 67.
Nomination
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of 
new Directors. A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors. Tim Stevenson as Chairman 
of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale, and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the 
year. Joe MacHale was a member until his retirement from the Board on 18 April 2008.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, 
as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee met twice during 2008.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership 
needs of the Group. In the light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection. Non-executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufﬁcient time to meet their commitments to the Company. Their other signiﬁcant 
commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an indication of the time involved and the Board is informed of any 
subsequent changes. The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include a notice period. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 58
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report and 
the ﬁnancial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the EU (adopted IFRSs) and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law.
The Group ﬁnancial statements are required by law and adopted IFRSs to present fairly the ﬁnancial position and the performance of the 
Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such ﬁnancial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to ﬁnancial 
statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
The parent Company ﬁnancial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company 
and of the proﬁt or loss of the parent Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; for the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with adopted IFRSs; for the parent Company ﬁnancial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company ﬁnancial statements; and
prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial 
position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration report 
and Corporate Governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Paul Boulton 
Secretary
19 February 2009 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 59
Remuneration report
The Directors’ Remuneration report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) and has been approved by the 
Board. Shareholders will be given the opportunity to approve the report at the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2009.
The report has been drawn up in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 
1985 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration report is divided into two parts. The ﬁrst part contains commentary on remuneration policy, which is not required to be 
audited. The second part contains the remuneration tables that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements. 
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the 
Board, speciﬁc remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on 
our website.
During the year the members of the Committee were: Simon Heale who is the Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Joe MacHale, 
Tim Stevenson and Andrew Given. Joe MacHale retired from the Board and from the Committee following the AGM on 18 April 2008. 
Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent. Tim Stevenson was independent at the time of his 
appointment as Chairman to the Board.
The Committee met on ﬁve occasions during the year.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Director of Human Resources attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation. No executive Director or other attendee is present when his or her own remuneration is under 
consideration.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee as its retained advisers in February 2007 and has provided advice on market practice and 
remuneration policy as well as Total Shareholder Return (TSR) analysis. 
During the ﬁnancial year, Deloitte LLP has also provided unrelated tax and corporate ﬁnance services to the Company. 
During the year, Imbucon provided Total Shareholder Return (TSR) analysis relating to the Company’s share plans. Imbucon did not provide 
any other services to the Company. Additionally, the Committee had access to advice from the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer, the Company Secretary, and the Director of Human Resources.
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and 
motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the Company successfully and to create value for 
shareholders. 
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a signiﬁcant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance related and 
based on the achievement of measurable targets which are relevant to and support the business strategy. This is in order to create a strong 
link between performance and reward which should be beneﬁcial to shareholders, employees and the Company. 
In assessing all aspects of pay and beneﬁts, the Committee takes into account the packages offered by similar companies to ensure the 
remuneration packages for executive Directors are competitive against the market in which we compete for talent. For the purposes of 
such analysis, comparator companies are chosen having regard to: the size of the company (e.g. market capitalisation, turnover and 
number of people employed); the diversity and complexity of its businesses; and the geographical spread of its businesses.
In 2007, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the current incentive arrangements in order to ensure that the executive 
remuneration policy and practices continue to support the business. This led to the introduction of the Deferred Bonus Share Matching 
Plan for which shareholder approval was obtained at the 2008 Annual General Meeting. The Committee believes that the current 
remuneration structures continue to be relevant. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 60
Main components of remuneration
The table below summarises the Company’s policies in respect of each of the key elements of executive Directors’ remuneration as they 
applied during the year.
Element Policy Details
Base Salary Provides the ﬁxed element of the remuneration package
Set at competitive levels against the market Benchmarked against companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 350
Annual review date of 1 January Annual Bonus Incentivises the achievement of speciﬁc goals over the short-term
Maximum bonus award of 100% of salary Targets based on ﬁnancial performance (90% of salary) and the achievement of personal 
objectives (10% of salary)
Deferred Bonus Share 
Matching Plan
Designed to encourage long-term Company growth and to retain key individuals over 
this time period
Provides an opportunity for individuals to invest in Company shares and receive 
matching shares based on Group performance
New plan introduced in 2008, designed to work alongside the Long Term Incentive Plan
Up to 50% of the Annual Bonus may be voluntarily deferred into shares for three years 
A matching award of up to three shares for each deferred share may be earned based on 
the Company’ s performance against stretching 
Earnings Per Share (EPS) targets
Long Term Incentive Plan Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders by delivering executive Directors 
and other senior executives shares as a reward 
for outstanding performance
Award of shares based on TSR and EPS performance over a three-year period
Awards to be made in 2009 will be based on TSR
Executive Share 
Option Scheme
Drives and rewards sustained Company performance
Market value options scheme with awards based on TSR performance over a three-year 
period 
No option awards were made in 2008 and there is currently no intention to make awards 
under the scheme in 2009 
Pension Provides post-retirement beneﬁts for participants in a cost efﬁcient manner
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme subject to a notional earnings cap
Above the cap allowance for current executive Directors
Shareholding Guidelines Encourages executives to build an interest in the Company’s shares and supports 
alignment with shareholder interests
Policy of 100% of basic salary for executive Directors
Supported by the Deferred Bonus Share Matching Plan which encourages 
investment in Company shares 
Remuneration report
continued Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 61
The relative proportion of ﬁxed and variable remuneration for the executive Directors at ‘target’ and ‘stretch’ performance is illustrated 
below. This is based on the current incentive arrangements, assuming maximum deferral under the Deferred Bonus Share Matching Plan.
Calculated on a projected value basis assuming 10% pa share price growth at Target performance and 15% pa share price growth at Stretch.
Base salary
The basic salary for each executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance of the 
individual and having regard to practice in companies of comparable size and complexity in the FTSE 350. Salaries are normally reviewed 
on an annual basis. 
The current base salaries for executive Directors are as follows:
Mark Robertshaw – £440,000 (effective from January 2008). Kevin Dangerﬁeld – £255,000 (effective from January 2008). At the request of the executive Directors, there was no increase in base salaries in January 2009. The next salary review will take place in 
January 2010. 
Base salary is the only element of the remuneration package that is pensionable. 
Annual bonus 
The targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the short and long-term requirements of 
the Company. Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid. This approach is intended to align executive reward 
with shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets and fostering the continued development of inter-divisional 
co-operation and collaboration.
The bonus scheme provides the opportunity for executive Directors to earn a bonus of up to 100% of basic salary if stretching 
performance targets are achieved. 
For 2008, 90% of the bonus related to ﬁnancial targets and 10% related to the achievement of personal objectives. The ﬁnancial element 
for executive Directors was based on underlying operating proﬁt performance (up to 80% of salary) and operating cash ﬂow (up to 10% 
of salary). 
For 2009, the bonus will be based wholly on ﬁnancial performance. The targets for the awards will be set to address the new demands 
placed on the business in the current economic climate and will be based on underlying operating proﬁt performance (up to 60% of 
salary) and cash conversion (up to 40% of salary). 
In considering the awards, the Committee will also take into account the quality of the overall performance of the Company. The bonus 
targets set for 2008 were considered to be very stretching, and the bonus awarded to executive Directors who served during the year 
was as follows:
Mark Robertshaw – 60% of salary (100% in 2007). Kevin Dangerﬁeld – 30% of salary (98% in 2007). 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
20%
50%
20%
25%
60%
25%
Stretch
Target
Salary Bonus Long term incentives Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 62
Remuneration report
continued
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Committee believes that share ownership by the executive Directors and senior executives helps align their interests with those of the 
shareholders. Accordingly the Company operates a number of share schemes for the executive Directors and other senior employees, 
details of which are set out below.
Deferred Bonus Share Matching Plan
In 2008 shareholder approval was gained for the introduction of a new long-term incentive plan, the Deferred Bonus Share Matching Plan. 
This Plan now operates alongside other long-term incentive arrangements. The Plan offers executive Directors and senior executives the 
opportunity to ordinarily defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares. Participants must hold the deferred shares for three 
years to be eligible for a matching award. Matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that stretching EPS targets 
have been met.
The performance conditions for awards to be made under the plan in 2009 are as follows:
EPS performance Matching shares
15% pa 3x match
10% pa 1.75x match
7.5% pa 1x match
5% pa 0.5x match
4% pa 0.25x match
< 4% pa 0x match
There is straight-line vesting in between each point above. 
The performance conditions for awards made in 2008 were as above but referenced growth above RPI. Given the change in the economic 
climate, the Committee considers the targets for the 2009 awards above to be stretching.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to 
receive shares as a reward for outstanding performance. The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional 
circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary. The vesting of the awards is subject to the 
achievement of performance targets measured over the three-year period from the start of the year in which the award is made. 
For awards made under the LTIP in 2007 and 2008, the Committee set the targets so that 50% of awards be based on TSR against a 
tailored comparator group and 50% based on real EPS growth. 
The vesting schedule for the awards is as follows:
% of the Award which vests % of the Award which vests
TSR performance against the sector comparator group EPS growth
Upper quartile ranked performance 50% RPI + 10% pa 50%
Median ranked performance 15% RPI + 4% pa 15%
Below median ranked performance 0% < RPI + 4 % pa 0%
Straight-line vesting applies between each point (for both vesting schedules).
The Committee must also be satisﬁed that the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance justiﬁes the level of vesting.
The TSR comparator group is set out below*:
Bodycote International Rotork
Charter Senior
Chemring Group Spectris
Cobham Spirax-Sarco
Cookson Group Tomkins
Halma TT Electronics
IMI Ultra Electronics
Laird Group Weir Group
Meggitt
* The original comparator group also included FKI and Foseco which have subsequently delisted. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 63
During the year, an award over 220,000 shares was made to Mark Robertshaw and an award over 120,000 shares was made to 
Kevin Dangerﬁeld. 
Awards to be made in 2009 will be based 100% on TSR against the comparator group on page 62. The Committee must also be satisﬁed 
that the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance justiﬁes the level of vesting. This approach reﬂects the challenges around setting 
robust EPS targets over the next three years and provides a clear focus on shareholder value creation. 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
The ESOS was also approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the 
opportunity to receive options granted at the market price of the Company’s shares at the time of the grant. The scheme allows awards of 
up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary. 
Option awards are subject to a measure based on the comparative TSR performance of the Company measured over the three-year period 
from the start of the year in which the option is granted. TSR is measured against a comparator group comprising the FTSE 350 at the date 
of grant. If the Company’s TSR performance places it at the median of the comparator group, 30% of the options will be exercisable, with 
100% of the options being exercisable for upper quartile performance. For performance between median and upper quartile, options are 
exercisable on a straight-line pro-rata basis. The Committee must also be satisﬁed that the level of vesting is justiﬁed by the Company’s 
underlying ﬁnancial performance over the period.
No awards were made under the ESOS in 2007 or 2008 and there is currently no intention to make awards under the option plan in 2009. 
The details of options and awards held by all Directors are shown on page 66.
Savings-related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) 
As UK employees, the executive Directors may also participate in the Savings-related Share Option Scheme on the same basis as other 
eligible employees and subject to UK legislation. Scheme members save a ﬁxed amount per month over three years and options have been 
granted with an exercise price at 80% of the market price at the date of grant. Those Directors who received options under this scheme 
are shown in the table on page 67. No performance conditions apply to these options as they are a tax-efﬁcient mechanism for all 
employees to acquire shares in the Company at their own cost. 
Other beneﬁts
Executive Directors are eligible to receive certain beneﬁts including a cash allowance in lieu of a company car, health insurance and, where 
appropriate, relocation and other expenses.
Shareholding guidelines
In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors and senior 
executives. Under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company 
equivalent to at least 100% of basic salary. This policy is supported by the Deferred Bonus Share Matching Plan under which participants 
are encouraged to invest their bonus into Company shares.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Tim Stevenson was appointed as Chairman on 1 December 2006 and during the year he received an annual fee of £125,000. 
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee of £40,000. Additional payments of £4,500 per annum are made to the Senior Independent 
Director, £7,500 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and £5,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Chairman 
and non-executive Directors are also entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board, strategy and other meetings. 
No changes were made to non-executive fees during the year. 
Annual fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive Directors are reviewed on a biennial basis. A review was held in 2008, while no 
increases were recommended for the non-executive Directors an increase for the Chairman was recommended based on market data but, 
at the request of the Chairman, has been deferred for 12 months and will be reviewed again in December 2009. 
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company although they do have letters of appointment which contain 
no obligations relating to any notice period. There are no obligations on the Company to make any payments in lieu of notice to any 
non-executive Director. The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans. Each of the 
non-executive Directors is subject to re-election by shareholders every third year after their initial conﬁrmation by shareholders as a Director.
Should any non-executive Director serve for nine or more years they would be subject to annual re-election. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 64
Remuneration report
continued
Service contracts
In 2008, Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld signed new service agreements. The Company’s policy remains unchanged such that 
executive Directors are employed on contracts subject to 12 months notice at any time. Contracts may be terminated on 12 months’ notice 
given by the Company or on six months’ notice given by the Director concerned. Contracts end on each Director’s anticipated normal 
retirement date. The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year.
Date of Date of
Executive Director appointment service agreement
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 3 August 2006 15 August 2008
Mark Robertshaw 4 August 2006 15 August 2008
Both service agreements for Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld do not contain speciﬁc termination provisions. In the event of early 
termination, the Company may be liable to pay an amount in damages having regard to salary, bonus and other beneﬁts that would have 
been received had they served out their notice period.
Company pensions policy
The executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a contributory, 
HMRC-registered, deﬁned beneﬁt, funded occupational pension scheme. With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme changed 
from ﬁnal salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by ﬁve years. Its main features are now:
A normal pension age of 65. Pension at normal pension age of two-thirds career average pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years’ employment (26 years and eight months for new members).
Life assurance of four times basic salary. Dependant’s pension on death. Pensionable salary is the member’s basic salary restricted to a scheme earnings cap of £117,600 for the 2008-9 tax year.
In addition, executive Directors receive a pension allowance derived from employer contributions based notionally on the registered scheme 
pensionable salary in excess of the earnings cap as at 5 April 2006. The value of the pension allowance for each executive Director is set 
out in the Directors’ emoluments table on page 65. 
External directorships
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, executive Directors may accept 
external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
The total amounts of fees received by Mark Robertshaw in respect of a non-executive Directorship was £35,000. 
Performance graph
The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return (TSR) for the Company for the ﬁve-year period to 4 January 2009 
against the FTSE 350. Both are rebased to 100 as at 5 January 2004. The FTSE 350 is considered to be appropriate for comparison as a 
broad market index and the Company forms part of that index.
T otal Shareholder Return for the five-year period: 
January 2004 to January 2009
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
January 04 January 05 January 06 January 07 January 08 January 09
Morgan Crucible
FTSE 350 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 65
The auditors are required to report on the following information:
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are as follows:
As at As at As at
4 January 4 January 19 February
2008 2009 2009
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 219,002 331,595 331,595
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 81,463 138,717 138,717
Non-executive Directors
Tim Stevenson 29,000 29,000 29,000
Martin Flower 15,000 15,000 15,000
Simon Heale 8,000 18,000 18,000
Joe MacHale (retired 18 April 2008) 100,000 – –
Andrew Given – 10,000 10,000
At the market price on 19 February 2009, Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld held shares worth 76% and 55% respectively of their 
basic salaries.
Directors’ emoluments
Annual Other Total Pension Other Total 
Fees/salary bonus beneﬁts emoluments allowance payments remuneration
£000 £000
1
£000
2
£000 £000 £000 £000
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 440 407 264 414 13 23 717 844 108 109 – – 825 953
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 255 225 77 230 12 17 344 472 60 35 – – 404 507
Non-executive Directors
Tim Stevenson (Chairman) 125 125 – – – – 125 125 –––– 125 125
Martin Flower 43 40 – – – – 43 40 – – – – 43 40
Simon Heale 45 45 –––– 45 45 –––– 45 45
Joe MacHale
3
16 52 –––– 16 52 –––– 16 52
Andrew Given 45 2 – – – – 45 2 – – – – 45 2
Former Directors
Warren Knowlton 
(retired on 3 August 2006)
4
–––––––––– 84 190 84 190
Mark Lejman 
(resigned on 2 January 2008)
5
– 274 – 58 – 13 – 345 – 83 5 411 5 839
1
Annual bonus shows the total bonus payable in respect of the relevant year. Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld voluntarily deferred 50% of their 2007 
bonus awards into the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan as set out in the table on page 66.
2
 Other beneﬁts include private medical insurance, the provision of a company car and fuel.
3
 Joe MacHale retired from the Board on 18 April 2008.
4
£71,499 of the ‘Other payments’ made to Warren Knowlton in 2008 relate to the reimbursement by the Company to Warren Knowlton of US employer social 
costs in respect of his time with the Company. Warren Knowlton’s liability to make such payments resulted from a change in his tax residence in December 2005. 
The social security liability discharged by him was properly an employer cost and there was therefore no material beneﬁt to him resulting from this payment. 
The balancing ﬁgure of £12,725 relates to the cost of providing professional tax advice to Warren Knowlton in accordance with the Company’s agreement with 
him on his retirement.
5
The payment made to Mark Lejman relates to the provision by the Company of life assurance and private medical insurance until December 2008 as agreed 
as part of his leaver provisions. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 66
Remuneration report
continued
Directors’ share options
At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Earliest
5 January during during during 4 January Exercise date of
2008 the year the year the year 2009 price exercise Expiry date
Mark Robertshaw 200,000 – – – 200,000 145.275p 01.11.07 01.11.14
1,000,000
*
– – – 1,000,000 256p 20.12.09 20.12.16
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 10,520 – – – 10,520 180.08p 23.11.04 23.11.11
10,520 – 10,520 – – 49.42p 13.12.05 13.12.12
50,000 – 50,000 – – 129.05p 22.06.07 22.06.14
 150,000 – – – 150,000 256p 20.12.09 20.12.16
The share price at the year end was 121.75 pence and the high and low during the year were 244.75 pence and 67.75 pence respectively.
* This relates to an award made to Mark Robertshaw on his appointment as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in February 2006. The award is structured as a market value 
option over 1,000,000 shares subject to the performance conditions that apply to awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Awards to Directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan
Shares Shares Market Market
As at Allocations released lapsed As at price price
5 January during during during 4 January at date of at date of
2008 the year the year the year 2009 allocation release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2005 LTIP 223,967 – 215,814 8,153 – 171.9p 215.7978p 05.01.05 – 04.01.08
2006 LTIP (May) 250,000 – – – 250,000 242.95p n/a 05.01.06 – 04.01.09
2006 LTIP (December) 50,000 – – – 50,000 256p n/a 05.01.06 – 04.01.09
2008 LTIP – 220,000 – – 220,000 203p n/a 05.01.08 – 02.01.11
Kevin Dangerﬁeld
2005 LTIP 101,803 – 98,097 3,706 – 171.9p 215.7978p 05.01.05 – 04.01.08
2006 LTIP (December) 107,500 – – – 107,500 256p n/a 05.01.06 – 04.01.09
2007 LTIP 80,000 – – – 80,000 282p n/a 05.01.07 – 03.01.10
2008 LTIP – 120,000 – – 120,000 203p n/a 05.01.08 – 02.01.11
The performance measure for the 2005 and 2006 LTIP awards is based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against the 
FTSE350. 30% of the awards vest for achieving median ranked performance with full vesting for upper quartile ranked performance. 
For performance between median and upper quartile, awards vest on a straight-line pro-rata basis. 
Awards to Directors under the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 
Shares Shares Market Market
As at Allocations released lapsed As at price price
5 January during during during 4 January at date of at date of
2008 the year the year the year 2009 allocation release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2008 award 
Investment shares
1
– 104,743 – – 104,743 197.625 – –
Matching shares
2
– 314,229 – – 314,229 197.625 – 05.01.08 – 02.01.11
Kevin Dangerﬁeld        
2008 award 
Investment shares
1
– 58,266 – – 58,266 197.625 – –
Matching shares
2
– 174,798 – – 174,798 197.625 – 05.01.08 – 02.01.11
1
Investment shares represent those shares acquired with a portion of the bonus set out in the emoluments table on page 65 voluntarily deferred into the 
Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan. 
2
 This is the maximum number of shares that could be earned at the end of the performance period if the performance condition set out on page 62 is met in full. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 67
Options under the Sharesave scheme 
As at Granted Exercised Lapsed As at
5 January during during during 4 January Exercise Exercise
2008 the year the year the year 2009 price periods
Mark Robertshaw
2006 scheme 4,725 – – – 4,725 200p 01.03.10 – 31.08.10
Kevin Dangerﬁeld
2006 scheme 4,725 – – 4,725 – 200p 01.03.10 – 31.08.10
2008 scheme – 5,680 – – 5,680 169p 01.12.11 – 31.05.12
Pension beneﬁts earned by the Directors
Executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme. This is a contributory, HMRC-
registered, deﬁned beneﬁt, UK occupational pension scheme. As noted above, the scheme was amended on 6 April 2006.
Transfer value
of accrued 
beneﬁts at Increase/
Increase Increase Transfer 4 January Transfer value (decrease)
Accrued in accrued in accrued value of (a) 2008 of accrued in transfer
beneﬁt at beneﬁts beneﬁts less or date of beneﬁt at value less
4 January excluding including Directors’ appointment 4 January Directors’
2009 inﬂation (a) inﬂation contributions if later 2009 contributions
Executive Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Mark Robertshaw 13 pa 3 pa 4 pa (5) 77 64 (31)
Kevin Dangerﬁeld 24 pa 2 pa 3 pa (1) 190 140 (60)
Notes to pension beneﬁts:
The accrued beneﬁt entitlement for Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld is the pension which would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
The transfer values for the pension beneﬁts have been calculated on the basis set by the Trustee of the pension scheme having taken actuarial advice and in accordance with current legislation.
Members of the pension scheme had the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting beneﬁts are included in the above table.
Mark Robertshaw and Kevin Dangerﬁeld also received a pension allowance, details of which are set out in the Directors’ emoluments table 
on page 65.
The Directors’ Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by 
Simon Heale 
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
19 February 2009 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 68
Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholdings as at 4 January 2009
Number of % of Number % of
holdings total of shares share capital
Size of holding 1-2,000 6,619 75.34  3,733,150 1.38
2,001 – 5,000 1,243 14.15 3,959,701 1.47
5,001 – 10,000 387 4.40  2,770,204 1.02
10,001 – 50,000 272 3.10 5,787,305 2.14
50,001 – 100,000 59 0.67 4,377,251 1.62
100,001 and above 206 2.34 249,578,645 92.37
8,786 100.00 270,206,256 100.00
Holding classiﬁcation Individuals 7,593 86.42 17,925,489 6.63
Nominee Companies 1,079 12.28 248,792,936 92.08
Trust (Pension Funds etc) 12 0.14 127,635 0.05 
Others 102 1.16 3,360,196 1.24
8,786 100.00 270,206,256 100.00
Key dates 
Dividends Subject to the relevant detailed terms and approvals of the Board of Directors where applicable
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and 1 April 2009 and
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each 1 October 2009
Annual General Meeting 17 April 2009
Financial results The interim results are issued in August with the Report and Accounts for the year 
normally posted in March
Other information
Capital gains tax The market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 March 1982 were:
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each 30.5 pence
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each 28.5 pence
For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of Ordinary shares is adjusted to take account 
of rights issues. Any capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account 
of indexation allowances. Since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, 
shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers
Share price The price can be obtained on the Company’s website: www.morgancrucible.com
Company details
Registered ofﬁce Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Registered in England No 286773
Telephone: 01753 837000
Fax: 01753 850872
Website: www.morgancrucible.com
Company registrars
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone (in UK): 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras)
Telephone (from overseas): +44 208 639 3399
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com 
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 69
Independent auditors’ 
report to the members of 
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
We have audited the Group and parent Company ﬁnancial statements (the ‘ﬁnancial statements’) of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
for the year ended 4 January 2009 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Company balance sheets , the 
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes. These ﬁnancial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’ s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’ s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’ s report 
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’ s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs), and for preparing the parent Company ﬁnancial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice) are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements on page 58.
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the ﬁnancial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as 
regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given 
in the Directors’ report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report on pages 48 to 51 includes that 
information presented in the Review of operations on pages 20 to 31, Financial review on pages 40 to 42, and Risk management section on 
pages 43 and 44 that are cross referenced from the Principal activities and business review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reﬂects the Company’ s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’ s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’ s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ﬁnancial statements. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the ﬁnancial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An 
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the Directors 
in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s and Company’ s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be 
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with adopted IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 4 January 2009 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; the parent Company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at 4 January 2009; 
the parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and 
the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor
8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB
19 February 2009 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 70
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Revenue 2 835.0 693.2 
Operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 5 (726.2) (605.1)
Proﬁt from operations before restructuring costs, 
other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 108.8 88.1 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation 9 (11.4) (9.0)
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of property 0.8 (0.2)
Proﬁt from operations before amortisation of intangible assets    2 98.2 78.9 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 (3.2) (1.6)
Operating proﬁt 2 95.0 77.3 
Finance income 34.3 28.8 
Finance expenses (47.0) (34.3)
Net ﬁnancing costs 7 (12.7) (5.5)
Loss on disposal of business (0.7) (0.3)
Share of proﬁt of associate (net of income tax) 13 1.2 0.2 
Proﬁt before taxation 82.8 71.7 
Income tax expense (all relates to overseas tax payable)     8 (20.1) (15.2)
Proﬁt after taxation for the period 62.7 56.5 
Proﬁt for period attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 59.2 52.6 
Minority interest 3.5 3.9 
62.7 56.5 
Earnings per share 10
Basic 22.2p 19.1p
Diluted 21.6p 18.5p
Dividends
Interim dividend – pence 18 2.50p 2.25p
– £m 6.8 6.3 
Proposed ﬁnal dividend – pence 18 4.50p 4.50p
– £m 12.2 12.4 
The proposed ﬁnal dividend is based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 4 January 2009 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 71
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 319.6 246.6 
Intangible assets 12 177.0 69.8 
Investment in associate 13 6.4 5.2 
Other investments 13 5.2 7.5 
Other receivables 16 39.0 36.8 
Deferred tax assets 14 36.6 25.8 
Total non-current assets 583.8 391.7 
Inventories 15 143.9 97.7 
Derivative ﬁnancial assets 20 0.2 –
Trade and other receivables 16 196.3 139.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 17 154.5 108.0 
Total current assets 494.9 345.5 
Total assets 2 1,078.7 737.2 
Liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 410.9 193.1 
Employee beneﬁts 21 101.8 47.7 
Grants for capital expenditure 0.2 0.2 
Provisions 22 7.2 5.7 
Non-trade payables 23 4.0 3.7 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 20 0.8 0.2 
Deferred tax liabilities 14 40.8 19.2 
Total non-current liabilities 565.7 269.8 
Bank overdraft 17 17.3 20.8 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 16.7 13.8 
Trade and other payables 23 220.9 208.5 
Current tax payable 22.4 15.2 
Provisions 22 12.5 11.8 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 20 15.2 1.0 
Total current liabilities 305.0 271.1 
Total liabilities 870.7 540.9 
Total net assets 208.0 196.3 
Equity
Issued capital 18 67.9 69.5 
Share premium 18 85.3 85.3 
Reserves 18 45.3 32.5 
Retained earnings 18 (20.7) (11.1)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of parent company     177.8 176.2 
Minority interest 18 30.2 20.1 
Total equity 18 208.0 196.3 
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Kevin Dangerﬁeld, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 4 January 2009 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 72
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Proﬁt for the period 62.7 56.5 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 5 27.6 23.7 
Amortisation 5 3.2 1.6 
Net ﬁnancing costs 7 12.7 5.5 
Loss on disposal of business 0.7 0.3 
Share of proﬁt of associate 13 (1.2) (0.2)
Proﬁt on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.7) (0.1)
Income tax expense 8 20.1 15.2 
Equity settled share-based payment expenses 2.2 2.7 
Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital and provisions   127.3 105.2 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (8.7) 5.7 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (11.9) (8.5)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables (1.2) (15.7)
Non-cash operating costs relating to restructuring 5 4.2 0.2 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee beneﬁts      (10.0) (8.8)
Cash generated from operations 99.7 78.1 
Interest paid (21.1) (12.5)
Income tax paid (28.1) (12.5)
Net cash from operating activities 50.5 53.1 
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (33.4) (34.9)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      1.9 1.8 
Sale/(purchase) of investments 1.9 (0.3)
Interest received 4.2 3.7 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and associate, net of cash acquired      (79.2) (9.4)
Forward contracts used in net investment hedging (8.9) –
Issue of debt to associate – (36.0)
Net cash from investing activities (113.5) (75.1)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares 18 (12.1) (47.7)
Increase in borrowings 17 127.2 102.5 
Payment of ﬁnance lease liabilities (0.3) (0.3)
Dividends paid (18.8) (18.8)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 96.0 35.7 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 33.0 13.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 90.1 73.5
Effect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on cash held 16.3 2.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at period end     17 139.4 90.1 
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings is shown in note 17.    
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
for the year ended 4 January 2009 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 73
2008 2007
£m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences 61.6 14.8 
Net loss on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries      (42.8) (6.9)
Actuarial loss on deﬁned beneﬁt plans (47.0) (9.9)
Deferred tax associated with employee beneﬁt schemes      5.4 0.5 
Cash ﬂow hedges:
Effective portion of changes in fair value (3.4) (1.2)
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale      (3.8) 0.3 
Income and expense recognised directly in equity      (30.0) (2.4)
Proﬁt for the period 62.7 56.5 
Total recognised income and expense for the period      32.7 54.1 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 29.2 50.2 
Minority interest 3.5 3.9 
Total recognised income and expenses for the period      32.7 54.1 
Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
for the year ended 4 January 2009    Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 74
1. Accounting policies
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’), and include 
the Group’s interest in associates. The parent company ﬁnancial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity 
and not about its Group.
The Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; these are presented on pages 115 to 123.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group 
ﬁnancial statements.
In the application of these accounting policies, judgments made by the Directors that have a signiﬁcant effect on the ﬁnancial statements 
and estimates with a signiﬁcant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note 28.
a Measurement convention
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁnancial instruments available-for-sale. 
b Functional and presentation currency
The Group ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency.
c Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but not control, over the ﬁnancial and operating policies. 
Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates 
are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identiﬁed on 
acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s share of the income, 
expenses and equity movements of the associate, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date 
that signiﬁcant inﬂuence commences until the date that signiﬁcant inﬂuence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest 
in an associate, the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the 
extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the associate.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with the associate are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but 
only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 
d Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling 
at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds 
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 75
1. Accounting policies continued
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to 
pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations, are translated 
to pounds sterling at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since the adoption of IFRSs are recognised directly in a separate 
component of equity.
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of related hedges, are taken to the 
translation reserve. They are released to the income statement upon disposal.
e Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, 
ﬁnancing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in proﬁt or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on 
the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy f). 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted 
forward price.
f Hedging
(i) Cash ﬂow hedges
Where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ﬂows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly 
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative ﬁnancial instrument is recognised directly in the 
hedging reserve. If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a ﬁnancial asset or a ﬁnancial liability, the 
associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in the hedging reserve are reclassiﬁed into proﬁt or loss in the same period or 
periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects proﬁt or loss (i.e. when interest income or expense is recognised). For 
cash ﬂow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the 
hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction 
affects proﬁt or loss. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and 
is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take 
place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in the hedging reserve is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(ii) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset 
or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an 
effective hedge is recognised directly in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in proﬁt orloss.
g Property, plant and e uipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment 
losses (see accounting policy l). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of production overheads. 
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 5 January 2004, the date of transition 
to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation. Where parts of an 
item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the 
carrying amount of the asset. Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in ‘Other one-off items’ in proﬁt or loss. Gains 
and losses on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in ‘Operating costs’ in proﬁt or loss. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 76
1. Accounting policies continued
(ii) Leased assets
Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. 
Leased assets acquired by way of a ﬁnance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings 50 years
Plant and equipment – presses, kilns and furnaces 10-20 years
Other plant and equipment 10 years
Fixtures and ﬁttings 10 years
Motor vehicles and computer equipment 3 years
h Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 5 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the 
cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiﬁable assets acquired. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded 
under UK GAAP . The classiﬁcation and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 5 January 2004 has not been 
reconsidered. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment (see accounting policy l).
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a minority interest in a subsidiary represents the excess of the cost of the additional investment over 
the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of exchange. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a minority 
interest in a subsidiary is recognised in ‘Other reserves’.
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and understanding, 
is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research ﬁndings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has 
sufﬁcient resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy l). Other development expenditure is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses 
(see accounting policy l).
(iv) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets u nless such 
lives are indeﬁnite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance 
sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Capitalised development costs 3 years
Computer software 3-6 years
Operating intangible assets 8-20 years
i Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value less impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 77
1. Accounting policies continued
 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing 
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate 
share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
k Cash and cash e uivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement 
of cash ﬂows.
l Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy j) and deferred tax assets (see accounting 
policy s), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 
the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated (see (i) below).
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to cash-generating units (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on 
a pro-rata basis. 
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale ﬁnancial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence 
that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in proﬁt or loss even though the 
ﬁnancial asset has not been derecognised. The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in proﬁt or loss is the difference between 
the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that ﬁnancial asset previously recognised in proﬁt or loss.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated 
future cash ﬂows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these 
ﬁnancial assets). Receivables with a short duration are not discounted. The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net 
selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does 
not generate largely independent cash inﬂows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in its recoverable amount 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classiﬁed as available-for-sale is not reversed through proﬁt 
or loss. If the fair value of a debt instrument classiﬁed as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in proﬁt or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal 
recognised in proﬁt or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount and when there is an indication that the impairment loss may 
no longer exist.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 78
1. Accounting policies continued
m Share capital
(i) Ordinary share capital
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary shares and share options are 
recognised as a deduction from equity.
(ii) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classiﬁed as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only 
at the Company’s option. Dividends on Preference share capital classiﬁed as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
(iii) Repurchase of share capital and own shares held by ESOP trust (treasury shares)
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, 
is net of any tax effects and is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the 
Group-sponsored ESOP trust are presented as a deduction from total equity. Own shares held by the ESOP trust are classiﬁed as treasury 
shares. Repurchased shares are classiﬁed as treasury shares until their subsequent cancellation.
n Employee beneﬁts
(i) Deﬁned contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date 
on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by 
a qualiﬁed actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a beneﬁt to the Group, the recognised asset 
is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic beneﬁts available in the form of any future 
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. An economic beneﬁt is available to the Group if it is realisable 
during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. The Group recognises all contractual gains and losses arising from 
deﬁned beneﬁt plans directly in equity immediately.
(iii) Long-term service beneﬁts
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service beneﬁts, other than pension plans, is the amount of future beneﬁt that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected 
unit credit method, or similar approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. 
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of 
the Group’s obligations.
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Under the Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan, awards of shares are made to various key 
executives and under the Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 (2006 ESOP), the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 (2004 ESOS) and 
the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 (1995 ESOS) share options are granted by the Company. The Company also maintains an 
all-employee sharesave scheme available to employees in the UK and Germany. The fair value of awards made and options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The grant date fair value of options granted to employees is 
recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reﬂect the actual number of share options for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 79
1. Accounting policies continued
The fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models:
Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 Monte Carlo model
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 Monte Carlo model
The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan Dividend Discount method
Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 Monte Carlo model
Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 Binomial Lattice option pricing model
Employee Sharesave Scheme 1995 Black-Scholes Merton model
Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model
Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 (Germany) Black-Scholes Merton model
The choice of model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made and the options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reﬂect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only 
due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
o Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability.
(i) Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(ii) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than 
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(iii) Environmental
In accordance with the Group’s environmental policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will 
rectify over the next few years. In a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental 
problems.
p Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at their fair value.
 Revenue
(i) Goods sold
Revenue from the sale of products is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts 
and volume rebates. Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the buyer.
(ii) Government grants
Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be 
received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are 
recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that 
compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement as other operating income on a systematic basis 
over the useful life of the asset. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 80
1. Accounting policies continued
r Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the ﬁnance charge and the reduction in the outstanding liability. The ﬁnance charge is 
allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
(iii) Net ﬁnancing costs
Net ﬁnancing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on 
funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see accounting policy f), expected 
return on IAS 19 pension assets and interest on IAS 19 obligations. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, 
using the effective interest method. 
s Income tax
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are 
not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
proﬁt, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which theasset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will berealised.
t Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products in a particular line of business (business 
segment) or in providing products within a particular economic environment (geographic segment), which is subject to risks and rewards 
that are different from those of other segments. The Group’s primary business segments are its Divisions.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable 
basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related revenue, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets 
(primarily the Group’s headquarters) and head ofﬁce expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
u Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet 
the following two conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other ﬁnancial assets or to exchange ﬁnancial assets or 
ﬁnancial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company 
exchanging a ﬁxed amount of cash or other ﬁnancial assets for a ﬁxed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this deﬁnition is not met, the proceeds of the issue are classiﬁed as a ﬁnancial liability. Where an instrument so classiﬁed 
takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these ﬁnancial statements for called up share capital and 
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with ﬁnancial liabilities are dealt with as part of ﬁnance expenses. Finance payments associated with ﬁnancial 
instruments that are classiﬁed in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 81
1. Accounting policies continued
v Investments in debt and e uity securities
Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classiﬁed as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and monetary items 
such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in proﬁt or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated 
using the effective interest method is recognised in proﬁt or loss.
w Interest bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
x Capitalisation of borrowing costs
Borrowing costs (interest and other costs) are capitalised when they are incurred on raising speciﬁc funds to ﬁnance a major capital 
project, which will be a signiﬁcant productive asset or, to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining 
a qualifying asset.
y Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
ew Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new Standards, amendments to Standards and Interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 4 January 2009, 
and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated ﬁnancial statements:
The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied:
(i) IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
(ii) IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
(iii) IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRS 8 Operating Segments will increase the level of disclosures for segment reporting for the period ending 3 January 2010.
Amendments to the following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied:
(i) IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
(ii) IAS 23 Borrowing Costs
(iii) IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
(iv) IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
(v) IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
(vi) IFRS 3 Business Combinations
The Group does not expect the above amendments to have any signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial statements for the period commencing 
5 January 2009. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 82
2. Segment reporting
The Group’s primary business segments are its Divisions:
Carbon – the Carbon Division produces a wide variety of technological solutions from carbon, graphite and silicon carbide. Technical Ceramics – the Technical Ceramics Division makes an extensive range of industrial ceramics products for a wide variety of applications.
Insulating Ceramics (comprising Thermal Ceramics and Molten Metal Systems) – the Insulating Ceramics Division designs and manufactures a wide variety of heat insulation products.
The Group’s secondary business segments are the geographical regions in which the Group operates.
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics Molten Metal Systems Consolidated
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from 
external customers 239.9 216.6 212.2 152.6 347.4 291.9 35.5 32.1 835.0 693.2
Segment proﬁt 34.2 31.7 24.9 14.7 40.4 33.2 0.5 2.1 100.0 81.7
Unallocated costs          (5.0) (4.4)
Operating proﬁt          95.0 77.3 
Net ﬁnancing costs          (12.7) (5.5)
Loss on disposal of business          (0.7) (0.3)
Share of proﬁt of associate 
(net of income tax) 1.2 0.2 – – – – – – 1.2 0.2 
Income tax expense          (20.1) (15.2)
Proﬁt for the period          62.7 56.5 
Segment operating 
proﬁt before restructuring 
costs, other one-off items 
and amortisation of 
intangible assets 36.3 35.2 31.6 20.0 41.4 33.5 4.2 4.0 113.5 92.7
Unallocated costs          (4.7) (4.6)
Restructuring costs and other one-off items        (10.6) (9.2)
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets*      98.2 78.9
* This measure of proﬁt is shown because the Directors use it to measure the underlying performance of the business.
Technical Ceramics’ segment proﬁt includes impairment losses of £2.0 million and £0.3 million respectively for the write down of plant 
and equipment and working capital as a result of the closure and rationalisation of sites in the UK and China (2007: £0.2 million plant 
and equipment write down). Insulating Ceramics’ segment proﬁt includes impairment losses of £1.6 million, £0.2 million and £0.1 million 
respectively for the write down of land to net realisable value, the write down of plant and equipment and write down of working capital 
following the termination of manufacturing at the UK Molten Metal Systems site (2007: £nil).      
       
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 83
2. Segment reporting continued
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics Molten Metal Systems Consolidated
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets 254.6 200.1 274.6 123.4 359.2 270.1 44.1 34.4 932.5 628.0 
Unallocated assets          146.2 109.2 
Total assets 1,078.7 737.2 
Segment liabilities 60.1 55.3 59.2 39.6 131.4 96.6 16.4 13.7 267.1 205.2 
Unallocated liabilities          603.6 335.7 
Total liabilities 870.7 540.9 
Segment cash ﬂows from 
operating activities 32.6 23.4 31.0 18.6 42.2 42.1 2.2 3.5 108.0 87.6 
Unallocated cash ﬂows          (57.5) (34.5)
Cash ﬂows from operating activities         50.5 53.1
Cash ﬂows from investing activities         (113.5) (75.1)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities         96.0 35.7 
Segment capital expenditure 13.0 14.2 6.8 5.5 9.1 12.7 4.0 2.2 32.9 34.6
Unallocated capital expenditure         0.5 0.3
Total capital expenditure          33.4 34.9
Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics Molten Metal Systems Consolidated
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment depreciation 8.0 7.0 8.2 6.8 10.5 8.9 0.9 1.0 27.6 23.7 
Segment amortisation 0.5 0.6 1.5 0.1 1.0 0.8 0.2 0.1 3.2 1.6 
Europe Americas Far East & Australia Middle East & Africa Consolidated
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from 
external customers 328.0 280.7 359.6 291.7 135.1 108.6 12.3 12.2 835.0 693.2 
Segment assets 357.5 291.2 332.4 221.4 235.7 109.3 6.9 6.1 932.5 628.0 
Unallocated assets          146.2 109.2 
Total assets 1,078.7 737.2 
Capital expenditure 13.1 13.4 14.6 13.6 4.8 7.4 0.4 0.2 32.9 34.6 
Unallocated capital expenditure         0.5 0.3 
Total capital expenditure          33.4 34.9 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 84
3. Acquisitions
Ac uisitions in 8
On 31 March 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the shares in the Technical Ceramics businesses of Carpenter Technology Corporation 
known as Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics for £74.6 million. The principal activity of Certech is the manufacture of complex 
injection moulded ceramic components. The principal activity of Carpenter Advanced Ceramics is the manufacture of engineered ceramic 
products. In the nine months to 4 January 2009 these subsidiaries contributed proﬁt from operations before amortisation of intangible 
assets of £6.6 million to the consolidated net proﬁt for the period. The Group revenue and proﬁt from operations before amortisation 
of intangible assets, had the acquisition taken place at the beginning of the period, is £849.2 million and £100.4 million respectively.
Effect of ac uisitions
The acquisitions had the following effect on the assets and liabilities of the Group:
Carrying
values before Provisional
acquisition fair values
2008 2008
£m £m
Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics
Intangible assets 3.2 32.2
Property, plant and equipment 8.3 9.0 
Other working capital 11.9 11.3
Provisions – (1.7)
Deferred taxation – (11.3)
Net identiﬁable assets and liabilities 23.4 39.5
Goodwill on acquisition 38.6 
Consideration payable, excluding acquisition costs, satisﬁed in cash     74.6 
Acquisition costs 3.5 
Net cash outﬂow 78.1
Goodwill represents future economic beneﬁts arising from assets that are not capable of being identiﬁed individually or recognised as 
separate assets. This will include acquirer speciﬁc synergies such as cross selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies 
and processes between existing and acquired sites.
Provisional fair values have been attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired and those values will be ﬁnalised prior to the 
ﬁrst anniversary of the acquisition. Management does not expect any adjustments to the provisional fair values to be material.
During the year the Company acquired a further 6.392% of the Ordinary share capital and voting rights of Carbo San Luis S.A. 
for £0.7 million, resulting in a shareholding of 75.6%.
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 85
3. Acquisitions continued
Ac uisitions in 
On 31 July 2007 the Company acquired a 49% stake in Clearpower Limited, a company that via two other intermediary holding 
companies owns 100% of NP Aerospace Limited. The principal activity of NP Aerospace Limited is the development, manufacture 
and marketing of ballistic and non ballistic products in the defence and civil sectors. Our 49% share of the revenue and proﬁt in 2007 
of this acquisition, had this acquisition taken place at the beginning 2007, was £26.1 million and £1.1 million respectively.
Effect of ac uisition
Carrying
value before
acquisition Fair values
2007 2007
£m £m
Intangible assets 24.7 
Property, plant and equipment 1.8 1.8 
Other working capital 5.7 5.7 
Interest bearing borrowings (25.0) (25.0)
Loan from Morgan Crucible (36.0)
Deferred taxation (6.9)
(35.7)
Morgan Crucible’s 49% share (17.5)
Goodwill 22.5 
Morgan Crucible’s equity investment in NP Aerospace Limited       5.0 
Goodwill represents future economic beneﬁts arising from assets that are not capable of being identiﬁed individually or recognised as 
separate assets. This will include acquirer speciﬁc synergies such as cross selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies and 
processes between existing and acquired sites.
4. Subsequent events
On 6 January 2009 the Company announced the acquistion of a further 11% of the Ordinary share capital and voting rights of Clearpower 
Limited, a company that via two other intermediary holding companies owns 100% of NP Aerospace Limited, for £12.2 million. The total 
assets and total liabilities of the Clearpower group, as at 4 January 2009, are shown in note 13. From 5 January 2009 Clearpower Limited 
will be accounted for as a subsidiary. The disclosure requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are not provided on the basis that 
disclosure of this information is not practical due to the proximity of this transaction to the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements.  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 86
5. Operating costs
2008 2007
£m £m
Change in stocks of ﬁnished goods and work in progress      4.8 4.7 
Raw materials and consumables 204.6 167.1 
Other external charges 143.2 124.7 
Employee costs:
Wages and salaries 209.7 169.0 
Share-based payments 2.5 2.7 
Social security costs 41.1 34.8 
Pension costs 8.9 8.6 
Total 262.2 215.1 
Depreciation:
Owned assets 27.3 23.5 
Assets held under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.2 
Total 27.6 23.7 
Rentals under operating leases:
Hire of plant and machinery 1.9 1.5 
Other operating leases 5.0 5.5 
Total 6.9 7.0 
Other operating charges and income:
Foreign exchange losses 2.2 2.1 
Other operating charges 87.0 67.1 
Foreign exchange gains (8.7) (2.8)
Other operating income (3.6) (3.6)
Total 76.9 62.8 
Total operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 726.2 605.1 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Employment termination costs 1.0 4.1 
Non-cash write-off of assets 4.2 0.2 
Other site rationalisation and closure costs 5.3 5.5 
Costs associated with settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation     0.9 (0.8)
(Proﬁt)/loss on disposal of property (0.8) 0.2 
Total 10.6 9.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.2 1.6 
Total operating costs 740.0 615.9 
The Group recognised £9.8 million in the income statement in respect of research and development (2007: £8.7 million).
A summary of the audit and non-audit fees in respect of services provided by KPMG and charged to operating proﬁt in the year ended 
4 January 2009 is set out below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts    0.4 0.4 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:     
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation and other services    1.4 1.0 
Tax services 0.1 0.1 
Other services – 0.1 
1.9 1.6 
In addition, KPMG was paid £0.1 million (2007: £0.3 million) in respect of the acquisition of Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics.
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 87
6. Staff numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2008 2007
United Kingdom 1,394 1,293
Rest of Europe 1,868 1,841
The Americas 3,376 3,301
Far East and Australia 3,739 2,896
Middle East and Africa 244 276
10,621 9,607
Carbon 3,868 3,811
Technical Ceramics 2,843 2,035
Thermal Ceramics 3,354 3,215
Molten Metal Systems 548 539
Corporate 8 7
10,621 9,607
7. Net ﬁnance income and expense
2008 2007
£m £m
Recognised in proﬁt or loss
Interest income on bank deposits 3.0 2.4 
Interest income from associate 4.1 1.5 
Expected return on IAS 19 scheme assets 25.7 24.9 
Foreign exchange gains recognised on net investment hedge      1.5 –
Finance income 34.3 28.8 
Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortised cost     (21.4) (11.1)
Interest on IAS 19 obligations (25.6) (23.2)
Finance expense (47.0) (34.3)
Net ﬁnancing costs recognised in proﬁt or loss (12.7) (5.5)
The above ﬁnance income and expense include the following in respect of assets/(liabilities) not at fair value through proﬁt or loss:
Total interest income on ﬁnancial assets 7.1 3.9 
Total interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities (21.4) (11.1)
Recognised directly in equity
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets      (3.8) 0.3 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedge      (3.4) (1.2)
Effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge     (42.8) (6.9)
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations     61.6 14.8 
11.6 7.0
Recognised in:
Fair value reserve (3.8) 0.3 
Translation reserve 18.8 7.9 
Hedging reserve (3.4) (1.2)
11.6 7.0  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 88
8. Taxation – income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2008 2007
£m £m
Current tax expense
Current year 15.7 19.0 
Adjustments for prior years (1.7) 1.6 
14.0 20.6 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.8 (12.1)
Beneﬁt of losses recognised 1.3 6.7 
6.1 (5.4)
Total income tax expense in income statement 20.1 15.2 
Included in the current tax charge is £3.0 million which relates to businesses disposed of in previous periods.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m % £m %
Proﬁt before tax 82.8 71.7
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate    23.2 28.0 21.4 30.0 
Non-deductible expenses 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.5 
Prior year tax losses and other assets not previously recognised for deferred tax (10.6) (12.8) (12.0) (16.7)
Under provided in prior years 2.3 2.8 1.6 2.2 
Other (including the impact of overseas tax rates) 4.4 5.3 3.1 4.3 
20.1 24.3 15.2 21.2 
Income tax recognised directly in equity
Actuarial gains and losses 5.4 0.5
Total income tax recognised directly in equity 5.4 0.5
9. Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of anti-trust litigation
Costs of restructuring were £10.5 million (2007: £9.8 million) and net legal costs associated with settlement of anti-trust litigation were 
£0.9 million (2007: £0.8 million recoverable).
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 4 January 2009 was based on the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan 
Crucible Company plc of £59.2 million (4 January 2008: £52.6 million) and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding 
during the period ended 4 January 2009 of 266,882,370 (4 January 2008: 275,659,262) calculated as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc   59.2 52.6 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares:
Issued Ordinary shares at 5 January 276,414,074 293,225,142 
Effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company    (9,531,704) (17,565,880)
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period    266,882,370 275,659,262 
Basic earnings per share (pence)    22.2p 19.1p
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 89
10. Earnings per share continued
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 4 January 2009 was based on the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan 
Crucible Company plc of £59.2 million (4 January 2008: £52.6 million) and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding 
during the period ended 4 January 2009 of 274,229,467 (4 January 2008: 283,598,328), calculated as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc   59.2 52.6 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares:
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period    266,882,370 275,659,262 
Effect of share options/incentive schemes 7,347,097 7,939,066 
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares     274,229,467 283,598,328 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 21.6p 18.5p
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets
The calculation of earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets at 4 January 2009 was based on the proﬁt attributable 
to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc before amortisation of intangible assets of £62.4 million (4 January 2008: 
£54.2 million) and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 4 January 2009 of 266,882,370 
(4 January 2008: 275,659,262) calculated as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
before amortisation of intangible assets      62.4 54.2
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period     266,882,370 275,659,262
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets (pence)     23.4p 19.7p
Diluted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 4 January 2009 was based on the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan 
Crucible Company plc before amortisation of intangible assets of £62.4 million (4 January 2008: £54.2 million) and a weighted average 
number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 4 January 2009 of 274,229,467 (4 January 2008: 283,598,328), 
calculated as follows:    
2008 2007
£m £m
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
before amortisation of intangible assets      62.4 54.2 
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period     274,229,467 283,598,328 
Diluted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets (pence)     22.8p 19.1p Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 90
11. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment
buildings and ﬁxtures Total
Note £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 5 January 2007 129.1 375.2 504.3 
Acquisitions through business combinations – 0.7 0.7 
Additions 3.8 32.1 35.9 
Disposals (3.5) (12.9) (16.4)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 6.5 12.4 18.9 
Balance at 4 January 2008 135.9 407.5 543.4 
Balance at 5 January 2008 135.9 407.5 543.4
Acquisitions through business combinations 2.0 9.0 11.0
Additions 6.5 30.9 37.4 
Disposals (1.5) (18.2) (19.7)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 38.5 100.1 138.6
Balance at 4 January 2009 181.4 529.3 710.7 
Depreciation and impairment losses    
Balance at 5 January 2007 34.2 239.9 274.1 
Depreciation charge for the year 3.2 20.5 23.7 
Disposals (1.2) (10.2) (11.4)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 2.2 8.2 10.4 
Balance at 4 January 2008 38.4 258.4 296.8 
Balance at 5 January 2008 38.4 258.4 296.8
Depreciation charge for the year 3.9 23.7 27.6
Impairment loss 2 1.6 2.2 3.8
Disposals (0.7) (15.0) (15.7)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 13.2 65.4 78.6
Balance at 4 January 2009 56.4 334.7 391.1 
Carrying amounts
At 5 January 2007 94.9 135.3 230.2
At 4 January 2008 97.5 149.1 246.6 
At 4 January 2009 125.0 194.6 319.6 
Assets pledged as security for liabilities
At 4 January 2009 properties with a carrying amount of £4.2 million (2008: £4.0 million) are subject to registered debentures to secure 
bank loans (see note 19).
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 91
12. Intangible assets
Operating Computer
Goodwill intangibles software Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 5 January 2007 54.0 10.1 8.1 72.2 
Acquisitions through business combinations 1.1 – – 1.1 
Additions – externally purchased – – 1.2 1.2 
Disposals – – (0.2) (0.2)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 2.0 0.7 0.4 3.1 
Balance at 4 January 2008 57.1 10.8 9.5 77.4 
Balance at 5 January 2008 57.1 10.8 9.5 77.4
Acquisitions through business combinations 38.6 32.2 – 70.8
Additions – externally purchased – 1.6 0.9 2.5
Disposals (1.2) – (0.1) (1.3)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 23.9 14.9 2.1 40.9 
Balance at 4 January 2009 118.4 59.5 12.4 190.3 
Amortisation and impairment losses    
Balance at 5 January 2007 – 0.4 5.4 5.8 
Amortisation charge for the year – 0.8 0.8 1.6 
Disposals – – (0.2) (0.2)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange – 0.1 0.3 0.4 
Balance at 4 January 2008 – 1.3 6.3 7.6 
Balance at 5 January 2008 – 1.3 6.3 7.6
Amortisation charge for the year – 2.3 0.9 3.2 
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange – 1.0 1.6 2.6 
Balance at 4 January 2009 – 4.6 8.7 13.3 
Carrying amounts
At 5 January 2007 54.0 9.7 2.7 66.4 
At 4 January 2008 57.1 9.5 3.2 69.8 
At 4 January 2009 118.4 54.9 3.7 177.0
Operating intangibles include customer relationships, patents and trademarks and capitalised development costs.
Impairment test for cash generating units containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating Divisions which represent the lowest level within 
the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill attributed to each Division is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Carbon 21.5 17.4 
Technical Ceramics 72.1 20.1
Thermal Ceramics 22.5 17.5 
Molten Metal Systems 2.3 2.1 
118.4 57.1  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 92
12. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill has been tested for impairment during 2008 on the following basis:
The carrying value of goodwill has been assessed by reference to value in use. Values in use have been estimated using cash ﬂow 
projections based on budgeted operating results for the forthcoming year. Cash ﬂows for a further four year period are extrapolated using 
growth rates speciﬁc to each operating Division, ranging from 4.4% to 6.9%. These growth rates reﬂect the products, industries and 
countries in which the Divisions operate. Given the similar risk proﬁles of each of the operating Divisions, together with common funding 
from the central Group treasury function, a standard pre-tax discount rate of 13.0% based on the Group’s weighted average cost of 
capital, has been used in discounting the projected cash ﬂows and calculating the terminal value at the end of year ﬁve.
13. Other investments
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current investments
Investment in associate 6.4 5.2 
Equity securities available-for-sale 5.2 7.5 
11.6 12.7 
Investment in associate
The Group’s share of proﬁt after tax in its associate for the year was £1.2 million (2007: £0.2 million).
Summary ﬁnancial information for the associate, not adjusted for the 49% ownership held by the Group:
2008 2007
£m £m
Current assets 41.0 22.1 
Non-current assets 62.9 65.3 
Total assets 103.9 87.4 
Current liabilities 27.6 16.4
Non-current liabilities 70.8 61.0 
Total liabilities 98.4 77.4 
Revenues 72.0 24.7 
Proﬁt 3.1 0.4 
E uity securities available for sale
The equity securities available-for-sale represent an investment in a Mutual Fund. A 10% increase/(decrease) in the unit price would 
increase/(decrease) the fair value of the investments by £0.4 million.
14. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment – – 23.5 18.4 23.5 18.4 
Intangible assets (0.7) – 16.8 0.5 16.1 0.5 
Employee beneﬁts (24.1) (12.9) – 0.3 (24.1) (12.6)
Provisions (6.6) (6.0) – – (6.6) (6.0)
Tax value of loss carried forward recognised (3.2) (6.3) – – (3.2) (6.3)
Other items (2.0) (0.6) 0.5 – (1.5) (0.6)
(36.6) (25.8) 40.8 19.2 4.2 (6.6)
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 93
14. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
nrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2008 2007
£m £m
Deductible temporary differences (11.2) (6.2)
Tax losses (9.4) (10.2)
(20.6) (16.4)
Movements in temporary differences during the year
Balance Acquired Recognised Balance Acquired in Recognised Balance
4 January Recognised in business directly 4 January Recognised business directly in 4 January 
2007 in income combinations in equity 2008 in income combinations equity 2009
Property, plant and equipment 24.7 (6.3) – – 18.4 5.1 – – 23.5
Intangible assets 0.4 0.1 – – 0.5 5.9 9.7 – 16.1 
Employee beneﬁts (9.9) (2.2) – (0.5) (12.6) (6.1) – (5.4) (24.1)
Provisions (2.4) (3.6) – – (6.0) (0.6) – – (6.6)
Tax value of loss carried 
forward utilised (13.0) 6.7 – – (6.3) 3.1 – – (3.2)
Others (0.2) (0.1) – (0.3) (0.6) (0.9) – – (1.5)
(0.4) (5.4) – (0.8) (6.6) 6.5 9.7 (5.4) 4.2 
No deferred income tax is provided on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings as the Group is able to control the remittance 
of such earnings and currently has no intention of making any such remittance, where such remittance would incur additional tax liabilities.
15. Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 43.9 30.3 
Work in progress 36.0 24.1 
Finished goods 64.0 43.3 
143.9 97.7 
Inventories stated at fair value less costs to sell 1.9 5.7 
Carrying amount of inventories subject to retention of title clauses     2.3 8.6 
The Group holds consignment inventory amounting to £13.0 million (2007: £9.6 million) which is not reﬂected in the balance sheet. 
The majority of this balance is for precious metals which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when
the material is required.
During the year provisions of £4.6 million were made against inventories and recognised in operating expenses (2007: £4.5 million). 
The Group reversed £nil of provisions against inventory during the year (2007: £0.2 million). Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 94
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
16. Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current
Loan to associate 36.0 36.0 
Non-trade receivables and prepayments 3.0 0.8 
39.0 36.8 
Current
Trade receivables due from associate 0.3 0.1 
Other trade receivables 164.2 114.7 
Loans and receivables 164.5 114.8 
Non-trade receivables due from associate 5.7 1.5 
Other non-trade receivables and prepayments 26.1 23.5 
196.3 139.8 
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 20.
17. Cash and cash equivalents/bank overdrafts
2008 2007
£m £m
Bank balances 100.4 81.0 
Cash deposits 54.1 27.0 
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 154.5 108.0 
Bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements     (15.1) (17.9)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash ﬂow statement      139.4 90.1 
Bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements      (15.1) (17.9)
Other bank overdrafts (2.2) (2.9)
Total bank overdrafts (17.3) (20.8)
In accordance with IAS 32, bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements are not offset against cash and cash equivalents as the 
Company does not intend to settle on a net basis.
Reconciliation of cash and cash e uivalents to net borrowings
2008 2007
£m £m
Opening borrowings (209.8) (107.6)
New borrowings (127.2) (102.5)
Payment of ﬁnance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings      (93.1) –
Closing borrowings (429.8) (209.8)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash ﬂow statement      139.4 90.1 
Closing net borrowings (290.4) (119.7)
* Net borrowings is deﬁned as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and other cash equivalents. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 95
18. Capital and reserves
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
    Fair Capital   Total
Share Share Translation Hedging value Special redemption Other Retained parent Minority T otal
capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 5 January 2007 73.7 85.2 (16.8) – 0.8 6.0 29.9 1.4 6.5 186.7 16.4 203.1
Total recognised income 
and expense – – 7.9 (1.2) 0.3 – – – 43.2 50.2 3.9 54.1
Own shares acquired for 
share buy-back programme (4.2) – – – – – 4.2 – (47.5) (47.5) – (47.5)
Other movements – – – – – – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Share options exercised 
by employees – 0.1 – – – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions, net of tax – – – – – – – – 2.7 2.7 – 2.7 
Own shares acquired for 
share incentive schemes – – – – – – – – (1.5) (1.5) – (1.5)
Dividends – – – – – – – – (14.5) (14.5) – (14.5)
Balance at 4 January 2008 69.5 85.3 (8.9) (1.2) 1.1 6.0 34.1 1.4 (11.1) 176.2 20.1 196.3 
Balance at 5 January 2008 69.5 85.3 (8.9) (1.2) 1.1 6.0 34.1 1.4 (11.1) 176.2 20.1 196.3
Total recognised income 
and expense – – 18.8 (3.4) (3.8) – – – 17.6 29.2 3.5 32.7 
Own shares acquired for 
share buy-back programme (1.6) – – – – – 1.6 – (12.1) (12.1) – (12.1)
Other movements – – – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4) 8.1 7.7 
Equity-settled share-based
payment transactions, net of tax – – – – – – – – 3.2 3.2 – 3.2 
Own shares acquired for 
share incentive schemes – – – – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4 
Dividends – – – – – – – – (18.7) (18.7) (1.5) (20.2)
Balance at 4 January 2009 67.9 85.3 9.9 (4.6) (2.7) 6.0 35.7 1.0 (20.7) 177.8 30.2 208.0
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary and forward 
contracts used for net investment hedging.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment 
is derecognised.
Special reserve
A Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium Account was passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 
11 June 1993. This cancellation was conﬁrmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993. The amount 
of £88.9 million standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the Special reserve against which 
goodwill on consolidation can be written-off. This reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account 
on 12 October 1990 of £71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred 
following previous Orders of the High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and Share 
Premium Account.  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 96
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
18. Capital and reserves continued
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable proﬁts. The movements 
in 2008 and 2007 relate to the cancellation of Ordinary shares as a result of the share buy-back programme.
Retained earnings
The Company has acquired own shares under a share buy-back programme. The Company has also acquired own shares to satisfy the 
requirements of the various share option incentive schemes. The number of treasury shares held by the Company at the year end was 
2,593,799 (2007: 6,196,880); 2,593,799 shares were held by The Morgan General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (2007: 5,876,880) and nil 
shares were held by the Company (2007: 320,000). All rights conferred by those shares are suspended until they are reissued.
Dividends
The following Ordinary dividends were declared and paid by the Company:
Per share Total
2008 2007 2008 2007
Pence Pence £m £m
2006 interim – 1.50 – 4.3
2006 ﬁnal – 3.00 – 8.4
2007 interim – 2.25 – 6.1
2007 ﬁnal 4.50 – 12.1 –
2008 interim 2.50 – 6.7 –
Total 7.00 6.75 18.8 18.8
In addition to the above, the Company also declared and paid dividends on the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares and 5.0% 
Cumulative Second Preference shares.
After 4 January 2009 the following dividends were proposed by the Directors for 2008. These dividends have not been provided for and 
there are no income tax consequences.
£m
4.5 pence per qualifying Ordinary share 12.2
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares (see note 31)       –
5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares (see note 31)       –
12.2
Called up share capital
Authorised Issued
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Equity share capital
434,650,876 (2007: 434,650,876) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each   108.7 108.7 
Fully paid: 270,206,256 (2007: 276,414,074) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each    67.5 69.1 
108.7 108.7 67.5 69.1 
Preference share capital
125,327 authorised and issued 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares 
of £1 each, fully paid 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
311,954 authorised and issued 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares 
of £1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 
Total Preference share capital 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 
Total share capital 109.1 109.1 67.9 69.5 
– Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 97
18. Capital and reserves continued
umber of shares in issue
Ordinary shares Preference shares
2008 2007 2008 2007
In issue at 5 January 276,414,074 293,225,142 437,281 437,281
Exercise of options under the various Morgan share option schemes   42,182 128,217 – –
Cancelled as a result of share buy-back programme   (6,250,000) (16,939,285) – –
In issue at 4 January 270,206,256 276,414,074 437,281 437,281
As at the date of this report 270,206,256 Ordinary shares have been issued (2007: 270,164,074).
The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the Company.
The following options were outstanding in respect of Ordinary shares:
Exercise Normal exercise dates ranging
Number of shares price(s) from to
355,144 The Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 180.08p – 208.12p 19 June 2003 22 November 2011
2,333,676 The Morgan Crucible Sharesave Scheme 2004 168.00p – 249.00p 1 December 2008 31 May 2012
278,451 The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share 
Options Scheme for Employees in Germany EUR 1.64 1 December 2011 31 May 2012
2,051,347 The Morgan Crucible Executive Share 
Option Scheme 2004 129.05p – 256.00p 22 June 2007 20 December 2016
2,835,485 The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 0.00p – 197.62p 10 March 2011 10 March 2011
4,601,401 The Morgan Crucible Long T erm Incentive Plan 2004 0.00p 23 May 2009 25 March 2011
1,000,000 The Morgan Crucible Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 256.00p 20 December 2009 20 December 2016
The 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the 
holders thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June 
and 31 December respectively in every year. The First and Second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to 
attend or vote at any general meeting unless either:
(i) the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock, 
or increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the Articles of Association of the Company, or winding up, or sanctioning a sale 
of the undertaking, or altering the Articles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering 
their respective rights and privileges; or
(ii) at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment 
date of any half yearly instalment.
On a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied:
First, in payment to the holders of the First Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate 
of 5.5% per annum.
Second, in payment to the holders of the Second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest 
at the rate of 5.0% per annum.
Third, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary shares.
Fourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid 
up on their respective holdings of shares in the Company. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 98
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at 
amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 20.
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current liabilities
US Dollar Senior Notes 273.2 116.1
Bank Syndication 136.1 74.8
Bank and other loans 0.1 0.7
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 1.5 1.5
410.9 193.1
Current liabilities
US Dollar Senior Notes 12.0 8.8
Bank and other loans 3.9 4.4
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.8 0.6
16.7 13.8
Terms and debt repayment schedule
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
2008 Carrying amount
Nominal Year of 2008 2007
Currency interest rate maturity £m £m
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 USD 6.84% 2013 31.6 27.8 
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 USD 6.23% 2010 11.4 12.5 
5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 USD 5.70% 2014 69.2 38.0 
6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 USD 6.12% 2017 121.1 46.6 
6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 USD 6.26% 2019 51.9 –
Bank Syndication EUR 3.13% 2010 96.1 74.8 
Bank Syndication GBP 2.64% 2010 40.0 –
Bank and other loans Various 4.00%-8.00% up to 2010 4.0 5.1 
Obligations under ﬁnance leases Various 6.00% up to 2014 2.3 2.1 
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings   427.6 206.9 
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 0.9 0.1 0.8 0.7 0.1 0.6
Between one and ﬁve years 1.4 0.1 1.3 1.3 0.1 1.2
More than ﬁve years 0.2 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.3
2.5 0.2 2.3 2.3 0.2 2.1
Bank and other loans include £0.9 million of loans secured on the assets of the Group.
Included within banks and other loans are short-term drawings of £136.1 million (2007: £74.8 million). These were repayable on 
12 January 2009, but have been classiﬁed as long-term loans as they are drawn under the Bank Syndication which extends to March 2010 
and the Company has elected to roll these forward in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
As at 4 January 2009 the Group had available headroom under the Bank Syndication of £154.5 million (2007: £137.9 million).
The 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 are repayable in ﬁve yearly instalments from 6 March 2009 to 6 March 2013. The 6.23% US 
Dollar Senior Notes 2010 are repayable in two yearly instalments from 6 March 2009 to 6 March 2010. The 5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 
2014 are repayable in one instalment on 19 December 2014. The 6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 are repayable in one instalment 
on 19 December 2017. The 6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 are repayable in one instalment on 19 December 2019. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 99
20. Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of ﬁnancial instruments:
Credit risk. Liquidity risk. Market risk. This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, and the Group’s management of capital. Further 
quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Board delegates the establishment and implementation of the systems for internal control and risk management to the operating 
Divisions which are responsible for the identiﬁcation and evaluation of signiﬁcant risks applicable to their area of business together with 
the design and operation of suitable internal controls. The Board delegates the monitoring and review of the internal control and risk 
management systems to the Audit Committee assisted by the Risk Management Committee. The Risk Management Committee, which 
is chaired by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate 
systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness. Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee will initiate action to improve the 
systems and ensure compliance.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities. 
The Group has set up notional cash pooling agreements with a number of banks. Under the notional cash pooling agreement the 
Group has the legal right to offset liabilities on undrawn bank accounts against surplus balances. As at 4 January 2009 the Group had 
no intention to settle these balances either simultaneously or on a net basis and hence the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities wit hin the notional 
cash pool are not presented on a net basis in the ﬁnancial statements.
Trade and other receivables
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s 
customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an inﬂuence on credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are 
performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. The Group does not require collateral in respect of ﬁnancial assets.
The Group serves thousands of customers. Many of these have purchased the same product for several years and in some cases decades. 
Others have modiﬁed and enhanced designs or adopted the same components into new products, extending the lifecycle of the 
components that the Group supply. The Group’s level of customer retention is very high, particularly with its major accounts and although 
the top 20 ranking will alter year to year, many of the same names remain consistent over time. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables 
and investments. The main components of this allowance are a speciﬁc loss component that relates to individually signiﬁcant exposures, 
and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identiﬁed. 
The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar ﬁnancial assets.
Investments
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a sound credit rating. 
Given these high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting 
date was:
Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 5.2 7.5 
Loan to associate 36.0 36.0 
Loans and receivables 164.5 114.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 154.5 108.0 
360.2 266.3  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 100
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
20. Financial risk management continued
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by Division was:
Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m
Carbon 44.0 33.7 
Technical Ceramics 33.5 19.3 
Thermal Ceramics 81.3 55.7 
Molten Metal Systems 5.7 6.1 
164.5 114.8 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m
Europe 68.3 51.8
Americas 60.5 39.0
Far East & Australasia 34.3 22.5 
Middle East & Africa 1.4 1.5
164.5 114.8
Impairment losses
The aging of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
2008 2007
£m £m
Not past due 127.2 92.5 
Past due 0-30 days 28.7 15.3 
Past due 31-60 days 7.0 3.4 
Past due 61-90 days 3.0 2.2 
Past due more than 90 days 9.1 5.8 
175.0 119.2 
Impairment allowance (10.5) (4.4)
164.5 114.8 
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Balance at 5 January 4.4 4.8 
Increase/(decrease) in allowance for impairment 6.1 (0.4)
Balance at 4 January 10.5 4.4 
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
A speciﬁc impairment allowance may be created in respect of an individual trade receivable for which full recovery is doubtful. As at 
4 January 2009 and 4 January 2008 there were no speciﬁc impairment allowances that were signiﬁcant to the Group. In addition, local 
management may create a general impairment allowance to reﬂect their experience of the historical recoverability of trade receivables 
past due in the respective markets in which their businesses operate.
The allowances in the accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisﬁed that 
no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at the point the amount is considered irrecoverable it is written-off against the ﬁnancial 
asset directly.
Li uidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due. 
The Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a ﬂexible, cost-effective borrowing structure. The policy is to ensure that 
the Group has sufﬁcient liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 101
20. Financial risk management continued
Effective interest rates and repricing analysis
The following are the undiscounted contracted maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact 
of netting agreements:
2008
Effective Less More
interest Carrying Contractual than one One-two Two-ﬁve than ﬁve
rate amount cash ﬂows year years years years
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% 31.6 37.0 8.3 7.8 20.9 –
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% 11.4 12.1 6.2 5.9 – –
5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 5.70% 69.2 92.7 3.9 3.9 11.8 73.1 
6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 121.1 187.7 7.4 7.4 22.2 150.7 
6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 6.26% 51.9 87.5 3.2 3.2 9.7 71.4 
Bank Syndication 2.64%-3.13% 136.1 136.2 136.2 – – –
Bank and other loans 4.00%-8.00% 4.0 4.3 4.3 – – –
Bank overdrafts 6.75% 17.3 18.4 18.4 – – –
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 6.00% 2.3 2.5 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.2 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Outﬂow 16.0 77.7 72.9 4.8 – –
Inﬂow – (61.7) (57.7) (4.0) – –
460.9 594.4 204.0 29.7 65.3 295.4
2007
Effective Less More
interest Carrying Contractual than one One-two Two-ﬁve than ﬁve
rate amount cash ﬂows year years years years
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% 27.8 33.6 6.4 6.1 16.3 4.8 
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% 12.5 13.6 4.8 4.5 4.3 –
5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 5.70% 38.0 53.2 2.2 2.2 6.5 42.3 
6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 46.6 75.3 2.9 2.9 8.6 60.9 
Bank Syndication 4.94% 74.8 75.2 75.2 – – –
Bank and other loans 4.00%-8.00% 5.1 5.4 4.7 0.4 0.3 –
Bank overdrafts 6.75% 20.8 22.2 22.2 – – –
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 6.00% 2.1 2.3 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.3 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Outﬂow 1.2 19.0 15.3 3.7 – –
Inﬂow – (18.0) (14.4) (3.6) – –
228.9 281.8 120.0 16.8 36.7 108.3 
As at 4 January 2009 the Group had drawn £136.1 million under the USD 420 million Bank Syndication. This drawing has been shown as 
due within one year as the loan matures on 12 January 2009. The Bank Syndication extends to March 2010 and the Company has elected 
to roll these forward in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its holdings of ﬁnancial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.       
The Group buys and sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs ﬁnancial liabilities, in order to manage market risks. 
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Risk Management Committee. Generally the Group seeks to apply 
hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in proﬁt or loss. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 102
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
20. Financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk proﬁle
At the reporting date the interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s interest-bearing ﬁnancial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m
Fixed rate instruments
Financial liabilities (287.5) (127.0)
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 154.4 108.0 
Financial liabilities (157.3) (100.7)
(2.9) 7.3 
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 30% and 70% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on 
a ﬁxed rate basis.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for ﬁxed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss.
Cash ow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates on the outstanding Bank Syndication debt at the reporting date would have increased/
(decreased) proﬁt or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, 
remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Proﬁt or loss
100 bp 100 bp
increase decrease
£m £m
4 January 2009
Variable rate instruments 1.4 (1.4)
Cash ﬂow sensitivity (net) 1.4 (1.4)
4 January 2008
Variable rate instruments 0.7 (0.7)
Cash ﬂow sensitivity (net) 0.7 (0.7)
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the 
currency of the reporting unit. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily GBP , USD and Euro.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2008 2007
GBP USD Euro GBP USD Euro
Functional currency of Group operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 0.9 11.9 7.3 1.1 7.5 7.6 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 21.4 12.0 0.3 15.5 14.5 
Borrowings – – (96.1) – – (74.8)
Trade payables (5.3) (7.5) (3.3) (4.5) (6.2) (3.5)
Net balance sheet exposure (3.8) 25.8 (80.1) (3.1) 16.8 (56.2)
The following signiﬁcant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate Year end rate
2008 2007 2008 2007
USD 1.8552 2.0003 1.4450 1.9742 
Euro 1.2582 1.4615 1.0408 1.3363  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 103
20. Financial risk management continued
The Group aims to hedge all material trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency. At any point in time the 
Group also hedges up to 75% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases over the following 
12 months. The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. Most of the forward exchange contracts have 
maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the currency of the reporting unit, the Group ensures that 
the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term 
imbalances.
Forecasted transactions
The Group classiﬁes its forward exchange contracts used to hedge forecasted transactions as cash ﬂow hedges and states them at fair 
value. The net fair value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 4 January 2009 was £4.6 million 
(2007: £1.2 million), comprising assets of £0.2 million (2007: £nil) and liabilities of £4.8 million (2007: £1.2 million) that were recognised 
in fair value derivatives.
Cash ow hedges
The contractual cash ﬂows associated with the forward exchange contracts that are designated as cash ﬂow hedges are shown in the 
section on liquidity risk. The impact on proﬁt or loss is expected to occur at the same time as the associated cash ﬂows.
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group manages the translation exposure of overseas net assets by seeking to match the currency of borrowings with the currency 
in which the net assets are denominated. The objectives are to maintain a low-cost of borrowing, whilst maintaining a balanced portfolio 
of net assets by currency.
The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge net investments in overseas subsidiaries. The Group also designates the Euro drawdowns 
under the US$ 420 million Bank Syndication as a hedge of the Group’s investment in subsidiaries in Europe. Euro drawdowns during the 
year amounted to 100 million (2007: 100 million).         
Sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of pounds sterling against the following currency net assets at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) 
equity by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis 
is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Equity
2008 2007
£m £m
USD 1.8 (0.5)
Euro (1.4) 1.4 
The impact of a one cent movement in the USD exchange rate on results that are reported in USD (including those currencies that track 
the USD) would be c.£1.7 million of revenue and £0.3 million of underlying operating proﬁt.
Other market price risk
Equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities held for partially meeting the unfunded portion of the Group’s deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension obligations. The primary goal of the Group’s investment strategy is to maximise returns in order to meet partially the 
Group’s unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base (total equity) so as to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁdence and to 
sustain future development of the business. The Board uses a number of measures, identiﬁed as key performance indicators (KPI), to 
ensure the continued success of the Group. The main KPI for the Group is the underlying proﬁt margin. The aim is to achieve mid-teen 
margins in good times and double digit margins when the environment is more challenging. Another KPI, the economic value-added ratio 
(EVA), compares the returns made by our Divisions with the notional cost of investing in them. The Group uses this ratio to ascertain where 
to make capital investments within the Group. The basic calculation deducts the cost of capital from the net operating proﬁt after allowing 
for a notional medium-term tax charge.
The Board encourages employees of the Group to hold the Company’s Ordinary shares. The Group operates a number of employee share 
and share option schemes. From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases 
depends on market prices. Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group’s various share option incentive 
schemes. The Company has also acquired its own shares under a share buy-back programme. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 104
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
20. Financial risk management continued
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Fair values
The fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value amount Fair value
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost
6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 (31.6) (34.3) (27.8) (29.7)
6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 (11.4) (11.7) (12.5) (12.9)
5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 (69.2) (79.5) (38.0) (38.0)
6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 (121.1) (147.6) (46.6) (46.6)
6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 (51.9) (65.0) ––
Bank Syndication (136.1) (136.1) (74.8) (74.8)
Bank and other loans (4.0) (4.0) (5.1) (5.1)
Bank overdrafts (17.3) (17.3) (20.8) (20.8)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (2.3) (2.3) (2.1) (2.1)
Trade and other payables (93.9) (93.9) (71.2) (71.2)
Loan to associate 36.0 36.0 36.0 36.0
Loans and receivables 164.5 164.5 114.8 114.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 154.5 154.5 108.0 108.0 
(183.8) (236.7) (40.1) (42.4)
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruments
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 5.2 5.2 7.5 7.5 
Derivatives and other items at fair value
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Assets 0.2 0.2 ––
Liabilities (16.0) (16.0) (1.2) (1.2)
(15.8) (15.8) (1.2) (1.2)
(194.4) (247.3) (33.8) (36.1)
Unrecognised loss (52.9) (2.3)
Estimation of fair values
The following paragraphs summarise the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of ﬁnancial instruments 
reﬂected in the table.
E uity securities
Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price 
and deducting the current spot rate. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash ﬂows.
Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash ﬂows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease 
agreements. The estimated fair values reﬂect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reﬂect the fair value. All other 
receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.          Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 105
20. Financial risk management continued
Interest rates used for determining fair value
The interest rates used to determine the fair value of loans and borrowings and ﬁnance leases are as follows:
2008 2007
Loans and borrowings 2.0-4.0% 3.0-5.0%
Finance leases 6.0% 6.0%
21. Employee beneﬁts
Morgan Crucible operates a number of deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements as well as deﬁned contribution plans. The deﬁned beneﬁt plans 
are primarily in the UK, US and Europe and predominately provide pensions based on service and career average pay. In addition 
post-retirement medical plans are operated in the US.
2008 2008 2008 2008 2008
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Pension plans and employee beneﬁts
Present value of unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations   – (10.1) (23.9) (2.1) (36.1)
Present value of funded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations   (278.5) (121.5) (1.1) (9.1) (410.2)
Fair value of plan assets 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5
Net obligations (13.1) (61.4) (24.4) (2.9) (101.8)
Movements in present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
At 5 January 2008 (325.1) (95.0) (20.1) (10.5) (450.7)
Current service cost (2.6) (1.9) (0.5) (1.5) (6.5)
Interest cost (18.4) (5.9) (1.0) (0.3) (25.6)
Actuarial gains 55.2 1.1 1.2 0.2 57.7
Beneﬁts paid 14.3 5.6 1.3 1.2 22.4
Contributions by members (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Past service costs (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Exchange adjustments – (35.5) (5.9) (0.3) (41.7)
At 4 January 2009 (278.5) (131.6) (25.0) (11.2) (446.3)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
At 5 January 2008 322.6 71.2 0.5 8.7 403.0
Expected return on plan assets 20.1 5.3 – 0.3 25.7 
Actuarial losses (71.1) (33.1) – (0.5) (104.7)
Contributions by employer 6.4 5.0 1.3 1.0 13.7
Contributions by members 1.7 – – – 1.7
Beneﬁts paid (14.3) (5.6) (1.3) (1.2) (22.4)
Exchange adjustments – 27.4 0.1 – 27.5 
At 4 January 2009 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5 
Actual return on assets (51.0) (27.8) – (0.2) (79.0)
2008 2008 2008 2008 2008
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Pension plans and employee beneﬁts 
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement       
Current service cost and past service cost (2.8) (1.9) (0.5) (1.5) (6.7)
Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan obligation (18.4) (5.9) (1.0) (0.3) (25.6)
Expected return on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan assets   20.1 5.3 – 0.3 25.7 
Total expense (1.1) (2.5) (1.5) (1.5) (6.6) Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 106
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement:
2008 2007
£m £m
Operating costs (6.7) (5.8)
Finance income 25.7 24.9 
Finance expense (25.6) (23.2)
One-off items – (0.2)
(6.6) (4.3)
The Group has adopted the policy of recognising actuarial gains and losses immediately in the balance sheet through the statement of 
recognised income and expense. Cumulative actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 5 January 
2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are £77.1 million.
The fair value of the plan assets were as follows:
2008 2008 2008 2008 2008
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 97.8 35.3 – – 133.1
Bonds 7.1 34.5 – – 41.6
Matching insurance policies 153.3 – 0.6 1.6 155.5 
Other 7.2 0.4 – 6.7 14.3
Total 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
%% %
Discount rate 6.50 6.10 5.60
Expected rate of return on plan assets – Equities 8.00 8.00 n/a
– Bonds 5.00 4.70 n/a
– Matching insurance 6.50 n/a 5.60
Salary increase n/a 2.50 2.50
Inﬂation 2.80 2.00 2.00
Pensions increase 2.60/3.15 n/a 2.00
Mortality – post-retirement:
Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2008 25.7 years 21.2 years 22.5 years
Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2028 27.1 years 21.2 years 25.4 years
Expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by 
weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Balance sheet
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (446.3) (450.7) (446.1) (466.3)
Fair value of plan assets 344.5 403.0 403.4 342.1 
Deﬁcit (101.8) (47.7) (42.7) (124.2)
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Experience gains/(losses)
Experience gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation    1.7 (0.2) (2.0) (8.6)
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (104.7) (17.5) 7.2 26.0  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 107
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
Buy in of K pensioner liabilities
On 17 March 2008 the Trustees of the Morgan Pension Scheme and the Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme 
agreed to the buy-in of the pensioner liabilities by Lucida plc, an insurance company regulated by the UK’s Financial Services Authority. The 
consideration paid by the Trustees for the annuity policies was £160 million. The annuity policies are retained by the Trustees as 
investments of the schemes. The Company made a one-off contribution of £4.2 million to the schemes to facilitate the transaction. This 
risk transfer has contributed a £5 million improvement to the Group’s UK net IAS 19 balance sheet position as at 4 January 2009 and had a 
corresponding effect on the overall IAS 19 balance sheet position for the Group. The Company continues to offer its deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes to its current and deferred employees.       
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Pension plans and employee beneﬁts
Present value of unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations   – (7.5) (19.2) (0.3) (27.0)
Present value of funded deﬁned beneﬁt obligations   (325.1) (87.5) (0.9) (10.2) (423.7)
Fair value of plan assets 322.6 71.2 0.5 8.7 403.0 
Net obligations (2.5) (23.8) (19.6) (1.8) (47.7)
Movements in present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
At 5 January 2007 (323.4) (92.8) (20.7) (9.2) (446.1)
Current service cost (3.0) (1.7) (0.7) (1.1) (6.5)
Interest cost (16.8) (5.4) (0.9) (0.3) (23.4)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 7.3 (1.6) 2.5 (0.6) 7.6 
Beneﬁts paid 12.7 5.1 1.4 0.9 20.1 
Contributions by members (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Curtailments and settlements (0.2) – 0.7 – 0.5 
Exchange adjustments – 1.4 (2.4) (0.2) (1.2)
At 4 January 2008 (325.1) (95.0) (20.1) (10.5) (450.7)
Movements in fair value of plan assets       
At 5 January 2007 326.5 69.1 0.5 7.3 403.4 
Expected return on plan assets 19.6 5.0 – 0.3 24.9 
Actuarial gains (16.3) (2.3) – 1.1 (17.5)
Contributions by employer 3.8 5.4 1.3 0.9 11.4 
Contributions by members 1.7 – – – 1.7 
Beneﬁts paid (12.7) (5.1) (1.4) (0.9) (20.1)
Exchange adjustments – (0.9) 0.1 – (0.8)
At 4 January 2008 322.6 71.2 0.5 8.7 403.0 
Actual return on assets 3.3 2.7 – 1.4 7.4 
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service costs (3.0) (1.7) (0.7) (1.1) (6.5)
Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan obligation (16.8) (5.4) (0.9) (0.3) (23.4)
Expected return on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan assets   19.6 5.0 – 0.3 24.9
Gain on curtailments of United Kingdom employee beneﬁt schemes (0.2) – 0.7 – 0.5 
Total expense/(income) (0.4) (2.1) (0.9) (1.1) (4.5) Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 108
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
The fair value of the plan assets were as follows:
2007 2007 2007 2007 2007
UK USA Europe Rest of World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 131.5 45.6 – – 177.1 
Bonds 170.3 25.4 – – 195.7 
Other 20.8 0.2 0.5 8.7 30.2 
Total 322.6 71.2 0.5 8.7 403.0 
The curtailment loss of £0.2 million in the United Kingdom in 2007 arose due to a redundancy exercise in the UK. The curtailment gain 
in Italy of £0.7 million occurred due to a change in legislation covering Italian pension plans.
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
%% %
Discount rate 5.75 6.00 5.50
Expected rate of return on plan assets – Equities 7.75 8.00 n/a
– Bonds 5.00 5.25 n/a
Salary increase n/a 3.00 2.75
Inﬂation 3.25 2.50 2.25
Pensions increase 3.25/3.40 n/a 2.25
Mortality – post-retirement PA 92 YOB 1958/1938
(The Morgan Pension Scheme) 83 GAM Heubeck
PA92 YOB 1956/1936 2005G
(The Morgan Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme)
The actual liability in respect of global employee beneﬁts will not be known until the last payments have been made. In placing a current 
estimate on the Company’s past service beneﬁt obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required. For deﬁned beneﬁt 
schemes, the Directors make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, 
inﬂation rates and life expectancy. In making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors consider advice provided by external advisers, 
such as actuaries.
Deﬁned contribution plans
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 
£2.6 million (2007: £2.1 million).
Share based payments
During 2004, the Group established a new Long Term Incentive Plan and a new Share Option Scheme. Grants were also made out of the 
existing Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995. During 2004, the Company also renewed its all-Employee Sharesave Scheme and 
took the opportunity to extend a similar scheme to employees in Germany. In 2006, the Group established a new Directors’ Share Option 
Plan.
During 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 the Group made additional awards out of the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan. During 2005 and 2006 
the Group made additional awards out of the 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme and during 2006 an award was made out of the 
Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006. Also in 2005, 2007 and 2008 the Company granted options under the UK all-Employee Sharesave 
Scheme and in 2008 the Company granted options under the Germany all-Employee Sharesave Scheme.
During 2008, the Group established The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan and awards were made under this plan 
in 2008.
Additionally, equity-settled share option grants and awards made under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 are outstanding. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions under IFRS 1, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied 
to these grants. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 109
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
The terms and conditions of all awards and grants made since 7 November 2002 are as follows:
Number of Contractual
Grant date/Employees entitled instruments Vesting conditions life of option
Awards granted to senior employees in 2008 under Three years of service plus
The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 2,888,005 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2008 under the 
Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 1,089,783 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to German employees in 2008 under 
The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
for Employees in Germany 278,451 Three years of service 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2008 under Three years of service plus
the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 2,691,123 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2007 under 
the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 856,885 Three years of service 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2007 Three years of service plus
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 1,540,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2006 under Three years of service plus
the Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 1,000,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2006 under Three years of service plus
the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 398,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2006 Three years of service plus
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 477,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2005 under 
the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 976,614 Three years of service 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2005 under Three years of service plus
the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 3,804,820 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Awards granted to senior employees in 2004 Three years of service plus
under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 5,084,031 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2005 under Three years of service plus
the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 2,097,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 Three years of service plus
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 3,157,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2004 under 
the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 521,884 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to German employees in 2008 under
The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Option Scheme
for Employees in Germany 516,844 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2003 
under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 1995 779,421 Three years of service 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 Three years of service plus
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 263,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2002 Three years of service plus
under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 1,780,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Performance criteria for Long Term Incentive Plan , Directors Share Option Plan 6 and Executive Share Option Scheme 
The extent to which awards will vest will depend on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) ranking against the TSR of the other 
companies in the FTSE 350 measured over the performance period.
If the Company’s TSR places it at the median, then 30% of the awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of the grant.
If the Company’s TSR places it at the upper quartile, then 100% of the option will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Between the median and upper quartile, the option will vest on a straight-line basis. Below the median, none of the shares will vest. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 110
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
In 2007 additional performance criteria were attached to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004. The TSR performance criteria referred to 
above now only relate to 50% of the awards made. The extent to which the other 50% of these awards vest will depend on the 
Company’s Earnings per share (‘EPS’) compared with the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’). The full 50% will vest if over the three year performance 
period, the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 10% per annum. If the Company’s EPS increases 
by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards vesting will be 
interpolated between 15% and 50%. If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 4% per annum 
then 15% of the awards will vest. If the Company’s EPS increases by less than the sum of the RPI increase and 4% per annum then 0% of 
the awards will vest.
In 2008 further changes were made to the performance criteria attached to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 to awards made in 2008 
and onwards. For all participants excluding executive Directors the TSR performance criteria referred to above now only relates to 33.3% 
of awards made. The extent to which the other 66.7% of these awards vest will depend on the Company’s Earnings per share (‘EPS’) 
compared with the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’). The full 67% will vest if over the three year performance period, the Company’s EPS increases 
by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 10% per annum. If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual 
RPI increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards vesting will be interpolated between 15% and 50%. 
If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 4% per annum then 15% of the awards will vest. 
If the Company’s EPS increases by less than the sum of the RPI increase and 4% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest. For executive 
Director participants the conditions remain unchanged from 2007.
In addition, an improvement must be shown in the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance.
Performance criteria for The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
The extent to which awards will vest will depend on the Company’s EPS compared with RPI. Participants are able to defer up to 75% of 
their annual bonus into Company shares, subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee. Under the 2008 grant, the Remuneration 
Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares. Participants must hold the deferred 
shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award. Matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that a 
stretching EPS target has been met. If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 15% per annum 
then matching shares equal to three times the deferred shares will be earned. If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the 
annual RPI increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards will be interpolated between 0.25x deferred 
shares and 1.75x deferred shares. If the Company’s EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 4% per annum 
then matching shares equal to 0.25x deferred shares will be earned. If the Company’s EPS increases by less than the sum of the RPI increase 
and 4% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest.
Performance criteria for the Executive Share Option Scheme 199
The diluted earnings per share for the Company must grow by at least 2% per annum in excess of retail price inﬂation over the period 
of date of grant to date of vesting.
The fair values of services received are in return for awards made and share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services 
received is measured based on an appropriate model as shown in the accounting policy note m. In the case of the Binomial Lattice option 
pricing model, Dividend Discount method and Monte Carlo model the contractual life of the options and awards are used as an input. 
Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into both of these models.
Directors Share Option Plan 6
There were no awards during 2008.
Long Term Incentive Plan 
2008 awards
Fair value at measurement date 91.90p-183.70p
Share price 203.00p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model)     40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the modelling)      3 years
Expected dividends 3.3%
Risk-free interest rate 4.0% Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 111
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
2008 awards
Fair value at measurement date 178.40p
Share Price 197.75p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model)     40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the modelling)      3 years
Expected dividends 3.3%
Risk-free interest rate n/a
Executive Share Option Scheme 
There were no awards during 2008.
Employee Sharesave Schemes K
2008 awards
Fair value at measurement date 57.54p
Share price 211.10p
Exercise Price 169.00p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model)     40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the modelling)      3 years
Expected dividends 2.5%
Risk-free interest rate 4.3%
The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Options Scheme for Employees in Germany
2008 awards
Fair value at measurement date 59.34p
Share price EUR 2.03
Exercise Price EUR 1.64
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model)    40%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the modelling)      3 years
Expected dividends 2.5%
Risk-free interest rate 4.3%
Employee Share Option Scheme 199
There were no awards during 2008.
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) 
adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average Number of average Number of
exercise price options exercise price options
4 January 4 January 4 January 4 January
2009 2009 2008 2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the period   99.86p 11,803,800 81.55p 15,207,260
Granted during the period 51.24p 6,947,362 78.28p 2,396,885
Forfeited during the period   153.89p (895,840) 104.13p (218,492)
Exercised during the period   27.09p (4,160,580) 57.18p (5,558,123)
Lapsed during the period   76.34p (239,237) 42.12p (23,730)
Outstanding at the end of the period   94.08p 13,455,505 99.86p 11,803,800 
Exercisable at the end of the period   157.39p 2,449,879 101.54p 1,610,919 
The weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 216.52 pence (2007: 252.69 pence). Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 112
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
21. Employee beneﬁts continued
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range 0.00p to 256.00p and a weighted average contractual life 
of 1.8 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted. 
The estimates of the fair value of the services received is measured based on either a Monte Carlo model, a Dividend Discount method, a 
Binomial Lattice option pricing model or a Black-Scholes Merton model. The choice of model takes into account the terms and con ditions 
upon which the options were granted.
The IFRS 2 fair value charge expensed to the income statement was £2.2 million (2007: £2.7 million).
22. Provisions
Closure and
restructuring Other Environmental
provisions provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 5 January 2008 8.3 5.8 3.4 17.5
Provisions made during the year 1.3 7.6 2.4 11.3
Provisions used during the year (4.7) (3.2) (2.2) (10.1)
Provisions reversed during the year (0.3) (0.5) (0.1) (0.9)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.9 
Balance at 4 January 2009 5.1 10.3 4.3 19.7 
Current 2.1 8.0 2.4 12.5 
Non-current 3.0 2.3 1.9 7.2 
5.1 10.3 4.3 19.7
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Group’s restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the 
balance sheet date. The amounts provided are based on the costs of terminating relevant contracts, under the contract terms, and 
management’s best estimate of other associated restructuring costs including professional fees, which are expected to be incurred over the 
next year. The amounts provided also include the obligation for discounted future payments under a non-cancellable lease for the ofﬁces 
of the Company’s former headquarters, net of expected rental income under sub-leases. The lease expires in 2016.
Other provisions include the settlement of the US and European class actions, together with the associated legal costs, and the possible 
future legal defence costs of the Group’s former Chief Executive, Ian Norris. The estimated costs are based on the Group’s assessment of 
the probable future costs of these activities. The Group expects to incur most of the liability in the next year.
Environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years. In a number of 
jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems. The estimated costs are based 
on management’s best estimate of the costs required to remedy these problems. The Group expects to incur most of the liability over 
the next ﬁve years.
23. Trade and other payables
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current
Other trade payables 0.4 –
Non-trade payables 3.6 3.7 
4.0 3.7 
Current
Other trade payables 93.9 71.2 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 127.0 137.3 
220.9 208.5 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 113
24. Operating leases
Leases as lessee
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Less than one year 6.1 4.9 
Between one and ﬁve years 18.2 16.7 
More than ﬁve years 34.6 37.6 
58.9 59.2 
Leases as lessor
The total of future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases is £5.3 million (2007: £6.4 million).
25. Capital commitments
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these 
accounts amounts to £3.8 million (2007: £3.8 million) for the Group.
26. Contingencies
There are contingent liabilities on bills discounted by the Group amounting to £0.8 million (2007: £0.4 million).
The Group has been subject to legal claims in the US and Canada. Settlements for the majority of these have been agreed and provided 
for at the amount of £2.3 million (2007: £1.2 million). The Board, having taken legal advice, are of the opinion that the remainder of these 
actions will not have a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial position.
In an international group of companies a variety of claims arise from time to time. Provision has been made in these accounts against those 
claims which the Directors consider meet the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely 
to result in signiﬁcant liabilities.
27. Related parties
Identiﬁcation of related parties
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (a list of Principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 44), its associates 
(see note 13) and with its Directors and executive ofﬁcers.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its Directors, under which the Directors receive a salary 
or a fee and other emoluments. 
The key management of the Group and parent Company consist of the Board of Directors and members of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s 
Committee.
Their compensation charged in the year was:
2008 2007
£m £m
Short term employee beneﬁts 3.1 3.8 
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.3 0.4 
Share based payments 0.8 1.1 
Termination payments 0.4 0.4 
Non-executive Directors’ fees and beneﬁts 0.3 0.3 
Total compensation of key management personnel 4.9 6.0 
Information on executive Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 67. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 114
Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
continued
27. Related parties continued
Transactions in connection with former Directors
During the year the Group made payments on behalf of the former Chief Executive Ian Norris of £1.0 million (2007: £0.8 million) to cover 
the costs of his legal defence against extradition to stand trial in the United States. The Group also made payments to the former Chief 
Executive Warren Knowlton to reimburse him for US employer social costs in respect of his time with the Group (see page 65).
Other related party transactions
2008 2007
£m £m
Sales to associate 3.6 0.3 
Interest income from associate 4.1 1.5 
The balances with our associate are shown in note 16.
28. Accounting estimates and judgments
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. The following accounting estimates and judgments are subject to signiﬁcant 
uncertainty.
Provisions
Note 22 contains information about provisions. Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of 
litigation are judgmental by their nature. Amounts provided are the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available 
information.
Recognition of identiﬁable intangible assets and goodwill
Note 3 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition. These primarily relate to existing contracts and relationships, 
which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers. The Group has estimated that these customer relationships have an 
economic life of 15-20 years.
Impairment of goodwill
Note 12 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests.
Credit risk
Note 20 contains information about the Group’s exposure to credit risk. The Group establishes both speciﬁc and collective allowances for 
impairment losses against receivables. The collective loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics for similar 
ﬁnancial assets.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 20 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Pension assumptions
The principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 21. The actuarial evaluation of pension assets and liabilities is 
based on assumptions in respect of inﬂation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates. Relatively 
small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a signiﬁcant impact on the net pension 
liability included in the balance sheet.
Taxation
The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective 
judgments as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the 
Group operates. Deferred tax assets are recognised based on management’s assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 115
Company balance sheet
as at 4 January 2009
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 32 2.2 2.0 
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 33 693.8 709.1 
Other investments 34 5.1 5.1 
701.1 716.2 
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 35 63.2 56.1 
– due after one year 35 37.3 36.2 
Total debtors 100.5 92.3 
Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 36.0 
128.1 128.3 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year     36 42.5 28.4 
Net current assets 85.6 99.9 
Total assets less current liabilities 786.7 816.1 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 196.0 234.5 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 0.8 0.2 
Borrowings 37 136.1 74.8 
332.9 309.5 
Provisions for liabilities and charges     38 4.7 6.8 
337.6 316.3 
Net assets 449.1 499.8 
Capital and reserves
Equity shareholders’ funds
Called up share capital 18 67.5 69.1 
Share premium account 39 85.3 85.3 
Merger reserve 39 17.0 17.0 
Capital redemption reserve 39 35.7 34.1 
Proﬁt and loss account 39 243.2 293.9 
448.7 499.4 
Non-equity shareholders’ funds
Called up share capital 0.4 0.4 
Shareholders’ funds 449.1 499.8 
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer   
Kevin Dangerﬁeld, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer    Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 116
29. Accounting policies
The accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of preparation
The parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own proﬁt and loss account.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ﬂow statement on the grounds that 
the cash ﬂows of the Company are included within the published consolidated ﬁnancial statement.
Fixed assets and depreciation
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible ﬁxed assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Buildings 50 years
Motor vehicles 3 years
Fixtures 10-20 years
Computer software 3-6 years
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the proﬁt and loss account.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the proﬁt and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Post retirement beneﬁts
The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing beneﬁts based on career average pensionable pay. The assets of the 
scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities 
of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Beneﬁts, accounts for the scheme as if 
it were a deﬁned contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the proﬁt and loss account represents the contributions payable 
to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. Refer to note 41 for the additional disclosures required by FRS 17.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, ﬁnancial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ 
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other ﬁnancial assets or to exchange ﬁnancial asset s or 
ﬁnancial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company 
exchanging a ﬁxed amount of cash or other ﬁnancial assets for a ﬁxed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this deﬁnition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classiﬁed as a ﬁnancial liability. Where the instrument so classiﬁed 
takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these ﬁnancial statements for called up share capital and 
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with ﬁnancial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments 
associated with ﬁnancial instruments that are classiﬁed as part of shareholders’ funds (see dividend policy), are dealt with as appropriations 
in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Notes to the Company balance sheet Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 117
29. Accounting policies continued 
Hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for separately in the balance sheet. Gains and losses on both are included in proﬁt 
for the year when they arise (fair value hedges) or when the hedged transaction occurs having ﬁrst recorded those on the hedging 
instrument in equity (cash ﬂow hedges, to the extent effective).
Certain ﬁnancial assets and liabilities have been designated as fair value through proﬁt or loss and are recognised in the balance sheet at 
fair value. Changes in the fair value of such instruments during the year were recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account.
Own shares held by ESOP trust
The Group-sponsored ESOP trust’s purchase of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Share based payments
The share option program allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 
and those not yet vested as at 4 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value 
is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair 
value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the 
options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reﬂect the actual number of share options that vest except 
where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. For details of share-based payments made and the 
assumptions used in measuring the fair value see note 21.
Where the Company grants options over its shares to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings, these awards are accounted for by the 
Company as an additional investment in its subsidiary. The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 (IFRS 2) Share-based Payment.
Any payments made by the subsidiary undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as a return of this investment.
Share-based payments recharged to subsidiary undertakings are recorded via the inter-company loan account.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes 
to the ﬁnancial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the 
guarantee.
30. Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2008 2007
Directors and head ofﬁce staff 21 21
Divisional staff 14 15
35 36
The majority of the Directors and head ofﬁce staff devote a proportion of their time to Divisional duties. Of the 21 Directors and head 
ofﬁce staff, the average number who spent all or a proportion of their time on corporate duties was eight (2007: seven) as shown 
in note 6.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Wages and salaries 6.0 7.4 
Share-based payments (see note 21) 2.2 2.7 
Social security costs 1.4 0.6 
Other pension costs 1.3 1.1 
Total overhead employee cost 10.9 11.8 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 118
Notes to the Company balance sheet
continued
31. Dividends
Dividends payable for the First and Second Preference shares were £22,491 (2007: £22,491) of which £11,244 (2007: £11,244) was 
outstanding at the balance sheet date.
For proposed Ordinary dividends see the consolidated income statement on page 70.
32. Tangible assets
Plant, equipment
and ﬁxtures
£m
Cost
At 5 January 2008 3.3
Additions 0.7
At 4 January 2009 4.0
Aggregate depreciation
At 5 January 2008 1.3
Amount provided for in the year 0.5
At 4 January 2009 1.8
Net book amounts at 4 January 2009       2.2
Net book amounts at 4 January 2008 2.0
33. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Shares Loans Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 5 January 2008 534.5 222.3 756.8
Additions 53.6 31.3 84.9 
Less: disposals/loan repayments/liquidations (0.3) (98.2) (98.5)
At 4 January 2009 587.8 155.4 743.2 
Amounts provided
At 5 January 2008 44.0 3.7 47.7
Provided in the year 1.7 – 1.7
At 4 January 2009 45.7 3.7 49.4
Net book amounts at 4 January 2009     542.1 151.7 693.8 
Net book amounts at 4 January 2008 490.5 218.6 709.1 
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 44.
34. Other investments
£m
At 5 January 2008 and 4 January 2009 5.1 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 119
35. Debtors
2008 2007
£m £m
Due within one year:
Other debtors 0.6 1.0 
Interest receivable from associate 5.6 1.5
Derivative ﬁnancial assets 4.2 1.0 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 1.4 
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 52.1 51.2 
63.2 56.1 
Due after one year:
Loan to associate 36.0 36.0
Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 –
Derivative ﬁnancial assets 0.8 0.2
37.3 36.2
36. Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
2008 2007
£m £m
Due within one year:
Bank overdrafts 8.6 5.7 
Trade creditors 1.9 3.5 
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 8.1 5.3 
Other creditors, including social security 0.6 1.7 
Accruals and deferred income 7.9 11.2 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 15.4 1.0 
42.5 28.4 
37. Borrowings
2008 2007
£m £m
Bank and other loans 136.1 74.8 
Bank overdrafts 8.6 5.7 
144.7 80.5 
Less: amount repayable within one year included within current liabilities     (8.6) (5.7)
Total repayable after more than one year 136.1 74.8  Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 120
Notes to the Company balance sheet
continued
38. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Closure and
restructuring Other Environmental
provisions provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 5 January 2008 2.9 2.3 1.6 6.8 
Provided in the year – 1.3 0.2 1.5 
Utilised in the year (0.5) (2.7) (0.4) (3.6)
At 4 January 2009 2.4 0.9 1.4 4.7 
Closure and restructuring provisions relate mainly to an onerous lease provision for Morgan House, the Company’ s previous registered address.
Other provisions include the settlement of the US and European class actions, together with the associated legal costs, and the possible 
future legal defence costs of the Group’s former Chief Executive, Ian Norris.
Environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Company will rectify over the next few years. The Company has 
a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
39. Share premium and reserves
Capital Proﬁt
Share Merger redemption and loss
premium reserve reserve account
£m £m £m £m
At 5 January 2008 85.3 17.0 34.1 293.9
Charges in relation to share-based payments for the year    ––– 3.2
Purchase of shares for share incentive schemes ––– 0.4 
Share buy-back – – 1.6 (12.1)
Retained loss for the year – – – (42.2)
At 4 January 2009 85.3 17.0 35.7 243.2 
In prior years the increase in equity that corresponds to the share-based payments charge for the Group’s various share option incentive 
schemes was recognised as a separate component of equity in the share-based payment reserve. In 2007 the share-based payment reserve 
was combined with the proﬁt and loss account.
During the year shares with a nominal value of £0.1 million were purchased to satisfy awards granted under the Company’s employee 
share plans. These have been recognised as a deduction from shareholders’ funds. The shares are held in a trust administered by HSBC 
Trustee (C.I.) Limited and are distributed by them in a discretionary settlement governed by the rules of the Trust deed dated 1 March 1996 
(as amended).
The total number of own shares held by the Trust at 4 January 2009 is 2,593,799 (2007: 5,876,880) and at that date had a market value 
of £3,157,950 (2007: £11,724,376). 
A Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium Account was passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 
11 June 1993. This cancellation was conﬁrmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993. The amount 
of £88.9 million standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the Special reserve against which 
goodwill on consolidation can be written-off. This reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account 
on 12 October 1990 of £71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred 
following previous Orders of the High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and Share 
Premium Account.
The amount of reserves of The Morgan Crucible Company plc that may not be distributed under Section 264(3) of the Companies Act 1985 
is £139.7 million (2007: £138.1 million). Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 121
40. Leasing commitments
Operating lease commitments during the next year, for which no provision has been made in these accounts, are:
Land and buildings
2008 2007
£m £m
Less than one year 0.1 –
Between one and ﬁve years 0.2 0.2 
More than ﬁve years 0.5 0.8 
0.8 1.0 
41. Pension costs
The Morgan Pension Scheme and The Morgan Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
The Company participates in two deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK. The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered 
funds, The Morgan Pension Scheme (‘MPS’) and The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (‘SSS’). Given that the 
Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17 
Retirement Beneﬁts, the schemes have been accounted for in these ﬁnancial statements as if they were deﬁned contribution schemes.
The latest actuarial valuations of The ‘MPS’ and The ‘SSS’ were carried out as at 6 April 2006 and 1 April 2006 respectively, and updated 
for FRS 17 purposes to 31 December 2008 by a qualiﬁed independent actuary. The results for these schemes in respect of the Group are 
shown below:
2008 2007
%%
Assumptions:
RPI inﬂation 2.80 3.25
Discount rate 6.50 5.75
Pension increases in payment 2.60/3.15 3.25/3.40
General salary increases n/a n/a
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
2008 2008 2007 2007
Expected Expected
return return
%£m % £m
Asset distribution and balance sheet reconciliation: 
Equities 8.0 97.8 7.8 132.2 
Bonds 5.0 7.1 5.8 171.2 
Property 5.8 4.9 6.3 17.0 
Other 3.8 155.6 4.3/4.7 4.0 
Total market value of assets 265.4 324.4 
Present value of liability (278.5) (324.9)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (13.1) (0.5)
Employer contributions due within one year (0.1) (0.2)
Other assets include an insurance policy as described in note 21.
The contribution for the year was £6.4 million (2007: £3.8 million).
42. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee.
There are no other contingent liabilities in the Company as at 4 January 2009. Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 122
Notes to the Company balance sheet
continued
43. Related parties
The Directors have reviewed transactions with related parties (as deﬁned in FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures) and have concluded that there 
are no material transactions which require disclosure which have not been acknowledged elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts.
44. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Country of incorporation and principal place of business
Carbon Companies
Shanghai Morgan Carbon Co. Limited China
Shanghai Morganite Electrical Carbon Co. Limited       China
Morganite Electrical Carbon Limited England
* Morgan Rekofa GmbH Germany
* Morgan Materials Hungary Kft. Hungary
* Assam Carbon Products Limited India
* Morgan Carbon Italia s.r.l. Italy
* Morganite Luxembourg S.A. Luxembourg
* National Electrical Carbon B.V . Netherlands
* Morganite South Africa Pty. Limited South Africa
* Morgan Advanced Materials and Technology Inc.       USA
* National Electrical Carbon Products Inc. USA
* Graphite Die Mold Inc. USA
Insulating Ceramics companies
* Carbo San Luis S.A. Argentina
* Beijing Yingtelai Morgan Thermal Ceramics Textiles Co. Limited      China
Dalian Morgan Refractories Limited China
Morgan Kailong (Jingmen) Thermal Ceramics Co. Limited        China
Morgan Molten Metal Systems (Suzhou) Co. Limited       China
Morgan Thermal Ceramics International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Limited      China
Morgan Thermal Ceramics Shanghai Limited China
Yixing Morgan Thermal Ceramics Co. Limited China
Morganite Crucible Limited England
Thermal Ceramics UK Limited England
* Thermal Ceramics de France S.A.S. France
* Carl Nolte Söhne GmbH Germany
* Thermal Ceramics Deutschland GmbH & Co. K.G.        Germany
* Ciria India Limited India
* Morganite Crucible (India) Limited India
Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited India
* Thermal Ceramics Italiana s.r.l. Italy
Shinnikka Thermal Ceramics Corporation Japan
* Limited Liability Company Morgan Thermal Ceramics Sukhoy Log      Russia
Thermal Ceramics Asia Pte. Limited Singapore
* Thermal Ceramics South Africa Pty. Limited South Africa
*Thermal Ceramics Espana S.L.      Spain
*Morganite Crucible Inc.      USA
*Thermal Ceramics Inc.      USA
Technical Ceramics companies
* Morgan Technical Ceramics Australia Pty. Limited       Australia
* Yixing Haldenwanger Fine Ceramic Co. Limited        China
Certech International Limited England
Morgan Advanced Ceramics Limited England
Morgan Electro Ceramics Limited England
* W. Haldenwanger Technische Keramik GmbH & Co. K.G.        Germany
Wesgo Ceramics GmbH Germany
* Morgan Technical Ceramics S.A. de C.V . Mexico
* Certech Inc. USA
* Morgan Advanced Ceramics Inc. USA
* Morgan Technical Ceramics Auburn Inc. USA Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 123
44. Principal subsidiary undertakings continued
Country of incorporation and principal place of business
Other subsidiary undertakings
* Morganite Australia Pty Limited Australia
* Morganite Brasil Limitada Brazil
* Morganite Canada Corporation Canada
Grupo Industrial Morgan S.A. de C.V . Mexico
Morgan Korea Company Limited South Korea
Morganite Industries Inc. USA
* Denotes companies some or all of whose shares are owned by a subsidiary.
In 2006, 2007 and 2008 the following German subsidiaries, which are included in the Group consolidated accounts, utilised article 264b
German Commercial Code to be liberated from preparing and disclosing audited statutory accounts:
W Haldenwanger Technische Keramik GmbH & Co K.G. Technische Keramik GmbH & Co K.G. Thermal Ceramics Deutschland GmbH & Co K.G. 45. Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
For the year ended 4 January 2009
2008 2007
£m £m
Retained (loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year      (42.2) 172.5 
Purchase of shares for share incentive schemes 0.4 (1.5)
Charge in relation to share-based payments 3.2 2.7 
New share capital subscribed (net of issue costs) – 0.1 
Share buy-back (12.1) (47.5)
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds      (50.7) 126.3 
Opening shareholders’ funds 499.8 373.5 
Closing shareholders’ funds 449.1 499.8 Financial statements
Governance
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 124
Group statistical information
Under adopted IFRSs
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 795.9 745.7 677.8 693.2 835.0 
Proﬁt from operations before restructuring costs, other one-off 
items and amortisation of intangible assets 57.2 67.3 74.9 88.1 108.8 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement 
of prior period anti-trust litigation (58.7) (32.0) (27.7) (9.0) (11.4)
Gain on curtailment of United Kingdom employee beneﬁt schemes – – 11.0 – –
Terminated bid approach costs – – (2.1) – –
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of property (3.8) (0.4) 0.3 (0.2) 0.8 
Proﬁt/(loss) from operations before amortisation of intangible assets (5.3) 34.9 56.4 78.9 98.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.4) (1.3) (1.2) (1.6) (3.2)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) (6.7) 33.6 55.2 77.3 95.0 
Net ﬁnancing costs (16.1) (13.1) (3.4) (5.5) (12.7)
Loss on disposal of businesses (8.2) (0.1) (1.5) (0.3) (0.7)
Share of proﬁt of associate (net of income tax) – – – 0.2 1.2 
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation (31.0) 20.4 50.3 71.7 82.8
Income tax expense (2.5) (8.8) (10.6) (15.2) (20.1)
Proﬁt/(loss) after taxation but before gain/(loss) on sale 
of discontinued operations (33.5) 11.6 39.7 56.5 62.7 
Gain/(loss) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax   (26.7) 42.6 – – –
Proﬁt/(loss) for the period (60.2) 54.2 39.7 56.5 62.7 
Assets employed
Property, plant and equipment 319.8 235.3 230.2 246.6 319.6 
Intangible assets 107.1 46.6 66.4 69.8 177.0 
Investments and other receivables 9.1 6.4 8.4 49.5 50.6 
Deferred tax assets 31.2 27.4 28.8 25.8 36.6 
Net current assets 54.3 94.2 44.0 74.4 189.9 
Total assets less current liabilities 521.5 409.9 377.8 466.1 773.7
Employee beneﬁts 183.0 124.2 42.7 47.7 101.8 
Provisions and other items 143.3 61.9 103.6 202.9 423.1 
Deferred tax liabilities 42.1 28.1 28.4 19.2 40.8 
153.1 195.7 203.1 196.3 208.0 
Equity
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 142.4 182.3 186.7 176.2 177.8 
Minority interest 10.7 13.4 16.4 20.1 30.2
Total equity 153.1 195.7 203.1 196.3 208.0 
Ordinary dividends per share – 2.5p 4.5p 6.75p 7.0p 
Earnings/(loss) per share
– basic (22.2p) 18.1p 12.9p 19.1p 22.2p 
– diluted (22.2p) 17.2p 12.3p 18.5p 21.6p 
– basic before amortisation of intangible assets (21.7p) 18.6p 13.3p 19.7p 23.4p 
– diluted before amortisation of intangible assets (21.2p) 17.7p 12.7p 19.1p 22.8p This report has been printed in the UK, our printers are 
Environmental Management System ISO 14001 accredited 
and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody 
certiﬁed. All inks used are vegetable based. This paper 
is environmentally-friendly ECF (elemental chlorine free), 
wood free with a high content of selected pre-consumer 
recycled material. The mill is fully FSC certiﬁed. The paper 
is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have ﬁnished reading this report and no longer wish 
to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, 
return it to Morgan Crucible or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you.
This annual report is available at www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP
T el: +44 (0)1753 837000 
Fax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morgancrucible.com
