 Morgan Crucible
Annual Report 2012
ADVANCED MATERIALS
 RESILIENT pERfoRMANCE
The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012 
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1Lp
Tel: +44 (0)1753 837000 
f ax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morgancrucible.com This Report has been printed in the UK. our printers are environmental management 
system ISo 14001-accredited and f orest Stewardship Council (fSC) chain of 
custody-certified. All inks used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally  
friendly ECf (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-free with a high content of selected 
pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully fSC-certified. The paper is also 
completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to 
other interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
FSC logo to be placed here
Overview
01 Strategy
02 Morgan Crucible at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
Business review
06  Chief Executive o fficer’s 
review
08 Group business review
09 Key performance indicators 
10 Review of operations 
18 Corporate responsibility
28 f inancial review
32 Risk management 
34  Key resources and  
contractual relationships
35 Cautionary statement
Governance
36  Board of Directors and
 Executive Committee
38  Directors’ report
42  Corporate governance
49  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
50 Remuneration report
67 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
68  C o n s ol i d a t ed i n c o m e 
statement
69  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t e m en t  
of comprehensive income
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of changes in equity
72  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of cash flows
73 Notes to the consolidated 
 financial statements
116 Company balance sheet
117  Notes to the Company  
balance sheet
126 Group statistical information
127 Shareholder information
MOr Gan Cru CiBle  
IS A Wo RLD-LEADER IN 
ADVANCED MATERIALS
We produce a wide range of specialist, 
high-specification materials that have 
extraordinary attributes and properties.
Engineered into products, they deliver 
enhanced performance, often under 
extreme conditions.
o ur dynamic, highly skilled people are 
continuously engaged in finding solutions  
for complex and technologically demanding 
applications, which are used all over  
the world.
In short, we supply innovative, differentiated 
products made from highly technical advanced 
materials which enable our customers’ 
products and processes to perform more 
efficiently, more reliably and for longer.
  f or more information about Morgan Crucible, 
please visit our website.
   www.morgancrucible.com
  f ind out more about Morgan Crucible graduate 
recuitment on facebook.
   www.facebook.com/morganceramics Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 01
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Our strategy is based on building  
a sustainable business for the  
long term, by continuing to focus  
on our five strategic priorities and 
remaining committed to delivering 
strong returns to our stakeholders.
Strate Gy in acti On
Morgan c rucible identifies customer opportunities in sectors 
driven by megatrends where its materials science and applications 
engineering skills can solve technically demanding challenges.  
t he Group chooses its markets carefully, focusing on those  
in which it can achieve leadership positions underpinned by 
technical differentiation.
   
Our goal is to continue  
to be one of the world’s  
very best advanced  
materials companies
   
Our aim is to create 
long-term sustainable 
shareholder value
   
Be innovative, differentiated 
and high value-added  
to our customers
   
   Have a culture of  
operational excellence  
and cost efficiency
   
   Find, keep and develop  
the right people
   
Be number one or  
number two in our 
chosen market segments
   
Focus on higher growth, 
higher margin, 
non-economically  
cyclical markets
Our GOal
Our aiM
Strate Gic pri Oritie S  02 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
a truly global operation with 
significant business in the 
dynamic growth economies  
of a sia and South a merica.
Morgan c rucible’s markets
> 
MOr Gan cruci Ble 
at a G lance
£346.8m
£346.3m
£314.4m
Asia and Rest of World
Europe
North America
Our regions
> Sales by destination
2012 total revenue
Industrial 45%
Transportation 19%
Electronics 9%
Petrochemical 9%
1
2
3
4
Security & Defence 8%
Energy 6%
Healthcare 4%
5
6
7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
£1 ,007 .5m Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 03
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Our Divisions
> 
*
   Divisional eBita is defined as segment operating profit before restructuring costs,  
other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Morgan Ceramics uses its expertise in material science 
and applications engineering to manufacture custom 
products for demanding environments.
t hrough its t echnical c eramics Business it supplies customer-specific, 
applications-engineered industrial products manufactured from 
advanced materials including structural ceramic, electro-ceramic and 
precious metals. t he t hermal c eramics Business provides thermal 
management solutions for high-temperature applications which 
benefit technically, financially and environmentally from optimised 
energy and emissions control.
Core products
 > insulating fibre, insulating bricks and monolithics
 > c eramic cores for complex turbine blades
 > c omponents for electron tubes
 > Feedthroughs for medical implants
 > piezoelectric ceramic actuators
Morgan Engineered Materials delivers materials 
technology through its global businesses.
Morgan engineered Materials delivers highly engineered solutions 
across the world from a portfolio of advanced material technologies 
that include carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics and 
advanced polymeric composites. t he Division’s core applications  
are industrial and rail transportation, fluid handling, power generation 
(gas turbine, solar and wind), molten metal handling and advanced 
lightweight ceramic/composite armour systems for personnel and 
vehicle protection.
Core products
 > electrical brushes
 > Seals and bearings
 > protective ballistic armour
 > u ltra-high-temperature insulation
 > crucibles
 > l ithium ion battery anode materials
Revenue £m
660.5m
Divisional EBITA
*
 £m 
c ontinuing business
94.6m
Revenue £m
347.0m
Divisional EBITA
*
 £m 
c ontinuing business
32.5m
MOr Gan c era MicS MOr Gan en GineereD Material S  04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
i am delighted to join the Board as chairman.  
i am grateful to t im Stevenson for helping  
this transition and also for his efforts since  
2006 including leading the Group through  
the economic downturn and positioning  
the business for future growth. i am excited  
by the opportunities that the Group has to 
develop, and i look forward to contributing  
to its future success.
in recent years, great strides have been made 
to simplify the business, most recently in the 
consolidation of the two c eramic Businesses  
in 2010. it is the case that we produce a variety 
of different products for different industrial and 
geographical markets, but there are powerful 
underlying unifying themes. We specialise in 
bringing science and application engineering 
expertise to meet demanding technical 
requirements involving advanced materials,  
and we look to position ourselves in growth 
markets. it has become apparent that we can 
further simplify the business to improve clarity 
at the customer interface, gain benefits from 
innovation across the Group and reduce costs. 
We are therefore re-organising the business  
on a regional basis and sharpening the  
brand identity, as is further explained in  
the chief e xecutive Officer’s review.
t rading conditions were difficult in 2012, 
nevertheless operating profit before one-off 
costs of £122.0 million was the Group’s second 
highest ever. c ash generation was strong  
with a reduction in net debt of £22.6 million 
compared to £20.8 million in 201 1. t his 
reflects the strength of our capabilities and 
being present in growing markets, which  
helped to offset disappointing performance  
in Morgan engineered Materials.
c Hair Man ’S State Ment
t rading conditions were difficult in 2012, 
nevertheless operating profit before 
one-off costs of £122.0 million was  
the Group’s second highest ever.
Andrew Shilston 
chairman Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 05
Dividend
t he Board has decided to set the final dividend 
at 6.4 pence per share. t his is an increase of 
6.7% compared to the final dividend declared 
in 201 1. t his means that the full-year dividend  
is 10.0 pence.
10.0
9.25
7.7
7.0
7.0
Total dividend per share
Pence
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
Outlook
t he macro-economic outlook for 2013 is  
not significantly better than 2012, with global 
imbalances and indebtedness in developed 
countries still weighing on growth. t he changes 
we are announcing to the organisation 
structure will maximise our chances of growing. 
Despite the challenging economic environment 
we continue to invest in new manufacturing 
facilities and research and development and to 
look for bolt-on acquisitions to add capability. 
Board and Governance
i should like to welcome Victoire de Margerie 
to the Board. She has a wealth of operational 
experience across europe in related industries. 
it has been a pleasure to work with Board 
colleagues over the last nine months and  
we all remain committed to the development 
of the Group.
i have visited a number of the Group’s sites 
since i joined the Board and have been 
impressed by the enthusiasm and loyalty to  
the Group of all those i have met. t he Board 
recognises that the quality and commitment  
of our employees is key to future success  
and continues to be grateful for their efforts.
Andrew Shilston 
chairman  06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
cH ieF eXecutiV e OFFicer ’S re VieW
Group results
Following the Group’s record results in 201 1, 
our 2012 performance, whilst still amongst  
one of the best in Morgan c rucible’s 156-year 
history, was impacted by a much more difficult 
macro-economic environment. t he eurozone 
countries slipped back into recession, growth  
in the u S economy was subdued and even  
the dynamic growth economies, such as china, 
india and Brazil, all struggled relative to their 
performance of recent years. We at Morgan 
c rucible were not immune from the global 
turbulence of 2012 with Group revenue at 
£1,007.5 million down 8.5% versus 201 1 
(£1,101.0 million) and profit from operations 
before one-off and restructuring costs at 
£122.0 million (201 1: £143.4 million) down 
14.9%. t his overall Group performance was  
a reflection of a good year from the c eramics 
Division offset by a disappointing one from  
the engineered Materials Division. t he Group’s 
operating cashflow was strong once again  
with c.£50 million of free cash flow before 
acquisitions and dividends enabling the  
Board to increase the final dividend by  
over 6% whilst delivering a reduction  
in 2012 year end net debt levels to  
£192.8 million (201 1: £215.4 million).
Divisional summary
t he c eramics Division performed well in  
the more difficult economic environment with 
an increase in year-on-year Divisional eBita  
of £1.9 million on revenue which was slightly 
down on 201 1’s record levels (down 1.9% 
year-on-year on a constant currency basis and 
3.6% at reported rates). c eramics’ Divisional 
eBita margin (before any one-off or 
restructuring costs) improved from 13.5%  
in 201 1 to 14.3% in 2012.
t he key drivers of this encouraging 
improvement in Divisional eBita margin  
were an increasing proportion of our business 
coming from higher margin product areas 
combined with ongoing improvements  
to our operating cost base.
a s one of the world’s leading advanced 
materials groups we have a portfolio  
of exciting, innovative, differentiated  
new products and technologies.
Mark Robertshaw 
c hief executive Officer Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 07
We continued to make good progress in our 
high-temperature insulating fibre business and 
in particular the global rollout of our range of 
low bio-persistent fibres (Superwool
®
 fibre 
products). High-temperature insulating fibre  
is the Group’s single biggest product category 
representing close to 25% of total Group 
revenue. Our Superwool
®
 range of  
high-temperature insulating fibres accounted 
for 37% of these fibre sales up from 34%  
in 201 1 as we progressively convert over our 
fibre production capacity to be able to produce 
our differentiated and patent-protected 
Superwool
®
 products. a s i indicated in last 
year’s a nnual r eport we continue to believe 
that the environmentally friendly properties  
of the new Superwool
®
 range combined  
with their technical performance leave us 
well-placed to deliver profitable growth in this 
important business area over the coming years.
From a geographic perspective, the c eramics 
Division delivered particularly strong 
performance in the n orth a merican region 
which achieved record levels of revenue and 
profit in 2012. in addition to the rollout of 
Superwool
®
 fibre in this region, we also saw 
good profit growth from our aerospace related 
applications, such as the Morgan c ertech 
businesses, where we are the global number 
one provider of ceramic cores used in the 
manufacture of turbine blades.
t he c eramics manufacturing footprint 
continued to be streamlined with the closure  
of one of our facilities in n ew Jersey as 
production was relocated to other larger sites 
in the u S and lower cost operations in Mexico, 
and with the announced closure of a t hermal 
c eramics site in a ustralia, with production 
being relocated to lower cost locations in a sia.
t he performance of the engineered Materials 
Division was disappointing in 2012 with 
revenue of £347.0 million, down 15.2% at 
constant currency (16.5% at reported rates), 
and Divisional eBita down by more than 40% 
compared to 201 1, as the softening of general 
industrial demand was exacerbated by the 
marked reduction in our business into 
high-margin renewable energy and defence 
applications. t his impacted both the a dvanced 
Materials & t echnology and np a erospace 
businesses and in both we made significant 
reductions in the cost and headcount base to 
reflect the lower levels of demand. t his has 
included the announced closure or downsizing 
of a number of sites, particularly in c ontinental 
europe. Our goal is to have an operating cost 
base in these businesses which can deliver at  
or close to mid-teen operating profit margins  
at current demand levels. t he highlight of the 
engineered Materials Division in 2012 was the 
performance of the Molten Metal Systems 
business which grew revenue by 4.8%  
on a constant currency basis (a reduction  
of 1.9% at reported rates) with eBita 
increasing to £8.1 million (£7.7 million in 201 1) 
representing an eBita margin of 17.7%  
(2011: 16.5%). 
Changes to the Group’s  
organisation structure
a t the same time as the release of 2012 
full-year results, we have also announced  
a new management structure which sees  
the Group organised on a regional basis.  
t his change is consistent with our direction  
of travel in the past several years to present  
our customers and markets with a single, 
unified ‘One Morgan’ set of products and 
technologies. We believe that this leaves us 
better placed to exploit growth opportunities 
both geographically and by end-market,  
through more fully leveraging the breadth  
of our geographic and market access. it will  
also improve our operational cost efficiency 
through opportunities to further streamline  
our overhead and fixed cost base. t he three 
regions: n orth a merica, europe and a sia/ 
r est of World, will report to a ndrew Hosty, 
who moves from being ce O of the c eramics 
Division to become the chief Operating 
Officer of the Group. Don Klas, ce O of the 
engineered Materials Division, after helping 
work through the transition to the new model, 
will leave the Group after over 30 years with 
Morgan c rucible and i would like to take this 
opportunity to thank him for his commitment 
and service and to wish him well for the future.
in conjunction with the change to the 
organisational model, i am also pleased to 
announce that the Group will be renamed 
Morgan a dvanced Materials plc which we 
believe is a better and more appropriate 
descriptor of the breadth and depth of the 
technologies and capabilities which we bring  
to our customers.
Looking forward
t he macro-economic environment was more 
difficult in 2012 and we do not expect this to 
improve materially in 2013. We anticipate that 
european markets will remain challenging as 
austerity driven policies continue to impact 
demand and business confidence levels.  
t he interconnectedness of global markets 
means that we will likely also see some degree 
of impact on business levels in the a mericas 
and a sia. in this environment, our focus 
remains on self-help actions rather than relying 
on positive market conditions which may  
or may not transpire. a s one of the world’s 
leading advanced materials groups we have a 
portfolio of exciting, innovative, differentiated 
new products and technologies. We also have 
a truly global presence with market-leading 
positions. a bove all we have a talented and 
committed workforce around the world  
who have shown themselves once again  
to be nimble, imaginative and tenacious in the 
uncertain and fluid market conditions of 2012.  
i would like to take this opportunity to thank 
them all for their efforts in 2012 and for their 
commitment to ongoing excellence in all that 
we do in 2013 and beyond.
Mark Robertshaw
c hief executive Officer  08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Gr Oup Bu SineSS re VieW
Group activities
Morgan c rucible is a world-leader in advanced 
materials, focused on specialist ceramics, 
carbon and composites. Working at the 
forefront of advanced materials technology,  
the Group develops solutions that  
help to make the world more efficient,  
better protected and healthier.
in 2012 the Group operated through  
two global Divisions: Morgan c eramics  
and Morgan engineered Materials.
Morgan c eramics consists of two global 
reportable operating segments. t echnical 
c eramics is a leading supplier of customer-
specific, applications-engineered industrial 
products manufactured from advanced 
materials including structural ceramic, 
electro-ceramic and precious metals. t hermal 
c eramics provides thermal management 
solutions for high-temperature applications 
which benefit technically, financially and 
environmentally from optimised thermal and 
energy efficiency management. c ore products 
are high-temperature insulating fibre, bricks  
and monolithics.
Morgan engineered Materials delivers highly 
engineered solutions built from a portfolio of 
advanced material technologies that includes 
carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics 
and advanced polymeric composite materials. 
t he Division consists of two global reportable 
operating segments: Morgan a M&t , which 
includes np a erospace, with core applications 
including current transfer systems for industrial 
and rail transportation, seals and bearings for 
fluid handling, high-temperature insulation for 
solar silicon wafer production and advanced 
lightweight ceramic/composite armour systems 
for personal and vehicle protection; and Molten 
Metal Systems, with core products of crucibles 
and foundry consumables.
Group strategy
Morgan c rucible’s goal is to continue to  
be one of the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies.
t he Group’s aim is to create long-term 
sustainable shareholder value.
t he Group’s five strategic priorities are:
 > t o focus on higher growth, higher margin, 
non-economically cyclical markets. 
 > t o be innovative, differentiated and  
high value-added to its customers. 
 > t o be number one or number two  
in its chosen market segments.
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence 
and cost efficiency. 
 > t o find, keep and develop the right people. 
t he Group uses its strategic priorities to test 
new investment opportunities, to screen its 
businesses for fit with the existing Group and to 
identify areas requiring strategic attention and 
action.
Business model
Morgan c rucible’s business model is aligned 
with and driven by the Group’s strategy  
as set out above. in each Division and across  
all businesses and sites Morgan c rucible  
utilises advanced materials technology and 
manufacturing expertise to design, develop, 
manufacture and integrate technically 
differentiated solutions that help enhance the 
performance and efficiency of its customers’ 
products or operations. t his is supported  
with a focus on service excellence and the 
development of genuine partnerships such that 
the Group works alongside its customers and 
suppliers in the ongoing refinement of products 
and solutions. Further details of the Group’s 
key resources and contractual relationships are 
set out on page 34 of this Business review.
t he announcement of the new organisation 
structure, which reinforces a ‘One Morgan’ 
approach, underpins the Group’s commitment 
to present its customers and markets with a 
single, unified set of products and technologies 
and allows it to fully leverage its breadth of 
geographic and market access.
t his outward-facing part of Morgan c rucible’s 
business model is combined with an internal 
focus on operational excellence and effective 
cost management and the continued work  
to take full advantage of the Group’s low-cost 
manufacturing footprint is a tangible example  
of this. t he new organisation structure will also 
contribute to this cost effectiveness, improving 
operational efficiency through the streamlining 
of overheads.
t he Group’s focus on high-quality customer 
solutions and efficient operations combine to 
satisfy Morgan c rucible’s stated aim of creating 
long-term sustainable shareholder value.
a dditional information on the markets served 
by the Group and on its products are included 
in the r eview of operations on pages 10 to 17 
and in the Overview section on pages 1 to 5.
Revenue and profits
Group revenue decreased by 8.5% to  
£1,007.5 million (201 1: £1,101.0 million).  
Group eBita before restructuring charges  
and one-off items was £122.0 million (201 1: 
£143.4 million), representing a margin of  
12.1% (201 1: 13.0%). t he main factors  
for these movements are as follows:
Morgan c eramics 
 > t echnical c eramics: r evenue for 2012  
was £273.3 million (201 1: £285.1 million), 
representing a decrease of 4.1%. Divisional 
eBita was £42.7 million (201 1: £43.1 
million), a margin of 15.6% (201 1: 15.1%).
 > t hermal c eramics: r evenue for 2012  
was £387.2 million (201 1: £400.1 million), 
representing a decrease of 3.2%. Divisional 
eBita was £51.9 million (201 1: £49.6 
million), a margin of 13.4% (201 1: 12.4%).
Morgan engineered Materials
 > Morgan a M&t : r evenue for 2012 was 
£301.2 million (201 1: £369.1 million), 
representing a decrease of 18.4%. 
Divisional eBita was £24.4 million  
(201 1: £48.0 million), a margin of  
8.1% (201 1: 13.0%). 
 > Molten Metal Systems: r evenue for 2012 
was £45.8 million (201 1: £46.7 million), 
representing a decrease of 1.9%. Divisional 
eBita was £8.1 million (201 1: £7.7 million), 
a margin of 17.7% (201 1: 16.5%).
Cash generation
t he net cash inflow from operating activities 
was £126.8 million (201 1: £137.4 million). Free 
cash flow before acquisitions and dividends was 
£48.9 million (201 1: £57.8 million). Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09
Key per FOr Mance in Dicat Or S
t o support the Group’s strategy and to 
monitor performance, the Board of Directors 
and the executive c ommittee use a number  
of financial and non-financial key performance 
indicators (Kpis). t hese Kpis are selected as 
being important to the success of the Group  
in delivering its strategic objectives. progress  
is assessed by comparison with the Group’s 
strategy, its budget for the year and against 
historic performance. a t a business level,  
a range of further benchmarks and other  
Kpis are also used as part of the Divisional 
planning and performance review processes.  
in order to measure the underlying performance 
of the business, management further analyse 
the headline Kpis to exclude the impact of 
acquisitions and foreign exchange.
a s Morgan c rucible’s businesses grow and 
evolve the list of Kpis selected will be reviewed 
and updated to ensure they remain important 
to the success of the Group.
Financial and non-financial performance  
is reviewed in more detail in the Divisional, 
financial and corporate responsibility sections  
of this Business review.
Performance
Kpi 2012 2011 r elevant strategic objective
Financial KPIs
r evenue (decline)/growth (8.5)% 8.2% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
u nderlying operating profit * (decline)/growth (23.1)% 39.3% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o be high value-added to the Group’s customers
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
u nderlying operating profit * margin 10.8% 12.9% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
u nderlying profit before taxation ** £89.7m £119.7m > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
Free cash flow before acquisitions and dividends £48.9m £57.8m > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
r eturn on Operating c apital employed *** 26.5% 33.7% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
u nderlying earnings per share **** 23.2p 29.9p > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
Dividend per share 10.0p 9.25p > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
Non-financial KPIs
u
year-on-year pricing change 2.0% 2.3% > t o be high value-added to the Group’s customers
t otal employment costs as % of sales 30.4% 29.2% > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
employee turnover 13.4% 13.7% > t o find, keep and develop the right people
t raining hours per employee 15.1 13.3 > t o find, keep and develop the right people
l ost time accident frequency (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.52 0.58 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
 > t o find, keep and develop the right people
t onnes c O
2
 per £m revenue 403 411 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
t onnes waste per £m revenue 49 45 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
*  u nderlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
** u nderlying profit before taxation is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets less net financing costs.
***  r eturn on Operating c apital employed is defined as Group underlying operating profit
*
 divided by the sum of working capital (which excludes pension liability and provisions)  
and the net book value of tangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
****  u nderlying earnings per share is defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets. See note 10 on page 82 for definition of basic earnings per share.
u 
n on-financial Kpis are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
re VieW OF Operati On S
660.5
685.2
609.1
Revenue
£m
2012
2011
2010
94.6
92.7
68.8
Divisional EBITA
£m
2012
2011
2010
Business description
Morgan c eramics comprises two operating 
Businesses. t echnical c eramics provides 
customer-specific components and assemblies 
manufactured from advanced materials, while 
t hermal c eramics is a provider of thermal 
management solutions for high-temperature 
applications in industrial markets.
a s at 31 December 2012 Morgan c eramics 
employed approximately 5,800 people 
worldwide. t he Division is a truly global 
business, with 57 manufacturing sites across  
six continents. it is structured with regional 
teams supported by global engineering, 
marketing, technology, research and 
development, strategy and finance functions. 
t he Division’s major sites are located in 
a rgentina, a ustralia, Brazil, china, France, 
Germany, india, italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, 
r ussia, the u K and the u Sa . t he Division has 
50 sales offices working directly with end-users 
and also sells some products through 
distribution networks.
t he Division’s engineering and design 
capabilities are the key to its success.  
Full technical support and advice is offered  
to customers throughout their product 
development cycle, working closely with  
them to understand their needs and provide 
engineered solutions that add value and  
help differentiate their end-products.
t he Morgan c eramics business strategy  
is aligned with that of the Group, with the 
objective of being a world-leader in engineered 
solutions based on advanced ceramic and 
related materials. t he Division’s strategy is:
 > t o focus on market niches where the 
Division’s distinctive competences and 
innovation skills differentiate it.
 > t o structure the Division’s businesses for 
simplicity and high levels of accountability. 
 > t o drive operational excellence in all of  
the Division’s facilities.
 > t o actively manage the Division’s portfolio 
to achieve optimum shareholder returns.
 > t o develop the Division’s leaders, teams 
and technical talent to deliver its strategy.
t he t echnical c eramics Business manufactures 
application-specific products to customer 
requirements using a wide range of structural 
ceramics, electro-ceramics and precious 
metals. Key markets for these products include 
electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, 
healthcare and energy.
t echnical c eramics’ components and 
assemblies are used in hundreds of high-
technology application niches, including:
 > c eramic cores used in the casting of 
turbine blades for aero-engine and 
industrial gas turbines.
 > Braze alloys, ceramics and sub-assemblies 
used in the manufacture, monitoring and 
control of aero-engines.
 > c omponents and sub-assemblies for  
a broad range of medical applications, 
including implantable devices, prosthetics, 
surgical and diagnostic equipment.
 > c eramics and assemblies for electron 
tubes used in a range of medical, security, 
industrial and research applications, such  
as airport security scanners, t V and radio 
broadcasting and X-ray equipment.
 > engineered ceramics for fluid handling 
equipment.
 > piezoelectric ceramic actuators for 
electronic data storage.
 > c omponents and assemblies for lasers 
used in product marking, medical and 
industrial applications.
t he t hermal c eramics Business serves a 
broad spectrum of industrial and commercial 
markets with insulation requirements ranging 
from 500°c to 1,600° c . its high-temperature 
insulating fibre, insulating bricks and monolithics 
enable users to optimise thermal efficiency, 
reduce energy costs and improve environmental 
performance through reduced c O
2
 emissions. 
t he Business also provides passive fire 
protection for the transportation, industrial  
and construction sectors.
products are manufactured from advanced 
insulating materials marketed under a number 
of leading brands, including Superwool
®
, JM™, 
pyro-Bloc™, FireMaster
®
 and t ri-Mor™. t hey 
are used worldwide in demanding applications, 
which are increasingly influenced by legislative 
and environmental requirements. Major 
markets include petrochemical, iron and  
steel and industrial equipment.
MOr Gan cera Mic S DiViSiOn Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11
Market sectors
Industrial
in the industrial sector, Morgan c eramics’ 
products contribute to improved process 
efficiency, productivity and reduced waste  
and environmental impact.
Morgan c eramics advanced ceramic  
materials offer an exceptionally wide range  
of characteristics, including superior insulating 
properties, dimensional stability, strength and 
stiffness. t he resistance of these materials  
to chemical and physical wear, corrosion  
and extreme heat makes them ideally suited  
for use in harsh industrial processing and 
demanding manufacturing environments. 
For example, n ilcra
®
 magnesia partially-
stabilised zirconia (MgO pSZ) is the material  
of choice for a wide range of applications from 
severe service valves and pumps, to tooling  
for battery and steel can production. Morgan 
c eramics’ high-temperature components  
are used in industrial annealing and in the 
manufacture of medical devices. t he Division 
supplies ceramic membranes for efficient 
industrial water filtration and purification, 
helping businesses in that sector to reduce 
maintenance and save energy. 
insulating products from Morgan c eramics 
allow manufacturers to control a variety  
of thermal processing operations, thereby 
optimising throughput and yields. it supplies 
monolithic linings for blast furnaces and fibre 
modules and firebricks for heat treatment 
furnaces. its fire protection products are used 
in a range of infrastructure projects including 
sea defences, offshore oil and gas platforms  
and public buildings.
Transportation
Morgan c eramics offers a wide range  
of products for many different transport 
applications. t he Division has been meeting 
the exacting needs and demanding application 
requirements of the aerospace and automotive 
industries for more than 50 years. its ceramic 
and brazed assemblies improve the efficiency 
and reliability of its customers’ products.  
it produces ceramic components, sensors  
and brazed assemblies to tight specifications in 
quantities from one-offs and small production 
runs to high-volume. 
precision engineered materials, components 
and assemblies from Morgan c eramics are 
used in instrumentation and control systems, 
engine monitoring, guidance systems and 
satellite positioning equipment. t he Division’s 
ceramic cores are used to form the cooling 
paths in aerospace engine turbine blades and  
its specialist braze alloys are used extensively  
in aero-engine manufacture and repair. 
piezoceramics are used in gyroscopes and fuel 
level sensors; for example, every Boeing 777 
aircraft is fitted with more than 50 of its 
ultrasonic fuel level sensors.
Morgan c eramics ceramic materials offer  
a combination of physical properties, which 
makes them an attractive and cost-effective 
option for designers of transportation systems 
including road, rail, marine and aircraft, and its 
thermal management products are used widely 
in fire protection and suppression applications. 
Security & Defence
Morgan c eramics has provided precision-
engineered materials, components and 
assemblies to meet the exacting standards of 
the international defence and security markets 
for several decades. From military hardware  
to surveillance equipment and armour for 
personnel and vehicle protection, its superior 
materials technology and impressive 
manufacturing capability deliver real 
performance benefits in the field.
t he Division’s piezoceramic components  
are highly versatile, stable and durable, even in 
challenging operating conditions, making them 
ideal for use in custom sensor and transducer 
systems. t he Division is a major supplier to  
the manufacturers of power tubes used in 
image intensifiers, electronic counter-measures 
and communications equipment. 
Morgan c eramics’ materials are used 
extensively for protection of personnel and 
vehicles in armour systems that are designed  
to meet the classified ballistic performance 
requirements of each individual customer.  
t he Division also makes lightweight, heavy 
duty fire protection systems for commercial 
and naval vessels; the FireMaster
®
 system  
is certified to meet most national and 
international military standards. 
Morgan c eramics is at the forefront of 
improving security systems at border controls. 
its custom ceramic and metal assemblies  
are used to improve the image resolution of 
luggage and cargo scanners and its Diamonex™ 
diamond-like-carbon coatings are used in 
fingerprint swipe sensors.
Petrochemical
Morgan c eramics provides precision-
engineered materials, components and 
assemblies for the global petrochemical  
market. t he resistance of its materials to 
chemical and physical wear, corrosion and 
extreme heat makes them ideally suited for  
use in challenging applications and harsh 
processing environments.
t he Division supplies heat management 
systems with insulation requirements ranging 
from 500°c to 1,600° c , for fired heaters, 
ethylene crackers, reformers, sulphur recovery 
units, fluid catalytic cracking units and boilers. 
Morgan c eramics products enable users to 
optimise thermal efficiency, reduce energy 
costs and improve environmental performance 
through reduced c O
2
 emissions. its FireMaster
®
 
fire protection systems offer proven fire 
protection performance, certified to national 
and international standards. 
t he Division makes a range of parts and 
sub-assemblies for use in processing 
hydrocarbons, including specialist valves,  
pumps, seals and bearings. its high-performance 
ceramic materials provide a level of precision 
and reliability equally suited to the demanding 
requirements of drilling and refining. For 
example, n ilcra
®
 zirconia components extend 
the serviceability of valves and pumps and 
Deranox
®
 975 alumina is used in the harsh 
environment of the hydrocyclone, where  
sand and other solids are separated from  
the hydrocarbon stream, helping to protect  
and increase the lifetime of sensitive  
processing instrumentation and heat 
exchangers downstream.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Electronics
Morgan c eramics’ capabilities in precision 
engineering are increasingly being specified  
to meet the needs of niche applications across 
the electronics sector. t he Division supports 
designers and manufacturers of electronic 
equipment in their drive towards higher 
performance and reliability in smaller, lighter 
and more robust products. 
Morgan c eramics piezoceramic components 
are highly versatile, durable and stable with 
excellent electrical and thermal properties.  
it makes actuators for high-capacity hard disk 
drive (HDD) data storage which enable the 
head to be positioned with extraordinary 
accuracy and vibration control, ceramic  
formers for wire-wound radio frequency (r F) 
inductors for mobile phones, laptops,  
high definition televisions, lighting controls, 
sensors and wireless devices. 
Dielectric materials from Morgan c eramics 
offer high-quality capacitance solutions  
for applications from laser instrumentation  
to microwave and high-voltage systems.  
its high-purity alumina ceramic is used 
extensively for waveguides in c O
2
 lasers  
and insulators in excimer lasers that function  
in harsh environments and it is a major  
supplier of components for electron tubes  
used in communications, signalling and  
control equipment.
Morgan c eramics produces a wide range  
of standard and specialised components  
and assemblies including metallised parts  
and ceramic-to-metal sub-assemblies. t he 
Division’s specialised manufacturing capabilities 
allow it to produce high-quality electronic 
components cost-effectively in high-volume.
Energy
energy generation, management and 
distribution is arguably one of the fastest 
evolving industries of modern times. Morgan 
c eramics components and sub-assemblies  
are widely used in a variety of systems that 
generate and distribute power from both 
renewable and traditional sources. 
t he Division has a broad range of dielectric 
materials and high quality capacitance solutions 
for high voltage systems, and its piezo materials 
are key components in a number of energy-
harvesting applications.
it makes products that are used in the 
manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic cells for 
the solar industry and cores for industrial gas 
turbine blades. its ceramic live line indicators 
are used in high voltage Dc power distribution 
applications all over the world. 
 
Morgan c eramics high-performance insulating 
products enable users to reduce their energy 
costs and improve their environmental 
performance. t he Division’s high-temperature 
insulating fibre, bricks and monolithics are  
used to optimise thermal efficiency in industrial 
applications with operating temperatures from 
500°c to 1,600° c . l atest-generation low 
bio-persistent Superwool
®
 plus fibre is used  
in duct and chimney insulation, process heater 
linings, pipe wrap and automotive exhaust  
heat shields where its exceptionally low 
thermal conductivity allows engineers to  
specify a significantly thinner blanket to achieve 
the same level of insulation. 
Healthcare
Morgan c eramics is an innovative 
manufacturer of ceramic implants, components 
and complex assemblies for a wide range  
of medical devices. its high-quality ceramics  
can be found in surgical tools, medical 
instrumentation, therapeutic and diagnostic 
equipment. its materials are favoured by 
equipment manufacturers and medical 
professionals for their exceptional physical 
characteristics. 
t he Division’s broad medical engineering 
expertise encompasses ceramic orthopaedic 
joint replacements, precision engineered 
ceramic parts for cancer treatment,  
blood and cellular analysis systems, along  
with specialised ceramic-to-metal assemblies 
for implantable devices such as pacemakers, 
speech valves, cochlear implants, defibrillators 
and neurostimulators. Morgan c eramics 
piezoelectric components are used extensively 
in medical ultrasound applications and in pumps 
for drug delivery. 
t he Division’s superior materials display 
industry-leading electrical and mechanical 
properties enabling design of high-efficiency 
medical tools such as ultrasonic dental 
descalers, ultrasonic scalpels and tumour 
ablation tips. 
Morgan c eramics’ applications engineering 
expertise is second to none and its specialist 
manufacturing facilities aid the evolution of key 
components in instrumentation and diagnostic 
equipment such as ultrasonic imaging,  
X-r ay, cat and M ri scanners. i ts superior 
piezoelectric ceramic components are used 
extensively in medical ultrasound to enable 
increased image resolution, while its non-
magnetic, temperature stable dielectric 
materials are being used more extensively  
in next generation Mri systems. 
Research and development
research and development capabilities are  
led by a t echnical Director for each Business, 
overseeing a network of materials scientists  
and applications and process engineers across 
the Division’s global sites. t hey work with 
customers to engineer solutions that address 
the customer’s needs. t he Division also 
undertakes research in collaboration  
with leading universities in europe and  
n orth a merica.
r ecent developments have focused on 
products for the medical, transportation  
and energy markets. product innovation  
is driven by the customer’s end-application.
a n increased emphasis on the development  
of new fire protection systems shows excellent 
promise for future growth.
re VieW OF Operati On S
continued
MOr Gan cera Mic S DiViSiOn continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 13
t he majority of the Division’s research and 
development into thermal management 
solutions is carried out at the Division’s 
Bromborough, u K site in a purpose-built 
world-class facility. With 25 dedicated scientists, 
the team has led the market in the 
development of low bio-persistent fibres, 
low-energy furnace operation and product 
development. t he role of low bio-persistent 
fibres is seen as being of increasing importance 
in the future of the high-temperature insulation 
market and so research and development 
activities have been directed towards extending 
the Division’s product range in this area. 
r esearch into manufacturing processes has 
produced new generation fibre products with 
superior insulation. l ow bio-persistent fibre 
technology, for use in automotive catalytic 
converters, has been developed and patented. 
a major focus for the Division is on  
recruitment of high-calibre material scientists 
and engineers to provide the talent and 
resources that the Division requires to fuel the 
growth from these exciting expanding markets.
Business performance
t he c eramics Division produced a good year 
in 2012, particularly when the more difficult 
macro-economic environment is considered. 
revenue in the Morgan c eramics Division  
was £660.5 million (201 1: £685.2 million), 
representing a decrease at reported rates  
of 3.6%. a t constant currency the decrease  
in revenue was 1.9%.
r evenue for the t echnical c eramics Business 
in 2012 was £273.3 million (201 1: £285.1 
million), a decrease of 4.1% at reported rates. 
r evenue was down by 4.0% on a constant 
currency basis. t hermal c eramics’ revenue 
decreased by 3.2% to £387.2 million in 2012 
(201 1: £400.1 million). On a constant currency 
basis, the year-on-year decrease was 0.4%.
For t echnical c eramics, Divisional eBita  
was £42.7 million (201 1: £43.1 million). 
t echnical c eramics raised its eBita margin  
by 50 basis points, reaching 15.6% for the year 
(201 1: 15.1%). t hermal c eramics’ Divisional 
eBita increased in the year to £51.9 million 
(201 1: £49.6 million). t he eBita margin for 
t hermal c eramics increased by 100 basis 
points to 13.4% (201 1: 12.4%). Overall the 
c eramics Divisional eBita margin showed 
good improvement to 14.3% (201 1: 13.5%).
Business developments
in 2012 major investments were focused on 
the Superwool
®
 fibre programme and the 
conversion of existing refractory ceramic fibre 
(‘rc F’) capacity. Significant investment in both 
equipment and people continued to be made 
in the dynamic a sian and South a merican 
markets. c apital was invested in Kailong, 
china, and Daegu, Korea to increase fibre 
capacity and the thermal insulation product 
range. t he Division received approval from the 
Board for a new fibre plant in the Middle east, 
which is becoming an attractive and rapidly 
growing market. Smaller but important 
investments were made to extend existing 
brazing capability in the Hayward c alifornia 
facility. a ceramic grinding facility was 
established in y ixing, china and in the  
u Sa capacity was increased for making  
c VD Diamond coatings for the growing  
a sian semiconductor equipment market.
r esources and capabilities in a sia and South 
a merica were further developed and added  
to, resulting in a number of positive enquiries 
being generated. t hese are now making their 
way into commercial plans.
t he t hermal c eramics Business made good 
progress with continued roll-out of high-
temperature insulation products. t hese include 
a range of differentiated and patent-protected 
products based on a range of Superwool
®
 
chemistries. Good progress was made in the 
engineering business, which takes Morgan 
c eramics products, and through applications 
engineering, adds value to give customers  
a package design that will give them a more 
energy efficient and safer operating solution. 
t ypical applications are found in the chemical 
processing, aluminium, iron and steel and 
passive fire protection industries. n ew product 
development in the t hermal c eramics 
Business remains concentrated in the field of 
low bio-persistent fibre where the Business 
continues to develop even higher temperature 
resistant materials.
Work in the t echnical c eramics Business 
focused on moving towards newer, more 
differentiated products that will continue to 
drive positive mix shift. t his was achieved  
by increasing the number of new business 
projects in higher margin, high value-added 
end-markets such as healthcare and aerospace, 
whilst continuing to reduce exposure to more 
commoditised and economically cyclical 
product areas.
t he ‘Operational excellence’ programme has 
now been firmly embedded across the whole 
Division. it involves benchmarking projects  
that have accountability and responsibility  
at plant level, and it delivered year-on-year 
improvements in operational efficiency.  
t hese locally based and managed initiatives 
continue to be co-ordinated and supported  
by engineering and research and development 
personnel to optimise manufacturing 
processes. 
t he continuous operational improvement 
programmes, cost reduction initiatives and 
emphasis on positive price pass-through  
have all helped to deliver the margin growth 
achieved in 2012 and are expected to continue 
to contribute in 2013 and beyond.
Outlook
Following the decline in market demand in  
the second half of 2012, entering 2013 the 
orderbooks for both t echnical and t hermal 
c eramics appear to have stabilised. t here 
remain weaker areas such as the construction 
market in europe and whilst quotation levels 
for engineering projects in t hermal c eramics 
are strong, the speed of conversion is slower 
than expected. 
 
Both Businesses are continuing to pursue new 
business opportunities and increase their share 
of customer spend in 2013 which, along with a 
number of the Superwool
®
 capital investments 
coming fully on line during the year, should 
leave them well placed to improve performance 
in 2013 and beyond.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
347.0
415.8
408.0
Revenue
£m
2012
2011
2010
32.5
55.7
45.5
Divisional EBITA
£m
2012
2011
2010
Business description
t he businesses within the Morgan engineered 
Materials Division deliver highly engineered 
solutions across the world from a portfolio  
of advanced material technologies that include 
carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics 
and advanced polymeric composites. t he 
Division’s footprint provides a global reach  
that enables the delivery of market-leading 
solutions to a variety of chosen end-markets. 
t hese chosen end-markets are served  
through global businesses: Morgan a dvanced 
Materials & t echnology (Morgan a M&t ),  
np a erospace and Molten Metal Systems 
(MMS). For reporting purposes the Division 
consists of two global reporting segments: 
Morgan a M&t (including np a erospace)  
and Molten Metal Systems (MMS).
t he Division’s capabilities are rooted in the 
understanding, application and processing of  
its broad range of advanced materials. t oday 
the engineered Materials Division has strong 
positions in carbon brushes for industrial and 
rail traction applications, seals and bearings  
for fluid handling, crucibles for the processing  
of non-ferrous metals, high-temperature 
insulation for silicon solar wafer production and 
sapphire crystal substrates for le Ds, advanced 
lightweight protective ceramic/composite 
armour systems and graphite materials for 
lithium ion batteries.
a s at 31 December 2012 the Division 
employed approximately 4,000 people, serving 
customers in around 100 countries worldwide. 
its global presence includes 40 operating 
facilities in 25 countries, with major materials 
processing plants in the u Sa , europe,  
South a merica and a sia feeding an integrated 
network of finishing plants. t he Division 
benefits from a strategically located low-cost 
manufacturing base, with sites in Mexico, 
china, Hungary and i ndia that allows the 
Division to serve customers across the globe.
t he Division’s strategy aligns with the Group’s 
strategic priorities and has fostered success in 
the ballistic protection market and entry into 
the silicon solar cell, sapphire le D and lithium 
ion anode markets. Specifically, the Division’s 
strategy is to:
 > a dd value to advanced materials and 
technology to deliver engineered solutions 
to chosen markets. 
 > engender a culture of operational 
excellence with a focus on continually 
improving the value the Division delivers  
to its customers. 
 > establish and fully embed a mindset  
for growth through focused business 
development, specifically in high-growth 
and high-margin markets. 
 > invest in its future through its technology 
centres of excellence and through 
acquisitions, alliances and partnerships.
 > Fully engage its entire workforce and  
instil a culture of continuous re-invention. 
 > c ontinuously recruit and develop the  
right people. 
t he Division’s global businesses go to  
market through channels that include  
both direct sales and distributor networks. 
Morgan a M&t primarily uses direct sales 
channels complemented by strategic 
distribution partners, who serve both the 
original equipment market and the aftermarket 
and are supported by a global network of 
applications engineers. np a erospace uses 
direct channels to serve major militaries and 
vehicle original equipment manufacturers 
(‘OeMs’), while MMS leverages an effective 
global network of independent distributors to 
serve the global non-ferrous metals industry. 
t he Division is strategically positioned to 
ensure that the best possible resource is 
deployed to provide advanced materials  
and technologies in the form of engineered 
solutions to its key global markets.
re VieW OF Operati On S
continued
MOr Gan en GineereD Material S DiViSiOn Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 15
Market sectors
Industrial
Morgan engineered Materials products are 
used in a wide range of industrial equipment. 
t hey help manufacturers of non-ferrous 
metallurgy, steel, paper, cement, chemicals, 
pharmaceuticals and food to improve the 
efficiency of their processes.
t he Division’s high-quality carbon brushes, 
linear collectors and rotary current transfer 
products help to maximise equipment 
performance, extend system life and  
optimise energy efficiency, thereby reducing 
maintenance and operating costs. 
its carbon and graphite insulation materials  
and machined graphite products are used  
to support specialist processes in demanding 
high-temperature environments where their 
purity and structural characteristics are critical 
to achieving the required process quality.
in the mining industry, severe and changeable 
operating loads and high levels of vibration 
make considerable demands on the electrical 
performance of heavy machinery. Morgan 
engineered Materials’ superior advanced  
brush material technology has facilitated  
reliable equipment operation in the harshest 
and deepest mines in the world.
Morgan engineered Materials’ advanced 
crucible technology is helping to improve the 
efficiency of energy-intensive melting processes 
used in metal casting, through increased 
strength and longer life.
t he Division’s crucibles are used all over the 
world in foundries, die-casters and metal 
melting facilities working with zinc, precious 
metals, aluminium, copper, brass, bronze  
and other non-ferrous materials. 
Transportation
Morgan engineered Materials supplies key 
components for rail, road and aerospace 
transport.
its specialist materials technologies deliver 
long-life performance for rail networks all over 
the world, even those operating in extreme 
environments such as very high-speed trains 
and long haul freight passing through widely 
varying conditions. c arbon brushes, 
commutation system components, earthing 
brushes, third rail and pantograph collectors 
are custom built and tested to meet individual 
rail network requirements.
in light rail systems, Morgan engineered 
Materials advanced composite technology is 
chosen for its combination of structural integrity 
and light weight, which helps to save energy  
and provides better wear performance for 
longer life.
t he Division’s carbon and graphite 
components are used in commercial airlines, 
military aircraft and helicopters and it makes  
jet engine main shaft bearing seals, electrical 
brushes for alternators and generators, 
bearings for fuel pumps and high temperature 
carbon fabrics for insulating systems. its 
materials are used where reliability is critical 
and high-performance paramount, such as 
in-flight refuelling at high altitude.
t he Division supplies graphite anode materials 
for lithium ion batteries used in electric vehicles 
and is currently working with a number of 
world-leading partners to develop new 
materials for this sector. 
Security & Defence
Morgan engineered Materials is a global leader 
in lightweight armour systems for the effective 
protection of people and property. 
t he Division has an unparalleled record in 
rapid fielding of new equipment in support  
of a range of defence programmes. it is a  
critical resource supplier to the u K Ministry  
of Defence and has supplied tactical wheeled 
vehicles and equipment for use in iraq and 
a fghanistan. it is designated a t ier 2 supplier  
of ceramic body armour plates to the  
u S Department of Defense.
t he Division’s ca Mac ™ vehicle armour 
combines advanced ceramics with high-
technology composites. its systems are  
typically 40% of the weight of the equivalent  
in armoured steel, making them easier, faster 
and more cost-effective to deploy. t hey also 
demonstrate higher ballistic performance.
Morgan engineered Materials provides 
comprehensive fleet management and support 
services for defence and security vehicles from 
design of the armour system to manufacture, 
installation and spares provisioning. it also 
repairs and refurbishes vehicles in theatre  
or upon return.
t he Division’s rotary transfer products are 
specified for their high reliability for use in 
military vehicles operating in the harshest 
conditions. examples include tank turret 
systems, specialist robotic mine detectors  
and radar systems.
Petrochemical
Morgan engineered Materials makes critical 
components for fluid flow handling applications 
in the petrochemical industry, including  
seal faces, bearings, rotors and vanes.  
its leading-edge materials offer excellent  
wear characteristics for the most extreme 
environments, contributing to the safety  
and efficiency in oil and gas extraction  
and downstream processing operations.
Morgan engineered Materials carbon  
and silicon carbide materials are used to 
manufacture the high-performance seals  
and bearings that play a vital role in minimising 
fugitive gas and product vapour emissions  
from valves, pumps, compressors and other 
pressurised equipment. t he engineered 
topography in its seal components can reduce 
leakage rates in critical applications by as much 
as 50%. 
t he Division’s capability for precision machining 
of silicon carbide composite mechanical seals 
produces products that allow operators to 
work at elevated contact pressures, 
dramatically reducing interface leakage in 
demanding conditions.
Wear resistance is increasingly important  
in the design and operation of pumps and 
bearings for the petrochemical industry, where 
advanced materials are used to help reduce 
failure rates, warranty costs and downtime. 
Morgan engineered Materials is working on 
next-generation materials with improved 
performance characteristics. For example,  
its patented silicon carbide and graphite 
composite reduces friction for longer life,  
better reliability and energy efficiency.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Electronics
Morgan engineered Materials is playing a key role 
in helping the electronics industry to achieve  
its own demanding performance targets.
a s semiconductor manufacturers continue  
the drive for smaller, faster integrated circuits 
that are less expensive to make, so processing 
equipment is increasingly dependent on 
advanced materials to achieve the desired 
performance. For example, use of advanced 
carbon technology in the silicon wafer tool 
helps to achieve the required purity and 
process temperatures.
Morgan engineered Materials manufactures the 
highest purity and controlled microstructure 
materials in the world and has enabled yield 
and process improvements in specialised 
semiconductor and le D substrate fabrication 
processes, including ion implantation, epitaxy 
and compound crystal growth. t he Division 
offers a state-of-the-art purification capability 
and is working with leading equipment 
manufacturers to develop and incorporate  
new materials that will allow them to meet  
the needs of the semiconductor and  
le D industries.
a dvanced materials that the Division has 
engineered for applications in this sector allow 
manufacturers to work at higher temperatures 
with greater energy efficiency and reduced  
risk of contamination for a step-change in 
process performance. t his has enabled  
the manufacture of new products, including 
integrated circuits, le D devices and very  
fine optical fibres.
Energy
Morgan engineered Materials components  
play a critical role in traditional and renewable 
power generation and throughout the 
electricity supply chain. its materials technology 
allows more efficient use of energy in a wide 
variety of industries by reducing friction, 
providing better insulation and enabling  
new technologies.
World-renowned for performance and 
reliability, the Division’s brush technology  
is used in coal, gas, nuclear and wind power 
plants all over the world and is at the heart  
of electricity storage and distribution systems 
for applications from rail transport to electric 
vehicles. its molten metal crucible technology  
is recognised as the most energy-efficient  
way to melt non-ferrous materials and  
is used extensively in the manufacture  
of copper components for electricity 
transmission systems.
Morgan engineered Materials helps the world’s 
leading producers of poly-silicon and silicon 
ingots to enhance solar cell performance. its 
advanced insulation materials help to control 
the silicon melting process, optimising energy 
efficiency and reducing contamination, for 
more efficient photovoltaics.
t he Division’s graphite materials are used  
to make anodes for lithium-ion batteries for 
portable electronic devices, electric vehicles 
and grid energy storage and its carbon brushes 
and rotary transfer systems, designed to 
perform in the harshest environments,  
are used widely in wind power installations.
Healthcare
Morgan engineered Materials supplies specialist 
components for niche markets in healthcare 
diagnostic equipment.
the Division’s advanced carbon fibre 
composites are used as a strong, lightweight 
structural frames for an advanced technology 
X-ray treatment couch, used in oncology. t he 
components help to ensure that patients are 
positioned correctly for optimum treatment, 
higher image quality and lower X-ray doses. 
t he material enhances resolution diagnostics 
thanks to its high X-ray transparency.
its graphite material is used in the case and 
graphite layer of a sophisticated ultrasonic 
diagnostic probe. it has developed a range  
of highly engineered, ultra-thin components  
to enable more accurate, higher resolution  
and reliable ultrasound imagery.
Silicon carbide and carbon are used in 
advanced oxygen concentration units  
that provide relief to patients suffering from  
chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, such 
as emphysema and chronic bronchitis, that 
cause airflow blockage and breathing-related 
problems. Morgan engineered Materials’ 
components are part of a rotary valve that 
extracts more than 95% pure oxygen from  
the environment.
t he Division’s electrical rotary transfer 
products are used widely in medical analysis 
equipment from endoscopes to cct and  
Mrt scanners.
Research and development
t he Businesses within the engineered Materials 
Division are leaders in carbon-based materials, 
oxide and non-oxide ceramics, lightweight 
composites, and in ballistics and blast 
technology. t he Division’s research activities 
include material and process capabilities as  
well as product and systems development. 
t hese activities are located within the major 
material processing facilities in the u Sa , the u K 
and c hina. t he Division’s Businesses deploy 
application engineers worldwide to work  
with customers in applying advanced materials 
and technologies to develop leading-edge 
engineered solutions according to customer 
need, with a focus to position each Business  
as leaders in dynamic growth markets.
Business performance
revenue in the e ngineered Materials Division 
was £347.0 million (201 1: £415.8 million), 
representing a decrease at reported rates  
of 16.5%. a t constant currency this decrease  
in revenue was 15.2%. t he revenue of 
Morgan a M&t excluding np a erospace  
was £243.4 million (201 1: £276.1 million) 
representing a decrease of 1 1.9% at reported 
rates and 10.6% on a constant currency basis. 
np a erospace revenue was £57.8 million 
(201 1: £93.0 million), a decline of 37.8%.  
MMS revenue was £45.8 million (201 1:  
£46.7 million), a decrease of 1.9% at reported 
rates, but an increase of 4.8% on a constant 
currency basis.
re VieW OF Operati On S
continued
MOr Gan en GineereD Material S DiViSiOn continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 17
Divisional eBita for the engineered Materials 
Division was £32.5 million (201 1: £55.7 
million), a margin of 9.4% (201 1: 13.4%). 
Morgan a M&t e Bita margin excluding  
np a erospace was 8.5% (201 1: 12.7%),  
np a erospace was 6.2% (201 1: 14.0%)  
and MMS was 17.7% (201 1: 16.5%).
Business developments
t he deterioration in the Morgan a M&t 
(excluding np a erospace) performance in  
2012 reflects the softening in a number of 
end-markets globally but most acutely in china 
where the Business had experienced significant 
growth in recent years. t he slowing of this 
dynamic growth economy, the sharp decline  
of high-margin renewable energy markets plus 
the fall in u S armour revenue were the main 
reasons for the weaker results in the year. 
Demand for electrical products across all 
regions began to soften in the second quarter 
and continued through the rest of the year.  
Seal and bearing demand, driven by weakening 
economies in the u S and in europe, began  
to soften in the third quarter and this continued 
through much of the second half. Demand  
for renewable and clean energy products fell 
off sharply at the end of the first quarter and 
remained depressed throughout the year, with 
the largest impacts being a 50% year-on-year 
drop in demand for high-temperature 
insulation products and an abrupt decline  
of the wind energy market in china.
r evenue from u S body armour declined  
from 201 1. However, good progress was  
made during the year in positioning the 
Business for success in 2013 and beyond.
t he Business reacted to the reduced volumes 
by making significant headcount and cost 
reductions across the globe, including the 
closure or downsizing of a number of sites, 
particularly in c ontinental europe.
Despite the challenges presented by slowing 
industrial markets and virtually stalled renewable 
energy markets, the Business continued to 
invest selectively in technology, in expanding  
its low-cost manufacturing capability, and in  
the Business’s overall capability in c hina,  
in order to continue to advance its ability  
to compete in its markets.
r evenue in np a erospace was £57.8 million. 
t he reduction in sales reflected the continued 
reduction in u rgent Operational r equirements 
demand from the u K Ministry of Defence 
(‘MoD’) for tactical wheeled vehicles.  
np a erospace margin was impacted in 2012, 
particularly in the second half, by vehicle 
contract closures resulting in both settlements 
with the MoD and prudent assessments of 
inventory remaining from the long period of 
supporting u rgent Operational r equirements 
for the MoD in a fghanistan. entering 2013, 
revenue predictions are stable and the cost 
base has been right-sized for this level of 
revenue. np a erospace continues to build  
a significant pipeline of opportunities both 
through the u Sa , focused on key u Sa military 
vehicle OeMs, and through a growing series  
of export opportunities outside the u K  
and the u Sa . investment in technology has 
continued to be a high priority and has yielded 
breakthrough developments in lighter weight 
personal protection and highly advanced 
vehicle armour systems that have the potential 
to generate significant growth in the future.
t he MMS Business continued to perform well 
with revenue growth (at constant currency rates) 
and margin improvements as global demand 
for non-ferrous castings continued to increase, 
in part driven by increasing demand from the 
automotive sector. Good growth in china, 
n orth a merica and the Far east more than 
offset a decline in demand from europe. t he 
Business continues to benefit from its low-cost 
manufacturing footprint, strong market presence 
in dynamic growth markets, and continued 
progress in driving operational excellence.
Outlook
entering 2013, Morgan a M&t ’s order book 
continues to reflect softness in demand from 
most sectors and geographies, although 
demand appears to have stabilised towards the 
end of 2012. Demand from the solar sector is 
expected to remain depressed at least until the 
second half of the year, while demand from 
china’s wind sector is expected to improve 
from a low base through the course of 2013. 
t he Business is also pursuing a number of u S 
body armour contracts that hold promise for 
improving revenue in 2013 and beyond.
np a erospace revenue in 2013 is expected  
to be in line with 2012, with lower vehicle 
systems demand from the u K MoD being 
offset by a growth in export sales.
t he outlook for the MMS Business remains 
positive with continued sales growth expected 
in the dynamic growth markets, particularly 
china. t he commitment to operational 
excellence and market-leading positions  
in dynamic growth economies means  
MMS is well placed to continue to deliver 
high-margin growth again in 2013.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
c Orp Orate re SpOn SiBility
c orporate responsibility  
is integral to Morgan 
c rucible’s business. 
Morgan c rucible’s 
corporate responsibility 
policies and programmes 
in this area support each  
of the Group’s five strategic 
priorities and address key 
risks and opportunities. 
t his report summarises 
the Group’s key corporate 
responsibility policies  
and procedures, their 
implementation and their 
effectiveness which is, 
where appropriate, 
monitored using key 
performance indicators.
t he following section reports on Morgan 
c rucible’s r esponsible Business programme, 
including the Group’s policies, procedures  
and performance in respect of business  
ethics, community relations and suppliers  
and customers. Subsequent pages cover 
environment, Health and Safety (eHS) and 
people. in addition, Morgan c rucible’s 2012 
eHS r eport, planned for publication on the 
website in May 2013, will provide a more 
comprehensive review of the Group’s  
eHS performance in 2012.
Morgan c rucible’s approach to corporate 
responsibility is encapsulated in the Group’s 
c ore Values Statement. a s the Group works 
to implement its strategic priorities, the c ore 
Values Statement provides the framework for 
the Group’s corporate responsibility policies, 
programmes and procedures. t he Statement  
is available on the website and applies  
to all Morgan c rucible businesses and 
employees worldwide.
t he governance structure for corporate 
responsibility is aligned with the management 
structure of the Group. t he Board is 
accountable for corporate responsibility policies 
and procedures. t he chief e xecutive Officer, 
Mark r obertshaw, is the executive in charge  
of all corporate responsibility matters.  
He is supported by the executive team with 
functional heads having specific responsibility 
for environment, health and safety, legal 
compliance, human resources and other areas. 
Operational implementation is delegated to the 
chief e xecutive of each of the Group’s Divisions.
Corporate responsibility policies 
and procedures
t he Group continues to develop its 
r esponsible Business programme as the core 
training and education platform for Morgan 
c rucible’s corporate responsibility policies  
and procedures, other than eHS, which is  
a stand-alone programme. t he responsible 
Business programme covers human rights, 
contract risk management, ethics and 
anti-bribery and competition.
t he policies and procedures are mandated 
across the Group, taking into account local 
legislation and regulation. a ll policies are 
reviewed annually and where amendments  
are made these are communicated across the 
Group. Group policies are often accompanied 
by detailed manuals or guidelines which 
provide additional support to the Business.
t he Group provides employees with access  
to the Group’s policies and related procedures 
and guidance notes through the Group’s 
intranet. Key policies and other relevant 
materials are also required to be displayed  
on site noticeboards.
each year, the Divisional chief e xecutives  
and Finance Directors are required to certify 
that their Division has implemented and 
complied in full with the policies or to declare 
any exceptions. t his certification forms an 
integral part of the Group’s system of internal 
controls. n o material exceptions were 
declared in respect of 2012. each business also 
completes an annual certification of compliance 
with the various elements of the responsible 
Business programme, including corporate 
responsibility policies.
t he Morgan c rucible ethics Hotline, operated 
by expolink, was launched globally in 201 1  
and enables employees and other stakeholders 
who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, 
illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Group assets or 
violations of any Group policy to report these 
confidentially without fear of retribution should 
they feel they cannot use a local channel.
Business ethics and compliance
t he Board is responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s ethics policy.
t he Group’s c ore Values Statement, ethics 
policy and c ompetition l aw/a nti-t rust policy, 
which are available in 13 languages, oblige all 
employees to operate in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. t he ethics 
policy specifically prohibits the giving or 
receiving of bribes and the c ompany is clear 
that no employee shall suffer discrimination  
as a result of refusing to pay or receive a bribe. 
t he Group policies apply, so far as is 
appropriate, to Morgan c rucible’s business 
partners, including agents, joint ventures and 
representatives. 
During 2012, an appropriately translated 
version of the responsible Business Guide  
for r epresentatives was issued to third-party 
agents, and others acting ‘on behalf’ of the 
Group. t his Guide summarises the ethical 
principles the Group requires its representatives 
to adhere to in order to act on behalf of  
the Group.  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19
Customers and suppliers
Morgan c rucible’s customer service policy is to 
respond quickly to changing customer demand, 
to identify emerging needs and to ensure 
product availability, quality and value. t he 
Group stays close to its current and potential 
customers, building long-term relationships. 
Over 90% of the Group’s manufacturing 
output is accredited to iSO 9001 and the 
Group’s quality management systems help 
ensure that Morgan c rucible’s products  
meet or exceed customer requirements. 
Management of the supply chain is a key part  
of iSO 9001 accreditation and includes supplier 
audits and screening as appropriate.
t he Group engages with its customers, 
suppliers and other partners in mutually 
beneficial ways and works with business 
partners who the Group believes will act in 
accordance with Morgan c rucible’s policies  
and values. Morgan c rucible’s support for  
the u niversal Declaration of Human r ights, 
referred to in the people section on page 26, 
commits the Group in respect of all those who 
work for it and those who have dealings with it, 
including suppliers.
Community
t he Group’s policy is to engage with local 
communities in relation to matters of mutual 
interest and concern. a t a local level, where 
Morgan c rucible often has long-established 
roots and is frequently a major employer,  
this helps to foster mutual understanding  
and credibility. in addition, Morgan c rucible 
engages with local and national governments 
and agencies, both directly and through 
professional bodies. t he Group has a 
Donations & Sponsorship policy under  
which donations to political parties or  
causes are prohibited.
Corporate responsibility policy 
implementation
t he implementation of Morgan c rucible’s 
corporate responsibility policies and 
procedures is aligned with the overall 
governance structure of the Group.  
t he implementation of the Group’s eHS  
and people-related policies is covered in  
more detail on pages 21 to 27.
Described below are some of the processes 
for implementing and monitoring the Group’s 
corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
Business ethics and compliance
t he Board of Morgan c rucible is committed  
to ensuring that the Group’s policies relating  
to business integrity are upheld. policies and 
manuals are implemented in the business 
through the r esponsible Business programme. 
t he r esponsible Business programme was 
introduced in 2010, with the first phase of the 
programme completed in 201 1. t his phase 
introduced human rights, contract risk 
management, ethics and anti-bribery training. 
t he second phase of the programme from 
201 1 into 2012 covered the re-launch of  
the Group’s Global a nti-t rust c ompliance 
programme, which underpins the Group’s 
policy to comply with all anti-trust and 
competition laws around the world. in addition 
to covering anti-trust, the second phase of  
the programme reinforced and refreshed  
the training provided in phase one with  
training delivered to over 2,000 relevant 
employees worldwide.
t he programme is implemented via  
‘train-the-trainer’ sessions for general managers 
and compliance officers who then deliver 
face-to-face training to relevant local and site 
staff. t he face-to-face training is complemented 
by el earning modules which are available in  
13 different languages and require a 100% 
score in each el earning test module in order  
to pass. t he r esponsible Business programme 
is also a mandated part of induction training for 
new employees. 
l ocal site-based c ompliance Officers report to 
the c ompany Secretary, as Global c ompliance 
Director, on the continuing effectiveness of the 
r esponsible Business programme, specifically 
incorporating annual business certification of 
compliance with the various elements of the 
programme.
r egular compliance risk assessments across  
the Group help to identify those businesses 
which have a higher risk of a compliance 
breach, often where located in a high risk 
territory, working through a third party agent 
or with Government entities. in order to assist 
with managing these compliance risks, these 
high-risk businesses receive additional focus 
and support including further training, guidance 
and site visits. t hese risk assessments also 
inform internal audit practices.
During 2013, the Group plans to further 
develop the responsible Business p rogramme 
with the incorporation of face-to-face export 
control training, updated contract risk training 
and updated face-to-face training on each of 
the existing modules, to reinforce the existing 
training materials.
t he ethics Hotline complements the training 
given in the r esponsible Business programme, 
providing an alternative means of reporting 
breaches of policy. t his is promoted on the 
Group’s intranet, through site posters and 
other promotional materials in 17 languages. 
t he ethics Hotline includes local free-phone 
numbers in each of the countries in which the 
Group operates with real-time translators 
available as necessary. t he remit of internal 
audit includes ensuring the availability of the 
ethics Hotline is suitably promoted at site level.
Customers and suppliers
t he chief e xecutives of each of the Group’s 
Divisions have specific responsibility for 
customers and suppliers and related policies 
and procedures within their respective 
Divisions. each Division and Business 
implements appropriate sales and customer 
account management structures with customer 
contacts and monitoring at senior levels to help 
ensure that customer feedback, concerns and 
opportunities are addressed.
Divisional supplier audits and screening also 
cover the un Global c ompact, health and 
safety, labour standards (including with regard 
to minimum age, maximum hours, minimum 
wages, equal opportunities, grievance 
procedures and human rights), anti-corruption 
procedures and environmental management.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Community
t he implementation of Morgan c rucible’s 
community-related policies and procedures is 
aligned with the management of the Group’s 
overall business and is focused at site level on 
engagement and initiatives which are relevant 
to the local community and to the Group’s 
business. Divisional and Group support is 
made available where appropriate. a ll 
charitable and other donations are accurately 
accounted for and reported centrally  
for monitoring.
Verification of ESG disclosures
t he c ompany Secretary and the Director  
of eHS work with independent external 
consultants to review and where appropriate 
verify the Group’s eSG disclosures. t his 
process covers the environmental and  
health and safety-related non-financial key 
performance indicators included in this r eport. 
Corporate responsibility policy 
effectiveness
Business ethics and Compliance
participation in the responsible Business 
programme and implementation of the site 
training is monitored at a Group level through 
internal reporting procedures, the annual 
self-certification process and the annual 
business certification of compliance with  
the various elements of the programme. 
a dherence is also monitored by the collation 
and review of a number of reporting forms 
which include reporting any requests for  
a bribe and contact with competitors.
in addition, an assessment of the effectiveness 
of the programme has been incorporated  
into the internal audit process providing  
an additional ‘check and balance’ to the 
self-certification of policy compliance. t his, 
along with independent audit of the anti-trust 
element of the programme, allows monitoring 
of the continued effectiveness of the 
programme, which is monitored by the 
c ompany Secretary as Global c ompliance 
Director who reports to the executive 
c ommittee and the Board on the effectiveness 
of the programme and on any issues arising.
issues raised through the ethics Hotline or  
via other channels are followed up by the 
c ompany Secretary. Further investigations may 
be conducted through the a udit c ommittee  
as required. Where appropriate, disciplinary 
action up to and including dismissal is taken 
and/or additional guidance and training 
provided. During 2012, 1 1 reports were 
received via the Hotline from three different 
countries. n o material issues were reported 
via the Hotline in 2012. t he a udit c ommittee 
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of  
the ethics Hotline and of the follow-up and 
investigation processes. t he a udit c ommittee 
reviewed the operation and effectiveness of 
the Hotline during the year and was satisfied 
that it is operating effectively. 
Customers and suppliers
Morgan c rucible continues to benefit from 
long-term relationships with many customers 
and suppliers, reflecting the effectiveness of the 
Group’s customer service and supplier-related 
strategies. Some examples of the products and 
markets served are included on pages 10 to 17 
of this a nnual r eport.
Management of the supply chain is a key part  
of iSO 9001 accreditation and includes supplier 
audits and screening as appropriate.
Community
During the year the Group’s charitable 
donations were £178,060 (201 1: £194,744). 
t his is in addition to the time given and 
donations made by Morgan c rucible 
employees around the world.
During 2012, Morgan c rucible supported a 
number of initiatives at Group, Divisional and 
site level. t he main emphasis of this support  
is to help disadvantaged young people and 
sponsor local community projects which can 
also engage and involve employees. example 
initiatives include:
 > t he Group continues to support the joint 
Barnardo’s/Outward Bound initiative which 
provides opportunities for young people  
to develop life skills at a centre in u llswater, 
u K. t his year, a team from Barnado’s 
visited Head Office and presented on the 
value of their experience of the initiative.
 > np a erospace in c oventry, u K, is a major 
sponsor of the local Godiva Harriers 
a thletics c lub and other local community 
and charitable initiatives and also supports 
the a rmy Winter Sports a ssociation which 
creates the opportunity for many hundreds 
of soldiers to take part in winter challenges. 
 > t he Group also supported the British 
Heart Foundation and a number of  
other sports and health-related charities 
and appeals.
t he Group’s staff also support a variety  
of local and national initiatives and projects, 
helping to raise funds and giving their time. 
examples of employee activities include:
 > Morgan t echnical c eramics in the u Sa 
instituted a company-wide relief effort for 
those affected by Hurricane Sandy with 
extensive supplies, including canned goods, 
clothing and fuel being sent to the Group’s 
Wood r idge, n J facility. t raditional 
shipping methods could not guarantee 
delivery dates so Mtc n ew Bedford 
rented a truck which was then driven 
overnight to Wood r idge by an Mtc 
employee. 
 > employees from the Morgan c eramics 
a sia team took part in the Standard 
chartered Marathon Singapore 2012. 
Funds were raised for the a utism 
a ssociation.
c Orp Orate re SpOn SiBility
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21
Morgan c rucible’s environment, Health  
and Safety (eHS) policy and implementation 
programmes support the Group’s five strategic 
priorities and c ore Values Statement. eHS 
performance has a direct and significant effect 
on operating performance and is therefore a 
key focus for risk assessment and operational 
management across the Group. 
Morgan c rucible is committed to conducting  
all its activities in a manner which achieves high 
standards of health and safety for employees 
and others affected by its operations. t his 
commitment is continuous and ongoing and  
it is with regret that the Group reports that,  
for the first time in many years, two employees 
were involved in fatal accidents at the Group’s 
manufacturing facilities. t he accidents occurred 
in china in July and in the u K in December 
2012. t he u K accident is the subject of  
a detailed investigation that is still ongoing. 
Further details are included on page 24  
below and during 2013 Morgan c rucible  
will be working to introduce an enhanced 
behavioural safety culture throughout  
the Group. 
t he Group is also committed to minimising  
the impact of its business on the environment 
and to maximising the positive environmental 
benefits of its products. examples of Morgan 
c rucible’s products which help enhance  
the environment-related performance and 
efficiency of the products and operations  
of the Group’s customers are included in  
pages 10 to 17 of this r eport.
t he regular collection and reporting and 
evaluation of eHS key performance indicators 
(Kpis) and the setting of eHS-related targets 
assists in the development and monitoring 
of programmes to enhance operational and 
health and safety performance and to reduce 
the impact of the Group’s operations on  
the environment.
t his r eport includes a summary of the  
Group’s eHS policy and its effectiveness as 
demonstrated through its eHS Kpis and training 
and other programmes. Further detail will  
be included in the 2012 eHS r eport to be 
published on the Group’s website in May 2013. 
t he eHS r eport will also include case studies 
to help demonstrate the Group’s approach  
to eHS performance improvement.
EHS Policy
Morgan c rucible’s eHS policy applies 
Group-wide; it forms the basis for  
executive and management oversight and 
implementation and has been communicated 
across all sites within the Group. t he policy  
is published on the Group’s website and in  
the annual eHS r eport.
EHS Policy implementation
Morgan c rucible’s eHS governance procedures 
are centred on its eHS policy which forms  
the basis of the Group’s eHS management 
systems and processes. t he policy requires 
high standards of eHS management at all sites.  
t his is implemented through performance 
monitoring, risk assessment and the 
management and mitigation of identified risks 
to help provide continuous improvement in 
eHS performance in support of the Group’s 
strategic priorities.
eHS performance is reported half-yearly  
to the Board by the chief Financial Officer.  
t he governance structure for eHS places 
responsibility for eHS performance on the 
chief e xecutive of each of the Group’s 
Divisions, with each site having a point of 
accountability. t he chief Financial Officer is 
responsible for eHS policy and performance 
monitoring and the Group’s Director, 
environment, Health and Safety provides 
Group direction and oversight and has 
responsibility for implementation of the  
Group eHS programmes including standards 
and procedures, review of the adequacy  
of eHS resources across the Group as  
well as training, performance reporting  
and assurance processes. 
During 2012, the Group continued the 
recruitment of Divisional eHS leaders in  
all the regions that it operates. t his global 
network of eHS specialists reports to  
the regional management teams and is 
responsible for improving the standards  
of eHS management and performance in  
the Group’s businesses. t his is in line with  
the proposals for the enhancement and 
formalisation of eHS governance arrangements 
that were adopted by the Board at the end  
of 2011.
in addition, as described below, the Group 
commissioned external assurance on selected 
eHS data from pricewaterhousec oopers llp 
(pwc ).
 
Morgan c rucible’s Group-level eHS 
management processes include:
 > t he eHS c ompliance a udit programme, 
which is carried out by external eHS 
consultants in europe and a sia and 
in-house resources in the a mericas. t his 
programme reviews the eHS management 
at each site and helps ensure compliance 
with local regulations and good 
management practice. t he eHS 
c ompliance a udit programme also covers 
the eHS management systems and the 
eHS Kpis reported by each site. a ll of the 
Group’s manufacturing facilities are 
reviewed on a three-year rolling cycle. 
a ccordingly, 29 sites were audited during 
2012 and 36 sites are planned for audit  
in 2013. t he audit reports are reviewed  
by the Director, environment, Health  
and Safety and by the Divisional chief 
executives. a ction items are tracked 
through a formal follow-up process.
 > Formal training as an integral part of the 
implementation of the Group’s eHS policy. 
t his is undertaken at a regional level in 
each Division according to business-specific 
risks and opportunities, with Group-level 
support and oversight. For example,  
during 2012 training programmes in c hina 
focused on machine safety, including the 
introduction of lock-out/tag-out systems  
at each site.
 > Monthly performance reporting against  
the Group Kpis by all Group sites. t he 
data is subject to bi-annual review and 
challenge at Group level with reporting  
of performance to the executive 
c ommittee and the Board by the  
chief Financial Officer.
in 2012 environmental management  
systems were in place at 94 sites worldwide, 
including 41 major sites certified to iSO 14001 
(201 1: 39 sites). t wo additional sites in the  
u Sa and i ndia achieved certification in 2012. 
t hese new certifications are in addition to  
the ongoing programme of re-certifications.  
a ll major production sites worldwide have 
health and safety management systems in 
place, with 15 sites certified to or working 
towards OHSa S 18001 (201 1: 15).
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
en Vir On Ment , HealtH an D Sa Fety  22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
EHS Policy effectiveness
Morgan c rucible monitors the effectiveness  
of its eHS policy through the eHS c ompliance 
a udit programme, the review of performance 
against a series of Group-wide Kpis, its external 
assurance programme and by participating in  
a number of external initiatives as further 
described below. 
t he summary charts on pages 23 and 24 
represent the Group’s eHS performance, 
covering all production sites during the year.
environmental intensity Kpis are reported  
at constant currency, and, where necessary, 
historic eHS data is updated to reflect changes 
in reporting methodology and to ensure 
year-on-year consistency.
in 2012 the Group expanded the independent 
external assurance performed by pwc to 
cover the Group’s waste and recycling Kpis in 
addition to c O
2
 intensity, energy intensity and 
water intensity that were also assured in 201 1. 
t he assurance report from pwc is set out  
on page 25. in addition, a work-programme  
is underway with a view to gain assurance for 
the Group’s lost time accident frequency data 
in 2013. 
t he overall verification of Morgan c rucible’s 
environmental, social and governance 
disclosures is further discussed on page 20.
t he Group participates in a number of external 
initiatives which help to benchmark policy 
effectiveness and progress, including:
 > During the year Morgan c rucible’s wholly 
owned u K businesses were accredited to 
the c arbon t rust Standard. t his certified 
that they have measured, managed and 
reduced their carbon footprint.
 > Morgan c rucible has made filings in 
respect of the Group’s u K facilities under 
the u K government’s c arbon r eduction 
c ommitment (energy efficiency) scheme.
 > t he Group also participates in the c arbon 
Disclosure project (c Dp). t he c Dp is a 
not-for-profit organisation that assesses and 
ranks companies in the major industrial 
countries according to their world-wide 
carbon-related reporting, strategies, 
management and performance. in the 
2012 c Dp Ft Se 350 r eport the Group 
was featured in both the c arbon Disclosure 
l eadership index (one of 35 companies) 
and the c arbon performance l eadership 
index (one of seven companies). t his 
performance reflects the progress being 
made throughout the Group to reduce 
energy usage and resulting cO
2
 emissions.
Environmental performance
Wherever possible the Group works to 
minimise the impact of its business on the 
environment and to maximise the positive 
environmental benefit of its products. 
Morgan c rucible monitors the impact of its 
operations on the environment, as measured 
by its combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 c O
2
 
emissions, energy, waste and water intensity 
per £million of revenue. t he Group sets 
two-year targets for the improvement in these 
environmental metrics and the Group’s 2012 
performance is a report against the targets for 
the two-year period 2010-12. 
t he Group’s intensity targets and Kpis relate 
environmental measures to revenue. t he 
decline in revenue in 2012 and corresponding 
reduction in production volumes inevitably  
had an impact on the absolute c O
2
 emissions, 
energy use and water use. Whilst the lower 
volumes led to lower efficiency in some of  
the Group’s energy-intensive operations, the 
Group was still able to improve the c O
2
 and 
energy related metrics as a result of the actions 
taken – further details are provided below. 
r ecycling rates improved although the quantity 
of waste reported increased due to the 
disposal of historic waste at a number of  
sites during 2012.
Further details of the Group’s eHS targets and 
objectives, including updated and new targets 
for 2012-14, will be included in the Group’s 
2012 eHS r eport, which is expected to be 
published on the Group’s website in May 2013.
t he Group’s c O
2
 intensity ^ was reduced by 
2% in 2012 bringing the reduction over the 
two years 2010-12 to 7%. t his was ahead  
of the target to reduce the c O
2
 emissions 
intensity due to energy use by 5% over the 
two year period. 2012 energy intensity ^  
was down by 7% compared to 2010, with  
a marginal decrease in the year. t he reduction 
over the two years was achieved through 
increased efficiency at many of the Group’s 
energy-intensive businesses driven by energy 
reduction programmes. t his 7% reduction 
follows on from the 12% reduction achieved 
over the two-year period 2008-10. in absolute 
terms total c O
2
 emissions due to energy use  
in 2012 were some 405,600 tonnes against 
445,000 tonnes in 201 1 and 428,500 tonnes  
in 2010. t otal energy use was some 1,31 3 GWh 
in 2012 against 1,430 GWh in 201 1 and  
1,388 GWh in 2010. t he Group will be 
seeking further reductions in energy intensity  
in 2013 and beyond.
r eported waste intensity ^ increased by 4% 
over the two years 2010-12, which is behind 
the target to reduce waste intensity by 5% over 
the period. t he increase in reported waste 
intensity follows programmes to identify and 
dispose of accumulated waste and surplus 
materials and equipment across a number  
of sites world-wide. a dditionally the Group 
undertook a thorough review of waste 
generation and reporting in 2012. a s a result a 
small number of waste streams are included in 
the 2012 reports which were not fully covered 
by previous reports. t he proportion of total 
waste which was recycled was 28% ^ in 2012, 
up from 22% in 2010 and meeting the target  
to increase recycling by 5% of total waste over 
the two years 2010-12. t otal waste reported  
in 2012 was some 48,900 tonnes up from 
48,600 tonnes in 201 1 and against 46,400 
tonnes in 2010.
Water use intensity ^ was down by 3% in  
the year, bringing the reduction the over the 
two years 2010-12 to 15%. t his was ahead of 
the target to reduce water intensity by 5% over 
the two years 2010-12. t his improvement was 
achieved through a focus on reducing water 
use at the Group’s more water-intensive 
businesses, combined with further reductions 
achieved through re-use and recycling of water 
at a number of sites. t otal water use in 2012 
was 2.53 million m
3
, down from 2.79 million m
3
 
in 201 1 and down from 2.92 million m
3
 in 2010.
 ^ t he 2012 c O
2
 intensity, energy intensity, water use 
intensity, waste intensity and proportion of total waste 
recycled information has been subject to assurance by 
pwc . See independent a ssurance r eport on page 25  
for further details.
c Orp Orate re SpOn SiBility
continued
en Vir On Ment , HealtH an D Sa Fety continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23
403
411
433
420
503
Total CO 2 intensity^ *
Tonnes CO
2
/£m revenue **
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
49
45
47
58
71
Waste intensity^
~
Tonnes waste/£m revenue **
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
1,303
1,321
1,402
1,378
1,589
Energy intensity^
+
MWh/£m revenue **
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2,516
2,581
2,946
2,642
2,864
Water intensity^
#
m
3
/£m revenue **
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
^  t h e 2012 and 201 1 c O
2
 intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and 2012 waste intensity information has been subject  
to assurance by pwc . See the independent a ssurance r eport on page 25 for further details.
*  Scope 1 emissions from fossil fuel usage and Scope 2 c O
2
 using country-specific electricity factors.
**  c o n s t a n t currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
+  energy from all sources.
~ Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
#   Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Health and safety performance
a s reported above, Morgan c rucible is 
committed to conducting all its activities in  
a manner which achieves high standards of 
health and safety for all its employees. t he 
Group’s policy statement on this is clear and 
communicated throughout the Group and 
health and safety metrics receive a high degree 
of focus at all levels of the business. t he policy 
statement is supported by site level assessment 
and monitoring of risks. However, there were 
two fatal accidents involving employees in 2012. 
t he accidents had different causes with the first 
fatality occurring at the Group’s y ixing t hermal 
c eramics facility in china when an employee 
became trapped in an automated unloading 
and stacking machine. t he Group has 
conducted a review of machine guarding, 
operator training and related procedures  
at its manufacturing facilities worldwide  
and is committed to making any necessary 
improvements. a second fatality occurred 
when an employee at the t echnical c eramics 
site in r uabon, u K suffered crush injuries  
whilst moving a piece of heavy machinery.  
t his incident is subject to an on-going 
investigation by the u nited Kingdom Health 
and Safety executive. a lthough differing in 
nature, these fatal accidents have demonstrated 
the importance of the behavioural safety 
culture throughout the Group and  
Morgan c rucible is committed to introduce 
programmes to further enhance this in 2013.
Morgan c rucible’s health and safety aim  
is to have no accidents or injuries. in 2012  
the Group continued to extend its accident 
prevention and training programmes with  
the objective of reducing accident numbers  
and the time lost per lost time accident. 
particular focus is placed on those sites with 
below-average performance, as measured  
by their eHS Kpis and through the eHS 
c ompliance a udit programme.
t he Group’s health and safety Kpis include 
accident frequencies and causes and related 
lost working time. t hese are used to monitor 
the effectiveness of the Group’s Health  
and Safety policies and related systems  
on a monthly basis.
in 2012 the frequency of lost time accidents 
across the Group was down 1 1% at 0.52  
per 100,000 hours worked (201 1: 0.58).  
t he number of lost time accidents reported 
was 1 13 (201 1: 131). Manual handling, cuts and 
abrasions remain the most common causes of 
accidents and the Group continues to address 
this, specifically targeting businesses with 
below-average performance.
a ll accidents are reported in the year in which 
the accident actually occurs, whereas the lost 
time, which impacts lost time as a % of total 
working time and the lost time per lta metrics, 
is reported in the year in which the individual  
is away from work.
r eported lost time due to accidents and 
work-related illnesses as a percentage of 
working time increased from 0.10% in 201 1 to 
0.1 1% in 2012. t his was caused by an increase 
of 12% in the number of days lost during 2012 
and a 3% decrease in the number of hours 
worked. t he increase in the number of days 
lost in 2012 largely related to time lost in the 
year due to accidents which occurred in 201 1.
t he reported average number of days lost  
per lta in the year increased to 28 days from 
21 days in 201 1. t his calculation was impacted 
by accidents that occurred and were reported 
in 201 1 which resulted in lost time in 2012. 
t hus the 201 1 figure includes the accident but 
not all of the lost time and the 2012 figure 
includes the balance of the lost time but not  
the accident. Whilst such items will always 
occur, in this instance it does lead to a large 
increase in the reported figure and, if the 
accidents and lost time were to be fully 
reported in the same period, then the  
increase in the days lost per lta would be 
approximately 10%. t here has been no 
change in the underlying nature or severity  
of the accidents reported.
c Orp Orate re SpOn SiBility
continued
0.00 0.69
0.52
0.58
0.58
0.56
0.69
Lost time accident frequency *
LTAs/100k hours worked *
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0.11%
0.10%
0.1 1%
0.1 4%
0.1 5%
Health and safety-related lost time
% of total working time
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
28
21
24
32
27
Lost time per LTA
*
#
Days per LTA
*
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
*  l ost time accident (lta): accident which results in one  
or more days’ lost time.
#   t otal time lost due to health and safety in 2012 divided by 
the number of lost time accidents reported in the year. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 25
in Depen Dent a SSurance rep Ort
Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
t he Directors of t he Morgan c rucible c ompany plc (‘Morgan c rucible’) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described 
below and set out in Morgan c rucible’s a nnual r eport for the year ended 31 December 2012.
What we are assuring (‘Selected Information’)
t he selected environment, health and safety (‘eHS’) data for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 marked with the symbol ^ presented in  
the a nnual r eport 2012. t he scope of our work was restricted to the 
Selected information for the year ended 31 December 2012 and does  
not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to any other 
information in the a nnual r eport 2012.
How the information is assessed (‘Reporting Criteria’)
We assessed the Selected information using Morgan c rucible’s 
r eporting c riteria as set out at:
http://www.morgancrucible.com/governance/responsible-business/
environment-health-safety/
1
.
Professional standards applied
2
 and level of assurance
3
 
We have used iSae 3000 (limited level of assurance) and we have 
complied with the icae W c ode of ethics.
Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies
t here are no globally recognised and established practices for evaluating 
and measuring the Selected information. t he range of different,  
but acceptable, techniques can result in materially different reporting 
outcomes that may affect comparability with other organisations.  
t he r eporting c riteria used as the basis of Morgan c rucible’s reporting 
should therefore be read in conjunction with the Selected information 
and associated statements reported on Morgan c rucible’s website.
Work done
c onsidering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected 
information, we:
 > Made enquiries of Morgan c rucible’s management, including those 
with responsibility for eHS management and Group eHS reporting;
 > evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, processes  
and controls for managing, recording and reporting the Selected 
information. t his included visiting eight sites and analysing a further 
31 sites, selected on the basis of their inherent risk and materiality  
to the Group, to understand the key processes and controls  
for reporting site performance data to the Group eHS team;
 > performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the 
Selected information at corporate Head Office and in relation  
to the same 39 sites noted above to assure that data had been 
appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and
 > a ssessed the disclosure and presentation of the Selected information.
Morgan Crucible’s responsibilities 
t he Directors of Morgan c rucible are responsible for:
 > Designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls over 
information relevant to the preparation of the Selected information 
that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  
or error; 
 > establishing objective r eporting c riteria for preparing the  
Selected information;
 > Measuring Morgan c rucible’s performance based on the  
r eporting c riteria; and
 > t he content of the a nnual r eport 2012.
Our responsibilities
We are responsible for:
 > planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance 
about whether the Selected information is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
 > Forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures  
we have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and
 > r eporting our conclusion to the Directors of Morgan c rucible.
Our conclusions
As a result of our procedures nothing has come to our attention  
that indicates the Selected Information for the year ended  
31 December 2012 has not been prepared in all material  
respects with the Reporting Criteria.
This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the 
Directors of Morgan Crucible as a body in accordance with the agreement 
between us, to assist the Directors in reporting Morgan Crucible’s  
EHS performance and activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in 
the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012, to enable the 
Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities  
by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the 
Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as  
a body and Morgan Crucible for our work or this report except where  
terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
c hartered a ccountants
l ondon
14 February 2013
1  t he maintenance and integrity of Morgan c rucible’s website is the responsibility of  
the Directors; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters 
and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred  
to the reported Selected information or r eporting c riteria when presented on  
Morgan c rucible’s website.
2  We have complied with international Standard on a ssurance engagements 3000 – 
‘a ssurance engagements other than a udits and r eviews of Historical Financial 
information’ issued by the iaa SB, and with the applicable independence and competency 
requirements of the institute of c hartered a ccountants in england and Wales (icae W) 
c ode of ethics. t o comply with those standards, our work was carried out by an 
independent and multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists.
3  a ssurance, defined by the international a uditing and a ssurance Standards Board (iaa SB), 
gives the user confidence about the subject matter assessed against the reporting criteria. 
r easonable assurance gives more confidence than limited assurance, as a limited 
assurance engagement is substantially less in scope in relation to both the assessment of risks 
of material misstatement and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Morgan c rucible recognises that its people  
are critical to the Group’s success, with a 
workforce with highly unique skills. Set out 
below are the Group’s people policies, how 
they have been implemented, together with  
a review of their effectiveness.
People Policies and their implementation
t he Group supports the u niversal Declaration 
of Human r ights and the Group’s Human 
r ights policy commits the Group to protect  
the rights of everyone who works for it and all 
those who have dealings with it. t he principles 
of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, 
health and safety, freedom of association, 
discrimination, discipline, working hours and 
compensation and the policy is published on 
the Group’s website. t he Director of Human 
r esources reports to the chief e xecutive 
Officer and is responsible for the development 
of the Human r ights policy and related 
matters, with the chief e xecutives of each 
Division having responsibility for policy 
implementation within their respective 
Divisions. t he Divisional c hief executives 
report annually on their implementation of the 
Human r ights policy. t he Morgan c rucible 
ethics Hotline enables employees who are 
aware of or suspect issues under the Group’s 
Human r ights policy to report these 
confidentially.
t he Group’s global Human r esources policy 
provides an infrastructure of human resource 
activities that enables the business to attract, 
retain and engage people with the skills and 
capabilities to deliver its business plan.
Talent and recruitment
Demands on the business as a whole  
continue to change, and the Group’s businesses 
continuously explore different business 
development opportunities as they evolve  
into new markets and industries. t he Group’s 
approach is therefore to develop existing 
employee talent and recruit new people  
into jobs that fit those business requirements, 
at the time they are needed. t he Group 
reviews short- and long-term business needs 
on a regular basis and carries out succession 
planning and talent reviews to identify any skill 
gaps. a gain, this year this process has enabled 
several promotions around the Group, as well 
as some targeted external hiring. 
Whether recruiting internally or externally  
for a vacant position, selection is based on 
many factors including a candidate’s relevant 
education, work experience, competencies  
and performance record. t he Group does  
not unfairly discriminate and it respects human 
rights. Should existing employees become 
disabled, the Group’s policy is to provide 
continuing employment and training  
wherever practicable.
Training and development
Overall training hours per employee have 
increased (see people policy effectiveness).  
t his training encompasses management, 
commercial, technical, and health & safety 
training. For example, last year the Group 
further developed its existing approaches to  
the assessment of management capability and 
development. t his was through investment  
in management training and leadership 
development in both Divisions, and across  
all regions.
Within the local businesses, momentum 
continues regarding the Group’s r esponsible 
Business programme, which was introduced  
in 2010, with training on human rights,  
contract risk management, ethics and 
anti-bribery training. t he second phase of  
the programme from 201 1 into 2012 covered 
the re-launch of the Group’s Global a nti-t rust 
c ompliance programme, which underpins the 
Group’s policy to comply with all anti-trust and 
competition laws around the world. in addition 
to covering anti-trust, the second phase of the 
programme reinforced and refreshed the training 
provided in phase one with training delivered 
to over 2,000 relevant employees worldwide.
t he programme is implemented via  
‘train-the-trainer’ sessions for general managers 
and compliance officers who then deliver 
face-to-face training to relevant local and site 
staff. t he face-to-face training is complemented 
by el earning modules which are available  
in 13 different languages and require a 100% 
score in each el earning test module in order  
to pass. 
c Orp Orate re SpOn SiBility
continued
2.7%
2.9%
2.6%
2.7%
Total lost time
% of working time
2012
2011
2010
2009
13.4%
13.7%
13.7%
16.7%
Employee turnover
% per year
2012
2011
2010
2009
15.1
13.3
12.9
12.4
Training
hours per employee
2012
2011
2010
2009
peOple Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27
During 2013, the Group plans to further 
develop the responsible Business p rogramme 
with the incorporation of face-to-face export 
control training, updated contract risk training 
and will provide updated face-to-face training 
on each of the existing modules to reinforce 
the existing training materials. t his programme 
is covered in more detail on pages 18 and 19.
in 2012, the Group continued to make 
progress with its ‘Developing for performance’ 
management approach, with local businesses 
already beginning to see encouraging results. 
t he system focuses on developing the skills of 
the Group’s employees through performance 
management, goal-setting, competency 
assessment and development planning.  
t he Group sees continuous learning and 
professional development as a major 
investment in its future. t he Group’s 
businesses continue to deliver local learning 
initiatives, to meet operational and local 
leadership needs.
Reward, Recognition and Awards
t he Group recognises and celebrates the 
accomplishments of its people individually  
or as teams, and makes recognition awards  
to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, and 
innovation. in 2012, recognition awards 
continued to be made across local businesses. 
t he principle of pay for performance is applied 
to the Group’s compensation approach. t he 
Group establishes compensation levels that are 
both competitive in the countries in which it 
operates, and affordable to Morgan c rucible.
in pursuit of investing in future talent in the 
labour market, Morgan c rucible continues  
to sponsor annually the Science, engineering  
& t echnology Student of the year awards.  
in 2012 the winner of the Morgan c rucible 
Best Materials Student a ward was Faith 
Bateman from the u niversity of l eeds for  
her project entitled ‘t he binding mechanism  
of “r ecombinase-a” based nucleoprotein 
filaments in molecular scaffolding’. t he Group 
also achieved its plan to increase the number  
of graduate recruits in 2012, and established  
a global approach to graduate recruitment  
and development.
Communication
t he Divisions communicate regularly through 
employee forums, team briefs and Divisional 
magazines. employees give feedback on  
many different aspects of its business. l ocal 
businesses also have employee Suggestion 
programmes.
t he Group continues to use its intranet site, 
providing access to information from diverse 
sources across the globe. in addition, the two 
Divisions developed their own sites to facilitate 
more effective communication. the Divisions 
continue to issue regular Divisional newsletters 
both electronically and in hard-copy formats. 
employee feedback received regarding local 
communication mediums has been positive.
in europe, the Group has an established 
consultative arrangement that provides  
an arena for the exchange of relevant and 
appropriate information across the european 
region. t he Group also held its 16th annual 
european employee Forum in May 2012, 
where site representatives attended from 
France, Germany, Hungary, italy, the 
n etherlands and the u nited Kingdom.
l ocal business units conduct employee surveys 
according to the needs of local employee 
relations and team agendas. t hese measure  
a range of issues relevant to the business units, 
including employee satisfaction and awareness 
of business objectives. For example, in c hina, 
manufacturing plants saw an improvement in 
their employee satisfaction scores from 61.4% 
to 76.2% in 2012. Surveys of leadership style 
and culture are also conducted at regional and 
Divisional levels.
People Policy effectiveness
a t the end of the year, Morgan c rucible 
employed circa 9,800 people. a dditionally,  
the Group employs circa 1,000 people on 
short-term contractual arrangements to 
provide the numerical flexibility for the  
Group’s businesses to react quickly to changes 
in market conditions.
t he Group’s geographic spread of people  
is as follows: 27% (28% in 201 1) of employees  
in the u Sa , 15% (16% in 201 1) in the u K,  
16% (16% in 201 1) in china, 17% (17% in 201 1) 
in other europe, 6% (5% in 201 1) in  
other n orth a merica, 4% (4% in 201 1)  
in South a merica and 15% (14% 201 1)  
in the r est of the World. Of these employees 
74% (75% in 201 1) are male. 
l ost time as a proportion of total working time 
improved to 2.7% (2.9% in 201 1), with lost 
time due to accidents in the workplace of  
0.1% of total working time. t raining hours per 
employee increased to 15.1 hours (13.3 hours 
in 201 1). t he Group’s employee turnover was 
13.4% in 2012 (13.7% in 201 1). 3.2% of the 
workforce was made redundant during the 
year with higher levels of natural turnover 
coming from china and Mexico where  
labour markets are exceptionally fluid.
During the year, 19 employees around the 
world celebrated 40 years of loyal service  
with Morgan c rucible, with 130 employees 
celebrating anniversaries of 20, 25 or 30 years’ 
service. t he Group is pleased by the number 
of employees who remain with the Morgan 
c rucible for significant periods of their careers, 
and whose experience the Group has retained. 
t he average length of service of the Group’s 
employees is 1 1.5 years (13.7 years in 201 1).
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Financial re VieW
Whilst the Group has experienced 
tougher trading conditions in 2012, 
particularly in the second half of the year, 
it has achieved a 12.1% eBita margin and 
good free cashflow, and has increased the 
full-year dividend to 10.0 pence per share.
Kevin Dangerfield 
chief Financial Officer
Introduction
t hese results are produced under international 
Financial r eporting Standards as adopted by 
the eu (adopted i Fr Ss). a ll the figures referred 
to below are extracted from the financial 
statements on pages 68 to 125 and comply  
with adopted iFr Ss.
r eference is made to ‘u nderlying operating 
profit’
3
 and ‘u nderlying earnings per share 
(epS)’. epS is defined in note 10 on page 82. 
t hese measures of earnings are shown 
because the Directors consider that they give  
a better indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue and operating profit
Group revenue was £1,007.5 million  
(201 1: £1,101.0 million), a decrease of 8.5% 
compared to 201 1. On a constant currency 
basis, revenue decreased by 6.9%.
Group eBita
2
 was £122.0 million  
(201 1: £143.4 million) representing  
a margin of 12.1% (201 1: 13.0%).
Group underlying operating profit
3
  
was £108.8 million (201 1: £141.5 million). 
u nderlying operating profit margin was  
10.8%, compared to 12.9% for 201 1.
Group operating profit was £100.5 million 
(201 1: £133.2 million). Operating profit margin 
was 10.0%, compared to 12.1% for 201 1.
Morgan c eramics Morgan engineered Materials
t echnical 
ceramics
t hermal 
ceramics
Morgan
a M&t
Molten Metal
Systems c onsolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue from external customers 273.3 285.1 387.2 400.1 301.2 369.1 45.8 46.7 1,007.5 1,101.0
Divisional EBITA
1
42.7 43.1 51.9 49.6 24.4 48.0 8.1 7.7 127.1 148.4
u nallocated costs (5.1) (5.0)
Group EBITA
2
122.0 143.4
r estructuring costs and other one-off items (1.4) 1.1 (5.4) (3.0) (6.4) – – – (13.2) (1.9)
Underlying operating profit
3
108.8 141.5
a mortisation of intangible assets (2.5) (2.5) (1.3) (1.2) (4.3) (4.5) (0.2) (0.1) (8.3) (8.3)
Operating profit 100.5 133.2
Finance income 26.3 27.7
Finance expense (45.4) (49.5)
Profit before taxation 81.4 111.4
1. Segment profit is defined as Divisional e Bita , which is segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
2. Group eBita is defined as operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
3. u nderlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
t he restructuring costs and other one-off  
items of £13.2 million (201 1: £1.9 million) 
included restructuring costs of £13.3 million 
(201 1: £5.6 million) and a gain on sale of 
properties of £0.1 million (201 1: £2.4 million). 
in 201 1 the charge also included a net pension 
credit of £1.3 million. t he restructuring costs  
in 2012 relate to a range of actions across the 
Group, mainly in the second half of the year, as 
the Group took action to reduce the cost base, 
particularly in the Morgan a M&t Business.
Foreign currency impact
t he principal exchange rates used in the 
translation of the results of overseas subsidiaries 
were as follows:
a verage rate year-end rate
2012 2011 2012 2011
uSD 1.5852 1.6043 1.6255 1.5541
¤ 1.2336 1.1529 1.2330 1.1972
t he potential impact of changes in foreign 
exchange rates is given in note 20 on pages 93 
to 100.
Amortisation of intangible assets
t he Group amortisation charge was  
£8.3 million (201 1: £8.3 million).
Finance costs
t he net finance charge was £19.1 million  
(201 1: £21.8 million). t his charge was primarily 
net bank interest and similar charges of  
£16.9 million (201 1: £20.4 million), a decrease 
of £3.5 million. t he decrease in the net interest 
charge is due to the continuing reduction in 
average debt levels and lower interest rates 
following the refinancing of the bank facilities  
in 201 1. t he balance of the finance charge 
under iFr S is the net interest charge on 
pension scheme net liabilities, which was  
£2.0 million (201 1: £0.9 million) and interest 
expense of £0.2 million (201 1: £0.5 million) on 
the unwinding of the discount on the deferred 
consideration relating to the np a erospace 
acquisition. t he impact of potential changes  
in interest rates on profit or loss is stated in 
note 20 on pages 93 to 100.
Taxation
Group taxation for the year was £22.1 million 
(201 1: £32.6 million). t he effective tax rate was 
27.1% (201 1: 29.3%) and the medium-term 
view is that the effective tax rate will remain  
below 30%.
Discontinued operations
t he £21.0 million credit shown as ‘discontinued 
operations’ relates to a release of tax liabilities 
in the period that were set up in prior years 
relating to business disposals.
Earnings per share
u nderlying earnings per share was 23.2 pence 
(201 1: 29.9 pence), and basic earnings per share 
from continuing operations was 20.2 pence 
(201 1: 26.9 pence). Details of these calculations 
can be found in note 10 on pages 82 and 83.
Dividend
t he Directors recommend the payment of a 
final dividend at the rate of 6.4 pence per share 
on the Ordinary share capital of the c ompany, 
payable on 31 May 2013 to Ordinary 
shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on 19 a pril 2013. t ogether with  
the interim dividend of 3.6 pence per share 
paid on 10 January 2013, this final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, brings the total 
distribution for the year to 10.0 pence per 
share (201 1: 9.25 pence).
a scrip alternative to the cash dividend will 
again be offered. 
a five-year summary of the Group’s financial 
results is set out on page 126 of this r eport.
Cash flow
t he net cash inflow from operating activities 
was £126.8 million (201 1: £137.4 million).  
Free cash flow before acquisitions and 
dividends was £48.9 million (201 1:  
£57.8 million).
n et debt * at the year end was £192.8 million 
(201 1: £215.4 million). t he net debt * to 
eBit Da ratio at the year end was 1.3 times 
(201 1: 1.2 times).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net cash inflow from  
operating activities 126.8 137.4 
n et capital expenditure (26.7) (25.5) 
r estructuring costs and  
other one-off items (5.9) (8.1) 
n et interest paid (18.5) (20.4) 
tax paid (26.8) (25.6) 
Free cash flow before  
acquisitions and dividends 48.9 57.8
c ash flows in respect  
of acquisitions (6.6) (10.4)
purchase of own shares for 
share incentive schemes (9.4) (3.2)
Dividends paid (16.1) (18.4)
exchange movement and  
other items 5.8 (5.0)
Movement in net debt*  
in period 22.6 20.8
Opening net debt (215.4) (236.2)
c losing net debt (192.8) (215.4)
* n et debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
and bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
c ommitments for property, plant and 
equipment and computer software for which 
no provision has been made are set out in  
note 25 on page 1 14.  30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Financial re VieW
continued
Capital structure
a t the year end total equity was £271.8 million 
(201 1: £270.2 million) with closing net debt  
of £192.8 million (201 1: £215.4 million).
n on-current assets were £561.2 million  
(201 1: £594.5 million) and total assets were 
£968.3 million (201 1: £1,041.4 million).
Details of undiscounted contracted maturities 
of financial liabilities and capital management 
are set out in note 20 on page 95.
t here have been no significant post-balance 
sheet events.
c apital structure is further discussed in  
note 20 on page 98 under the heading  
c apital management.
Pensions
t he Group operates a number of pension 
schemes throughout the world, the majority  
of which are of a funded defined benefit type. 
t he largest of these are located in the u K  
and the u Sa with the majority of others in 
c ontinental europe. t he Group pension deficit 
increased by £31.5 million since last year end  
to £166.6 million on an ia S 19 basis. t he main 
movements were in the u Sa and u K defined 
benefit pension schemes. t he u K schemes’ 
deficit increased by £23.9 million to £71.3 
million (201 1: £47.4 million) and the u Sa 
schemes by £4.2 million to £62.7 million  
(201 1: £58.5 million). t his increase was mainly 
due to the impact of lower discount rates. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 the 
Group is required to adopt ia S 19 (revised) 
Employee Benefits. t he Group’s expectation  
is that profit before taxation for 2013 will be 
approximately £6 million lower than if the 
current ia S 19 had been applied. t he reasons 
for changes are:
 > a £1.2 million increase in operating costs  
as a result of the requirement to reclassify 
pension scheme administration costs from 
net finance charge to operating costs.  
Such costs include the ppF levy and 
actuary, audit, legal and trustee charges 
which, under the current ia S 19, are 
allowed to be included within the net 
finance charge.
 > a £4.8 million increase in the net financing 
costs, being the net of a £6 million 
additional charge due to the new 
requirement for the expected return  
on assets to be calculated by applying the 
corporate bond yield discount rate to the 
balance sheet pension-related assets, offset 
by a £1.2 million decrease as a result of the 
re-classification of the administration costs 
to operating charges identified above.
t he Group does not expect there to be a 
material change in the Group pension deficit as 
a result of the change in the accounting standard.
Treasury Policies
t he following policies were implemented and 
in place across the Group throughout the year. 
t he manager of each business unit is required 
to confirm compliance as part of the year end 
process.
Financial Risk Management and  
Treasury Policy
Group t reasury works within a framework  
of policies and procedures approved by  
the a udit c ommittee. it acts as a service to 
Morgan c rucible’s businesses, not as a profit 
centre, and manages and controls risk in  
the treasury environment through the 
establishment of such procedures. Group 
t reasury seeks to align treasury goals, 
objectives and philosophy to those of the 
Group. it is responsible for all of the Group’s 
funding, liquidity, cash management, interest 
rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other 
treasury business. a s part of the policies and 
procedures, there is strict control over the  
use of financial instruments to hedge foreign 
currencies and interest rates. Speculative 
trading in derivatives and other financial 
instruments is not permitted.
Foreign exchange risks
Due to the international reach of the  
Group, currency transaction exposures exist.  
t he Group has a policy in place to hedge  
all material firm commitments and highly 
probable forecast foreign currency exposures, 
and achieves this through the use of the 
forward foreign exchange markets. t he Group 
continues its practice of not hedging income 
statement translation exposure.
t here are exchange control restrictions  
which affect the ability of a small number of  
the Group’s subsidiaries to transfer funds to  
the Group. t he Group does not believe such 
restrictions have had or will have any material 
adverse impact on the Group as a whole or 
the ability of the Group to meet its cash flow 
requirements.
currency translation risks are controlled 
centrally. t o defend against the impact  
of a permanent reduction in the value of  
its overseas net assets through currency 
depreciation, the Group seeks to match the 
currency of financial liabilities with the currency 
in which the net assets are denominated.  
t his is achieved by raising funds in different 
currencies and through the use of hedging 
instruments such as swaps, and is implemented 
only to the extent that the Group’s gearing 
covenant under the terms of its loan documents, 
as well as its facility headroom, are likely to 
remain comfortably within limits. in this way, 
the structure of the Group’s borrowings 
becomes more aligned to the trading cash 
flows that service them. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Interest rate risk
t he Group seeks to reduce the volatility in  
its interest charge caused by rate fluctuations. 
t he Group seeks to ensure that between 30% 
and 80% of its borrowings is on a fixed rate 
basis. t his is achieved through a combination  
of fixed rate debt and interest rate swaps. 
Group t reasury may not actively seek to fix  
or cap more than 80% of the Group’s current 
overall debt. However, the fixed or capped 
proportion is permitted to rise above that level 
with a udit c ommittee approval.
Credit risk
c redit risk arises when a counterparty fails to 
perform its obligations. t he Group is exposed 
to credit risk on financial instruments such  
as liquid assets, derivative assets and trade 
receivables. c redit risk is managed by investing 
liquid assets and acquiring derivatives in a 
diversified way from high-credit-quality financial 
institutions. c ounterparties are reviewed 
through the use of rating agencies, systemic risk 
considerations, and through regular review  
of the financial press. t he Group has a c redit 
policy in place in relation to trade receivables 
and exposure to credit risk is monitored  
on an ongoing basis. c redit evaluations are 
performed on all customers requiring credit 
over a certain amount. t he nature of the 
Group’s operations is such that the Group  
has a significant number of low-value trade 
receivables. t he risk is therefore considered 
minimal. c redit risk is further discussed in  
note 20 on pages 93 to 100.
Capital investment
t he Group has well-established formal 
procedures for the approval of investment in 
new businesses and of capital expenditure to 
ensure appropriate senior management review 
and sign-off.
Tax risks
t he Group periodically assesses its liabilities 
and contingencies for all tax years open to audit 
based upon the latest information available. 
t he Group recorded its best estimate of these 
tax liabilities, including related interest charges. 
inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of  
tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws. 
Whilst management believes they have 
adequately provided for the probable outcome 
of these matters, future results may include 
favourable or unfavourable adjustments to 
these estimated tax liabilities in the period the 
assessments are made, or resolved, or when 
the statute of limitation lapses. t he final 
outcome of tax examinations may result in  
a materially different outcome than assumed  
in the tax liabilities.
Accounting Policies
t he Group adopted international Financial 
r eporting Standards as adopted by the eu 
(adopted iFr Ss) in 2005. a ll a ccounting policies 
are compliant with adopted iFr Ss.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity
a ll of the Group’s borrowing facilities are 
arranged by Group t reasury and the funds 
raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries on 
an arm’s-length basis. in a few cases operating 
subsidiaries have external borrowings but these 
are supervised and controlled centrally. Group 
t reasury seeks to obtain certainty of access to 
funding in the amounts, diversity of maturities 
and diversity of counterparties as required to 
support the Group’s medium-term financing 
requirements and to minimise the impact of 
poor credit market conditions.
t he Group’s debt and maturity profile is 
provided in notes 19 and 20 on pages 92  
to 100.
Going concern
t he Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business review on pages 6 to 35. 
t he financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, 
are described earlier in this Financial review.  
in addition, note 20 includes the Group’s 
policies and processes for managing financial 
risk; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit 
risk and liquidity risk.
t he Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital requirements through local banking 
arrangements that are supported by the 
flexibility provided by the facility. t he Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account  
of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance and exchange rates, show the 
Group operating comfortably within its debt 
financial covenants for the next 12 months.
t he current economic climate continues to 
have an impact on the Group, its customers 
and suppliers. t he Board fully recognises  
the challenges that lie ahead but, after making 
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the c ompany and the  
Group have adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. a ccordingly, they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the  
a nnual r eport and a ccounts.  32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
ri SK Mana GeMent
t he Group has an established risk 
management methodology in place which 
identifies, manages and mitigates risks,  
together with a comprehensive internal  
control framework and appropriate assurance 
processes. 
During 2012, this approach to risk management 
was reviewed and further developed to  
adopt a holistic ‘r isk Dashboard’ approach  
to mapping identified risks in the context  
of the Groups controls, monitoring and 
assurance systems. 
t he Group’s r isk Dashboard (populated with 
material risks identified from operating site level 
upwards) sets the agenda for a rolling review by 
the Board and a udit c ommittee of the Group’s 
material strategic, operating, financial and 
compliance risks and the associated controls, 
monitoring and assurance processes. 
t he risk management processes seek to 
capture, manage and mitigate both existing and 
emerging risks that could impact the Group’s 
immediate and long-term performance and 
value. Whilst they do not fully eliminate risks, 
they facilitate mitigation to an acceptable level 
within the context of the business environment 
in which the Group operates. 
t he following key risk areas are those that  
the Group feels could have the most serious 
adverse effect on achieving the Group’s  
five strategic priorities, its performance and 
reputation. t he relative importance of some  
of these risks has changed during 2012 as 
business conditions change. Where necessary, 
monitoring and controls to manage risk have 
been adjusted to ensure that the risks continue 
to be managed within acceptable limits.
Strategy and strategic planning risks
Delivery of Group Strategy
in pursuit of its strategic goals and priorities, the Group continues to seek out growth 
opportunities both organically and through acquisition.
c apital investments to drive organic growth carry inherent risks in execution and the 
delivery of anticipated benefits.
a cquisitions can be complex and challenging and there is a risk that significant or costly 
issues arise which have not been identified in pre-acquisition due diligence nor identified 
in commercial business planning. t he Group could also be subject to ‘inherited’ 
liabilities as a result of an acquisition.
Technology Obsolescence
One of the Group’s strategic priorities is that it aims to ‘be innovative, differentiated and 
high value-added’. t he Group is frequently in competition with existing technology 
producers or other innovators.
u nforeseen/unmitigated technology obsolescence would impact the Group’s business.
Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff
One of the Group’s strategic priorities is to ‘find, keep and develop the right people’. 
t he Group relies on the quality and commitment of its people, from those working  
at a site level, through site management to the Divisional and Group executives.  
Many of the Group’s processes require a high degree of skill and experience and  
loss of these employees to other markets or competitors would impact the business.
t he Board approves and monitors strategy, consulting external advisers and experts 
when necessary. Within its delegated authority, the executive c ommittee and 
Divisional management implement strategic plans and regularly report performance. 
processes are in place to ensure a structured approach to strategy, three-year plans, 
budgets, investment approval as well as monitoring and reporting performance. 
a cquisitions and capital investment are managed through an established process with 
appropriate monitoring and reporting.
t he Group has a technology pipeline which is regularly reviewed by Divisional 
executives, the Group executive and the Board.
each Division has a c hief t echnical Officer who monitors technology, business 
developments and future regulations to ensure that the Business is in a strong position 
to optimise future events.
r &D investment is maintained in new/improving technologies through the Group’s 
research and development facilities. 
Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed  
in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge solutions. 
t he Group seeks to secure ip protection, to the fullest extent possible, for the existing 
portfolio of products and external advisers manage this protection globally.
t he Group has a Hr Director and a network of H r professionals within the business 
along with human resource policies and processes to manage the risks relating to its 
people. t hese cover areas including reward and recognition, health and safety, talent 
management, skills assessment and development, performance management and 
employee consultation.
t he Board and executive hold annual talent management reviews. 
in 2012 the Group launched a Graduate l eadership programme. t his programme 
develops individuals and aims to create the business leaders of the future.
RISk MITIGATION Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Operational risks
Treasury Risks
t he Group’s global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties in the financial 
markets and the banking sector which heightens the Group’s foreign exchange, interest 
rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk of bank failure impacting the Group’s cash. 
Quality of Contracts
ineffective contract risk management could result in significant liabilities for the Group 
and damage customer relationships and Group reputation. 
IT Risks
in order to meet the Group’s strategic objectives the viability of its underlying  
it infrastructure is essential. i f a critical business system was to fail or the Group  
lost critical data and information, the Business would be impacted. 
Product quality, safety and liability
products used in applications for which they were not intended or inadequate quality 
control systems/overcommitting on specifications could result in products not meeting 
specifications, which could lead to significant liabilities.
Single Point Exposures
t he Group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, these include:
>  Single point supplier: – a significant interruption of a key internal or external supply 
could impact business continuity.
>  Single point profit: – a key site exposed to a strike, a natural catastrophe or serious 
incident such as fire could impact business continuity.
>  Single point customer: – the unmitigated loss of a major customer could have an 
impact on Group profit.
Environment, health and safety (EHS) risks
t he Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the globe. a failure  
in the Group’s eHS procedures could lead to environmental damage or lead to injury  
or death of individuals, with a consequential impact on operations and raising the  
risk of regulatory action being taken against the Group. a ny such action could result  
in litigation, resultant damages and damage to reputation.
Compliance and ethics risks
Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation
t he Group’s global operations must comply with a range of national and international 
laws and regulations including those related to bribery and corruption, human rights, 
exports and competition/anti-trust. 
a failure to comply with any applicable laws/regulations could result in civil or criminal 
liabilities, individual or corporate fines and could also result in debarment from 
government related contracts. 
External risks
Changing political, economic and social environment
t he Group operates in a range of markets and geographies around the world  
and can be affected by political, economic, social or regulatory developments  
or instability such as the euro crisis, a rab Spring and c hina’s slowdown.  
Many of these events impact local markets and some have a worldwide impact.
Pension Funding
t he Group participates in defined pension arrangements which are exposed to 
fluctuating interest rates, investment values and inflation. t his coupled with the 
increased longevity of members could result in funding burdens on the Group  
in the future.
t he Group’s t reasury function, t reasury policy and guidelines provide strict controls  
on the selection of banks and cash management. a dditional actions have been taken  
to respond to the euro crisis.
t he Group l egal policy requires review of high value or high risk contracts by  
Group l egal. t his policy is supported by additional guidance documents and checklists.
Where the contracts do not fall under the Group l egal policy, the Divisions are 
responsible for managing their contractual risk and do so, pulling from the knowledge 
they have obtained through the Group’s contract risk management training under  
the r esponsible Business programme (further information available on page 18). 
t he Group has established it systems in place and Group and Divisional it teams  
to manage the it risks.
Many of the Group products are designed to customer specifications. 
Over 90% of the Group’s manufacturing output is accredited to iSO 9001 and the 
Group’s quality management systems and training help ensure that Morgan c rucible’s 
products meet or exceed customer requirements and national/international standards.
c ontracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications are subject  
to mandatory legal review.
t he Group monitors legislation and regulation to manage future risks.
t he Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance. 
t he Group executive and Divisional executive teams are responsible for monitoring 
and managing these single point exposures. t his involves monitoring and reviewing 
supply chains (internal and external), dual/multiple sourcing of materials or strategic 
stock, fire protection systems, creating and testing disaster recovery plans, maintaining 
product quality and customer relationships. 
t he Group insurance programme includes business interruption cover.
Further detail of the eHS programme in place to manage these risks is available on 
pages 21 to 24.
t he Group monitors changes in legislation and regulation, pro-actively modifying 
existing controls and compliance frameworks. 
t he Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour 
and this commitment is set out in the Group’s c ore Values Statement and ethics policy. 
Global compliance training on a number of compliance subjects is provided through the 
Group’s r esponsible Business programme, full information is available on pages 18 to 20.
t he Group has an ethics Hotline, operated by expolink, which enables employees and 
other stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, 
abuse of Group assets or violations of any Group policy, to report these confidentially.
Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a Divisional and Group level, with 
contingency plans in place to manage the changing situations.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit 
and liquidity risk.
t he Group’s broad market/geographic spread helps to mitigate the effects of political 
and economic crises. 
Mitigation plans are in place to manage the financial and business impact of the 
eurozone crisis and any large currency swings. t hese include not only cash and banking 
but also operational issues in the businesses. 
t he Group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure that its debt ratio is 
within acceptable market tolerances.
a ctive management of the pension scheme assets is the primary means of mitigation. 
t his comprises management both internally within the Group but also externally 
through corporate actuaries and professional advisers.
t here is regular Board review of the Group’s pension position and strategy in the 
changing global environment.
RISk MITIGATION  34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Key re SOurce S an D  
c Ontractual relati On SHipS
Morgan c rucible has built up significant 
resources and benefits from contractual and 
other relationships with multiple stakeholders, 
including customers and suppliers, employees 
and joint venture partners. t hese relationships 
have been built up over many years to support 
Morgan c rucible’s competitive positioning in 
the key markets which the Group serves.
a s is described below, no one contractual  
or other relationship is considered essential to  
the business of the Group as a whole. Further 
information on the Group’s stakeholder 
relationships is included elsewhere in this 
Business review, including in the c orporate 
responsibility section on pages 18 to 27.  
a s referred to in the Directors’ report  
on page 41, a number of commercial and 
contractual agreements include change of 
control provisions which come into effect  
in the event of a change in ownership of the 
c ompany following a takeover.
in accordance with its goal, aim and strategic 
priorities, the Group continues to invest in the 
areas detailed below to maintain its leading 
market positions.
Commercial relationships, market 
position and reputation
Morgan c rucible is generally ranked number 
one or two in its chosen market segments.  
t he Group is a world-leader in advanced 
ceramic and composite materials. t he 
c ompany was founded in 1856 and has  
a worldwide reputation.
Morgan c rucible’s businesses provide  
products and services to other companies  
and the Group has developed close working 
relationships with many of its customers  
and suppliers, and collaborates with them  
to develop new products.
t he Group has a wide range of customers  
and suppliers and, while the loss of or 
disruption to certain of these arrangements 
could temporarily affect the operations of a 
particular business, none is considered essential 
to the Group as a whole. n otwithstanding  
this, the Group devotes significant resources  
to ensuring these relationships continue to 
operate satisfactorily.
Employees
Morgan c rucible’s most important resource  
is its people and the Group employs a highly 
skilled and qualified workforce. One of the 
Group’s strategic priorities is ‘finding, keeping 
and developing the right people’. Many 
employees stay with the Group for their whole 
careers, as is highlighted on page 27. Morgan 
c rucible places great emphasis on recruitment 
and training and the Group’s policies and 
performance in these areas are set out on 
pages 26 and 27.
Succession plans are in place covering key 
management and technical roles and as such  
no individual employee is considered essential 
to the business of the Group as a whole.
t he executive Directors’ contracts and the 
terms and conditions of appointment of the 
non-executive Directors are referred to  
on page 54 and are available for inspection  
prior to the 2013 a nnual General Meeting  
and at the c ompany’s registered office.
Research and development, 
patents and intellectual property
Morgan c rucible’s goal is to continue to  
be one of the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies, supported by the strategic 
priority of ‘offering high added-value to the 
Group’s customers’. t he Group’s Divisions use 
their extensive knowledge base, particularly in 
the areas of advanced ceramic and composite 
materials, to develop new products and 
services to meet customer needs and to 
differentiate themselves in the markets  
they serve.
Morgan c rucible benefits from technological 
know-how and other forms of intellectual 
property, some of which are covered by 
patents. c ollectively this intellectual property 
supports the development and manufacture of 
new products and services to meet customer 
needs, but no one single patent is considered 
essential to the business of the Group as  
a whole.
Both of Morgan c rucible’s Divisions have  
a t echnical Director, and have research and 
development capabilities variously located  
at Divisional centres of excellence, which is 
diffused through the business in the form of 
applications engineering. Further details are 
included in the r eview of operations for both 
Divisions on pages 10 to 17.
Manufacturing capabilities
Over many years Morgan c rucible has 
invested heavily in manufacturing capacity and 
technology to develop its capability to serve  
its chosen markets worldwide. in recent years 
the Group has developed and extended  
its manufacturing presence and capabilities  
in china, i ndia and l atin a merica to meet 
customer needs in both local and global 
markets. t his investment supports the  
Group’s strategic priority of ‘having a culture  
of operational excellence and cost efficiency’.
Joint venture partners
in a number of territories around the world, 
the Group has established joint ventures with 
local partners. Many of these joint ventures 
have been in operation for many years; 
however, no individual joint venture agreement 
is considered to be essential to the business of 
Morgan c rucible as a whole.
Banking and other financial 
relationships
Details of significant banking and other financial 
relationships are referred to on page 41 in the 
Directors’ report. However, no one banking  
or financial relationship is considered to be 
essential to the performance and value  
of the c ompany. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 35
t his document has been prepared for and 
only for the members of the c ompany as a 
body and no other persons. its purpose is to 
assist members to assess how the Directors 
have performed their duties, the c ompany’s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies 
to succeed and for no other purpose. Save as 
would otherwise arise under english law,  
the c ompany, its Directors, employees, 
agents or advisers do not accept or assume 
responsibility or liability to any third parties to 
whom this document is shown or into whose 
hands it may come and any such responsibility 
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
t his document contains forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risk factors 
associated with, amongst other things,  
the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries, 
sectors and markets in which the Group 
operates. t hese and other factors could 
adversely affect the outcome and financial 
effects of the plans and events described. 
Forward-looking statements by their nature 
involve a number of risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions because they relate to events 
and/or depend on circumstances that may  
or may not occur in the future and could 
cause actual results and outcomes to differ 
materially from those expressed in or  
implied by the forward-looking statements.
it is believed that the expectations reflected  
in these statements are reasonable but they 
may be affected by a wide range of such 
variables. n o assurances can be given  
that the forward-looking statements in this 
document will be realised. t he forward-
looking statements reflect the knowledge  
and information available at the date this 
document was prepared and will not  
be updated during the year but will  
be considered in the a nnual r eport  
for next year. n othing in this document  
should be construed as a profit forecast.
cauti Onary State Ment
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Andrew Shilston
†§
Non-executive Chairman (aged 57)
Andrew was appointed as Chairman Designate in  
May 2012 and as Chairman in August 2012. He is  
the Senior Independent Director of BP p.l.c. and  
a non-executive Director of Circle Holdings plc.  
From 2002 until his retirement in 201 1 he was  
Chief Financial Officer of Rolls Royce Holdings plc and 
prior to this he was the Finance Director at Enterprise 
Oil plc. Andrew was previously a non-executive 
Director of Cairn Energy plc, where he chaired the 
Audit Committee.
Mark Robertshaw
§
Chief Executive Officer (aged 44)
Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in 
August 2006. Prior to this he was Chief Operating 
Officer from February 2006 and Chief Financial Officer 
from October 2004. Before joining Morgan Crucible  
he was Chief Financial Officer of Gartmore Investment 
Management plc from 2000 to 2004. Prior to this  
he spent nine years with Marakon Associates. Mark is  
a non-executive Director of SEGRO plc and was a 
non-executive Director of Rathbones Brothers plc  
from 2006 to 2010.
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics (aged 48)
Andrew was appointed as Chief Executive Officer  
of Morgan Ceramics and joined the Morgan Crucible 
Board in July 2010. Before this appointment he held a 
number of senior positions within the Morgan Crucible 
Group. Andrew was Chief Executive Officer of 
Technical Ceramics from 2004 to July 2010,  
whereupon the Technical Ceramics and Thermal 
Ceramics Businesses were brought together as the 
Morgan Ceramics Division. He is a non-executive 
Director of Fiberweb plc, British Ceramic Research 
Limited and was President of the British Ceramics 
Confederation from 2003 to 2005.
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer (aged 46)
Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in  
August 2006, having joined Morgan Crucible in  
July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial Controller  
before being promoted to Group Financial Controller. 
He is a non-executive Director of e2v technologies plc. 
Before joining Morgan Crucible Kevin worked for 
London International Group plc and Virgin Retail  
Europe Limited. He qualified as a chartered accountant 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Martin Flower*
†§
Senior Independent Director (aged 66)
Martin was appointed as a non-executive Director in 
December 2004 and as Senior Independent Director  
in April 2008. He is Chairman of Croda International plc 
and Low & Bonar PLC. He was previously Chairman of 
Autogrill Holdings UK plc, a non-executive Director of 
Autogrill Group Inc. and Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc. Martin held  
a variety of senior management positions with Coats plc 
from 1968 to 2004, and was Group Chief Executive  
of that Group and Chairman of the Board from 2001  
to 2004.
Andrew Given*
†§
Non-executive Director (aged 65)
Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Director  
in December 2007 and is the Chairman of the  
Audit Committee. He was previously the senior 
non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee of VT Group plc, the Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee  
of Spectris plc and a non-executive Director and Chair 
of the Audit Committee of Spirent Communications plc. 
Andrew was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of  
Logica plc and held senior management positions  
in Plessey and Nortel Networks.
Andrew Shilston
†§
Chairman
Andrew Given
*†§
Non-executive Director
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics
Mark Robertshaw
§
Chief Executive Officer
Martin Flower
*†§
Senior Independent Director
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE
* Member of the Audit Committee
† 
Member of the Remuneration Committee
§ 
Member of the Nomination Committee
Simon Heale*
†§
Non-executive Director (aged 59)
Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director  
in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. He is the Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of Coats plc, a non-
executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee  
of Kazakhmys PLC, a non-executive Director and  
Chair of the CSR Committee of PZ Cussons Plc,  
a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit and 
Compliance Committee of Marex Spectron Group 
Limited and Trustee and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer 
Support chairing their Finance and Legal Committee 
and sitting on their Audit Committee. He was Chief 
Executive of China Now from 2007 to 2008 and was 
Chief Executive of The London Metal Exchange from 
2001 to 2006. Simon qualified as an accountant with 
Price Waterhouse and has had extensive experience  
in the Far East, having held senior positions with the 
Swire Group in Japan and Hong Kong and with  
Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Victoire de Margerie*
†§
Non-executive Director (aged 49)
Victoire was appointed as a non-executive  
Director in May 2012. She is the Chairman and  
first shareholder of Rondol Technology Limited.  
She is also a non-executive Director of the French 
quoted companies Arkema and Eurazéo, and the 
Norwegian quoted company Norsk Hydro. Victoire 
previously held non-executive positions at Ciments 
Français, Outokumpu and Ipsos, and was a Professor  
in Strategic Management at Grenoble School of 
Business. During her executive career she held senior 
management positions in Germany, France and the  
USA with Arkema, CarnaudMetalbox and Péchiney. 
Victoire holds a PhD in Strategic Management from 
Université Paris 2 Panthéon Assas.
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary & General Counsel  
(aged 45)
Paul was appointed Company Secretary in 2007  
having joined Morgan Crucible in July 2004 as General 
Counsel and Deputy Company Secretary. Before 
joining the Company, he spent nine years with IMI plc, 
his last role being Deputy Company Secretary and 
Senior Legal Adviser. Paul is a qualified solicitor.
Peter Blausten
Director of Human Resources (aged 53)
Peter joined Morgan Crucible in March 201 1  
as Director of Human Resources. Prior to joining 
Morgan Crucible, Peter advised on private equity 
acquisitions and international leadership programmes 
as an independent consultant. He was formerly Group  
HR Director of BAA plc and held senior roles with 
Charles Schwab & Co, British Airways, and Ford Motor 
Co. Peter is a member of the Council of the Institute  
of Employment Studies and was appointed as a 
Commissioner for the UK Civil Service in 2010.
Don Klas
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials  
(aged 54)
Don joined Morgan Crucible in 1980 as a plant engineer 
and has over a quarter of a century of experience with 
the Carbon business. In his role as CEO of Carbon 
Americas, Don was responsible for 50% of the revenue 
of the Carbon division. Don became CEO of the 
former Carbon division in 2008, and became CEO of 
Morgan Engineered Materials in July 2010 when the 
Carbon, NP Aerospace and Molten Metal Systems 
businesses were integrated into one division.
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics
Don Klas
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Peter Blausten
Director of Human Resources
Victoire de Margerie
*†§
Non-executive Director
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Peter Blausten
Director of Human Resources
Don Klas
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials
Simon Heale
*†§
Non-executive Director  38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report together with the financial 
statements and independent auditor’s report for the year ended  
31 December 2012. This Directors’ report was approved by the  
Board on 14 February 2013.
Principal activities
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (the Company) and its subsidiary 
undertakings comprise two Divisions covering four operating segments 
(as outlined on page 8) that design, manufacture and market primarily 
carbon and ceramic components for applications in a wide range of 
markets. A review of developments affecting the Group during the  
year and of its prospects for the future appears on pages 10 to 17,  
to be read in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 35.
Business review
The Business review sets out a comprehensive review of the 
development and performance of the business of the Company for the 
year ended 31 December 2012 and future developments. The Business 
review is set out on pages 6 to 35 (inclusive) of this Annual Report.  
All information detailed in those pages is incorporated by reference  
into this Directors’ report and is deemed to form part of this  
Directors’ report.
Corporate governance statement
The Corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.1  
of the FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out on pages 42  
to 48 of this Annual Report. All information detailed in the Corporate 
governance statement is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ 
report and is deemed to form part of this Directors’ report.
Financial results
The total profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £80.3 
million (201 1: £78.8 million). Profit before taxation for the same period 
was £81.4 million (201 1: £1 1 1.4 million). Revenue was £1,007.5 million 
(201 1: £1,101.0 million) and operating profit was £100.5 million (201 1: 
£133.2 million). Basic earnings per share from continuing operations  
was 20.2 pence (201 1: 26.9 pence). Capital and reserves at the end  
of the year were £271.8 million (201 1: £270.2 million). The total profit  
of £80.3 million will be transferred to equity.
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate  
of 6.4 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, 
payable on 31 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on 19 April 2013. Together with the interim dividend  
of 3.6 pence per share paid on 10 January 2013, this final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year  
to 10.0 pence per share (201 1: 9.25 pence).
Acquisitions and disposals
On 28 March 2012 the Company increased its equity stake in  
NP Aerospace from 80% to 90% by acquiring an additional  
10% of the equity for £6.1 million which represents full consideration  
for the 10% of share capital acquired.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no material events since the year end.
Share capital
The Company’s share capital is set out in note 18 on pages 90 to 92. 
The Company’s Ordinary shares represent 99.84% of the total issued 
share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares 
representing 0.05% and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference 
shares representing 0.1 1%. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the transfer of shares  
in the Company, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association 
(Articles), copies of which can be obtained from Companies House  
in the UK or from the Company Secretary. The holders of Ordinary 
shares are entitled to receive dividends, when declared; to receive  
the Company’s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies; and to exercise voting 
rights. Details of the structure of the Company’s Preference share capital 
and the rights attached to the Company’s Preference shares are set out 
on page 92. No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not 
aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may  
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 39
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company’s policy in relation to its suppliers is, where possible,  
to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, 
to ensure suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and  
to abide by those terms, provided that it is satisfied that the supplier 
provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms 
and conditions. The Company and its subsidiaries do not follow any  
one code or standard on payment practice due to the diverse nature  
of the global markets in which the Group operates.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the 
Company at the end of the year was 36 days (201 1: 45 days) and  
for the Group was 55 days (201 1: 58 days).
Research and development
Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue  
to be crucial to the successful development of new products and 
solutions to satisfy customer demands. The Company has research  
and development facilities at its key manufacturing sites. The spend  
on research and development was £19.6 million during the year  
(201 1: £14.3 million). The Group did not capitalise any development 
costs in 2012 (201 1: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments, together with 
information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow,  
credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 20 on  
pages 93 to 100. All information detailed in this note is incorporated  
into this Directors’ report by reference and is deemed to form part  
of this Directors’ report.
Human resources
Details of the Group’s Human Resources Policy and employee 
involvement are set out on pages 26 and 27.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise)  
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Employee share and share option schemes
The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of its 
shares through the provision of a number of employee share and  
share option schemes. 154 employees hold awards under the  
Morgan Crucible Long-Term Incentive Plan, 31 employees hold awards 
under the Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan,  
22 employees have options under the Company’s Executive Share  
Option Schemes and 670 employees participate in the Company’s  
UK Sharesave Plan. There are currently no participants in the 
Company’s German Employee Share Purchase Plan. Details of 
outstanding share awards and share options are given in note 21  
on page 106.
NP Aerospace operates an employee share option scheme pursuant  
to which NP Aerospace employees who were in employment as at  
31 July 2007 have been granted options over shares in Clearpower 
Limited, the NP Aerospace holding company. 132 employees hold 
awards under this scheme. The NP Aerospace employee benefit trust 
holds 8,330 shares in Clearpower Limited in respect of the scheme.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to a 
change of control. Outstanding options and awards would normally  
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) held 201,493 
shares on 31 December 2012 in connection with awards granted under 
the Company’s employee share schemes. The trustees of the Trust 
(Trustees) have agreed to waive their entitlement to the payment of 
dividends on the shares held by the Trust. The Directors are not aware 
that any other shareholders waived or agreed to waive any dividends  
or future dividends during the period under review.
The Trustees have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to 
voting any shares held in the Trust at any general meeting. Their policy  
is not to vote the shares. If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire 
their shares, the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion  
on whether to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held  
by them.  40 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
Directors
All those who served as Directors at any time during the year  
under review are listed on pages 36 to 37, with the exception  
of Tim Stevenson, who retired from the Board on 31 July 2012.
Details of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company  
are listed on page 62. In the period from 31 December 2012  
to 14 February 2013 the executive Directors acquired further  
Ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Company’s  
Scrip Dividend Scheme.
All information detailed on page 62 in respect of Directors’ interests  
is incorporated into this Directors’ report by reference and is deemed  
to form part of this Directors’ report.
All of the Directors will be offering themselves for election or re-election 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 10 May 2013. 
Details of their background and experience can be found on pages 36 
and 37 and details of the Board Committees on which they serve can  
be found on pages 46 to 48.
Appointment and replacement of Directors and 
amendments to the Articles
The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors. 
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any 
appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee 
for approval by the Board of Directors. The Articles also require 
Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first  
AGM following appointment and all Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at the third AGM following their appointment 
or re-election. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the Board 
has once again determined that the full Board of Directors will stand for 
election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM in compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Articles may  
be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and any directions given by special 
resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, 
which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Share allotment and repurchase authorities
The Directors were granted authority at the 2012 AGM to allot shares  
in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 
securities into shares in the Company up to (a) a nominal amount of 
£23,150,173 and (b) a nominal amount of £46,300,364 in connection 
with a rights issue (such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted 
under (a)). This authority is due to lapse at the 2013 AGM. At the 2013 
AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors’ 
powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate 
nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued share 
capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the notice 
of AGM 2013.
The Directors did not seek an authority at the 2012 AGM to repurchase 
shares in the capital of the Company. As at 31 December 2012, there 
was no such authority in place. The Directors do not intend to seek an 
authority to repurchase shares at the 2013 AGM.
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 AGM are  
set out in the Circular to Shareholders which will be circulated in  
March 2013.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each 
Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined at section 
236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company has agreed 
to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities which may 
attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director of the 
Company or any of its subsidiaries. The indemnity deeds were in force 
during the financial year to which this Directors’ report relates and are  
in force as at the date of approval of the Directors’ report.
Donations
During the year, Morgan Crucible companies made charitable donations 
of £178,060 (201 1: £194,744).
Further details of charitable donations and activities of the Group are 
given on page 20. No political donations have been made. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 41
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Significant agreements
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various 
financial institutions. These facility agreements generally include change 
of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the 
Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The most significant of such agreements are the UK £150 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Facility Agreement, which was signed on  
5 April 201 1, and the privately placed Note Purchase and Guarantee 
Agreements signed on 6 March 2003, 15 December 2007 and  
30 June 2010, for which the outstanding loan amounts are  
USD9 million, USD350 million and €60 million respectively.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter  
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture 
agreements. No such individual contract is considered to be significant  
in terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary 
share capital of the Company *:
Number of
Ordinary
shares % **
Prudential Plc group of companies (M&G) 40,330,677 14.417
Ax A Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.422
Standard Life Investments Ltd 13,788,184 4.929
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 11,197,379 4.003
*  As at 28 February 2013, Prudential Plc group of companies (M&G) held 39,287,142 
Ordinary shares, 13.970%; Norge Bank held 8,473,625 Ordinary Shares, 3.010%;  
HSBC held 15,290,009 Ordinary Shares, 5.438%; there were no changes to the  
other substantial shareholdings shown in the above table.
**  Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital as at  
31 December 2012.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and that he  
has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office. 
Resolutions for its re-appointment as auditor and authority for the 
Directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration will be proposed  
at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on 10 May 2013 at The Lincoln 
Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED. A Circular will be 
sent with this Report to shareholders in March 2013 incorporating the 
Notice of AGM.
FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules
For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8, this Directors’ report 
is the management report.
Directors’ responsibility statement in respect  
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, the names and roles of whom are set out on 
pages 36 and 37, confirms to the best of their knowledge:
 > The Group financial statements in this Report, which have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs), including 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) and those sections of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs as adopted in the 
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group taken as a whole. 
 > The parent Company financial statements in this Report, which  
have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position  
and profit of the Company. 
 > The Business review contained in this Report includes a fair  
review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
For and on behalf of the Board
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary & General Counsel
14 February 2013
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP 
Registered in England, No. 286773  42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has been 
in full compliance with the relevant provisions of the June 2010 version 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.frc.org.uk.
The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, 
Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders. This 
statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles 
of the Code. It should be read in conjunction with the Business review 
and Remuneration report on pages 6 to 35 and 50 to 66 respectively.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders  
for the long-term success of the Company. The Board is satisfied it  
has met the Code’s requirements for its effective operation. It has set 
the Company’s strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at  
its strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there is a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be 
assessed and managed. The Board sets the Company’s values and 
standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics 
Policy, both of which are referred to on page 18 in the Business review.
Board meetings
In 2012, the Board met formally nine times, of which eight meetings 
were scheduled and one meeting was held by telephone at short notice.
The meeting in March 2012 was scheduled to coincide with the Group’s 
2012 Leadership Conference in San Francisco and also allowed the 
Board the opportunity to visit the Company’s local operations and  
to meet local management. The October 2012 meeting included  
a dedicated half-day session on Group strategy. 
Matters reserved
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board 
including significant contractual commitments (including the acquisition 
or disposal of companies/businesses, treasury and intellectual property 
transactions), the review of the effectiveness of risk management 
processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.  
One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the  
longer term development of the Group. 
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Andrew Shilston * ~
6 6 – – 3 3 1 1
Mark Robertshaw 9 9 – – – – 5 5
Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 – – – – – –
Andrew Hosty 9 9 – – – – – –
Victoire de Margerie *
~
6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1
Martin Flower * 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5
Andrew Given * 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5
Simon Heale * 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5
Tim Stevenson *
^ 5 5 – – 2 2 2 2
* Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
~ Appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
^ Retired from the Board on 31 July 2012.
Summary of the Board’s work during the year
During 2012, the Board carried out all its core duties as set out in the 
Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, including the following:
 > Review of performance against the Group’s three-year objectives.
 > Growth opportunities within the business against a backdrop of  
low or no growth in the macroeconomic environment.
 > Review of bolt-on merger and acquisition opportunities.
 > Strategic review of the soldier survivability business.
 > Technology and innovation within the business and resulting 
business opportunities.
 > Approval of capital expenditure including investment in the Group’s 
fibre business.
 > Review of the Group’s approach to risk management.
 > Environmental and health and safety issues.
 > Review and appointment of new corporate advisors.
 > Consideration of major shareholders’ views on the Group’s 
performance and prospects.
Delegation of authority
The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three 
committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. The memberships, roles and activities of these committees 
are described in separate reports: the Audit Committee report is set out 
on pages 46 to 47; the Nomination Committee report is set out on 
page 48; and the Remuneration Committee report is set out on pages 
47 to 48. The full terms of reference of the Board committees are 
available upon request and are also available on the Group’s website.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group  
and operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the  
other Executive Directors (the Chief Financial Officer and the CEO 
Morgan Ceramics) who, together with the CEO Morgan Engineered 
Materials, the Director of Human Resources and the Company 
Secretary, form the Executive Committee. The biographies of the 
members of the Executive Committee are set out on pages 36 to 37.
The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including 
routine approvals to a General Purposes Committee which meets  
as required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
Attendance at meetings
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company  
or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. An appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability insurance policy is in place. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly 
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the 
Board including setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring sufficient time  
is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues,  
for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge, 
facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors  
and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and 
non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible  
for the management of the Group, including the delivery of the Group’s 
business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing 
the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation of the 
Group’s policies. The management of the Group’s operating Divisions 
reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman
Tim Stevenson resigned as Chairman on 31 July 2012. On appointment 
as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston met the independence 
criteria set out in the Code.
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, 
subject to annual re-election. The independence, commitment and 
effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has served for two 
terms is subject to rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further 
three-year term.
Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the 
executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the  
year. In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other 
non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Effectiveness
Board balance and independence
The size, structure and composition of the Board was reviewed  
during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need  
to progressively refresh the membership of the Board as well as  
the impending departure of Tim Stevenson who stepped down  
as Chairman and resigned from the Board on 31 July 2012.
Andrew Shilston was appointed to the Board as Chairman Designate  
on 8 May 2012 and was appointed as Chairman on 1 August 2012. 
Victoire de Margerie was appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
As at 14 February 2013, the Board comprises Andrew Shilston, 
Chairman; Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer; Kevin 
Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer; Andrew Hosty, Chief Executive 
Officer Morgan Ceramics, and four independent non-executive 
Directors, Victoire de Margerie, Martin Flower, Andrew Given  
and Simon Heale. Biographies of the Directors, including details  
of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 36 and 37.
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company 
deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised 
three executive Directors and four non-executive Directors deemed by 
the Board to be independent. Thus there is a balance of executive and 
non-executive Directors which helps ensure that no individual or small 
group can dominate the Board’s decision-making. Throughout the year 
the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least 
half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive 
Directors determined by the Board to be independent. In addition  
to the factors set out in the Code, the Board’s assessment of a 
non-executive Director’s independence and effectiveness covers their 
total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers 
and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
Appointments to the Board
As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee,  
set out on page 48, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for appointments to the Board. Appointments are  
made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for 
diversity, including gender. The process used for the appointments of 
Andrew Shilston and Victoire de Margerie to the Board during 2012  
are described in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 48.
The Board has also considered the recommendations made by the 
Davies Report on Women on Boards. The Board does not think quotas 
are a good option as the Board believes all appointments should be 
based on merit rather than through positive discrimination policies.  
The Board is, however, clear that obtaining the right balance and an 
appropriately diverse mix of skills and experience round the board-table 
is of paramount importance if the Board is to continue to deliver true 
entrepreneurial leadership of the business.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for 
appointments to the Board and for senior management. The Board 
discussed the Group’s approach to talent management and succession 
planning at senior levels within the Divisions at its strategy meeting in 
October 2012. A description of the work done on planning for Board 
succession and refreshing the Board is included in the report of the 
Nomination Committee on page 48.
Commitment
Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the 
Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that 
they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments  
to the Company.
Information and support
The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring 
the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information  
to enable it to discharge its duties. Board papers are generally made 
available electronically five working days before each meeting.  
Non-executive Directors also receive updates and information  
between formal Board meetings. 
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are observed. A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to  
seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense  
in connection with their duties as Directors.  44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Induction and professional development
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining  
the Board. A new Director’s experience and background is taken  
into account in developing a tailored programme. Following their 
appointments to the Board on 8 May 2012, Andrew Shilston and 
Victoire de Margerie received comprehensive briefings to supplement 
the information on the Company’s business provided during 
recruitment. The briefing for both Directors included further 
information on the business and its products and markets, brokers’ 
reports on the Group, the Company’s corporate governance structure 
and processes and key Group policies. The induction programme for 
both Directors included meetings with executive management, briefings 
from functional heads on governance, responsible business and key risks, 
visits to operational sites around the world and meetings with Divisional 
and operational management. In addition, Andrew Shilston, the 
incoming Chairman, met the Company’s main institutional shareholders. 
The Chairman considers the individual training and development  
needs of each Director, taking into account environmental, social and 
governance matters. The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of 
external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and 
development of all Directors as necessary.
During 2012, the Directors received a briefing on the UK Government’s 
updated guidance on facilitation payments, a presentation on the  
Group’s technology and its potential commercial applications, a briefing 
on Group’s treasury arrangements and a briefing on changes to the  
UK Corporate Governance Code and Stewardship Code.
Non-executive Directors have access to management and staff at all 
levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites. In addition to visits  
by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one  
Board meeting is held at an operating facility. During 2012 formal  
Board meetings were held at the Morgan Technical Ceramics site  
in Southampton, UK and at the Morgan Thermal Ceramics site in 
Bromborough, UK. In addition, the non-executive Directors attended 
the Group’s leadership conference held in San Francisco and visited the 
Ceramics facility in Hayward, California.
Performance evaluation
With the aim of improving effectiveness, the Board undertakes a formal 
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees 
and individual Directors.
As an externally facilitated performance evaluation had been conducted 
in 201 1, the Board decided that the 2012 process should be conducted 
internally. The process was led by the Chairman and carried out by the 
Company Secretary.
The process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its 
Committees was as follows:
 > Development of tailored questionnaires, completed by all Directors, 
which took into account the output from the 201 1 performance 
evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, as well as  
the work of the Board during 2012 and its current areas of focus.
 > Formulation of a report summarising the results of the 
questionnaires which was presented to the Board for discussion.
 In consequence, a number of recommendations were agreed by the 
Board as follows:
>  There should be a continuing focus on both short- and  
medium-term Board succession planning, with particular  
emphasis on matching the skills and experience of the Directors  
to the Group’s strategy.
>  The Board should simplify how the Group and its strategy are 
presented to external stakeholders.
>  Embedding of the Group’s updated approach to Risk (as detailed  
on page 32) should be closely monitored.
>  More opportunities should be found for non-executive Directors  
to get to know key business leaders, particularly where they are 
based overseas. 
Alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each non-executive 
Director completed an individual questionnaire which invited them  
to reflect on their own performance and contribution to the Board.  
The questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman, with any 
development needs being discussed with individual Directors.
The recommendations made following the 201 1 Board performance 
review were implemented during the year. Further emphasis was placed 
on succession planning and the composition of the Board especially 
within the context of the processes used to appoint Andrew Shilston, 
the Chairman, and Victoire de Margerie, a non-executive Director,  
as reported in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 48 
below. A review of the style, presentation and length of Board papers 
was conducted in the context of the transition from paper-based to 
electronic Board papers. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, 
met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairman’s 
performance during the year, taking into account the views of the 
executive Directors.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to  
avoid conflicts of interest. Accordingly the Directors are required to 
(1) disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order  
to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict; and 
(2) disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise  
to an actual or potential conflict.
The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any 
conflicts disclosed and authorisations given at least annually. Should an 
actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether  
to authorise the situation in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation. In the event of an 
actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman 
(the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director) and the 
Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate  
and decision. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 45
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Accountability
Financial reporting
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that it has met its 
obligations to present a balanced and understandable assessment of  
the Company’s position and prospects as required by the Code and in 
accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s Reporting Statement 1, 
The Operating and Financial Review (RS1). This is included in the Business 
review on pages 6 to 35. The Board also presents updated information 
in its half-year and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on  
page 49 and the ‘going concern’ statement is set out in the Business 
review on page 31.
Business model and strategy
Details of the Company’s business model, how it is working to generate 
and sustain long-term value and details of the Board’s strategy for 
ensuring the Company meets its objectives are set out in the Business 
Review on pages 6 to 35.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a 
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of such 
system. The Company’s system of internal control has been in place  
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the  
Annual Report. Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews  
the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so 
during the year. The system of internal control accords with the Financial 
Reporting Council’s guidance on the internal control requirements of  
the Code (Turnbull). This review covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management 
systems. The Audit Committee receives regular risk management 
reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a 
Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates 
their effectiveness.
The Directors believe that the Group’s system of internal financial 
controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the 
assets of the Group are safeguarded; that transactions are authorised 
and recorded in a correct and timely manner; and that such controls 
would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or 
irregularities. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, 
environmental and ethical risks. The internal control framework 
complements the Group’s management structure. The main features  
of the Group’s systems for internal control and for assessing the potential 
risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows:
 > Control environment The Group’s management processes  
include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties  
with documented policies and manuals. These cover financial 
procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other 
areas. In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board. The Group’s Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and  
other supporting policies and procedures set out the Group’s 
commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual 
behaviour and provide guidance for employees. The Group’s 
Responsible Business Programme includes relevant training and 
reporting and is part of the control framework. The Ethics Hotline  
is available to employees and others in this regard. The Chief 
Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance 
to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses for which  
he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in  
all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have 
been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with 
Group policies and procedures.
 > Financial reporting Risk management systems and internal controls 
are in place in relation to the Group’s financial reporting processes 
and the process for preparing consolidated accounts. These include 
policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records 
which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of 
assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and the review and reconciliation of reported data. As noted above, 
representatives of the business are required to certify that their 
reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the business and its results for the period. The Audit Committee 
is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and 
internal controls.
 > Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board 
and of the Executive Committee. A comparison of forecast and 
actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons 
against budget and the prior year. Divisional management teams  
also meet regularly to review performance. In addition, regular site 
visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
 > Risk management The identification of major business risks is  
an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating 
management. Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material 
risks identified. The Board, either directly or through the Audit 
Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, 
treasury, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks 
from management. The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues 
at their management meetings. During the year, the Group’s risk 
management system was reviewed and revised, with details set out 
in the Risk management section on page 32.
 > Risk factors Morgan Crucible’s businesses are affected by a number 
of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends 
and are therefore outside the Company’s immediate control, 
although, as described above and in the Business review, the 
identification and management of such risks is carried out 
systematically. These are further discussed in the Risk management 
section on pages 32 and 33.
 > Internal audit The Group’s internal audit function reviews internal 
control and risk management processes. The Audit Committee 
approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports 
accordingly. Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed 
with management. The Internal Auditor has direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee.   46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Audit Committee and the external auditor
The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering 
how the Directors apply the Company’s financial reporting and internal 
control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with 
the Company’s auditor. This requirement is met by the work of the 
Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried 
out by the Company’s external auditor, KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc 
that its general procedures support the auditor’s independence and 
objectivity in relation to non-audit services. After considering such 
procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditor’s 
objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision  
of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Remuneration
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 50 to 66.
Relations with shareholders
During 2012, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors  
attended the annual and half-year results presentations, the Group’s 
Capital Markets Day and other investor events. This provided the 
opportunity to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees  
and to further develop an understanding of their views.
Following the announcement of the Group’s results and after other 
significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed 
and any feedback is made available to the Board. In addition,  
the Board is provided with brokers’ reports and feedback from 
shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the 
Company’s website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, 
press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of  
the Board and by a representative of the external auditor. At the AGM 
held in May 2012, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business 
presentation. Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the 
meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other 
members of senior management before and after the formal meeting. 
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all 
attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published 
on the Group’s website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Report of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its 
responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control. Martin 
Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the 
Committee throughout the year. Victoire de Margerie became a 
member of the Audit Committee on her appointment as a Director  
on 8 May 2012. All members of the Committee are independent 
Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the Committee,  
has the requisite financial experience.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the  
power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, 
auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate 
by the Committee. At the end of each meeting the non-executive 
Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditor 
without the executive Directors or other members of management 
present. Between meetings the members of the Audit Committee keep 
in contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Internal Auditor 
as necessary.
The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information  
it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities. This is complemented  
by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and 
Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their 
respective Divisions. Training and development information is made 
available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed during the 
year but were left unchanged. They are available on the Group’s website 
and include:
 > Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board 
with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements, 
half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance, and reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgments contained in them.
 > Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their 
consistent application across the Group.
 > Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting 
standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking 
into account the views of the external auditor.
 > Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk 
management systems. 
 > Reviewing and monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements 
and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
 > Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor 
and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditor. 
 > Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity.
 > Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of 
the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory requirements. 
 > Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditor. 
 > Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which  
it considers that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 47
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according  
to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of 
the Company, but did not do so during the year. The Internal Auditor 
has access to the Chairman of the Committee and regularly meets  
with the Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 
respect of 2012 included:
 > Reviewing the Group’s 201 1 financial statements and 2012 half-year 
statements prior to Board approval. 
 > Reviewing the scope of the external audit, and confirmation of  
the external auditor’s terms of engagement and fee structures.
 > Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and  
all aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
 > The review of the Group’s approach to risk management and the 
approval of a new methodology and process by which the Group’s 
main business risks are assessed and managed, with the principal 
strategic and operational risks being considered by the Board as  
a whole.
 > Reviewing the effectiveness of and receiving reports from 
management on the Group’s internal audit and risk management 
systems and updates to the Group’s governance, risk and 
compliance plans. 
 > Approval of the work and plans for the internal audit function  
and the monitoring of progress against the plan. 
 > Review of the systems of internal controls within the Ceramics  
and Morgan Engineered Materials Divisions.
 > Appraisal of the Group’s whistleblowing process and related 
procedures and policies. 
 > Reviews of material litigation, crisis management plans and  
controls in relation to joint ventures.
 > Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditor, which  
in 2012 included services amounting to £0.2 million, mainly in 
connection with tax services.
 > A review of the Group’s pension scheme arrangements.
 > Assessing the impact of a potential breakdown of the Eurozone.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external  
auditor, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision  
of non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows:
 > Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external  
auditor, including the review of their own work; they may not make 
management decisions; their work must not create a mutuality of 
interest; and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
 > Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external 
auditor with a fee between £50,000 and £200,000 must be 
approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Projects in excess of £200,000 must be approved in advance  
by the Audit Committee. Work which includes multiple phases  
is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
 > The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any 
non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other 
non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
During the year the proportion of the auditor’s fees for non-audit  
work relative to the audit fee was 14% (201 1: 14%).
The Committee’s policy is to undertake an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external 
auditor’s performance and independence before determining whether 
to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender 
presentation or whether to put the Group’s audit work out to full 
third-party tender.
The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard their 
independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, in 
their opinion, they are independent. The Group last changed its auditor 
in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditor, 
which included a re-tender presentation, during 2007. The external 
auditor rotated the partner responsible for the Group’s audit work  
in 2008 and the next rotation of audit partner will take place in 2013. 
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, all aspects of  
the service provided by the auditor and taking account of the assurance 
given by the auditor as to their independence, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that the Group’s audit work should not  
be put out to third-party tender during 2012 and will further review  
the situation during 2013.
Remuneration Committee
As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 50  
to 66, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting 
remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including 
benefits such as share options and awards under the Company’s 
incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.  
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration  
for senior management. The Committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed and updated during the year to correct minor inconsistencies 
and are available on the Group’s website.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee 
Chairman, were members of the Committee throughout the year. 
Andrew Shilston and Victoire de Margerie became members of the 
Committee on their appointment to the Board on 8 May 2012. Tim 
Stevenson was a member of the Committee until he stepped down 
from the Board on 31 July 2012. The Committee is assisted in its duties 
by the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director 
of Human Resources. No member of the Committee or attendee is 
present when their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do 
they participate in any relevant voting. The Committee also has the 
power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any 
Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate 
by the Committee. The Committee met five times during the year.  48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Remuneration Committee continued
It is the Company’s policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director 
who serves as a non-executive Director of another company. During 
the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of 
SEGRO plc, Kevin Dangerfield served as a non-executive Director  
of e2v technologies plc and Andrew Hosty served as a non-executive 
Director of British Ceramic Research Limited and, with effect from  
10 September 2012, as a non-executive Director of Fiberweb plc.  
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and  
Andrew Hosty in this regard are shown on page 54. The Remuneration 
report, which includes details of the Committee’s responsibilities and 
terms of reference and of the Directors’ remuneration and Directors’ 
interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 50 to 66.
Report of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments 
and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new 
Directors. A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are 
independent non-executive Directors. Martin Flower, Andrew Given, 
Simon Heale and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee 
throughout the year. Andrew Shilston and Victoire de Margerie became 
members of the Committee on their appointment to the Board on  
8 May 2012. Tim Stevenson, who acted as Chairman of the Committee, 
ceased to be a member on stepping down from the Board on 31 July 2012 
when Andrew Shilston became Chairman of the Committee. 
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed but left unchanged 
during the year and are available on the Group’s website.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other 
Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting,  
as may be considered appropriate by the Committee. The Committee 
met five times during 2012.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership 
needs of the Group. The work of the Committee in discharging those 
responsibilities in respect of 2012 included:
 > Leading the search for a successor to the outgoing Chairman,  
Tim Stevenson, resulting in the selection and recommended 
appointment of Andrew Shilston to the role of Chairman.
 > Leading the search for a new non-executive Director, resulting in the 
selection and recommended appointment of Victoire de Margerie.
 > Reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees and 
succession planning for the Directors who will retire at or before  
the 2014 AGM. 
The process for appointing the new Chairman and non-executive 
Director is described below:
 > Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the 
Committee appointed Egon Zehnder as external search agent.
 > In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills and experience 
on the Board, the Committee considered and formulated a 
candidate specification for each role.
 > The external search agent produced ‘long lists’ of candidates for the roles. 
 > Interviews were held with the short-listed candidates and all 
members of the Nomination Committee met the preferred 
candidates for both roles and the former Chairman met the 
preferred candidate for the non-executive Director role.
 > The Committee selected its preferred candidates and 
recommended their appointment to the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors 
are available for inspection. Non-executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to 
meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant 
commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an 
indication of the time involved. The Board is informed of any subsequent 
changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are taken. 
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include  
a notice period.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1; 2.2(1); 2.3(1);  
2.5; 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure  
and Transparency Rules. The information required to be disclosed  
by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors’ report on  
pages 38 to 41 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
Information on share capital and other matters
The information about share capital required to be included in this 
statement can be found on pages 38 to 41 of the Directors’ report. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 49
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT 
OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  
the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance  
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements  
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view  
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently. 
 > Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent. 
 > For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU. 
 > For the parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company financial statements.
 > Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless  
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure  
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ report, Remuneration report and Corporate 
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Paul Boulton 
Company Secretary & General Counsel
14 February 2013  50 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
A statement to shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors’ report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Committee has continued to ensure that the targets we set are both challenging and incentivise management appropriately. The Committee 
also sees the importance of ensuring that a significant part of the executive Directors’ packages should be linked to the long-term success of the Group.
As you will have read earlier in this Annual Report, following the Group’s record results in 201 1, 2012 Group revenue was down versus 201 1,  
yet it was still the second best operating profit before one-off costs in the Group’s history. 
Nevertheless, no bonus is payable for the CEO and CFO in respect of 2012 performance, and a significantly reduced bonus versus last year  
is payable to the CEO Morgan Ceramics, whose bonus was based on both Group targets and specific targets for his Division.
EPS performance over the three years from 2010 has remained strong, and therefore will be reflected in the maximum payouts of the  
2010 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan (BDSMP). Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards granted in 2010 were also part-dependent on  
EPS performance, and this element also vested in full. However, 2012 performance has affected Total Shareholder Return (TSR), and so this has 
significantly reduced the potential payout for the 2010 LTIP overall. This is consistent with our approach to ensuring incentive payments do reflect 
stretching performance targets, and also reflect shareholder interests against relevant measures. Those shares will be released in 2013 at the end 
of their three-year vesting period, and details are shown in this report.
Last year, I noted the considerable achievement by management of key performance measures over the previous three years, not least the  
upper quartile growth in shareholder return. That performance resulted in a maximum vesting of the 2009 LTIP , and a 1.8 times match vesting  
of the 2009 BDSMP , which was also subject to very demanding EPS growth targets. Those shares were released during 2012 at the end of their  
three-year vesting period, and are now detailed in this report.
We again reviewed EPS targets against internal and external reference points, and have once more set what we consider a challenging range – 
particularly against the uncertain market outlook. On this basis, the existing 8%-15% pa range for the LTIP and the 8%-20% pa range for  
the bonus deferral plan represent demanding targets over the next three years and remain appropriate for the 2013 award cycle.
Because no bonus was payable to the CEO and CFO in respect of 2012 performance, they will not be able to participate in the 2013 BDSMP .
ROCE targets, which were introduced last year, have been reviewed so that they reflect the returns the Board would expect to ensure that the 
Group’s ROCE levels are maintained and enhanced. At the same time, they put a strong emphasis on profit growth via the challenging EPS metrics. 
The target range for Group ROCE has again been set at 33% to 37%, which the Committee still believes provides a significant degree of 
demanding performance when compared to the Group’s 2012 ROCE of 26.5%.
For the bonus, the Committee’s view is that the likely macro-economic environment in 2013 makes effective cash management even more 
important. Accordingly, an Operating Working Capital/Sales % element has been applied to the executive Directors’ bonus targets, consistent 
with that used in Divisional targets. This will accompany the main element of the bonus target, which will be operating profit before one-off costs.
My fellow Committee members and I have had contact with shareholders over the last 12 months, and value the views and feedback we have 
received. We have also specifically consulted those with the largest shareholdings on the proposals for the renewal of the LTIP , which will be 
submitted for approval at the 2013 AGM. 
We do discuss and consider feedback, and reflect on how to ensure overall remuneration should both be in the longer term interests of 
shareholders and meaningful for management. I hope you will again find this balance appropriately reflected in the report that follows.
Consistent with the new regulations governing the reporting of executive remuneration due to come into force in October 2013, we have  
opted to incorporate a number of the proposed changes in this year’s report to enhance transparency. 
Simon Heale
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 51
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Compliance statement
This Report covers the period 2 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee and remuneration 
policy of Morgan Crucible.
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code,  
and this Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups  
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. In accordance with Section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, an advisory resolution to approve this 
report will be proposed at the AGM on 10 May 2013.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, 
specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website.
The Remuneration Committee consults the Chief Executive Officer and invites him to attend meetings when appropriate. The Director of  
Human Resources attends meetings of the Committee by invitation. The Committee also had access to advice from the Chief Financial Officer.  
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. No executive Director or other attendee is present when his own remuneration  
is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 55.
i) Policy Report
Key principles of the remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and 
motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the Group successfully, and to create value for shareholders. 
The Committee takes a longer-term perspective on retention and motivation, and although the short-term is important, the Committee’s view is 
that this has to be put in the context of the Group’s long-term interests.
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with particular 
emphasis on long-term performance, and based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to and support the business strategy. 
This is in order to create a strong link between performance and reward which should be beneficial to shareholders, employees and the Group.
In assessing all aspects of pay and benefits, the Committee also takes into account the packages offered by similar companies to ensure the 
remuneration of executive Directors is competitive against the market in which the Group competes for talent. For the purposes of such analysis, 
comparator companies are chosen having regard to: business sector; the size of the company (eg in terms of market capitalisation, turnover and 
number of people employed); the diversity and complexity of its businesses; and the geographical spread of its businesses. The Committee also 
considers the level of pay and employment conditions throughout the Group when determining executive Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration structure is appropriate and supports the business strategy. The Remuneration Committee 
will keep remuneration policy under review during the forthcoming year, and, in doing so, will continue to give full consideration to the principles  
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors’ remuneration and to the guidance of investor representative bodies.  52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Summary of Morgan Crucible’s remuneration policy for executive Directors
This section of our report summarises the key components of remuneration for executive Directors.
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Changes for 2013
Fixed pay
Base salary
Provides the fixed element  
of the remuneration package.  
Set at competitive levels  
against the market.
Base salaries are generally 
reviewed each January, with 
reference to the salary levels  
at companies of similar sector, 
size and complexity in the 
FTSE350. The Committee 
also considers individual 
contribution and the range  
of salary increases applying 
across the Group when 
determining increases.
Base salary increases are 
applied in line with the 
outcome of the annual review.
None. No changes to the policy  
for 2013.
For this year, salary increases 
are effective from 1 March 2013 
and are set out in the 
Implementation Section  
on page 56.
Pension
Provides post-retirement 
benefits for participants  
in a cost-efficient manner.
Defined benefit scheme 
subject to a notional earnings 
cap with an above-the-cap 
allowance for current 
executive Directors.
Opportunities vary depending 
on the scheme in which an 
executive participates. Details 
for the executive Directors are 
set out in the Implementation 
Report on page 56.
None. None.
Benefits
Designed to be competitive  
in the market in which the 
individual is employed.
Can include company car/ 
car allowance, health insurance 
and, where appropriate, 
relocation and other expenses.
Benefits values vary by role 
and are reviewed periodically 
relative to market.
None. None.
Variable pay
Annual Bonus 
Incentivises the achievement 
of specific goals over the 
short-term that are also 
aligned to the long-term
business strategy.
Performance measures are  
set at the start of the year  
and are weighted to reflect  
the balance of Group and 
Divisional responsibilities  
for each executive.
At the end of the year, the 
Remuneration Committee 
determines the extent  
to which these have  
been achieved. 
Maximum annual bonus 
opportunities of 100%  
of salary.
2012 bonuses for the CEO 
and CFO were based 100% 
on Group PBTA, and for the 
CEO Morgan Ceramics were 
based 30% on Group PBTA, 
50% on Morgan Ceramics 
EBITA and 20% on Morgan 
Ceramics third-party working 
capital to sales % targets. 
Further details are set out in 
the Implementation Section 
on page 57.
No change to the annual 
bonus opportunity.
For 2013, executive Director 
annual bonuses will be based 
80% on EBITA and 20% on 
third-party working capital  
to sales % targets.
Bonus Deferral
Share Matching Plan 
Designed to encourage 
long-term profitable growth 
and to retain key individuals 
over this time period. 
Provides an opportunity  
for individuals to invest in 
Company shares and receive 
matching shares based on 
Group performance.
Participants can elect to 
voluntarily defer a proportion 
of their annual bonus into 
shares for three years and 
receive a match based on 
performance.
Award levels and performance 
conditions on which vesting 
depends are reviewed from 
time to time to ensure they 
remain appropriate.
Up to 75% of the annual 
bonus may be voluntarily 
deferred into shares for  
three years.
A matching award of up to 
three shares for each deferred 
share may be earned based on
the Company’s performance.
The vesting of awards is usually 
subject to:
> Continued employment.
>  The Company’s performance 
over a three-year 
performance period.
Measures used for the 2012 
BDSMP award are set out in 
the Implementation Section 
on page 57.
No change.
LTIP
Aligns the interests of 
executives and shareholders 
by delivering shares to 
executive Directors and  
other senior executives  
as a reward for outstanding 
long-term performance.
The Remuneration 
Committee has the ability  
each year to grant an award 
under the LTIP.
The award levels and 
performance conditions  
on which vesting depends  
are reviewed from time  
to time to ensure they  
remain appropriate.
The LTIP provides for a 
conditional award of shares  
up to an annual limit of 150% 
of salary (200% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances).
The vesting of awards is usually 
subject to:
> Continued employment.
>  The Group’s performance 
over a three-year 
performance period. 
Measures used for the 2012 
LTIP award are set out in  
the Implementation Section 
on page 59.
No change. Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 53
Share ownership guidelines
In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors and senior executives. 
Under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 
100% of basic salary. This policy is supported by the BDSMP under which participants are encouraged to invest their bonus in Company shares.
From 2013 onwards, the Committee decided to increase the shareholding guideline for the Chief Executive Officer to at least 150% of basic salary.
Current executive Director shareholdings are set out in the Implementation Section on page 62.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different 
elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios; ‘Below Threshold’, ‘Target’ and ‘Stretch’.
Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which will apply in the forthcoming financial year, applied to the base  
salary in force at 1 January 2013. For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2013. 
For the BDSMP , the award opportunities assume full voluntary investment in Morgan Crucible shares. It should be noted that any awards granted 
under the BDSMP and LTIP in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant. This illustration is intended to provide 
further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance. Please note, however, that actual pay delivered 
will further be influenced by changes in factors such as the Company’s share price and the value of dividends paid. The following assumptions have  
been made in compiling the above charts:
Annual bonus BDSMP LTIP Fixed pay
Stretch Maximum annual bonus Performance warrants  
full vesting (3x match*)
Performance warrants  
full vesting (100% of salary)
Latest disclosed base salary, 
pension and benefits
Target On-target annual bonus Vesting threshold met and 
vesting starts above target
Performance warrants 
threshold vesting (30%)
Below threshold No annual bonus payable Threshold not achieved (0%) Threshold not achieved (0%)
* Normally up to 50% bonus deferral.
(£000s) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
CEO Morgan Ceramics
Stretch
Target
Below
threshold
21% 6%
14%
23%
14% 24%
21% 31% 21%
48%
77%
Salary
Annual bonus
Pension and benefits
BDSMP LTIP
(£000s) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
CEO
Stretch
Target
Below
threshold
21% 6%
15%
24%
14% 24%
21% 31% 21%
47%
76%
(£000s) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
CFO
Stretch
Target
Below
threshold
21% 6%
15%
24%
14% 24%
21% 31% 21%
47%
76%  54 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Employee context
The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is that these arrangements are typically reviewed 
annually, and principally with regard to performance against objectives, market information relevant to appropriate sectors and regions.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.  
Prior to the annual salary review, the Remuneration Committee is briefed by the Director of Human Resources about pay increase data that 
individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses and countries. This also forms part of the 
considerations for determining executive Director remuneration. For UK businesses, salary increases in 2013 will be on average 3%.
Details of executive Directors’ service contracts
The executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with The Morgan Crucible Company plc. Contracts may be terminated  
on 12 months’ notice given by the Company or on six months’ notice given by the Director concerned. Contracts end on each Director’s 
anticipated normal retirement date. The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year:
Notice period
Executive Position
Date of
appointment
Date of
service agreement From employer From employee
Mark Robertshaw CEO 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months
Kevin Dangerfield CFO 3 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months
Andrew Hosty CEO Morgan Ceramics 28 July 2010 17 August 2010 12 months 6 months
Exit payments policy
The Company’s policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event that the 
employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service 
contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Under normal circumstances, all leavers are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu of notice equal to base salary and benefits. There is  
no automatic entitlement to bonus as part of the termination arrangements, and the value of any termination payment will be at the judgment of  
the Remuneration Committee, having regard to all relevant factors including any available mitigation.
In the event an executive leaves for reasons of injury, disability, death, redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the Remuneration 
Committee determines, then outstanding LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards will be pro-rated for time served and will vest based on 
performance over the full performance period. In the event of death, the date to which performance is tested may be brought forwards to the  
date of cessation of employment.
Upon a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest early subject to performance to-date, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, or that a replacement award should be made. BDSMP matching awards will vest early subject to performance 
and time elapsed to the change of control (unless a replacement award is made).
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards will normally lapse. The Remuneration Committee retains discretion  
to alter these provisions on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
External appointments
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external 
appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received. Details of external directorships held by executive 
Directors along with fees retained during 2012 are as follows:
Executive Director Company Role Fees retained
Mark Robertshaw SEGRO plc Non-Executive Director £53,000
Kevin Dangerfield e2v technologies plc Non-Executive Director £38,000
Andrew Hosty Fiberweb plc Non-Executive Director £9,846
British Ceramic Research Limited Non-Executive Director £6,750 Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 55
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below shows Morgan Crucible’s profit after tax, dividend, and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 1 January 2012 
and 31 December 2012, and the percentage change.
Profit after taxation
(before discontinued operations) Dividend Total employee pay expenditure
Considerations of shareholder views
The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 201 1 Remuneration Report at the 2012 AGM. It is the Remuneration 
Committee’s policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive remuneration structure.
For Against Withheld
96.77% 0.55% 2.68%
ii) Implementation report
The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2012
The Remuneration Committee is composed of five non-executive Directors. Each of the non-executive 
Directors is regarded by the Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was 
considered independent upon appointment. Tim Stevenson retired from the Board on 31 July 2012,  
and also as a member of the Committee. Andrew Shilston and Victoire de Margerie joined the Committee 
on their appointments to the Board on 8 May 2012. The Remuneration Committee met five times during 
the year. Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 42.
Advisers
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent  
financial year. In 2012 Kepler Associates provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, total 
shareholder return (TSR) analysis, the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration  
and non-executive Director fees. Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Kepler Associates is independent and does not provide any other services to the Group. The Committee received a specific report on international 
equity participation from Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street. It also received advice from both Kepler Associates and Slaughter & May on the proposed 
Long-term Incentive Plan renewal for 2013.
Both Kepler and Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street are signatories of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
£150m
£100m
£50m
£0m
£78.8m
–24.7%
£59.3m
2011 2012
£150m
£100m
£50m
£0m
£25.4m
+10.2%
£28.0m
2011 2012
£400m
£300m
£200m
£100m
£0m
£318.3m
–4.8%
£303.0m
2011 2012
Committee members:
Simon Heale (Chairman)
Martin Flower
Tim Stevenson *
Andrew Given
Andrew Shilston **
Victoire de Margerie **
* until 31 July 2012
** from 8 May 2012  56 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2012  
and the prior year.
Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Andrew Hosty
All figures shown in £’000 2012 201 1 2012 2011 2012 2011
1 Salary 480 465 285 275 313 305
2 Benefits 14 14 14 14 12 12
3 Pension 160 129 109 68 115 75
4 Annual bonus – 465 – 275 43 297
5 BDSMP 291 549 – 159 – 809
6 LTIP 272 1,733 157 1,005 148 946
Total 1,217 3,355 565 1,796 631 2,444
The figures have been calculated as follows:
1.  Base salary: amount earned for the year.
2.  Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
3.  Pension: 20x the increase in the value of their accrued benefit over the year, less Directors’ contributions, plus the value of any  
Company contribution.
4.  Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
5.  BDSMP: the estimated value on 31 December 2012 of 2010 BDSMP matching shares (and dividend equivalents) vesting in 2013 subject to 
performance over the three-year period ending 31 December 2012. The 201 1 value represents the actual vest-date value (including dividend 
equivalents) of 2009 BDSMP matching shares.
6.  LTIP: the estimated value on 31 December 2012 of 2010 LTIP shares vesting in 2013 subject to performance over the three-year period ended  
31 December 2012. The 201 1 value represents the actual vest-date value of 2009 LTIP shares.
Base salary
Annual salaries for executive Directors are generally reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance  
of the individual and having regard to practice in FTSE 350 companies of comparable sector, size and complexity. 
In line with the approach being taken across the organisation, executive Directors’ salaries will be increased in 2013. For 2013, executive Directors’ 
increases will be implemented with effect from 1 March. In considering the level of increase, the Committee has been mindful of the general level  
of increase across the Group of, on average 3%, as well as the positioning of roles against the market. In the case of Andrew Hosty, the Committee 
has also taken into account the additional global responsibilities of his new role of Chief Operating Officer which was announced in February 2013.  
The table below shows the salaries in 2012, and those which will take effect from 1 March 2013:
Base salary at:
Executive Director Position 1 March 2013 1 January 2012 Increase
Mark Robertshaw CEO £495,000 £480,000 3.1%
Kevin Dangerfield CFO £300,000 £285,000 5.3%
Andrew Hosty COO £340,000 £312,500 8.8%
Pensions
The three executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a contributory,  
HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme. With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme switched  
from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years. Its main features are now:
 > A normal pension age of 65.
 > Pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds career average pensionable salary, subject to completion of at least 20 years’ employment 
(26 years and eight months for joiners since 2006).
 > Life assurance of four times basic salary.
 > Dependants’ pension on death.
Pensionable salary is the member’s basic salary restricted to an earnings cap of £136,800 for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty and £1 10,437  
for Mark Robertshaw for the 2012-13 tax year.
In addition, executive Directors received a pension allowance derived from employer contributions based notionally on the registered scheme 
pensionable salary in excess of the earnings cap. In the last report, the Company advised that the Committee had reviewed the impact of the 
Government’s then new annual allowance limits on pension contributions. The Committee decided it wished to provide allowances for those affected, 
which overall were appropriate, cost-neutral and consistent with market practice. Of those affected, Mark Robertshaw was the only Executive 
Director. The value of the total Company pension contributions for each executive Director is shown in the Emoluments table on page 63.
The disclosure of executive Directors’ scheme benefits is shown in the table on page 66 at the end of this report. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 57
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Benefits
Executive Directors are eligible to receive certain benefits including either a company car or a car allowance, health insurance and, where appropriate, 
relocation and other expenses.
Annual bonus
The purpose of the annual bonus is to incentivise the achievement of specific goals over the short-term that are also aligned to the long-term 
business strategy. In 2012 the target and maximum bonus earnings for the executive Directors were:
% of annual salary
Executive Director Target Maximum
Mark Robertshaw 50% 100%
Kevin Dangerfield 50% 100%
Andrew Hosty 50% 100%
The targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the short- and long-term requirements of the Group. 
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid. This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return 
by rewarding the achievement of ‘stretch’ targets.
For 2012, the bonus for the CEO and CFO was based on Group profit before taxation and amortisation. The targets were set to incentivise the 
executive Directors to deliver stretching earnings per share targets for the Group. Senior executives with Divisional responsibilities have part of  
their annual bonus linked to the performance of their Division and part linked to Group performance.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the 
overall performance of the Company.
Group PBTA Divisional EBITA
Divisional third-party  
working capital to sales
Director
Max bonus
(% salary)
% max.
bonus
PBTA
targets
met
% salary
earned
% max.
bonus
EBITA
targets
met
% salary
earned
% max.
bonus
Quarterly
target
thresholds
achieved
% salary
earned
Total
payable
Mark Robertshaw 100% 100% 0% 0% £0
Kevin Dangerfield 100% 100% 0% 0% £0
Andrew Hosty 100% 30% 0% 0% 50% Partially 13.7% 20% 0 0% £42,800
No award was payable for the CEO and CFO because the minimum Group profit before tax and amortisation target, upon which 100% of their 
bonus is based, was not achieved. The CEO Morgan Ceramics also did not receive any bonus in respect of the Group PBTA (30% of his bonus 
potential) nor the Morgan Ceramics Division third-party working capital to sales percentage targets (20% of his bonus potential). However,  
the Morgan Ceramics EBITA target (50% of his bonus potential) for bonus purposes (before allocation of central costs and at 2012 budgeted 
exchange rates) was partially achieved at £103.2 million (in a range from £99.5 million to £1 13 million) resulting in a total bonus payment of  
13.7% of salary for Andrew Hosty.
No changes will be made to the total annual bonus opportunity in 2013. For 2013, the performance measures for executive Directors’ bonuses will 
be based 80% on EBITA and 20% on third-party working capital to sales. The Committee has taken into account the Group’s restructuring plans 
that were announced in February 2013 and considered that EBITA pre-restructuring and other one-off charges would be an appropriate measure 
given the untypical circumstances of the restructuring. Performance targets have been set on this basis.
Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan (BDSMP)
The BDSMP was introduced following shareholder approval in 2008. 
This plan operates alongside the other long-term incentive arrangements. Under the plan rules, participants may be offered the opportunity  
to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus on a pre- or post-tax basis into Company shares. Typically, the Committee has approved a deferral 
opportunity of 50% (the only exception being the 2010 award, where the opportunity was 75%). Participants must hold the deferred shares  
for three years to be eligible for a matching award based on the pre-tax value of their deferred shares. Matching shares may be earned after  
three years in the event that stretching performance targets have been met.
For the bonus earned for the 201 1 performance year (ie payable in early 2012), participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50%  
of their bonus under the BDSMP . For any bonus earned in respect of the 2012 performance year (payable in early 2013), participants will,  
again, be given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the BDSMP . As a result of the nil bonuses awarded in respect of 2012, 
there will be no opportunity for the Group CEO and CFO under the 2013 BDSMP .  58 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
The performance criteria for the BDSMP are set annually; in 2012 they were based on EPS growth targets against the 201 1 base year as follows:
EPS performance Matching shares
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
≤ 8% pa 0x match
The details of outstanding awards held by all Directors, including details of the performance criteria attached, are shown on page 65.
2009 BDSMP award vesting
The three-year performance period for the 2009 BDSMP awards ended on 1 January 2012. Over the period Morgan Crucible’s actual EPS growth 
rate was 10.2% and accordingly a 1.8x match vested on 6 March 2012:
Director
Investment
shares
Maximum
 potential
matching
shares
Matching
dividend
shares
Match
earned
Matching
shares
released
Matching
dividend
shares
released
Matching
shares
lapsed
Matching
dividend
shares
lapsed Date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 48,222 245,201 32,009 1.8x 147,120 19,205 98,081 12,804 6 March 2012
Kevin Dangerfield 13,973 71,052 9,272 1.8x 42,631 5,562 28,421 3,710 6 March 2012
Andrew Hosty 71,042 361,233 47,158 1.8x 216,739 28,293 144,494 18,865 6 March 2012
The investment shares in this table are stated on a post-tax basis. All other shares are stated on a pre-tax basis. Shares awarded on a pre-tax basis are subject to tax when released to participants.
2010 BDSMP award vesting
The performance period for the 2010 BDSMP awards ended on 31 December 2012. Over the period Morgan Crucible’s actual EPS growth  
rate was RPI+20.5%. This exceeded the upper limit of the performance range and accordingly a 3x match will vest on 18 March 2013 and  
no shares will lapse:
Director
Investment
shares
Maximum
 potential
matching
shares
Matching
dividend
shares
Match
earned
Matching
shares
released
Matching
dividend
shares
released
Matching
shares
lapsed
Matching
dividend
shares
lapsed Date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 20,635 104,928 10,148 3x 104,928 10,148 0 0 18 March 2013
 The investment shares in this table are stated on a post-tax basis. All other shares are stated on a pre-tax basis. Shares awarded on a pre-tax basis are subject to tax when released to participants.
201 1 BDSMP awards outstanding
For the bonus earned for the 2010 performance year (ie payable in 201 1) participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus. 
In March 201 1 Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty pledged shares equivalent to 50%, 25% and 44.44% of 2010 salary 
respectively and were granted matching awards of shares under the BDSMP equivalent to 3x their investments. The three-year performance 
period over which EPS performance will be measured began on 3 January 201 1 and will end on 31 December 2013. Matching awards granted to 
executive Directors in 201 1 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa 
before any matching, 12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between 
these points. No award is eligible to vest until 23 March 2014.
Investment shares
Number as % 2010 salary as % of 2010 bonus Matching shares Earliest date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 74,875 50% 50% 224,625 23 March 2014
Kevin Dangerfield 22,046 25% 25% 66,138 23 March 2014
Andrew Hosty
* 39,933 44.44% 40% 1 19,799 23 March 2014
*  Andrew Hosty’s annual salary was increased to £300,000 on his appointment to the Board on 28 July 2010. His total 2010 salary was £270,000 and his 2010 bonus was £300,000.
3.0x
2.0x
1.0x
0.0x
8% 12% 16% 20%
BDSMP matching shares
Matching shares
Three-year EPS growth (pa) Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 59
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
2012 BDSMP awards granted
In March 2012 Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty pledged shares equivalent to 50%, 13.64% and 48.75% of 201 1 salary 
respectively and were granted matching awards of shares under the BDSMP equivalent to 3x their investments. The three-year performance  
period over which EPS performance will be measured began on 2 January 2012 and will end on 31 December 2014. No award is eligible to  
vest until 21 March 2015. The performance conditions attached to awards are discussed above.
Investment shares
Number as % 201 1 salary as % of 201 1 bonus Matching shares Earliest date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 70,347 50% 50% 211,041 21 March 2015
Kevin Dangerfield 1 1,346 13.64% 13.64% 34,038 21 March 2015
Andrew Hosty 44,988 48.75% 50% 134,964 21 March 2015
Long-term Incentive Plan
The LTIP was introduced following shareholder approval in 2004. It offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity  
to receive shares as a reward for outstanding performance. The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional 
circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary. The vesting of the awards is subject to the achievement  
of performance targets measured over the three-year period from the start of the year in which the award is made.
The Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year LTIP awards before they are granted. For the awards granted  
in 2012, the Committee considered its desire to have the most relevant balance of measures that reflected feedback from shareholders and directly 
related to the stretching objectives in the Group’s business plan. The Committee therefore decided on the introduction of a ROCE measure for  
the 2012-14 performance period. For the CEO and CFO, TSR, EPS and ROCE performance are rewarded on an equal (one-third) basis as follows:
TSR against FTSE All-Share
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests EPS growth % of award that vests Group average ROCE % of award that vests
Upper quartile 33% 15% pa 33% 37% 33%
Median 10% 8% pa 10% 33% 10%
Below median Nil < 8% pa Nil < 33% Nil
For the CEO Morgan Ceramics, a third of the 2012-14 LTIP is linked to Group TSR and two thirds is based on the Ceramics Division’s EBITA and 
ROCE performance, as follows:
TSR against FTSE All-Share
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests Divisional EBITDA % of award that vests Divisional average ROCE % of award that vests
Upper quartile 33% 15% pa 33% 43.5% 33%
Median 10% 6% pa 10% 41% 10%
Below median Nil < 6% pa Nil < 41% Nil
The details of outstanding LTIP awards held by the executive Directors are shown on page 64.
2009 LTIP award vesting
Awards granted to executive Directors in 2009 were subject to relative TSR. The TSR target required Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR 
performance to rank at median against 17 industrial and engineering companies comparators for 30% to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan 
Crucible’s TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against these peers. The performance period for the 2009 LTIP awards ended on 1 January 2012. 
Over the period Morgan Crucible’s TSR was 183%, which was at the 76th percentile versus the industrial and engineering comparator group. 
The performance resulted in 100% of 2009 LTIP awards vesting.  60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
2010 LTIP award vesting
Awards granted to executive Directors in 2010 were subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) required 
three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa for 30% of that element to vest rising to full vesting for EPS growth of RPI+ 10% pa or higher.  
The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) required Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against  
23 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranked at or above  
the upper quartile against these peers. The performance period for the 2010 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2012. Over the period:
 > Morgan Crucible’s EPS growth was equivalent to RPI+20.5%, which exceeded the upper limit of the performance range and accordingly  
50% of the award vested under this criterion.
 > Morgan Crucible’s TSR was 69%, which was 41st percentile versus the industrial and engineering comparator group. Accordingly,  
none of the award vested under this criterion.
This combined performance resulted in 50% of 2010 LTIP awards vesting.
201 1 LTIP awards outstanding
In March 201 1 Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty were granted awards of shares under the LTIP equivalent to 1 1 1%,  
100% and 100% of salary respectively. The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 3 January 201 1 
and will end on 31 December 2013. Awards granted to the CEO and CFO in 201 1 are subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying  
to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for EPS 
growth of 15% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance  
to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks  
at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this index. For the CEO Morgan Ceramics, half of the 201 1 incentive is linked to Group  
TSR (as for the CEO and CFO) and half is based on a Ceramics Division EBITA/ROCE matrix. This Divisional portion of the 201 1 LTIP will only  
vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless EBITA growth in Morgan Ceramics is at least 12% pa and ROCE is 
35.7% in 2013, in which case 30% of that element will vest; full vesting will occur for EBITA growth of 18% pa and ROCE of 40.7%.
Value of awards at grant
Number of LTIP
shares granted £ as % 2010 salary Earliest date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 171,068 500,000 111% 23 March 2014
Kevin Dangerfield 90,666 265,000 100% 23 March 2014
Andrew Hosty 102,641 300,000 100% 23 March 2014
2012 LTIP awards outstanding
In February 2012 Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty were granted awards of shares under the LTIP equivalent to 100%  
of 2012 salary respectively. The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 2 January 2012 and will end 
on 31 December 2014. No award is eligible to vest until 27 February 2015. The performance conditions attached to awards are discussed above.
Value of awards at grant
Number of LTIP
shares granted £ as % 2012 salary Earliest date of vesting
Mark Robertshaw 134,907 480,000 100% 27 February 2015
Kevin Dangerfield 80,101 285,000 100% 27 February 2015
Andrew Hosty 87,830 312,500 100% 27 February 2015 Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 61
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
The ESOS was approved by shareholders in 2004 and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to receive options 
granted at the market price of the Company’s shares at the time of the grant. The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although  
in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary.
No awards were made under the ESOS in 201 1 or in 2012. There is one outstanding award to Mark Robertshaw, who has a vested option  
from 2004 that he has not exercised (see Directors’ executive share options table on page 63). There is currently no intention to make awards 
under the ESOS in 2013.
Savings-related Share Option Scheme (SAYE)
As UK employees, the executive Directors may also participate in the SAYE on the same basis as other eligible employees and subject to  
UK legislation. SAYE participants save a fixed amount per month over three years and during 2012 options were granted with an exercise price at 
80% of the five-day average market price calculated on 7 September 2012. Those Directors who have received options under the SAYE are shown 
in the table on page 66. No performance conditions apply to these options as they are a tax-efficient mechanism for all employees to acquire shares 
in the Company at their own cost.
Exit payments made in year
No executive Director left the Company during the year.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Annual fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive Directors are reviewed on a biennial basis. 
Tim Stevenson retired as Chairman on 31 July 2012, prior to which his fee had been £150,000 pa from 1 January 2012. The Committee  
reviewed market information before setting the fee for a new Chairman, and set the fee at £175,000 pa. Andrew Shilston was appointed  
Chairman Designate on 8 May 2012, on that fee basis *. 
*  From Andrew Shilston’s appointment as Chairman Designate on 8 May 2012 until 26 July 2012, his fee was £75,000 pa.
The annual fee for non-executive Directors was set at £42,000 pa following the biennial review in 2010. Additional payments of £8,000 pa  
are made to the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.  
The biennial review of non-executive Directors’ fees was conducted in December 2012, during which market information was also considered.  
It was decided to increase base fees only, to £46,000 pa with effect from 1 January 2013.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are also entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board, strategy and  
other meetings.
Role Fee pa
Chairman fee £175,000
Non-executive Director base fee £46,000
Committee chairman additional fee £8,000
Senior Independent Director additional fee £8,000
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company, although they do have letters of appointment. The non-executive 
Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans. The dates of the Chairman’s and non-executive Directors’ 
appointments who served during the reporting period are as follows:
Non-executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of re-election
Tim Stevenson Chairman * 1 December 2006 5 July 2006 8 May 2012
Martin Flower Non-executive Director 10 December 2004 16 November 2004 8 May 2012
Simon Heale Non-executive Director 18 February 2005 1 February 2005 8 May 2012
Andrew Given Non-executive Director 7 December 2007 20 November 2007 8 May 2012
Andrew Shilston Chairman
** 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 –
Victoire de Margerie Non-executive Director 8 May 2012 1 March 2012 –
* Retired from the Board 31 July 2012.
** Appointed Chairman Designate on 8 May 2012 and Chairman on 1 August 2012.  62 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Total shareholdings of Directors
Directors’ interests in shares
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Directors’ interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are as follows:
As at
1 January
2012
As at
31 December
2012
As at 
14 February
2013 *
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 502,057
** 623,447 ** 629,477 **
Kevin Dangerfield 197,589 ** 221,169 221,397
Andrew Hosty 144,778
** 122,644 122,644
Non-executive Directors   
Andrew Shilston
# – 30,000 30,000
Martin Flower 15,000 25,000 25,000
Andrew Given 10,000 10,000 10,000
Simon Heale 18,000 18,000 18,000
Victoire de Margerie
# – 2,000 2,000
Tim Stevenson^ 29,000 29,000 29,000
* The date of this report.
# Appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
^ Retired from the Board on 31 July 2012.
** Including shares held as a post-tax deferred award under the BDSMP.
As at 28 February 2013, there was no change to the details listed in the above table.
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements
The table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2012.
Director
Shareholding
 requirement
(% 2012 salary)
Shares
owned
outright
1
Shares
subject to
 performance
2
 
Performance
tested but
unvested
shares
3
 
Shares
subject to
 BDSMP
 deferral
4
Options
vested but
 unexercised
5
Current
 shareholding
(% 2012
salary)
6
Guideline
met?
Mark Robertshaw
7
100% 623,447 741,641 319,457 76,968 200,000 400% Yes
Kevin Dangerfield 100% 221,169 270,943 124,329 17,698 – 228% Yes
Andrew Hosty 100% 122,644 445,234 117,016 45,008 – 151% Yes
1.  Including shares held as a post-tax Deferred award under the BDSMP.
2.  201 1 and 2012 LTIP awards and 201 1 and 2012 BDSMP Matching awards.
3.  2010 LTIP and 2010 BDSMP Matching shares for the three-year performance period that ended on 31 December 2012. The 2010 LTIP vests on 13 May 2013 and the 2010 BDSMP 
vests on 18 March 2013. 
4.  Estimated net value of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMP.
5.  Options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
6.  Based on an executive Director’s 2012 salary and the share price at 31 December 2012, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral.
7.  From 2013 onwards, the minimum shareholding guideline for the Chief Executive Officer is to be at least 150% of basic salary. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 63
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Emoluments table
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Directors’ emoluments
Fees/salary
£000
Annual bonus
£000
1
Other benefits
£000
2
Total emoluments
£000
Pension allowance
£000
Total remuneration
£000
2012 201 1 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 480 465 – 465 14 14 494 944 123 114 617 1,058
Kevin Dangerfield 285 275 – 275 14 14 299 564 72 66 371 630
Andrew Hosty 312.5 305 42.5 297 12 12 367 614 78 72 445 686
Non-executive Directors
Andrew Shilston (Chairman)
# 92 –  – – – – 92 – – – 92 –
Martin Flower 50 50 – – – – 50 50 – – 50 50
Andrew Given 50 50 – – – – 50 50 – – 50 50
Simon Heale 50 50 – – – – 50 50 – – 50 50
Victoire de Margerie
# 27 –  –  – – – 27 – –  – 27 –
Tim Stevenson ^ 88 140 – – – – 88 140 – – 88 140
1.  Annual bonus shows the total bonus payable in respect of the relevant year. Mark Robertshaw voluntarily deferred 50% of his 201 1 bonus award into the BDSMP as set out in the table 
on page 65. Kevin Dangerfield deferred 13.64% and Andrew Hosty deferred 50% of their 201 1 bonuses, also shown in the same table.
2.  Other benefits include private medical insurance and a company car/car allowance.
# Appointed to the Board on 8 May 2012.
^ Retired from the Board on 31 July 2012.
Comparison of Company performance
The graph below shows the value of £100 invested in Morgan Crucible’s shares on 31 December 2007 compared with the current value of the 
same amount invested in the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index. The FTSE All-Share Industrials Index is chosen because this is the current comparator 
group for TSR-based long-term incentives.
Summary of outstanding share awards
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Directors’ executive share options
At
1 January
2012
Granted
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
As at
31 December
2012
Exercise
price
Earliest
date of
exercise
Expiry
date
Mark Robertshaw 200,000 – – – 200,000 145.275p 01.1 1.07 01.1 1.14
The performance measure for the Executive Share Option Scheme award above was based on the Company’s TSR performance against  
the FTSE 350. 30% of the awards vest for achieved median-ranked performance with full vesting for upper-quartile-ranked performance.  
For performance between median and upper quartile, awards vest on a straight-line pro-rata basis.
The share price at the year end was 268.7 pence and the high and low during the year were 360.0 pence and 220.3 pence respectively.
Total shareholder return for the five-year period 
December 2007 to December 2012
0
50
100
150
200
31/1 2/2007 Data source: Bloomberg
FTSE All-Share Industrials Index
Morgan Crucible
31/1 2/2008 31/1 2/2009 31/1 2/2010 31/1 2/201 1 31/1 2/2012
Value of £100 since December 2007  64 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Awards to Directors under the Long-term Incentive Plan
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
As at
1 January
2012
Allocations
during
the year
Shares
released
during
the year
Shares
lapsed
during
the year
As at
31 December
2012
Market
price at
date of
allocation
Market
price at
date of
release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2009 LTIP 489,705 –  489,705  – – 89.85p 353.36p  05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2010 LTIP 214,529 –  –  – 214,529 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP 171,068 –
 –  – 171,068 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 31.12.13
2012 LTIP – 134,907 –  – 134,907 355.80p –  02.01.12 – 31.12.14
Kevin Dangerfield
2009 LTIP 283,806 –  283,806  – – 89.85p 353.36p  05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2010 LTIP 118,939 –  –  – 118,939 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – CSOP 5,390 –  –  – 5,390 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – Funding 5,390 –  –  – 5,390 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP 84,185 – –  – 84,185 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 31.12.13
201 1 LTIP – CSOP 6,481 – –  – 6,481 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 31.12.13
201 1 LTIP – Funding 6,481
– –  – 6,481 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 31.12.13
2012 LTIP – 80,101 –  – 80,101 355.80p –  02.01.12 – 31.12.14
Andrew Hosty
2009 LTIP 267,111 – 267,111 – – 89.85p 353.36p  05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2010 LTIP 102,389 – – – 102,389 205.10p – 04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – CSOP 14,627 – – – 14,627 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – Funding 14,627 –  – – 14,627 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP
102,641 – – – 102,641 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 31.12.13
2012 LTIP – 87,830 –  – 87,830 355.80p –  02.01.12 – 31.12.14
Notes:
1.   Awards granted to executive Directors in 2009 were subject to relative TSR. The TSR target required Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against  
17 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against these peers. At the end of  
the performance period, Morgan Crucible’s TSR performance resulted in 100% vesting. Vested awards were released on the third anniversary of grant (27 February 2012).
2.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 2010 are subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa  
for 30% of that element to vest rising to full vesting for EPS growth of RPI+10% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s 
three-year TSR performance to rank at median against 23 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks  
at or above the upper quartile against these peers.
3.  LTIP awards made in 2010 to Andrew Hosty and in 2010 and 201 1 to Kevin Dangerfield are structured as an Approved Performance Share Plan (APSP) and comprise three elements:  
(i) HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved options (CSOP) over shares to the value of up to £30,000 with an exercise price of 205. 1 pence per share in respect of 2010 awards  
and of 292.28p pence per share in respect of the 201 1 award; (ii) an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this 
limit; and (iii) a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers of shares whose value at exercise of the approved option equals up to £30,000. 
The provisions of these CSOP options, funding awards and LTIP awards are linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of LTIP and  
CSOP awards (the funding award being used to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP) is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the 
awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfield’s 2009 base salary and £240,000 for Andrew Hosty (‘the limit’).
4.   Awards granted to the CEO and CFO in 201 1 are subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold  
of 8% pa for 30% of that element to vest rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 15% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s 
three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks at or 
above the upper quartile against the companies in this index. For the CEO Morgan Ceramics, half of the 201 1 incentive is linked to Group TSR (as for the CEO and CFO) and half is 
based on a Ceramics Division EBITA/ROCE matrix. This Divisional portion of the 201 1 LTIP will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless EBITA 
growth in Morgan Ceramics is at least 12% pa and ROCE is 35.7% in 2013 in which case 30% of that element will vest; full vesting of this element will occur for EBITA growth of 18% pa  
and ROCE of 40.7%.
5.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 2012 are subject to relative TSR, EPS and average ROCE. The EPS target (applying to a third of each award) requires three-year EPS growth 
above a threshold of 8% pa for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 15% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to another third of each award) requires  
Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s 
TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this index. For the CEO and CFO, the Group average ROCE element has been set for a 33-37% pa range, vesting on 
a straight line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 33% threshold rising to full vesting at 37% or higher. For the CEO Morgan Ceramics, one-third of this award vests on relative 
TSR, with the remaining two-thirds vesting on a divisional EBITA/ROCE matrix. For the EBITA/ROCE element, there will be no vesting unless EBITA growth in Morgan Ceramics is at 
least 6% pa and Divisional average ROCE is 41.0% in 2014; full vesting will occur for EBITA growth of 15% pa and ROCE of 43.5%. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 65
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Awards to Directors under the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
As at
1 January
2012
Allocations
during
the year
Shares
released
during
the year
Shares
lapsed
during
the year
As at
31 December
2012
Market
price at
date of
allocation
Market
price at
date of
release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2009 Award
Investment shares
1
48,222 –  48,222  – – 80.75p 252.41p –
Matching shares
2
245,201 –  147,120  98,081 – 80.75p 252.41p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
Dividend shares
3
 – 32,009 19,205 12,804 – various
4
252.41p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2010 Award
Investment shares
1
20,635 – –  – 20,635 188.70p – –
Matching shares
2
104,928 – –  – 104,928 188.70p – 04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
 74,875 – –  – 74,875 300.50p –  – 
Matching shares
2
 224,625 – – – 224,625 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 31.12.13
2012 Award
Investment shares
1
– 70,347 –  – 70,347 330.50p – – 
Matching shares
2
– 211,041 – – 211,041 330.50p – 02.01.12 – 31.12.14
Kevin Dangerfield
2009 Award 
Investment shares
1
13,973 –  13,973  – – 80.75p 343.54p –
Matching shares
2
71,052 – 42,631 28,421 – 80.75p 343.54p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
Dividend shares
3
 – 9,272 5,562 3,710 – various
4
343.54p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
22,046 – –  – 22,046 300.50p –  – 
Matching shares
2
66,138 – – – 66,138 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 31.12.13
2012 Award 
Investment shares
1
– 1 1,346 –  – 1 1,346 330.50p – – 
Matching shares
2
– 34,038 – – 34,038 330.50p – 02.01.12 – 31.12.14
Andrew Hosty   
2009 Award 
Investment shares
1
71,042 – 71,042 – – 80.75p 326.71p –
Matching shares
2
361,233 –  216,739  144,494 – 80.75p 326.71p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
Dividend shares
3
 – 47,158 28,293 18,865 – various
4
326.71p 05.01.09 – 01.01.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
 39,933 – –  – 39,933 300.50p – – 
Matching shares
2
 1 19,799 – – – 1 19,799 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 31.12.13
2012 Award
Investment shares
1
– 44,988 – – 44,988 330.50p – – 
Matching shares
2
– 134,964 – – 134,964 330.50p – 02.01.12 – 31.12.14
1.  Investment shares represent those shares acquired with a portion of the bonus set out in the emoluments table on page 63 voluntarily deferred into the BDSMP . 
2.  This is the maximum number of shares based on the pre-tax value of the investment shares that could be earned at the end of the performance period if the performance condition set out below  
is met in full.
3. The number of shares representing the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued during the Retention Period on the executive Director’s Matching award. 
4. Dividends were paid throughout the Retention Period meaning there are various market prices applicable to these shares.
5.  In 2009 and 2010, the executive Directors deferred their bonus payment on a net basis. In 201 1 and 2012 deferral was on a gross basis, as it will be for 2013. The flexibility to defer on either  
basis is within the BDSMP rules.
6.  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2009 were subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target required three-year EPS growth of 4% pa for a 0.25x match, 5% pa for a  
0.5x match, 7 .5% pa for a 1x match, 10% pa for a 1.75x match and 15% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points. The performance targets for awards  
made in 2009 did not reference growth above RPI. Given the difficult economic climate at that time the Committee considered the targets to be stretching. The three-year performance period  
for the 2009 BDSMP awards ended on 1 January 2012. Over the period Morgan Crucible’s actual EPS growth rate was 10.2% and accordingly a 1.8x match vested on 6 March 2012.
7 .  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2008 and 2010 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target required three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa for a 0.25x match, 
RPI+5% pa for a 0.5x match, RPI+ 7 .5% pa for a 1x match, RPI+ 10% pa for a 1.75x match and RPI+ 15% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points.  
The performance conditions attached to the 2008 BDSMP awards were not met and therefore matching awards lapsed in full.
8.  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 201 1 and 2012 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before  
any matching, 12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points.  66 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Options under the Sharesave scheme
The auditor is required to report on the information in this table. 
As at
1 January
2012
Granted
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
As at
31 December
2012
Exercise
price Exercise periods
Mark Robertshaw 
2010 scheme 5,454 –  –  – 5,454 165p 01.12.13 – 31.05.14
Kevin Dangerfield        
201 1 scheme 4,225 – –  – 4,225 213p 01.12.14 – 31.05.15
Andrew Hosty       
2009 scheme 1,417 –  1,417  – – 128p 01.12.12 – 31.05.13
201 1 scheme 3,380 – –  – 3,380
213p 01.12.14 – 31.05.15
2012 scheme – 841 –  – 841 214p 01.12.15 – 31.05.16
Pension benefits earned by the Directors
The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The three executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme. This is a contributory,  
HMRC-registered, defined benefit, UK occupational pension scheme. As noted above, the scheme was amended on 6 April 2006.
Executive Directors
Accrued
benefits at
31 December
2012
£000
pa
Increase
in accrued
benefits
excluding
inflation (A)
£000
Increase
in accrued
benefits
including
inflation
£000
Transfer 
value of (A)
less Director’s
contributions
£000
Transfer value
of accrued
benefits at
1 January
2012
£000
Transfer value
of accrued
benefits at
31 December
2012
£000
Increase
in transfer
value less
Director’s
contributions
£000
Mark Robertshaw 30 4 4 39 340 452 95
Kevin Dangerfield 38 4 5 46 532 667 123
Andrew Hosty 51 4 5 51 803 973 158
Notes re pension benefits:
1.  The accrued benefit entitlement for Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end  
of the year.
2.  The transfer values for the pension benefits have been calculated on the basis set by the Trustee of the pension scheme. The Trustee of the pension scheme is an independent body  
that is separate from the Company and they must calculate transfer values in accordance with legislation, having taken actuarial advice from an independent adviser. The assumptions 
used in the calculation of transfer values depend on market conditions. Over the year, Government bond yields fell. This movement increases the assessed transfer values and was much 
more significant than the increase in accrued benefits over the year.
3.  Members of the pension scheme historically had the option to pay additional voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty also received a pension allowance, details of which are set out in the Directors’ 
emoluments table on page 63.
Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 27 (Related parties) to the Financial Statements.
This Report was approved by the Board on 14 February 2013.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Simon Heale
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 67
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC
We have audited the financial statements of The Morgan Crucible Company plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 68  
to 125. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 > The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 > The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
 > The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
 > The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the  
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 > The part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 > The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
 > Information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 42 to 48 with respect to internal control and risk management systems  
in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  
from branches not visited by us; or 
 > The parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement  
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 > We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 > Certain disclosures of the Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > A Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > The Directors’ statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern; 
 > The part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 42 to 48 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 > Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Stephen Cooper (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL
14 February 2013  68 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
Consolidated in Come statement
for the year ended 31 december 2012
n ote
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 3 1,007.5 1,101.0 
o perating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 4 (885.5) (957.6)
Profit from operations before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation  
of intangible assets 122.0 143.4
Restructuring costs and other one-off items: 6
 Restructuring costs (13.3) (5.6)
 Gain on disposal of properties 0.1 2.4 
 n et pension credit – 1.3 
Profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets 3 108.8 141.5 
a mortisation of intangible assets 4 (8.3) (8.3)
Operating profit 3 100.5 133.2 
Finance income 26.3 27.7 
Finance expense (45.4) (49.5)
Net financing costs 7 (19.1) (21.8)
Profit before taxation 81.4 111.4
income tax expense 8 (22.1) (32.6)
Profit after taxation before discontinued operations 59.3 78.8
d iscontinued operations 9 21.0 –
Profit for the period 80.3 78.8 
Profit for period attributable to:
 o wners of the parent 77.0 73.0 
 n on-controlling interests 3.3 5.8 
80.3 78.8 
Basic earnings per share 10
Continuing operations 20.2p 26.9p
d iscontinued operations 7.6p –
27.8p 26.9p
Diluted earnings per share
Continuing operations 19.9p 25.7p
d iscontinued operations 7.4p –
27.3p 25.7p
Dividends
Proposed interim dividend – pence 3.60p 3.25p
  – £m 10.1 8.8 
Proposed final dividend – pence 6.40p 6.00p
  – £m 17.9 16.6 
t he proposed interim and final dividends (201 1: actual) are based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 69
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement o F Com PReHensi Ve in Come
for the year ended 31 december 2012
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Fair value
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
t otal parent
comprehensive
income
£m
n on-controlling
interests
£m
total
comprehensive
income
£m
2011
Profit for the year – – – 73.0 73.0 5.8 78.8 
Foreign exchange translation differences (5.4) – – – (5.4) 0.2 (5.2)
a ctuarial loss on defined benefit plans – – – (45.5) (45.5) – (45.5)
n et gain on hedge of net investment  
in foreign subsidiary 1.0 – – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Cash flow hedges:
 effective portion of changes in  
 fair value – 0.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3 
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.2) – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Change in fair value of equity securities 
available-for-sale – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
t ax effect on components of other  
comprehensive income – – – 5.9 5.9 – 5.9 
Total comprehensive income, 
net of tax (4.4) 0.1 0.1 33.4 29.2 6.0 35.2 
2012
Profit for the year – – – 77.0 77.0 3.3 80.3 
Foreign exchange translation differences (11.8) – – – (11.8) (3.5) (15.3)
a ctuarial loss on defined benefit plans – – – (47.9) (47.9) – (47.9)
n et gain on hedge of net investment  
in foreign subsidiary 2.6 – – – 2.6 – 2.6 
Cash flow hedges:
 effective portion of changes  
 in fair value – 0.9 – – 0.9 – 0.9 
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.6) – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Change in fair value of equity securities 
available-for-sale – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
t ax effect on components of other  
comprehensive income – – – 6.7 6.7 – 6.7 
Total comprehensive income, 
net of tax (9.2) 0.3 0.1 35.8 27.0 (0.2) 26.8  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 71 70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated B alan Ce sHeet
as at 31 december 2012
n ote
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 245.5 259.8 
intangible assets 12 265.1 283.3 
investments 13 5.4 6.1 
o ther receivables 4.6 4.2 
d eferred tax assets 14 40.6 41.1 
Total non-current assets 561.2 594.5 
inventories 15 139.9 166.6 
d erivative financial assets 1.8 1.6 
t rade and other receivables 16 185.4 195.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 17 80.0 83.4 
Total current assets 407.1 446.9 
Total assets 968.3 1,041.4 
Liabilities
interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 265.0 287.3 
employee benefits 21 166.6 135.1 
Provisions 22 6.9 7.0 
n on-trade payables 23 4.8 10.5 
d eferred tax liabilities 14 40.5 44.5 
Total non-current liabilities 483.8 484.4 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts 19 7.8 11.5 
t rade and other payables 23 184.0 251.3 
Current tax payable 6.1 10.8 
Provisions 22 14.1 12.0 
d erivative financial liabilities 0.7 1.2 
Total current liabilities 212.7 286.8 
Total liabilities 696.5 771.2 
Total net assets 271.8 270.2 
Equity
share capital 18 70.4 68.7 
share premium 99.0 90.6 
Reserves 51.6 60.4 
Retained earnings 13.0 9.7 
Total equity attributable to equity owners of parent Company 234.0 229.4 
Non-controlling interests 37.8 40.8 
Total equity 271.8 270.2 
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of d irectors on 14 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief executive o fficer
Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial o fficer Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 71 70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement o F CHan Ges in e QUit Y
for the year ended 31 december 2012
share
capital
£m
share
premium
£m
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Fair
value
reserve
£m
special
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
o ther
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
total
parent
equity
£m
n on-
controlling
interests
£m
total
equity
£m
Balance at 3 January 2011 68.5 88.3 13.0 0.3 (1.5) 6.0 35.7 1 1.1 (6.4) 215.0 37.1 252.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 73.0 73.0 5.8 78.8 
o ther comprehensive income – – (4.4) 0.1 0.1 – – – (39.6) (43.8) 0.2 (43.6)
Transactions with owners:
d ividends 0.2 2.3 – – – – – – (20.9) (18.4) (2.3) (20.7)
equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – – – – – 6.8 6.8 – 6.8 
o wn shares acquired for share 
incentive schemes – – – – – – – – (3.2) (3.2) – (3.2)
Balance at 1 January 2012 68.7 90.6 8.6 0.4 (1.4) 6.0 35.7 1 1.1 9.7 229.4 40.8 270.2 
Balance at 2 January 2012 68.7 90.6 8.6 0.4 (1.4) 6.0 35.7 11.1 9.7 229.4 40.8 270.2 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 77.0 77.0 3.3 80.3 
o ther comprehensive income – – (9.2) 0.3 0.1 – – – (41.2) (50.0) (3.5) (53.5)
Transactions with owners:
d ividends 0.9 8.4 – – – – – – (25.4) (16.1) (2.8) (18.9)
equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – – – – – 3.1 3.1 – 3.1 
o wn shares issued/acquired for  
share incentive schemes 0.8 – – – – – – – (10.2) (9.4) – (9.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 70.4 99.0 (0.6) 0.7 (1.3) 6.0 35.7 11.1 13.0 234.0 37.8 271.8 
d etails of the reserves are provided in note 18. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 73 72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement o F Cas H Flo Ws
for the year ended 31 december 2012
n ote
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the period before discontinued operations 59.3 78.8 
a djustments for:
 depreciation 4 30.0 31.1 
 amortisation 4 8.3 8.3 
 n et financing costs 7 19.1 21.8 
 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.2) (2.6)
 income tax expense 8 22.1 32.6 
 n on-cash operating costs relating to restructuring 4 5.0 – 
 equity-settled share-based payment expenses 1.9 5.9 
Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital and provisions 145.5 175.9 
d ecrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 0.8 (12.9)
d ecrease/(increase) in inventories 18.5 (7.7)
(d ecrease) in trade and other payables (31.9) (8.5)
(d ecrease) in provisions and employee benefits (11.9) (17.5)
Cash generated from operations 121.0 129.3 
interest paid (20.1) (22.0)
income tax paid (26.8) (25.6)
Net cash from operating activities 74.1 81.7 
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (29.4) (28.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.7 3.2 
sale of investments 0.1 0.7 
interest received 1.6 1.6 
a cquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (6.6) (10.4)
Forward contracts used in net investment hedging 0.7 (4.8)
Net cash from investing activities (30.9) (38.4)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares for share incentive schemes (9.4) (3.2)
Repayment of borrowings 17 (16.2) (24.4)
Payment of finance lease liabilities 17 (0.2) (0.4)
d ividends paid (16.1) (18.4)
Net cash from financing activities (41.9) (46.4)
n et increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1.3 (3.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 83.4 85.0 
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (4.7) 1.5 
Cash and cash equivalents at period end 17 80.0 83.4
a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings is shown in note 17. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 73 72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments
Accounting policies
t he morgan Crucible Company plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in the UK.
t he Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’), and include the Group’s 
interest in associates. t he parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its 
Group. t hese consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to 31 d ecember 2012. t he Group changed its fiscal year during the current 
period. t he Group now maintains a 12-month calendar fiscal year ending on 31 d ecember. Previously the Group maintained a 52- or 53-week 
fiscal year ending on the s unday nearest to the a ccounting Reference d ate of the Company, 1 January.
t he Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the d irectors in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards 
as adopted by the eU (adopted iFRss). t he Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Generally a ccepted a ccounting Practice; these are presented on pages 1 16 to 125.
Where possible the Group has set out individual accounting policies in the note to the consolidated financial statements most relevant to that 
accounting policy.
t he accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial 
statements.
(a) Measurement convention
t he financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative 
financial instruments and financial instruments available-for-sale.
(b) Functional and presentation currency
t he Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency.
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. t he financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Associates
a ssociates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. s ignificant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. a ssociates are accounted  
for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent  
of the Group’s interest in the associate. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment.
(d) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
t ransactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.  
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. n on-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured  
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. n on-monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates 
the fair value was determined.
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
t he assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds  
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. t he revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling 
at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on retranslation since the adoption of iFRs are recognised directly in o ther Comprehensive income (‘o Ci’). Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 75 74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(e) Impairment
t he carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is 
any indication of impairment. if any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated (see (i) below).
a n impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
cash-generating units (group of units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. 
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in o Ci and there is objective evidence that the 
asset is permanently impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in o Ci is recognised in profit or loss. a significant or prolonged 
decline in an available-for-sale financial asset’s fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. t he amount of the cumulative loss that  
is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously recognised in profit or loss.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
t he recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets). 
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted. t he recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
a n impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost and other assets not listed below is reversed if the subsequent increase in 
recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
a n impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss. i f the  
fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss. 
a n impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
a n impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(f) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods in the course of ordinary activities is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable,  
net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated  
reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. if it is probable  
that discounts will be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue as the sales  
are recognised.
(g) Dividends
d ividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared and approved.
Accounting estimates and judgments
Judgments made by the d irectors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and 
estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
management discussed with the a udit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. t he following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty: Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 75 74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
Provisions
n ote 22 contains information about provisions. Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of litigation  
are judgmental by their nature. a mounts provided are the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Recognition of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill 
n otes 2 and 12 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition. t hese primarily relate to existing contracts, order books  
and customer relationships, which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers. t he Group has estimated that the customer 
relationships have an economic life of 15-20 years.
Remeasurement of deferred contingent consideration
n ote 2 contains information on deferred contingent consideration, arising as an element of the fair value of consideration on acquisition. d eferred 
contingent consideration is remeasured based upon the Group’s best estimate of its future liability, calculated in accordance with the acquisition 
agreement.
Impairment of goodwill
n ote 12 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests, including a sensitivity analysis.
Credit risk
n ote 20 contains information about the Group’s exposure to credit risk, including a sensitivity analysis. t he Group establishes both specific and 
general allowances for impairment losses against receivables. t he general loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics 
for similar financial assets.
Foreign currency exposure
n ote 20 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements, including  
a sensitivity analysis.
Pension assumptions
t he principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 21, including a sensitivity analysis. t he actuarial evaluation of pension 
assets and liabilities is based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates. 
Relatively small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net pension 
liability included in the balance sheet.
Taxation
t he level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective judgments 
as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates. 
d eferred tax assets are recognised based on management’s assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable.
Going concern
t he Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business 
review on pages 6 to 35. t he financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business 
Review. in addition, note 20 includes the Group’s policies and processes for managing financial risk; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
t he Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through local banking arrangements that are supported by the flexibility provided by 
the Group bank facility of £150 million unsecured five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility. t he bank facility headroom at 31 d ecember 2012 
was £150 million.
t he Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group is able to 
operate within the level of its committed facilities. t he d irectors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. a ccordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the a nnual Report  
and a ccounts. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 77 76 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
Adoption of new and revised Standards
d uring the period, the Group has applied amendments to iFRs 7 Disclosures – Transfers of Business Assets. t he above amendment has not had  
any significant impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
For the year ended 31 d ecember 2013 the Group is required to adopt ias 19 (revised) Employee Benefits . t he Group’s expectation is that profit 
before taxation for 2013 will be approximately £6 million lower than if the current ias 19 had been applied. t he reasons for this are:
(i)  a £1.2 million increase in operating costs as a result of the requirement to reclassify pension scheme administration costs from net finance 
charge to operating costs. such costs include the PPF levy and actuary, audit, legal and trustee charges which, under the current ias 19,  
are allowed to be included within the net finance charge.
(ii)  a £4.8 million increase in the net financing costs, being the net of a £6 million additional charge due to the new requirement for the expected 
return on assets to be calculated by applying the corporate bond yield discount rate to the balance sheet pension-related assets, offset by a  
£1.2 million decrease as a result of the reclassification of the administration costs to operating charges identified above.
t he Group does not expect there to be a material change in the Group pension deficit as a result of the change in the accounting standard.
t he Group does not expect that the adoption of any other standards and interpretations that are in issue but not yet effective to have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.
2. Acquisitions
Accounting policies
Step acquisitions
step acquisitions arise when the Group acquires control of an entity through successive share purchases. t he identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at fair value on the date that control is acquired. For step acquisitions occurring before 3 January 2010  
the amount recognised as goodwill or negative goodwill is determined separately for each tranche acquired, calculated as the difference between 
the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, in accordance with  
iFRs 3 Business Combinations (2004). a ny changes in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired between the acquisition date  
and the date that control is obtained are recorded in other reserves in equity to the extent that they have not previously been recognised in the 
income statement. a ny future step acquisitions would be accounted for in accordance with iFRs 3 Business Combinations (2008).
Acquisitions
Clearpower Limited
in 2007 the Group acquired 49% of the o rdinary share capital of Clearpower l imited, a company that, via two intermediary holding companies, 
owns 100% of n P a erospace l imited. o n 5 January 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the o rdinary share capital of Clearpower 
l imited for a total of £56.8 million, an amount contingent on the future performance of Clearpower l imited. t his comprised £12.2 million in cash 
for 1 1% of the o rdinary share capital and £44.6 million in discounted deferred contingent consideration for 40% of the o rdinary share capital.  
t he discounted deferred contingent consideration took the form of four synthetic forwards each to acquire 10% of the o rdinary share capital  
of Clearpower l imited at future dates from 2010 onwards, the amount of which are based on a fixed eBitda multiple of Clearpower l imited.
o n 1 a pril 2010 the Group agreed to pay £24.9 million. o f this amount £17.2 million related to the first of the four synthetic forwards.  
t he remaining payment of £7.7 million related to deferred contingent consideration on the acquisition of 1 1% of Clearpower l imited in 2009.  
£12.4 million of the total was deferred for payment until 6 July 2010. in addition to these payments the Group paid £2.3 million to the employee 
Benefit t rust in accordance with the terms of the original acquisition agreement.
o n 31 march 201 1 and 28 march 2012 the Group paid £9.1 million and £6.1 million respectively for the second and third synthetic forwards.  
in addition to these payments on 31 march 201 1 and 28 march 2012 the Group paid £0.8 million and £0.6 million respectively to the employee 
Benefit t rust in accordance with the terms of the original acquisition agreement.
t he Group carries a liability of £0.3 million, representing the best estimate of the amount it will pay to acquire the remaining 10% of the o rdinary 
share capital of Clearpower l imited. t his is included within current non-trade payables. t he unwinding of the discount on this liability of £0.2 million 
is recorded as a finance expense (see note 7). t he adjustment through goodwill since the date of acquisition as a result of the remeasurement is 
£9.3 million.
Other acquisitions in 2012 and 201 1
t here were no other business combinations in 2012 and 201 1.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 77 76 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
3. Segment reporting
Accounting policies
t he Group has identified four reportable operating segments. t hese have been identified on the basis of internal management reporting 
information that is regularly reviewed by the Group’s Board of d irectors (the Chief o perating d ecision maker) in order to allocate resources  
and assess performance.
segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets and head office 
expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
t he Group comprises the following four reportable operating segments:
 > t echnical Ceramics – the t echnical Ceramics Business is a leading supplier of customer-specific, applications-engineered, industrial products 
manufactured from advanced materials including structural ceramic, electro-ceramic and precious metals.
 > t hermal Ceramics – the t hermal Ceramics Business provides thermal management solutions for high-temperature applications which benefit 
technically, financially and environmentally from optimised thermal energy and emissions control.
 > morgan am &t – the m organ am &t Business delivers highly engineered solutions built from a portfolio of advanced material technologies  
that includes carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced polymeric composite materials.
 > molten metal systems – the molten metal systems Business produces crucibles and foundry consumables.
Segment reporting
t he information presented below represents the operating segments of the Group.
morgan Ceramics morgan engineered materials
t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics morgan am &t molten metal systems Consolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue from external customers 273.3 285.1 387.2 400.1 301.2 369.1 45.8 46.7  1,007.5 1,101.0 
Divisional EBITA
1
 42.7 43.1 51.9 49.6 24.4 48.0 8.1 7.7 127.1 148.4 
Unallocated costs (5.1) (5.0)
Group EBITA
2
122.0 143.4 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items (1.4) 1.1 (5.4) (3.0) (6.4) – – –
(13.2) (1.9)
Underlying operating profit
3
108.8 141.5
a mortisation of intangible assets (2.5) (2.5) (1.3) (1.2) (4.3) (4.5) (0.2) (0.1) (8.3) (8.3)
Operating profit 100.5 133.2 
Finance income 26.3 27.7 
Finance expense
(45.4) (49.5)
Profit before taxation 81.4 111.4 
1. s egment profit is defined as d ivisional eBita , which is segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
2. Group eBita is defined as operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
3. Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
t he above measures of profit are shown because the d irectors use them to measure the underlying performance of the business, as referred to in 
the Business review section of the a nnual Report. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 79 78 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
3. Segment reporting continued
t he Group did not have any significant inter-segment revenue between reportable operating segments in 2012 and 201 1.
morgan Ceramics morgan engineered materials
t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics morgan am &t molten metal systems Consolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
segment assets 210.1 225.7 257.3 277.7 342.2 372.0 30.9 31.4 840.5 906.8 
Unallocated assets 127.8 134.6 
t otal assets 968.3 1,041.4 
segment liabilities 44.3 50.8 73.2 81.6 49.5 77.4 7.0 8.5 174.0 218.3 
Unallocated liabilities 522.5 552.9 
t otal liabilities 696.5 771.2 
segment capital expenditure 5.7 6.2 10.8 8.2 10.8 11.5 2.0 1.8 29.3 27.7 
Unallocated capital expenditure 0.1 1.0 
t otal capital expenditure 29.4 28.7 
morgan Ceramics morgan engineered materials
t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics morgan am &t molten metal systems Consolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
segment depreciation 8.7 8.6 9.9 1 1.1 9.9 10.1 1.4 1.3 29.9 31.1 
Unallocated depreciation 0.1 – 
30.0 31.1 
Revenue from  
external customers
n on-current assets
(excluding tax and
financial instruments)
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Usa 315.5 326.1 171.0 182.6 
UK (the Group’s country of domicile) 107.9 141.9 165.6 176.4 
China 83.6 87.7 51.9 51.6 
Germany 70.3 75.7 31.1 30.1 
France 41.1 43.2 20.9 23.8 
o ther a sia, middle east and a frica 187.3 203.2 36.2 40.8 
o ther europe 127.5 142.9 22.5 24.1 
o ther n orth a merica 30.8 29.8 11.6 13.4 
south a merica 43.5 50.5 9.8 10.6 
1,007.5 1,101.0 520.6 553.4
Revenue from external customers is based on geographic location of the end-customer. segment assets are based on geographical location of the assets.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 79 78 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
4. Operating costs
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (0.1) (2.3)
Raw materials and consumables 278.9 320.2 
o ther external charges 163.6 176.1 
t otal 442.4 494.0 
employee costs:
– wages and salaries 239.2 254.1 
– equity-settled share-based payments 1.9 5.6 
– social security costs 51.0 48.5 
– other pension costs 10.9 10.1 
t otal 303.0 318.3 
d epreciation 30.0 31.1 
Rentals under operating leases:
– hire of plant and machinery 3.0 3.1 
– other operating leases 5.3 5.3 
t otal 8.3 8.4 
o ther operating charges and income:
– net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 0.4 (1.3)
– other operating income and charges 101.4 107.1 
t otal 101.8 105.8 
t otal operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 885.5 957.6 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
– employment termination costs 6.1 5.1 
– write-off of assets 5.0 – 
– other site rationalisation and closure costs 2.2 0.5 
– profit on disposal of properties (0.1) (2.4)
– net pension credit – (1.3)
t otal 13.2 1.9
a mortisation of intangible assets 8.3 8.3 
t otal operating costs 907.0 967.8 
t he Group recognised £19.6 million in expense in respect of research and development (201 1: £14.3 million). Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 81 80 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
4. Operating costs continued
a summary of the audit and non-audit fees in respect of services provided by KP mG a udit plc charged to operating profit in the year ended  
31 d ecember 2012 is set out below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the Company 1.7 1.7 
– audit related services 0.1 – 
– other non-audit services 0.2 0.3 
2.4 2.4 
5. Staff numbers 
t he average number of persons employed by the Group (including d irectors) during the year, analysed by geographical area and reporting segment, 
was as follows:
n umber of employees
2012 2011
Usa 2,758 2,822
UK 1,594 1,552
China 1,570 1,547
Germany 644 616
France 483 489
o ther a sia, middle east and a frica 1,473 1,488
o ther europe 542 563
o ther n orth a merica 545 534
south a merica 424 417
10,033 10,028
t echnical Ceramics 2,724 2,724
t hermal Ceramics 3,172 3,189
morgan am &t 3,616 3,625
molten metal systems 511 480
Corporate 10 10
10,033 10,028
6. Restructuring costs and other one-off items
included within restructuring costs and other one-off items in the year ended 1 January 2012 is a net pension credit of £1.3 million arising from  
the following:
 > For the United Kingdom defined benefit pension schemes, future indexation of current employees’ accrued benefits will be set by reference to  
the Consumer Prices index (‘CPi’) rather than the Retail Prices index (‘RPi’). t his change has resulted in a one-off pension credit (negative past 
service cost) of £3.1 million. 
 > in n orth a merica, a total charge of £1.8 million arose as a result of a charge of £1.6 million in respect of a provision relating to a Usa pension  
plan and a charge of £0.2 million in respect of the curtailment and settlement loss as a result of closure of three Canadian defined benefit schemes.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 81 80 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
7. Net finance income and expense
Accounting policies
n et financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, 
gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement, expected return on ias 19 pension assets and interest on  
ias 19 obligations. i nterest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs (interest and other costs) are capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project which  
will be a significant productive asset, or to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Net finance income and expense
2012
£m
2011
£m
Recognised in profit or loss
interest income on bank deposits measured at amortised cost 1.6 1.3 
expected return on ias 19 scheme assets 24.7 26.4 
Finance income 26.3 27.7 
interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (18.5) (21.7)
interest on ias 19 obligations (26.7) (27.3)
interest expense on unwinding of discount on deferred consideration (0.2) (0.5)
Finance expense (45.4) (49.5)
n et financing costs recognised in profit or loss (19.1) (21.8)
Recognised directly in equity
n et change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 0.1 
Cash flow hedges:
– effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.9 0.3 
– transferred to profit or loss (0.6) (0.2)
effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge 2.6 1.0 
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (11.8) (5.4)
(8.8) (4.2)
8. Taxation – income tax expense
Accounting policies
income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in o Ci, in which case it is recognised in o Ci.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
d eferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. t he following temporary differences are not provided for:  
the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating 
to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. t he amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. d eferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 83 82 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
8. Taxation – income tax expense continued
Taxation – income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 25.4 30.4 
a djustments for prior years (5.0) (0.5)
20.4 29.9 
Deferred tax expense
o rigination and reversal of temporary differences 1.7 2.7 
t otal income tax expense in income statement 22.1 32.6 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2012
£m
2012
%
2011
£m
2011
%
Profit before tax 81.4 111.4 
income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 19.9 24.5 29.5 26.5 
n on-deductible expenses 2.4 2.8 3.3 3.0 
t emporary differences not equalised in deferred tax (1.4) (1.7) (2.8) (2.5)
o ver-provided in prior years (3.6) (4.4) (0.4) (0.4)
o ther (including the impact of overseas tax rates) 4.8 5.9 3.0 2.7 
22.1 27.1 32.6 29.3 
Income tax recognised directly in equity
t ax effect on components of other comprehensive income:
– Current tax associated with share schemes 1.3 – 
– d eferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes 5.4 5.9 
– o ther – 0.1 
t otal income tax recognised directly in equity 6.7 6.0 
9. Discontinued operations
d iscontinued operations is a tax credit arising from the review and release of tax liabilities set up in prior years relating to business disposals.
10. Earnings per share
Earnings per share from continuing operations
t he calculation of basic/diluted earnings per share from continuing operations at 31 d ecember 2012 was based on the following:
2012 2011
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
d iluted
£m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company  
from continuing operations 56.0 56.0 73.0 73.0 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares
issued o rdinary shares at the beginning of the period (millions) 273.1 273.1 272.2 272.2 
effect of shares issued in period and shares held by t he morgan General employee 
Benefit t rust (millions) 3.9 3.9 (0.5) (0.5)
d ilutive effect of share options/incentive schemes (millions) 5.0 12.7 
Basic/diluted weighted average number of o rdinary shares during the period (millions) 277.0 282.0 271.7 284.4 
Earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 20.2p 19.9p 26.9p 25.7p
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 83 82 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
10. Earnings per share continued
Earnings per share from discontinued operations
t he calculation of basic/diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations at 31 d ecember 2012 was based on the following:
2012 2011
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
d iluted
£m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from  
discontinued operations 21.0 21.0 – –
Basic/diluted weighted average number of o rdinary shares during the period – 
calculated as above (millions) 277.0 282.0 271.7 284.4 
Earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence) 7.6p 7.4p 0.0p 0.0p
Underlying earnings per share
t he calculation of basic/diluted underlying earnings per share at 31 d ecember 2012 was based on the following:
2012 2011
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
d iluted
£m
Operating profit before amortisation, less net financing costs,  
income tax expense and non-controlling interests 64.3 64.3 81.3 81.3
Basic/diluted weighted average number of o rdinary shares during the period – 
calculated as above (millions) 277.0 282.0 271.7 284.4
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets (pence) 23.2p 22.8p 29.9p 28.6p
11. Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policies
(i) Owned assets
items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses. 
t he cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property,  
plant and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying 
amount of the asset. Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in ‘o ther one-off items’ in the income statement. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in ‘o perating costs’ in the income statement.
(ii) Leased assets
l eases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. l eased 
assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
(iii) Depreciation
d epreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property,  
plant and equipment. l and is not depreciated. d epreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.  
t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Buildings 50 years
 > Plant and equipment and fixtures 3-20 years Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 85 84 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
11. Property, plant and equipment continued
Property, plant and equipment
l and and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
and fixtures
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 3 January 201 1 167.2 521.6 688.8 
a dditions 1.3 25.5 26.8 
d isposals (12.5) (8.1) (20.6)
effect of movement in foreign exchange (1.4) (4.8) (6.2)
Balance at 1 January 2012 154.6 534.2 688.8 
Balance at 2 January 2012 154.6 534.2 688.8 
a dditions 4.5 24.5 29.0 
d isposals (0.3) (9.5) (9.8)
effect of movement in foreign exchange (5.7) (19.1) (24.8)
Balance at 31 December 2012 153.1 530.1 683.2 
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 3 January 201 1 58.4 361.2 419.6 
d epreciation charge for the year 4.8 26.3 31.1 
impairment loss – 0.3 0.3 
d isposals (11.0) (7.7) (18.7)
effect of movement in foreign exchange – (3.3) (3.3)
Balance at 1 January 2012 52.2 376.8 429.0 
Balance at 2 January 2012 52.2 376.8 429.0 
d epreciation charge for the year 4.5 25.5 30.0 
d isposals (0.1) (5.3) (5.4)
effect of movement in foreign exchange (2.4) (13.5) (15.9)
Balance at 31 December 2012 54.2 383.5 437.7 
Carrying amounts
a t 2 January 201 1 108.8 160.4 269.2 
a t 1 January 2012 102.4 157.4 259.8 
At 31 December 2012 98.9 146.6 245.5 
Assets pledged as security for liabilities
a t 31 d ecember 2012 assets with a carrying amount of £3.3 million (1 January 2012: £3.3 million) are subject to registered debentures to secure 
bank loans and other liabilities (see note 19).
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 85 84 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
12. Intangible assets
Accounting policies
(i) Goodwill
a ll business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the 
acquisition and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
(ii) Research and development
expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient 
resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes. t he expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials,  
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation  
(see below) and impairment losses. o ther development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
(iii) Other intangible assets
o ther intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses.
(iv) Amortisation
a mortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives  
are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.  
o ther intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
 > Capitalised development costs 3 years
 > Computer software 3-6 years
 > Customer relationships 15-20 years
 > t echnology and trademarks 15-20 years
 > o rder book a mortised over the period in which the associated orders are fulfilled Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 87 86 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
12. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill
£m
o rder
book
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
t echnology
and
trademarks
£m
Capitalised
development
£m
Computer
software
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 3 January 201 1 197.3 9.3 77.3 22.5 2.2 12.3 320.9 
a dditions (externally purchased) 0.3 – – – – 3.5 3.8 
d isposals – – – – – (2.7) (2.7)
Remeasurement of goodwill 2.7 – – – – – 2.7 
effect of movement in foreign exchange (0.5) – 0.1 0.2 – 0.7 0.5 
Balance at 1 January 2012 199.8 9.3 77.4 22.7 2.2 13.8 325.2 
Balance at 2 January 2012 199.8 9.3 77.4 22.7 2.2 13.8 325.2 
a dditions (externally purchased) – – – – – 0.6 0.6 
d isposals (0.1) (9.3) – – (1.6) – (11.0)
Remeasurement of goodwill (5.1) – – – – – (5.1)
effects of movement in foreign exchange (3.5) – (2.2) (0.1) – (0.4) (6.2)
Balance at 31 December 2012 191.1 – 75.2 22.6 0.6 14.0 303.5 
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance as at 3 January 201 1 – 9.3 12.4 3.4 1.1 9.7 35.9 
a mortisation charge for the year – – 4.4 1.8 0.7 1.4 8.3 
d isposals – – – – – (2.7) (2.7)
effects of movement in foreign exchange – – – 0.1 – 0.3 0.4 
Balance at 1 January 2012 – 9.3 16.8 5.3 1.8 8.7 41.9 
Balance at 2 January 2012 – 9.3 16.8 5.3 1.8 8.7 41.9 
a mortisation charge for the year – – 4.5 1.8 0.4 1.6 8.3 
d isposals – (9.3) – – (1.6) – (10.9)
effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3) (0.9)
Balance at 31 December 2012 – – 21.0 6.8 0.6 10.0 38.4 
Carrying amounts
a t 2 January 201 1 197.3 – 64.9 19.1 1.1 2.6 285.0 
a t 1 January 2012 199.8 – 60.6 17.4 0.4 5.1 283.3 
At 31 December 2012 191.1 – 54.2 15.8 – 4.0 265.1 
Impairment test for cash-generating units containing goodwill
in accordance with the requirements of ias 36 Impairment of Assets , goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill. Goodwill is attributed to each cash-generating unit as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
t echnical Ceramics 67.2 69.4 
t hermal Ceramics 20.4 21.0 
morgan am &t 101.7 107.5 
molten metal systems 1.8 1.9 
191.1 199.8
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 87 86 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
12. Intangible assets continued
each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment.
a s part of the annual impairment test review the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed with reference to its value in use reflecting the 
projected discounted cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
t he key assumptions used in determining value in use relate to growth rates and discount rates.
t he cash flow projections in year one are based on budgeted operating results for the forthcoming year.
Growth rates for the period not covered by budgets are specific to each operating segment, ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% (201 1: 2.0% to 5.0%). 
t hese growth rates reflect the products, industries and countries in which the operating segments operate. t hese medium- to long-term growth 
rates have been reviewed by management during 2012 and are considered to be appropriate.
Given the similar risk profiles of each of the operating segments, together with common funding from the central Group t reasury function,  
a standard pre-tax discount rate of 13.3% (201 1: 13.9%), based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, has been used in discounting  
the projected cash flows and calculating the terminal value at the end of year five. t his discount rate has been used as the Group believes it  
suitably approximates the rate used by end-market participants.
t he d irectors have considered the following individual sensitivities and are confident that no impairment would arise in any of the following  
three circumstances:
 > if the pre-tax discount rate was increased by 210bps to 15.4% (201 1: 550bps to 19.4%);
 > if no growth was assumed for years two to five and in the calculation of terminal value; and
 > if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 15% (201 1: 35%).
13. Investments
Accounting policies
Investments in debt and equity securities
investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant 
gain or loss being recognised directly in o Ci (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as  
debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method 
is recognised in profit or loss.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current investments
investment in associate 1.5 1.5 
equity securities available-for-sale 3.9 4.6 
5.4 6.1
Equity securities available-for-sale
t he equity securities available-for-sale represent an investment in a mutual fund. a 10% increase in the unit price would increase the fair value of 
the investments by £0.2 million. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 89 88 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
14. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
d eferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets
2012
£m
a ssets
2011
£m
Liabilities
2012
£m
l iabilities
2011
£m
Net
2012
£m
n et
2011
£m
Property, plant and equipment – – 21.2 23.1 21.2 23.1 
intangible assets – – 18.3 21.4 18.3 21.4 
employee benefits (33.4) (28.4) – – (33.4) (28.4)
Provisions (5.7) (7.0) – – (5.7) (7.0)
t ax value of loss carried forward recognised (1.5) (5.5) – – (1.5) (5.5)
o ther items – (0.2) 1.0 – 1.0 (0.2)
(40.6) (41.1) 40.5 44.5 (0.1) 3.4 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
d eferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2012
£m
2011
£m
d eductible temporary differences (90.4) (61.2)
t ax losses (70.3) (71.0)
(160.7) (132.2)
Movements in temporary differences during the year
Balance
2 January
201 1
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
directly
in equity
£m
Balance
1 January
2012
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
directly
in equity
£m
Balance
31 December
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 22.3 0.8 – 23.1 (1.9) – 21.2 
intangible assets 22.9 (1.5) – 21.4 (3.1) – 18.3 
employee benefits (22.8) 0.3 (5.9) (28.4) 0.4 (5.4) (33.4)
Provisions (7.1) 0.1 – (7.0) 1.3 – (5.7)
t ax value of loss carried forward recognised (6.4) 0.9 – (5.5) 4.0 – (1.5)
o thers (2.2) 2.1 (0.1) (0.2) 1.0 0.2 1.0 
6.7 2.7 (6.0) 3.4 1.7 (5.2) (0.1)
d eferred income tax of £2.0 million is provided on the potential unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings.
15. Inventories
Accounting policies
inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. n et realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course  
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
t he cost of inventories is based on the first-in-first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to 
their existing location and condition. in the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads 
based on normal operating capacity.
Inventories
2012
£m
2011
£m
Raw materials and consumables 45.8 61.1 
Work in progress 39.7 41.5 
Finished goods 54.4 64.0 
139.9 166.6 
t he Group holds consignment inventory amounting to £17.7 million (201 1: £20.6 million) which is not reflected in the balance sheet. t he majority 
of this balance is for precious metals which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when the material is required.
d uring the year provisions of £5.6 million were made against inventories and recognised in operating expenses (201 1: £1.8 million).
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 89 88 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
16. Trade and other receivables
Accounting policies
t rade and other receivables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less impairment losses.
Trade and other receivables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current
t rade receivables due from associate 12.5 10.4 
o ther trade receivables 153.0 159.4 
l oans and receivables 165.5 169.8 
o ther non-trade receivables and prepayments 19.9 25.5 
185.4 195.3 
t he Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 20.
17. Cash and cash equivalents
Accounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits. short-term deposits include demand deposits and short-term highly liquid 
investments with maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk  
of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank balances 64.2 71.7 
Cash deposits 15.8 11.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 83.4 
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net debt *
2012
£m
2011
£m
o pening borrowings (298.8) (321.2)
n et decrease in borrowings 16.2 24.4 
Payment of finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.4 
effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings 9.6 (2.4)
Closing borrowings (272.8) (298.8)
Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 83.4 
Closing net debt (192.8) (215.4)
*  n et debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 91 90 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
18. Capital and reserves
Accounting policies
Share capital
Ordinary share capital
o rdinary shares are classified as equity.
Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the 
Company’s option. d ividends on Preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
Repurchase of share capital and own shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’)
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net  
of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the t rust are presented  
as a deduction from total equity.
Reserves
Translation reserve
t he translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations,  
as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary and forward contracts used for net 
investment hedging.
Hedging reserve
t he hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to 
hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve
t he fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment is derecognised.
Special reserve
a s pecial Resolution to cancel the share Premium a ccount was passed at the a nnual General meeting of the Company held on 1 1 June 1993.  
t his cancellation was confirmed by an o rder of the High Court of Justice, Chancery d ivision, on 14 July 1993. t he amount of £88.9 million 
standing to the credit of the share Premium a ccount on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the special reserve against which goodwill on consolidation 
could be written off. t his reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the share Premium a ccount on 12 o ctober 1990 of  
£71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred following previous o rders of the  
High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and share premium account.
Capital redemption reserve
t he capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable profits.
Other reserves
t he other reserves includes the £10.8 million increase in the year ended 3 January 2010 in the fair value of the Group’s original 49% interest in 
Clearpower l imited from the date of its original acquisition to 5 January 2009 excluding goodwill and to the extent not previously recognised as  
the Group’s share of the results of Clearpower l imited.
Retained earnings
t he Company has acquired own shares to satisfy the requirements of the various share option incentive schemes. 201,493 shares were held by 
t he morgan General employee Benefit t rust and are treated as a deduction from equity (201 1: 2,044,458). n il treasury shares were held by the 
Company (201 1: nil). a ll rights conferred by those shares are suspended until they are reissued.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 91 90 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
18. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
t he following o rdinary dividends were declared and paid by the Company:
Per share total
2012
Pence
2011
Pence
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010 interim – 2.70 – 7.3 
2010 final – 5.00 – 13.6 
201 1 interim 3.25 – 8.8 –
2011 final 6.00 – 16.6 –
t otal 9.25 7.70 25.4 20.9
t he Company also declared the following o rdinary dividend:
Per share
2012
Pence
Total
2012
£m
2012 interim 3.60 10.1
3.60 10.1
t his o rdinary dividend had not been paid by the Company as at 31 d ecember 2012 and has not been provided for at the year end.
in addition to the above, the Company also declared and paid dividends on the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares and 5.0% Cumulative 
second Preference shares.
a fter 31 d ecember 2012 the following dividends were proposed by the d irectors for 2012. t hese dividends have not been provided for and  
there are no income tax consequences.
£m
6.4 pence per qualifying o rdinary share 17.9 
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares (see note 31) –
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares (see note 31) –
17.9 
t he proposed 2012 interim and final dividends are based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Called-up share capital
2012
£m
2011
£m
Equity share capital
Fully paid: 279,741,415 (201 1: 273,139,791) issued o rdinary shares of 25 pence each
70.0 68.3 
70.0 68.3 
Preference share capital  
125,327 issued 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each, fully paid
0.1 0.1 
31 1,954 issued 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 
t otal Preference share capital 0.4 0.4 
Total share capital 70.4 68.7  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93 92 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
18. Capital and reserves continued
Number of shares in issue
o rdinary shares Preference shares
2012 2011 2012 2011
in issue at beginning of period 273,139,791 272,166,025 437,281 437,281
scrip dividend 3,601,624 973,766 – – 
a llotment 3,000,000 – – – 
in issue at end of period 279,741,415 273,139,791 437,281 437,281
a s at the date of this report 281,166,903 o rdinary shares have been issued (201 1: 274,802,078).
t he holders of o rdinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings  
of the Company.
d etails of options outstanding in respect of o rdinary shares are given in note 21.      
t he 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders 
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 d ecember 
respectively in every year. t he First and second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to attend or vote at any general 
meeting unless either:
(i)  the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock, or 
increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the a rticles of a ssociation of the Company, or winding up, or sanctioning a sale of the 
undertaking, or altering the a rticles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering their respective 
rights and privileges; or
(ii)  at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment date of 
any half-yearly instalment.
o n a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied:
First, in payment to the holders of the First Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.5% pa.
second, in payment to the holders of the second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 
5.0% pa.
t hird, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the o rdinary shares.
Fourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the o rdinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid up on their 
respective holdings of shares in the Company.
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
t his note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at amortised 
cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 20.
Accounting policies
Interest-bearing borrowings
interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. s ubsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Finance lease payments
l eases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been 
purchased outright. a ssets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital elements of the leasing commitments 
are shown as obligations in creditors. d epreciation is charged on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter. 
minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. t he finance charge is allocated 
to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93 92 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and overdrafts
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current liabilities
senior n otes 264.3 281.7 
Bank and other loans 0.5 5.3 
o bligations under finance leases 0.2 0.3 
265.0 287.3
Current liabilities
senior n otes 5.8 5.9 
Bank and other loans 1.8 5.3 
o bligations under finance leases 0.2 0.3 
7.8 11.5 
Terms and debt repayment schedule
t he terms and conditions of outstanding loans are given in note 20 in the liquidity risk section.
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum
lease
payments
2012
£m
Interest
2012
£m
Principal
2012
£m
minimum
lease
payments
2011
£m
interest
2011
£m
Principal
2011
£m
l ess than one year 0.2 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.3 
Between one and five years 0.2 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.3 
more than five years – – – – – – 
0.4 – 0.4 0.6 – 0.6 
Bank and other loans include £0.9 million (201 1: £0.7 million) of loans secured on the assets of the Group.
a s at 31 d ecember 2012 the Group had available headroom under the bank syndication of £150.0 million (201 1: £150.0 million).
20. Financial risk management
t his note presents information about the Group’s exposure to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk and the Group’s 
management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (ie forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the 
following two conditions:
(i)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities 
with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation  
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed 
amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes the  
legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 95 94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations,  
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
t he carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. t he maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
Carrying amount
2012
£m
2011
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 3.9 4.6 
t rade and other receivables 165.5 169.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 83.4 
249.4 257.8 
Available-for-sale financial assets
t he Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a sound credit rating.  
Given these high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Trade and other receivables
t he Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. t he demographics of the Group’s 
customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less influence on credit risk.
management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed  
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. t he Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
t he Group serves thousands of customers. many of these have purchased the same product for several years and in some cases decades. o thers 
have modified and enhanced designs or adopted the same components into new products, extending the lifecycle of the components that the 
Group supplies. t he Group’s level of customer retention is very high, particularly with its major accounts, and, although the top 20 ranking will  
alter from year to year, many of the names remain consistent over time.
t he Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and 
investments. t he main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a general 
loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. t he general loss allowance 
is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
t he ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2012
£m
Impairment
2012
£m
Gross
2011
£m
impairment
2011
£m
n ot past due 125.5 (0.5) 136.3 (1.6)
Past due 0-30 days 21.6 (0.4) 21.9 (0.5)
Past due 31-60 days 8.9 (0.5) 5.4 (0.2)
Past due 61-90 days 13.6 (3.9) 6.3 (0.4)
Past due more than 90 days 8.5 (7.3) 9.3 (6.7)
178.1 (12.6) 179.2 (9.4)
t he only movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables was an increase of £3.3 million (201 1: £0.2 million).
a specific impairment allowance may be created in respect of an individual trade receivable for which full recovery is doubtful. a s at 31 d ecember 2012 
and 1 January 2012 there were no specific impairment allowances that were significant to the Group.
t he allowances in the accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery  
of the amount owing is possible; at the point the amount is considered irrecoverable it is written off against the financial asset directly.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash balances held by companies representing 80% of the Group’s revenue are managed centrally through a number of pooling arrangements. 
Cash balances throughout the Group are held with high-credit-quality financial institutions.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 95 94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Liquidity risk
l iquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by cash. 
t he Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions.
t he Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective borrowing structure. t he policy is to ensure that the Group 
has sufficient liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
t he following are the undiscounted contracted maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 
2012
Effective
interest rate
Year of
maturity
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Less than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 6.84% 2013 5.8 5.8 5.8 – – –
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 5.70% 2014 61.6 68.5 3.5 65.0 – – 
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 3.65% 2015 32.7 35.7 1.2 1.2 33.3 – 
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 4.32% 2017 16.4 19.5 0.7 0.7 18.1 – 
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 6.12% 2017 107.5 140.6 6.6 6.6 127.4 – 
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 6.26% 2019 46.1 66.4 2.9 2.9 8.7 51.9 
Bank and other loans 1.70%-15.01% up to 201 7 2.3 3.3 1.8 0.2 1.3 – 
o bligations under finance leases 6.00% up to 2014 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 – –
t rade and other payables 95.0 95.0 94.6 0.4 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts as  
cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – 
Forward exchange contracts as  
fair value hedges 0.5 0.5 0.5 – – – 
Forward exchange contracts as  
net investment hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – 
368.5 435.9 118.0 77.2 188.8 51.9 
2011
effective
interest rate
Year of
maturity
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
l ess than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
more than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 6.84% 2013 12.0 12.6 6.5 6.1 – – 
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 5.70% 2014 64.3 75.4 3.7 3.7 68.0 – 
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 3.65% 2015 33.7 37.9 1.2 1.2 35.5 – 
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 4.32% 2017 16.9 20.8 0.7 0.7 2.2 17.2 
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 6.12% 2017 112.5 154.0 6.9 6.9 20.7 119.5 
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 6.26% 2019 48.2 72.4 3.0 3.0 9.1 57.3 
Bank and other loans 1.70%-8.00% up to 2012 10.6 10.6 5.3 5.3 – – 
o bligations under finance leases 6.00% up to 2014 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.2 – 
t rade and other payables 121.3 121.3 116.0 5.3 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts as  
cash flow hedges 0.8 0.8 0.8 – – – 
Forward exchange contracts as  
fair value hedges 0.4 0.4 0.4 – – – 
421.3 506.8 144.8 32.3 135.7 194.0  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 97 96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges
t he following table indicates the periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur. t his is matched with the periods 
in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to impact profit or loss.
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
More than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Forward exchange contracts – a ssets 1.1 45.4 45.0 0.4 – –
Forward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.1) (44.0) (43.6) (0.4) – –
Total 2012 1.0 1.4 1.4 – – –
Forward exchange contracts – a ssets 1.1 54.9 44.7 10.2 – –
Forward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.8) (54.2) (44.3) (9.9) – –
t otal 2011 0.3 0.7 0.4 0.3 – –
Market risk
market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Group’s income  
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. t he objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within 
acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
t he Group buys and sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business for hedging purposes, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage 
market risks. a ll such transactions are carried out in accordance with the t reasury Policy, which has been approved by the a udit Committee. 
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit or loss.
Interest rate risk
a t the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Fixed rate instruments
carrying amounts
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets – 11.6 
Financial liabilities (271.1) (292.7)
(271.1) (281.1)
Variable rate instruments
carrying amounts
2012
£m
2011
£m
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 80.0 83.4 
Financial liabilities (2.7) (19.1)
77.3 64.3 
interest rate risk is regularly monitored and reviewed taking into account the Group’s overall borrowing costs, interest cover ratio and the relevant 
interest rate markets. t he fixed rate financial liabilities comprise the currency equivalent of £270.1 million (201 1: £287.6 million) of Us Private 
Placement d ebt. t he average cost of the Group’s fixed rate debt is 5.7% (201 1: 5.7%).
a n increase of 100 basis points in interest rates on the variable element of the Group’s net debt at the reporting date would have increased profit  
by £0.8 million (201 1: £0.7 million). a decrease of 100 basis points would have decreased profit by £0.4 million (201 1: £0.5 million). t his analysis 
assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Foreign currency risk
t he table below shows the Group’s currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains and  
losses recognised in the income statement. such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated  
in the functional currency of the operating company involved, other than certain non-GBP borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in 
overseas entities.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 97 96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Functional currency of Group operations
2012 2011
GBP
£m
USD
£m
€
£m
GBP
£m
Usd
£m
€
£m
t rade receivables 2.5 9.9 13.4 6.4 0.1 1.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 9.6 3.4 5.3 0.2 1.6 
t rade payables (4.6) (6.5) (4.1) (15.6) (0.2) (1.1)
n et balance sheet exposure (1.5) 13.0 12.7 (3.9) 0.1 2.4 
t he amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures.
t he Group aims to hedge all material trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency. a t any point in time the Group  
also hedges up to 75% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases over the following 12 months.  
t he Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less  
than one year after the balance sheet date.
in respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the currency of the reporting unit, the Group ensures that the  
net exposure is kept to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
t he Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. t he fair  
value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 31 d ecember 2012 was an asset of £1.0 million (201 1: asset  
of £0.3 million).
t he contractual cash flows associated with the forward exchange contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges are shown in the section  
on liquidity risk. t he impact on profit or loss is expected to occur at the same time as the associated cash flows.
t he Group maintains in-country local currency borrowings, and has designated certain forward foreign exchange contracts and other borrowings 
as hedges of the foreign exchange risk associated with investments in foreign operations. in this way, the Group seeks to manage the translation 
exposure of overseas net assets, but only to the extent that its gearing covenant under the terms of its loan documents, as well as its facility 
headroom, are likely to remain comfortably within limits, and provided the associated costs are not prohibitive.
t he Group’s currency split of total borrowings after the impact of net investment hedges was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
GBP 4.6 (8.9)
Usd 205.6 221.0 
€ 49.8 70.6 
Japanese Yen 10.0 11.8 
o ther 2.8 0.6 
272.8 295.1 
t he Group’s sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 d ecember 2012 is as follows:
a t 31 d ecember 2012, if GBP had weakened/strengthened by 10% against Usd with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year 
would have been £1.3 million (201 1: £1.3 million) higher/lower. equity would have been £18.8 million (201 1: £25.1 million) higher/lower.
a t 31 d ecember 2012, if GBP had weakened/strengthened by 10% against € with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year 
would have been £0.2 million (201 1: £0.3 million) higher/lower. equity would have been £8.5 million (201 1: £4.7 million) higher/lower.
t he amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are forward-looking estimates of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. 
a ctual results in the future may differ materially from those projected results due to developments. t he impact of a weakening in GBP on the 
Group’s financial assets and liabilities would be more than offset in equity and income by its impact on the Group’s overseas net assets and earnings 
respectively.
t he impact of a one-cent movement in the Usd exchange rate on results that are reported in U sd would be a movement of circa £2.1 million  
in revenue and £0.2 million in profit. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 99 98 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Other market price risk
equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities held for meeting partially the unfunded portion of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension obligations. t he primary goal of the Group’s investment strategy is to maximise returns in order to meet partially the Group’s unfunded 
defined benefit obligations.
Capital management
t he Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base (total equity) so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. t he Board uses a number of measures, identified as key performance indicators (KPi), to ensure the continued 
success of the Group. t he main KPi for the Group is the underlying operating profit margin. t he aim is to achieve mid-teen margins in good times 
and double-digit margins when the environment is more challenging.
t he Board encourages employees of the Group to hold the Company’s o rdinary shares. t he Group operates a number of employee share and 
share option schemes. From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market 
prices. Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group’s various share option incentive schemes. t he Company 
may also acquire its own shares under a share buy-back programme.
t he Board seeks to maintain a balance between the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position, and the higher returns that might 
be possible with higher levels of borrowings.
t he Group monitors capital using the following indicators:
Debt to adjusted capital
2012
£m
2011
£m
t otal interest-bearing loans and borrowings 272.8 295.1 
l ess: cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts (80.0) (79.7)
n et debt
* 192.8 215.4 
t otal equity 271.8 270.2 
l ess: amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges (0.7) (0.4)
a djusted capital 271.1 269.8 
d ebt to adjusted capital ratio 0.7 0.8
Net debt * to EBITDA
2012
£m
2011
£m
n et debt * to eBitda 192.8 215.4
o perating profit before restructuring and other one-off items 113.7 135.1 
d epreciation and amortisation 38.3 39.4 
eBitda 152.0 174.5 
n et debt
* to eBitda ratio 1.3x 1.2x
Interest cover
2012
£m
2011
£m
eBitda 152.0 174.5 
n et finance costs (excluding ias 19 pension and discount on deferred consideration) 16.9 20.4 
interest cover 9.0x 8.6x
*  n et debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
t here were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
n either the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 99 98 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Fair values
t he fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
Carrying
 amount
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Carrying
amount
2011
£m
Fair value
2011
£m
Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 (5.8) (5.8) (12.0) (12.1)
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 (61.6) (65.5) (64.3) (70.3)
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 (32.7) (34.1) (33.7) (35.1)
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 (16.4) (17.8) (16.9) (18.0)
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 (107.5) (124.1) (112.5) (130.5)
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 (46.1) (54.7) (48.2) (55.7)
Bank and other loans (2.3) (2.3) (10.6) (10.6)
o bligations under finance leases (0.4) (0.4) (0.6) (0.6)
t rade and other payables (95.0) (95.0) (121.3) (121.3)
l oans and receivables 165.5 165.5 169.8 169.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 80.0 83.4 83.4 
(122.3) (154.2) (166.9) (201.0)
Available-for-sale financial instruments
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 3.9 3.9 4.6 4.6 
Derivatives and other items at fair value
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.4 
(117.3) (149.2) (161.9) (196.0)
t he following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the  
preceding table.
Equity securities
Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market either using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting 
the current spot rate.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows. t he interest rates used to determine the fair value  
of loans and borrowings are 2.0-5.2% (201 1: 2.4-5.2%) and finance leases 6.0% (201 1: 6.0%).
Finance lease liabilities
t he fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.  
t he estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. a ll other receivables/
payables are discounted to determine the fair value. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 101 100 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Financial risk management continued
Fair value hierarchy
t he table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. t he different levels have been defined as follows: 
l evel 1:  quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
l evel 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within l evel 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as prices) or indirectly 
(ie derived from prices).
l evel 3:  inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
31 December 2012
  
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 3.9 – 3.9 
d erivative financial assets – 1.8 1.8 
3.9 1.8 5.7 
d erivative financial liabilities – (0.7) (0.7)
3.9 1.1 5.0 
1 January 2012
l evel 1
£m
l evel 2
£m
total
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 4.6 – 4.6 
d erivative financial assets – 1.6 1.6 
4.6 1.6 6.2 
d erivative financial liabilities – (1.2) (1.2)
4.6 0.4 5.0 
t here have been no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during 2012 and 201 1 and there were no level 3 financial instruments in either 2012  
and 2011.
21. Employee benefits 
Accounting policies
(i) Defined contribution plans
o bligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value,  
and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on aa -credit-rated bonds that have maturity 
dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. t he calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present 
value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. a n economic 
benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. a ctuarial gains and losses, differences 
between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in o Ci in the year in which they arise.
(iii) Long-term service benefits
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. t he obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, or similar 
approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield at the balance 
sheet date on aa -credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations.
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
t he grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, 
over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the 
actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are met, such that the amount ultimately recognised  
as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 101 100 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
Employee benefits
morgan Crucible operates a number of defined benefit arrangements as well as defined contribution plans. t he defined benefit plans are primarily in 
the UK, Usa and e urope and predominantly provide pensions based on service and career-average pay. in addition post-retirement medical plans are 
operated in the Usa . 
2012
UK
£m
2012
USA
£m
2012
Europe
£m
2012
Rest of the
World
£m
2012
Total
£m
Pension plans and employee benefits
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (8.8) (28.0) (2.2) (39.0)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (427.0) (149.8) (1.6) (13.3) (591.7)
Fair value of plan assets 355.7 95.9 0.5 11.8 463.9 
Deficit (71.3) (62.7) (29.1) (3.7) (166.8)
Unrecognised past service costs – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Net obligations (71.3) (62.7) (28.9) (3.7) (166.6)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 2 January 2012 (378.1) (147.8) (25.2) (16.3) (567.4)
Current service cost (2.2) (0.4) (0.3) (1.5) (4.4)
interest cost (18.2) (7.2) (1.0) (0.3) (26.7)
a ctuarial losses (43.2) (17.5) (5.0) (1.4) (67.1)
Benefits paid 16.1 7.4 1.2 2.5 27.2 
Contributions by members (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Curtailments and settlements – – – 1.4 1.4 
exchange adjustments – 6.9 0.7 0.1 7.7 
At 31 December 2012 (427.0) (158.6) (29.6) (15.5) (630.7)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 2 January 2012 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
expected return on plan assets 18.9 5.3 – 0.5 24.7 
a ctuarial gains 13.0 5.2 – 1.0 19.2 
Contributions by employer 7.8 7.5 1.1 2.8 19.2 
Contributions by members 1.4 – – – 1.4 
Benefits paid (16.1) (7.4) (1.2) (2.5) (27.2)
Curtailments and settlements – – – (1.6) (1.6)
exchange adjustments – (4.0) – 0.1 (3.9)
At 31 December 2012 355.7 95.9 0.5 11.8 463.9 
a ctual return on assets 31.9 10.5 – 1.5 43.9 
2012
UK
£m
2012
USA
£m
2012
Europe
£m
2012
Rest of the
World
£m
2012
Total
£m
Pension plans and employee benefits
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost (2.2) (0.4) (0.3) (1.5) (4.4)
interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (18.2) (7.2) (1.0) (0.3) (26.7)
expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 18.9 5.3 – 0.5 24.7 
Curtailments and settlements – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Total expense (1.5) (2.3) (1.3) (1.5) (6.6) Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 103 102 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
t he ias 19 expense in relation to the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated  
income statement:
2012
£m
2011
£m
o perating costs (4.6) (4.8)
Finance income 24.7 26.4 
Finance expense (26.7) (27.3)
Restructuring and other one-off items – 3.0 
(6.6) (2.7)
in the UK, during 201 1 there was a change in the future increases to be provided to active members of the two schemes before retirement  
from being linked to the Retail Prices index (RPi) to the Consumer Prices index (CPi). t his resulted in a past service credit of £3.2 million in 201 1.  
in the Usa benefit accrual continues to be frozen in the m organ Us employees Pension Plan.
t he Group has adopted the policy of recognising actuarial gains and losses immediately in the balance sheet through o Ci. Cumulative actuarial  
gains/losses reported in o Ci since 5 January 2004, the date of transition to a dopted iFRss, are £195.2 million.
Statement of financial position reconciliation
2012
£m
2011
£m
a t 2 January 2012 (135.1) (103.9)
Pension expense (6.6) (2.7)
Contributions 19.2 17.0 
o ther comprehensive income (47.9) (45.5)
Currency adjustments 3.8 – 
At 31 December 2012 (166.6) (135.1)
t he Group expects to contribute £18.0 million to these arrangements in 2012.
t he fair values of the plan assets were as follows:
2012
UK
£m
2012
USA
£m
2012
Europe
£m
2012
Rest of the
World
£m
2012
Total
£m
equities 133.9 46.7 – – 180.6 
Bonds 35.7 49.2 – – 84.9 
matching insurance policies 184.6 – 0.4 2.8 187.8 
o ther 1.5 – 0.1 9.0 10.6 
Total 355.7 95.9 0.5 11.8 463.9 
UK
£m
USA
£m
Europe
£m
Rest of the
World
£m
Total
£m
estimate of employer contributions to be paid into the plans  
during the 12-month period beginning 1 January 2013 8.1 6.0 1.1 2.8 18.0 
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 103 102 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
2012
UK
%
2012
USA
%
2012
Europe
%
d iscount rate 4.40 4.20 3.00
salary increase n/a 2.70 2.50
inflation (UK: RPi & CPi) 2.90/1.90 2.20 2.00
Pensions increase 2.90/3.10/3.60 n/a 2.00
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2012 26.3 years 23.4 years 23.2 years
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2032 27.4 years 24.2 years 26 years
expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. t he overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting 
the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Balance sheet
Present value of defined benefit obligation (630.7) (567.4) (521.8) (489.1) (446.3)
Fair value of plan assets 463.9 432.1 417.7 383.0 344.5 
d eficit (166.8) (135.3) (104.1) (106.1) (101.8)
Unrecognised past service costs 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 – 
n et obligations (166.6) (135.1) (103.9) (105.9) (101.8)
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Experience (losses)/gains
experience (losses)/gains on defined benefit obligation (9.5) (14.2) 0.8 (2.2) 1.7 
experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 19.2 (5.5) 15.0 34.3 (104.7)
t he sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are:
Change in assumption
2012
Increase
effect
£m
2011
increase
effect
£m
d iscount rate d ecrease by 0.1% 7.7 6.1 
Rate of increase in salaries increase by 0.1% – –
inflation increase by 0.1% 3.4 3.7 
mortality – post-retirement Pensioners live 1 year longer 12.5 11.2 
t he actual liability in respect of global employee benefits will not be known until the last payments have been made. in placing a current  
estimate on the Group’s past service benefit obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required. For defined benefit schemes,  
the d irectors make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates  
and life expectancy. in making these estimates and assumptions, the d irectors consider advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 105 104 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
2011
UK
£m
2011
Usa
£m
2011
europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
total
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (8.9) (23.7) (2.7) (35.3)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (378.1) (138.9) (1.5) (13.6) (532.1)
Fair value of plan assets 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
Deficit (47.4) (58.5) (24.6) (4.8) (135.3)
Unrecognised past service costs – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Net obligations (47.4) (58.5) (24.4) (4.8) (135.1)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 2 January 201 1 (347.2) (135.7) (23.4) (15.5) (521.8)
Current service cost (2.5) (0.1) (0.5) (1.7) (4.8)
interest cost (18.7) (7.0) (1.1) (0.5) (27.3)
a ctuarial losses (26.2) (10.8) (2.5) (0.5) (40.0)
Benefits paid 14.7 7.2 1.5 2.0 25.4 
Contributions by members (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Past service credits 3.2 – – – 3.2 
Curtailments and settlements – – – (0.2) (0.2)
exchange adjustments – (1.4) 0.8 0.1 (0.5)
At 1 January 2012 (378.1) (147.8) (25.2) (16.3) (567.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 2 January 201 1 320.6 85.4 0.5 11.2 417.7 
expected return on plan assets 20.0 5.8 – 0.6 26.4 
a ctuarial gains (3.5) (1.8) 0.1 (0.3) (5.5)
Contributions by employer 6.9 6.4 1.5 2.2 17.0 
Contributions by members 1.4 – – – 1.4 
Benefits paid (14.7) (7.2) (1.5) (2.0) (25.4)
exchange adjustments – 0.7 – (0.2) 0.5 
At 1 January 2012 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
a ctual return on assets 16.5 4.0 0.1 0.3 20.9 
2011
UK
£m
2011
Usa
£m
2011
europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
total
£m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost 0.7 (0.1) (0.5) (1.7) (1.6)
interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (18.7) (7.0) (1.1) (0.5) (27.3)
expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 20.0 5.8 – 0.6 26.4 
Curtailments and settlements – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Total expense 2.0 (1.3) (1.6) (1.8) (2.7)
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 105 104 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
t he fair values of the plan assets were as follows:
2011
UK
£m
2011
Usa
£m
2011
europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
total
£m
equities 125.9 44.9 – – 170.8 
Bonds 27.0 44.4 – – 71.4 
matching insurance policies
176.4 – 0.5 2.2 179.1 
o ther 1.4 – 0.1 9.3 10.8 
Total 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
2011
UK
%
2011
Usa
%
2011
europe
%
d iscount rate 4.90 5.00 4.30
expected rate of return on plan assets – equities 7.50 7.40 n/a
  – Bonds 4.60 4.60 n/a
  – matching insurance 4.90 n/a 4.30
salary increase n/a 2.70 2.50
inflation (RPi & CPi) 3.00/1.80 2.20 2.00
Pensions increase 2.90/3.20 n/a 2.00
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 201 1 25.9 years 23.3 years 23 years
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2031 27.2 years 24.1 years 25.9 years
Defined contribution plans
t he Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. t he total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £7.0 million 
(201 1: £7.0 million). t he Group expects to contribute £7.9 million to these arrangements in 2013.
Share-based payments
t he Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Under t he morgan 
Crucible Company plc l ong-term incentive Plan (‘lti P’) and t he morgan Crucible Bonus d eferral share matching Plan (‘Bdsm P’) awards of shares 
are made to various key executives. Under the executive share o ption scheme 2004 (‘esos 2004’) share options were granted by the Company. 
t he Company also maintains an all-employee sharesave scheme available to employees in the UK (‘employee sharesave scheme 2004’). t he grant 
date fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that 
the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of 
share options for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
t he fair value of services received are in return for awards made and share options granted. t he estimate of the fair value of the services received is 
measured based on an appropriate model. in the case of the monte Carlo model the contractual life of the options and awards are used as an input. 
expectations of an early exercise is built into the model.
t he fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models:
lti P , Bdsm P , esos 2004 monte Carlo model
employee sharesave scheme 2004 Black-scholes merton model Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 107 106 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
t he terms and conditions of all awards and grants made that were outstanding on or after 3 January 201 1:
Grant date/employees entitled
number of
instruments
 granted Vesting conditions
Contractual
life of option
a wards granted to senior employees in 2012 under the Bdsm P 1,740,554 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
o ptions granted to UK employees in 2012 under the  
employee sharesave scheme 2004 1,071,868 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2012 under the lti P 1,251,358 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 201 1 under the Bdsm P 1,484,633 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
o ptions granted to UK employees in 201 1 under the  
employee sharesave scheme 2004 471,732 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 201 1 under the lti P 1,500,775 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2010 under the Bdsm P 827,31 1 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
o ptions granted to UK employees in 2010 under the  
employee sharesave scheme 2004 484,069 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2010 under the lti P 2,331,758 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2009 under the Bdsm P 3,426,473
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
o ptions granted to UK employees in 2009 under the employee 
sharesave scheme 2004 1,937,568 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2009 under the lti P 5,085,721
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
o ptions granted to senior employees in 2005 under the esos 2004 2,097,000
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
o ptions granted to senior employees in 2004 under the esos 2004 3,157,500
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
t he following options were outstanding at 31 d ecember 2012 in respect of o rdinary shares:
exercise price(s)
n umber of shares
 outstanding
n ormal exercise dates ranging
 from         to
employee sharesave scheme 2004 128.00p-213.00p 2,031,606 1 d ecember 2012 31 may 2016
esos 2004 129.05p-171.90p 683,299 22 June 2007 23 may 2015
BdsmP 0.00p-330.50p 3,978,379 18 march 2013 21 september 2015
lti P 0.00p 4,693,762 6 may 2013 24 september 2015
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 107 106 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
Performance criteria for LTIP, BDSMP and ESOS 2004
t he Key metrics used in the plans are:
t otal shareholder Return (‘ts R’) – the return (expressed as a percentage) on a notional investment in one share in the Company expressed as follows:
(a) the average share price over the last 12 months of the performance period; plus (b) the net dividends per share paid during the performance 
period reinvested in company shares at the ex-dividend date; divided by (c) the average share price over the three months preceding the 
performance period.
earnings Per share (‘ePs’) – (for the lti P and Bdsm P) profit before taxation less the charge for non-controlling interests in any financial year  
of the Company, adjusted by the Remuneration Committee to exclude the effect of amortisation of intangible assets, charges related to  
ias39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and the effect of any other special items which the Remuneration Committee  
does not, in its discretion, consider to reflect underlying operating performance, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during 
the relevant financial years.
earnings Before interest, t ax and a mortisation (‘eBita ’) – the Group’s revenue for any financial year less operating expenses, but measured before 
the impact of taxation, net financing costs and the effect of amortisation of intangible assets. t he Remuneration Committee may also make further 
adjustments to exclude items which it does not, in its discretion, consider to reflect the underlying operating performance of the Group during the 
relevant financial years.
Group Return on Capital employed (‘Group Ro Ce’) – Group underlying operating profit divided by the sum of Group working capital and the  
net book value of tangible assets.
d ivisional Return on Capital employed (‘d ivisional Ro Ce’) – d ivisional eBita divided by the sum of d ivisional working capital and the net book 
value of tangible assets.
Group average Ro Ce – the average of the Group Ro Ce at the end of each of the three financial years in the lti P period.
d ivisional eBita for the lti P & Bdsm P calculations – d ivisional revenue for the relevant financial years less operating costs (including restructuring 
costs and other one-off items), but measured before the impact of taxation, net financing costs and the effect of amortisation of intangible assets at 
reported exchange rates. t he Remuneration Committee may also make further adjustments to exclude items which it does not, in its discretion, 
consider to reflect the underlying operating performance of the d ivision during the relevant financial years.
d ivisional average Ro Ce – the average of the d ivisional Ro Ce at the end of each of the three financial years in the lti P period.
For the ts R elements of the plans, for performance between median and upper quartile, awards are made on a straight-line, pro-rate basis. 
similarly for ePs, Group average eBita , Group average Ro Ce, d ivisional average eBita and d ivisional average Ro Ce metrics, for performance 
between the identified trigger points, awards are made on a straight-line, pro-rata basis.
Performance criteria for LTIP
t he performance criteria for lti P awards are set annually. t he Company has given an undertaking to shareholders that awards will only vest  
if there is also an improvement in the Company’s and/or d ivision’s underlying financial performance. a wards will only vest therefore if the 
Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the Company’s and/or d ivision’s underlying financial performance over the performance period  
justifies vesting.  108 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
21. Employee benefits continued
2008 LTIP Awards
For lti P awards granted to the executive d irectors in 2008, the extent to which 50% of the awards vested depended on the Company’s ts R 
ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period from 5 January 2008 to 2 January 201 1. t he extent to which the other 50% of 
these awards vested depended on the growth in the Company’s ePs over and above the Retail Price i ndex (‘RPi’) between the 2007 base financial 
year and the 2010 financial year:
TSR element EPS element
TSR performance against the 
comparator group companies
% of award
that vests EPS growth
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 50% RPi+10% pa 50%
median 15% RPi+4% pa 15%
Below median n il RPi+< 4% pa n il
For lti P awards granted to all other participants in 2008, the extent to which 33.33% of the awards vested depended on the Company’s  
ts R ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period from 5 January 2008 to 2 January 201 1. t he extent to which the other 
66.67% of these awards vested depended on the growth in the Company’s ePs compared with RPi between the 2007 base financial year and  
the 2010 financial year:
TSR element EPS element
TSR performance against the 
comparator group companies
% of award
that vests EPS growth
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 33.33% RPi+10% pa 66.67%
median 15% RPi+4% pa 15%
Below median n il RPi+< 4% pa n il
2009 LTIP Awards
For lti P awards granted to all participants in 2009, the extent to which 100% of the awards vested depended on the Company’s ts R ranking 
against an appropriate comparator group from 5 January 2009 to 1 January 2012.
TSR performance against the 
comparator group companies
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 100%
median 30%
Below median n il
2010 LTIP Awards
For lti P awards granted to all participants in 2010, the extent to which 50% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s ts R ranking against  
an appropriate comparator group over the period from 4 January 2010 to 31 d ecember 2012. t he extent to which the other 50% of these awards 
vest depends on the growth in the Company’s ePs compared with RPi between the 2009 base financial year and the 2012 financial year:
TSR element EPS element
TSR performance against the 
comparator group companies
% of award
that vests EPS growth
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 50% RPi+10% pa 50%
median 15% RPi+4% pa 15%
Below median n il RPi+< 4% pa n il
in addition, the lti P awards grated in 2010 were restructured to include an HmRC approved element as part of the overall lti P awards.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 109
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
201 1 LTIP Awards
For lti P awards granted to the Ceo , CFo and Group employees in 201 1, the extent to which 50% of the awards vest depends on the Company’s 
ts R ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period from 3 January 201 1 to 31 d ecember 2013. t he extent to which the other 
50% of these awards vest depends on the growth in the Company’s ePs between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year:
TSR element EPS element
TSR against FTSE All-Share 
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests EPS growth
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 50% 15% pa 50%
median 15% 8% pa 15%
Below median n il < 8% pa n il
t o support the two-d ivisional structure introduced in July 2010, the 201 1 lti P awards for senior d ivisional executives were tailored to the  
value creation of each d ivision. Under these awards, the d ivisional element is split into d ivisional eBita growth and d ivisional average Ro Ce. 
Vesting under the d ivisional element only occurs when d ivisional performance exceeds the threshold performance target under both measures. 
o nce the d ivisional performance targets exceed the threshold, the two elements are then measured independently.
For the lti P award granted to the Ceo m organ Ceramics in 201 1, ts R ranking (as for Ceo , CFo and Group employees) and d ivisional 
performance between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year, were awarded on an equal basis.
TSR element Divisional element
TSR against 
FTSE All-Share  
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 50% 18% pa 25% 40.7% 25%
median 15% 12% pa 7.5% 35.7% 7.5%
Below median n il < 12% pa n il < 35.7% n il
For lti P awards granted to morgan Ceramics executives in 201 1, 100% of awards are based on morgan Ceramics d ivisional performance, 
between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year: 
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
18% pa 50% 40.7% 50%
12% pa 15% 35.7% 15%
< 12% pa n il < 35.7% n il
For the lti P award granted to the Ceo m organ engineered materials in 201 1, ts R ranking (as for Ceo , GFo and Group employees) and 
d ivisional performance between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year, were awarded on an equal basis.
TSR element Divisional element
TSR against 
FTSE All-Share  
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 50% 15% pa 25% 36.1% 25%
median 15% 10% pa 7.5% 33.7% 7.5%
Below median n il < 10% pa n il < 33.7% n il
For lti P awards granted to morgan engineered materials executives in 201 1, 100% of awards are based on morgan engineered materials d ivisional 
performance, between the 2010 base financial year and the 2013 financial year: 
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
15% pa 50% 36.1% 50%
10% pa 15% 33.7% 15%
< 10% pa n il < 33.7% n il  110 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
21. Employee benefits continued
2012 LTIP Awards
For lti P awards granted to the Ceo , CFo and Group employees in 2012, the extent to which 33% of the awards vested depended on the 
Company’s ts R ranking against an appropriate comparator group over the period from 2 January 2012 to 31 d ecember 2014. t he extent to  
which 33% of these awards vest depends on the growth in the Company’s ePs between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year. 
t he extent to which 33% vest depends on the Group’s average Ro Ce for the financial years ending 31 d ecember 2012, 2013 and 2014.
TSR element Group element
TSR against 
FTSE All-Share  
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests
EPS
growth
% of award
that vests
Group
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 37% 33.33%
median 10% 10% pa 10% 33% 10%
Below median n il < 10% pa n il < 33% n il
a s in 201 1, to support the two-d ivisional structure, the 2012 lti P awards for senior d ivisional executives were tailored to the value creation of 
each d ivision. Under these awards, the d ivisional element is split into d ivisional eBita growth and d ivisional average Ro Ce. Vesting under the 
d ivisional element only occurs when d ivisional performance exceeds the threshold performance target under both measures. o nce the d ivisional 
performance targets exceed the threshold, the two elements are then measured independently.
For lti P awards granted to the d ivisional Ceo s in 2012, a third of the award is linked to the Company’s ts R ranking and two thirds is based on the 
relevant d ivisional performance, between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year:
CEO Morgan Ceramics
TSR element Divisional element
TSR against 
FTSE All-Share  
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests
Divisional
EBITA
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 43.5% 33.33%
median 10% 6% pa 10% 41% 10%
Below median n il < 6% pa n il < 41% n il
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials
TSR element Divisional element
TSR against 
FTSE All-Share  
Industrials Index
% of award
that vests
Divisonal
EBITA
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
Upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 37.1% 33.33%
median 10% 5% pa 10% 34.7% 10%
Below median n il < 5% pa n il < 34.7% n il
For lti P awards granted to morgan Ceramics executives in 2012, 100% of awards are based on morgan Ceramics d ivisional performance, 
between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year:
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
15% pa 50% 43.5% 50%
6% pa 15% 41% 15%
< 6% pa n il < 41% n il
For lti P awards granted to morgan engineered materials executives in 2012, 100% of awards are based on morgan engineered materials d ivisional 
performance, between the 201 1 base financial year and the 2014 financial year:
Divisional
EBITA
growth
% of award
that vests
Divisional
average
ROCE
% of award
that vests
15% pa 50% 37.1% 50%
5% pa 15% 34.7% 15%
< 5% pa n il < 34.7% n il
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 111
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Employee benefits continued
Performance criteria for the BDSMP
t he Bdsm P was introduced following shareholder approval in 2008.
Under the plan rules, participants may be offered the opportunity to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus on a pre- or post-tax basis into 
Company shares. Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award based on the pre-tax value  
of their deferred shares. matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that stretching performance targets have been met. 
t he performance criteria for the Bdsm P are set annually.
Under the 2008 grant participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the Bdsm P . Under the 2010 grant 
participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 75% of their bonus under the Bdsm P . Under the 2008 and 2010 grants, the performance 
conditions were based on ePs growth targets relative to the 2007 and 2009 base year e Ps respectively:
EPS performance
Vesting of Matching Shares  
(as multiple of shares under  
the Deferred Award)
RPi+15% pa 3x match
RPi+10% pa 1.75x match
RPi+7.5% pa 1x match
RPi+5% pa 0.5x match
RPi+4% pa 0.25x match
< RPi+4% pa n il
Under the 2009 grant participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the Bdsm P and the performance conditions 
were based on ePs growth targets relative to the 2008 base year:
EPS performance
Vesting of Matching Shares
(as multiple of shares under
the Deferred Award)
15% pa 3x match
10% pa 1.75x match
7.5% pa 1x match
5% pa 0.5x match
4% pa 0.25x match
< 4% pa n il
Under the 201 1 grant participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the Bdsm P and the performance conditions 
were based on ePs growth targets relative to the 2010 base year:
EPS performance
Vesting of Matching Shares
(as multiple of shares under
the Deferred Award)
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
8% pa n il
< 8% pa n il
Under the 2012 and 2013 grants participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their bonus under the Bdsm P . in 2012 and 2013  
the performance conditions were based on ePs growth targets relative to the 201 1 and 2012 base years respectively:
EPS performance
Vesting of Matching Shares
(as multiple of shares under
the Deferred Award)
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
8% pa n il
< 8% pa n il  112 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
21. Employee benefits continued
Awards made in 2012
LTIP 2004 BDSMP
Employee Sharesave
Scheme 2004
Fair value at measurement date 260.49p-333.1 1p 330.50p 98.17p
share price 360.00p 330.50p 281.00p
exercise price n/a n/a 214.00p
expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model) 45% n/a 45%
o ption life (expressed as weighted average life used in the model) 3 years 3 years 3 years
expected dividends 2.6% n/a 2.5%
Risk-free interest rate 0.5% n/a 0.4%
ESOS 2004
t here were no awards during 2012 (201 1: nil).
t he expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) adjusted for 
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
t he number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted average
exercise price
31 December 2012
Number of options
31 December 2012
Weighted average
exercise price
1 January 2012
Number of options
1 January 2012
o utstanding at the beginning of the period 40.61p 17,999,603 37.86p 20,795,850 
Granted during the period 89.90p 4,045,797 59.88p 3,457,140 
Forfeited during the period 51.30p (519,561) 114.49p (364,934)
exercised during the period 34.59p (9,009,111) 172.06p (1,265,605)
l apsed during the period 2.30p (1,129,682) 0.82p (4,622,848)
o utstanding at the end of the period 66.20p 1 1,387,046 40.61p 17,999,603 
exercisable at the end of the period 136.40p 889,085 154.42p 1,123,641 
t he weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 319.85 pence (201 1: 283.42 pence).
t he options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range nil to 330.50 pence and a weighted average contractual life of 0.5 years.
t he fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
t he weighted average fair value of options issued in the period was 266.28 pence (201 1: 124.55 pence).
t he iFRs 2 fair value charge expensed to the income statement was £1.9 million (201 1: £5.9 million).
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 113
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
22. Provisions
Accounting policies
a provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.  
t he best estimate of the expenditure required to settled the present obligation is the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the 
obligation at the end of the reporting period or to transfer it to a third party at that time. if the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(i) Restructuring
a provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has  
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(ii) Onerous contracts
a provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(iii) Environmental
in accordance with the Group’s environmental Policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify  
over the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
Provisions
Closure and
 restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Environmental
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2012 5.8 7.1 6.1 19.0 
Provisions made during the year 6.1 1.6 0.1 7.8 
Provisions used during the year (3.5) (0.5) (0.9) (4.9)
Provisions reversed during the year – (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
effect of movements in foreign exchange – (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 2012 8.4 7.6 5.0 21.0 
Current 5.7 5.1 3.3 14.1 
n on-current 2.7 2.5 1.7 6.9 
8.4 7.6 5.0 21.0 
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Group’s restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the balance 
sheet date. t he amounts provided are based on the costs of terminating relevant contracts, under the contract terms, and management’s  
best estimate of other associated restructuring costs including professional fees, most of which are expected to be incurred over the next year.  
t he amounts provided also include the obligation for discounted future payments under a non-cancellable lease for the Company’s former 
headquarters, net of expected rental income under sub-leases. t he lease expires in 2016.
o ther provisions include the settlement of european class actions, together with the associated legal costs. t he estimated costs are based on  
the Group’s assessment of the probable future costs of these activities. t he Group expects to incur most of the liability in more than one year.
environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions 
companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems. t he estimated costs are based on management’s  
best estimate of the costs required to remedy these problems. t he Group expects to incur most of the liability over the next five years. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 115 114 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
23. Trade and other payables
Accounting policies
t rade and other payables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade and other payables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current
t rade and non-trade payables 4.8 10.5
Current
t rade payables due to associate 1.0 –
o ther trade payables 93.7 109.8 
n on-trade payables and accrued expenses 89.3 141.5 
184.0 251.3 
included in current non-trade payables and accrued expenses is £0.3 million (201 1: £6.2 million) of deferred contingent consideration following the 
purchase of 51% of the o rdinary share capital of Clearpower l imited. in the year ended 1 January 2012 £5.1 million was included in non-current 
non-trade payables in respective of deferred contingent consideration on purchase of 51% of the o rdinary share capital of Clearpower l imited.  
For further details see note 2.
24. Operating leases
Accounting policies 
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. l ease incentives 
received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Leases as lessee
n on-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
l ess than one year 8.5 6.6 
Between one and five years 17.3 20.4 
more than five years 26.2 34.9 
52.0 61.9 
t he Group leases a number of properties under operating leases of varying duration. in some cases, during the life of the lease, the rental payable  
is reviewed after a fixed period to reflect market rentals.
Leases as lessor
t he total of future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases is £2.5 million (201 1: £2.8 million).
25. Capital commitments
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these accounts 
amount to £2.4 million (201 1: £2.4 million) for the Group.
notes to tH e Consolidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 115 114 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
26. Contingencies
subsidiary undertakings within the Group have given unsecured guarantees of £8.9 million (201 1: £9.5 million) in the ordinary course of business.
in an international group of companies a variety of claims arise from time to time. Provision has been made in these accounts against those claims 
which the d irectors consider meet the requirements of ias 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely to result in 
significant liabilities.
t he Group has been subject to legal claims in the Usa , Canada and europe. settlements for the majority of these have been agreed. t here remain 
provisions in respect of these claims of £1.2 million (201 1: £1.4 million). in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts 
are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases. t he Board, 
having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position.
27. Related parties
Identification of related parties
t he Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (a list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 43), with its associates  
(see note 13) and with its d irectors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
t he Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its d irectors, under which the d irectors receive a salary or  
a fee and other emoluments.
t he key management of the Group and parent Company consists of the Board of d irectors (including non-executive d irectors) and members  
of the executive Committee.
t heir compensation charged in the year was:
2012
£m
2011
£m
short-term employee benefits 1.7 3.2 
employer n ational insurance Contributions 0.3 0.5 
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.4 0.3 
share-based payments 0.4 1.0 
t ermination payments – 0.2 
n on-executive d irectors’ fees and benefits 0.4 0.3 
t otal compensation of key management personnel 3.2 5.5 
information on executive d irectors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 66.
Other related party transactions
2012
£m
2011
£m
sales to associate 19.8 28.3 
t he balances with the Group’s associate are shown in note 16 and note 23.
28. Subsequent events
t here have been no material events since the year end. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 117 116 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
as at 31 december 2012
n ote
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
t angible fixed assets 32 2.1 3.1 
investment in subsidiary undertakings 33 833.9 692.5 
836.0 695.6 
Current assets
d ebtors – due within one year 34 47.3 36.7 
Cash at bank and in hand 16.5 24.6 
63.8 61.3 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 35 90.9 82.1 
Net current liabilities (27.1) (20.8)
Total assets less current liabilities 808.9 674.8 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
a mounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 172.1 111.5 
o ther creditors, including deferred consideration 35 – 5.1 
Borrowings 36 48.1 49.3 
220.2 165.9 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 37 3.8 3.8 
224.0 169.7 
Net assets 584.9 505.1 
Capital and reserves
equity shareholders’ funds
 Called-up share capital 18 70.0 68.3 
 share premium account 38 99.0 90.6 
 merger reserve 38 17.0 17.0 
 Capital redemption reserve 38 35.7 35.7 
 Profit and loss account 38 362.8 293.1 
584.5 504.7 
n on-equity shareholders’ funds
 Called-up share capital 18 0.4 0.4 
Shareholders’ funds 584.9 505.1 
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of d irectors on 14 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief executive o fficer
Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial o fficer Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 117 116 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
notes to t He Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
29. Accounting policies
t he following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial 
statements.
Basis of preparation
t he Company has elected to prepare its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally a ccepted a ccounting Practice.
t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under section 408(4) of the Companies a ct 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRs 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the  
cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statement.
t he Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRs 8 Related Parties and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances 
with wholly owned subsidiaries.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
d epreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated 
useful economic lives as follows:
Plant, equipment and fixtures – 3-20 years 
Investments
investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less amounts written off unless they are designated as  
a hedged item in a fair value hedge of foreign currency risk under FRs 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. in this case they  
are accounted for at historical cost plus a hedging adjustment recognised in profit or loss for the changes in their fair value attributable to the  
foreign currency exposure from the date the hedge is designated.
Interest-bearing borrowings
immediately after issue debt is stated at the fair value of the consideration received on the issue of the capital instrument after deduction of issue 
costs. t he finance cost of the debt is allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Foreign currency
t ransactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of 
exchange under the related forward contract. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted 
rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.   
Post-retirement benefits
t he Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on career-average pensionable pay. t he assets of the  
scheme are held separately from those of the Company. t he Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of  
the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRs 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were  
a defined contribution scheme. a s a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme  
in respect of the accounting period. Refer to note 40 for the additional disclosures required by FRs 17.
Taxation
t he charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
d eferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRs 19 Deferred Tax. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 119 118 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
29. Accounting policies continued
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRs 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as 
equity (ie forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation  
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a  
fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes  
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments associated  
with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds (see dividend policy) are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation 
of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for separately in the balance sheet. in fair value hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring 
the hedging instrument at fair value (for a derivative instrument) or the foreign currency component (for a non-derivative financial liability in a foreign 
currency hedge) are included in profit for the year when they arise. in cash flow hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring the hedging derivative 
instrument at fair value are initially recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent effective, and are later reclassified to profit or loss when 
the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Certain financial assets and liabilities have been designated as fair value through profit or loss and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Own shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust
t ransactions of the Group-sponsored morgan General employee Benefit t rust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore 
reflected in the Company’s financial statements. i n particular, the t rust’s purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited  
to equity.
Share-based payments
t he share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. t he fair value of options granted after 7 n ovember 2002 and 
those not yet vested as at 4 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. t he fair value is measured 
at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes entitled to the options. t he fair value of the options granted is 
measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. t he amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. For details of share-based payments made and the assumptions used in measuring the fair value see note 21.
share-based payments recharged to subsidiary undertakings are recorded via the inter-company loan account.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
d ividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately approved and are 
no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the n otes to the financial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee, at which 
point a liability would be recognised.
notes to t He Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 119 118 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
30. Staff numbers and costs
t he average number of persons employed by the Company (including d irectors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:  
n umber of employees
2012 2011
d irectors and head office staff 28 28
d ivisional staff 18 15
46 43
t he majority of the d irectors and head office staff devote a proportion of their time to d ivisional duties. o f the 28 d irectors and head office staff, 
the average number who spent all or a proportion of their time on corporate duties was 10 (201 1: 10) as shown in note 5.
t he aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 5.5 8.3 
equity-settled share-based payments (see note 21) 1.9 5.6 
social security costs 2.8 0.9 
o ther pension costs 0.3 0.7 
10.5 15.5 
31. Dividends
d ividends payable for the First and second Preference shares were £22,491 (201 1: £22,491) of which £1 1,245 (201 1: £1 1,245) was outstanding  
at the balance sheet date.
t he 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the  
holders thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and  
31 d ecember respectively in every year. 
For proposed o rdinary dividends see the consolidated income statement on page 68.
32. Tangible fixed assets
Plant, equipment
and fixtures
£m
Cost
a t 2 January 2012 4.7
a dditions 0.3
d isposals – 
At 31 December 2012 5.0
Accumulated depreciation
a t 2 January 2012 1.6
a mount provided for in the year 1.3
d isposals – 
At 31 December 2012 2.9
Net book amounts at 31 December 2012 2.1
n et book amounts at 1 January 2012 3.1 Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 121 120 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
notes to t He Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued
33. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Shares
£m
Loans
£m
Total
£m
Cost
a t 2 January 2012 617.4 129.2 746.6 
a dditions – 170.2 170.2 
Fair value hedge of investments’ exposure to foreign currency risk (1.5) – (1.5)
l ess: disposals/loan repayments/liquidations (18.3) (7.6) (25.9)
At 31 December 2012 597.6 291.8 889.4 
Amounts provided
a t 2 January 2012 50.4 3.7 54.1 
Provided in the year 1.4 – 1.4 
At 31 December 2012 51.8 3.7 55.5 
Net book amounts at 31 December 2012 545.8 288.1 833.9 
n et book amounts at 1 January 2012 567.0 125.5 692.5 
a list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 43.
34. Debtors
2012
£m
2011
£m
Due within one year:
o ther debtors 8.9 3.1 
d erivative financial assets 0.6 2.3 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 0.3 
a mounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 37.6 31.0 
47.3 36.7 
35. Creditors
2012
£m
2011
£m
Due within one year:
Bank overdrafts 58.8 51.9 
t rade creditors 2.2 1.9 
a mounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 21.0 8.0 
o ther creditors, including deferred consideration 2.8 9.9 
a ccruals and deferred income 5.7 8.1 
d erivative financial liabilities 0.4 2.3 
90.9 82.1 
Due after one year:
o ther creditors, including deferred consideration – 5.1 
– 5.1 Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 121 120 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
36. Borrowings
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank and other loans 48.1 49.3 
Bank overdrafts 58.8 51.9 
106.9 101.2 
l ess: amount repayable within one year included within current liabilities (58.8) (51.9)
t otal repayable after more than one year 48.1 49.3 
37. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Closure and
restructuring
 provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Total
£m
a t 2 January 2012 2.4 1.4 3.8 
Provided in the year 0.8 0.2 1.0 
Utilised in the year (0.8) (0.2) (1.0)
At 31 December 2012 2.4 1.4 3.8 
Closure and restructuring provisions relate mainly to an onerous lease provision for morgan House, the Company’s previous registered address. 
o ther provisions include the settlement of european class actions, together with the associated legal costs.
38. Share premium and reserves
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
 redemption
reserve
£m
Profit and loss
account
£m
a t 2 January 2012 90.6 17.0 35.7 293.1 
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based payments for the year – – – 2.7 
d ividends 8.4 – – (25.4)
o wn shares acquired for share incentive schemes – – – (10.2)
Retained profit for the year – – – 102.6 
At 31 December 2012 99.0 17.0 35.7 362.8 
Capita t rustees l imited administer a t rust in which shares are held to satisfy awards granted under the Company’s share plans. t he shares are 
distributed via discretionary settlement governed by the rules of the t rust deed dated 1 march 1996 (as amended).
t he total number of own shares held by the t rust at 31 d ecember 2012 is 201,493 (201 1: 2,044,458) and at that date had a market value of  
£0.5 million (201 1: £5.4 million).
t he amount of reserves of t he morgan Crucible Company plc that may not be distributed under section 831(4) of the Companies a ct 2006  
is £151.7 million (201 1: £145.1 million).
Further details on share premium and reserves are given in note 18.
39. Leasing commitments
o perating lease commitments falling due during the next year, for which no provision has been made in these accounts, are:
l and and buildings
2012
£m
2011
£m
l ess than one year – – 
Between one and five years 0.2 0.2 
more than five years – – 
0.2 0.2  Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 123 122 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
notes to t He Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued
40. Pension costs
The Morgan Pension Scheme and The Morgan Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
t he Company participates in two defined benefit schemes in the UK. t he assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds, 
t he morgan Pension scheme (mPs) and t he morgan Group senior staff Pension and l ife a ssurance scheme (sss ). Given that the Company  
is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRs 17 Retirement Benefits,  
the schemes have been accounted for in these financial statements as if they were defined contribution schemes. t hese schemes were closed to 
new members on 31 July 201 1 from which time membership of a defined contribution plan is available.
t he latest actuarial valuations of the mPs and the sss were carried out as at 6 a pril 201 1 and 1 a pril 201 1 respectively, and updated for FRs 17 
purposes to 31 d ecember 2012 by a qualified independent actuary. t he results for these schemes in respect of the Group are shown below:
2012
%
2011
%
Assumptions: 2.90/1.90 3.00/1.80
 inflation (RPi & CPi) 4.40 4.90
 d iscount rate 2.90/3.10/3.60 2.90/3.20
 Pension increases in payment n/a n/a
 General salary increases
 mortality – post-retirement:
 l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2012/201 1 26.3 years 25.9 years
 l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2032/2031 27.4 years 27.2 years
t he assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
2012
£m
2011
expected
return
%
2011
£m
Asset distribution and balance sheet reconciliation:
 equities 133.9 7.5 125.9 
 Bonds 35.7 4.6 27.0 
 matching insurance policies 184.6 4.9 176.4 
 other 1.5 4.9 1.4 
t otal market value of assets 355.7 330.7 
Present value of liability (427.0) (378.1)
d eficit in the scheme (71.3) (47.4)
employer contributions due within one year (0.2) (0.2)
t he employer’s contribution for the year was £7.8 million (201 1: £6.9 million).
t he Company is expecting to pay £8.1 million of contributions into the UK defined benefit plans during the 12-month period beginning after  
31 d ecember 2012.
41. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee, at which 
point a liability would be recognised.
t here are no other contingent liabilities in the Company as at 31 d ecember 2012.
t he Company has been subject to legal claims in the Usa , Canada and europe. settlements for the majority of these have been agreed. t here 
remain provisions in respect of these claims of £1.2 million (201 1: £1.4 million). in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because 
the facts are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases.  
t he Board, having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Company’s  
financial position. Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 123 122 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
42. Related parties
t he Company’s transactions with non-wholly owned subsidiaries are as follows:  
2012
£m
2011
£m
a mounts invoiced to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 1.9 1.4
a mounts receivable from non-wholly owned subsidiaries 0.9 0.8
a mounts invoiced from non-wholly owned subsidiaries 0.3 0.1
a mounts payable to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 7.4 6.6
t he d irectors have reviewed transactions with related parties (as defined in FRs 8 Related Party Disclosures) and have concluded that there are  
no other material transactions which require disclosure which have not been acknowledged elsewhere in the a nnual Report and a ccounts.
43. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Business
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of business
Morgan Ceramics companies
* Carbo san l uis s.a . t hermal Ceramics a rgentina
* morgan t echnical Ceramics a ustralia Pty. l td. t echnical Ceramics a ustralia
* Beijing Yingtelai morgan t hermal Ceramics t extiles Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
d alian morgan Refractories l imited t hermal Ceramics China
morgan Kailong (Jingmen) t hermal Ceramics Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
morgan t hermal Ceramics international t rading (shanghai) Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
morgan t hermal Ceramics shanghai l td. t hermal Ceramics China
Yixing Haldenwanger Fine Ceramic Co. l td. t echnical Ceramics China
Yixing morgan t hermal Ceramics Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
morgan t echnical Ceramics l imited t echnical Ceramics england
t hermal Ceramics UK l imited t hermal Ceramics england
* t hermal Ceramics de France s.a .s. t hermal Ceramics France
* t hermal Ceramics d eutschland GmbH & Co. K.G. t hermal Ceramics Germany
* W. Haldenwanger t echnische Keramik GmbH & Co. K.G. t echnical Ceramics Germany
* Wesgo Ceramics GmbH t echnical Ceramics Germany
* Ciria india l td. t hermal Ceramics india
murugappa morgan t hermal Ceramics l imited t hermal Ceramics india
* t hermal Ceramics italiana s.r.l. t hermal Ceramics italy
shin-n ippon t hermal Ceramics Corporation t hermal Ceramics Japan
* morgan t echnical Ceramics s.a . de C.V. t echnical Ceramics mexico
* t hermal Ceramics Benelux B.V. t hermal Ceramics n etherlands
* l imited l iability Company morgan t hermal Ceramics sukhoy l og t hermal Ceramics Russia
morgan Ceramics a sia Pte. l td. t hermal Ceramics singapore
* t hermal Ceramics south a frica Pty. l imited t hermal Ceramics south a frica
* t hermal Ceramics espana s.l . t hermal Ceramics spain
* Certech inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* morgan a dvanced Ceramics inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* morgan t echnical Ceramics a uburn inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* t hermal Ceramics inc. t hermal Ceramics Usa Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 125 124 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
43. Principal subsidiary undertakings continued
Business
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of business
Morgan Engineered Materials companies 
morgan molten metal systems (suzhou) Co. l td. molten metal systems China
morgan am &t ( shanghai) Co., l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology China
morganite electrical Carbon l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology england
* n P a erospace l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology england
* morgan molten metal systems GmbH molten metal systems Germany
* morgan Rekofa GmbH a dvanced materials & t echnology Germany
* morgan materials Hungary Kft. a dvanced materials & t echnology Hungary
* a ssam Carbon Products l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology india
* morganite Crucible (india) l imited molten metal systems india
* morgan Carbon italia s.r.l. a dvanced materials & t echnology italy
* morganite Carbon Kabushiki Kaisha a dvanced materials & t echnology Japan
* morganite l uxembourg s.a . a dvanced materials & t echnology l uxembourg
* morgan am &t B.V. a dvanced materials & t echnology n etherlands
* morganite south a frica Pty. l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology south a frica
* morgan am &t t aiwan l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology t aiwan
* morgan Karbon Grafit s anayi a .s. a dvanced materials & t echnology t urkey
* morgan a dvanced materials and t echnology inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* n ational electrical Carbon Products inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* Graphite d ie mold inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* morganite Crucible inc. molten metal systems Usa
Other subsidiary undertakings (trading companies covering both Divisions or intermediate holding companies)
* morganite a ustralia Pty l imited a ustralia
* morganite Brasil l imitada Brazil
* morganite Canada Corporation Canada
Grupo industrial morgan s.a . de C.V. mexico
morgan Korea Company l imited south Korea
morganite industries inc. Usa
*   d enotes companies some or all of whose shares are owned by a subsidiary.
in 2012 and 201 1 the following German subsidiaries, which are included in the Group consolidated accounts, utilised article 264b of the German 
Commercial Code to be liberated from preparing and disclosing audited statutory accounts:
 > W Haldenwanger t echnische Keramik GmbH & Co K.G.
 > t echnische Keramik & Co K.G.
 > t hermal Ceramics d eutschland GmbH & Co K.G.
notes to t He Com Pan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 125 124 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
44. Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31 d ecember 2012
2012
£m
2011
£m
Retained profit for the financial year 102.6 38.4
d ividends (16.1) (18.4)
issue of shares 0.8 –
o wn shares acquired for share incentive schemes (10.2) (3.2)
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based payments for the year 2.7 6.6
Net increase in shareholders' funds 79.8 23.4
o pening shareholders' funds 505.1 481.7 
Closing shareholders' funds 584.9 505.1   126 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 835.0 942.6 1,017.1 1,101.0 1,007.5 
Profit from operations before restructuring costs,  
other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 108.8 89.0 109.5 143.4 122.0 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of prior period 
anti-trust litigation (11.4) (14.0) (8.5) (5.6) (13.3)
Gain on disposal of properties 0.8 2.0 0.6 2.4 0.1 
n et pension credit – – – 1.3 – 
Profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets 98.2 77.0 101.6 141.5 108.8 
a mortisation of intangible assets (3.2) (16.3) (8.0) (8.3) (8.3)
Operating profit 95.0 60.7 93.6 133.2 100.5 
n et financing costs (12.7) (29.3) (25.9) (21.8) (19.1)
l oss on disposal of businesses (0.7) – – – – 
share of profit of associate (net of income tax) 1.2 – – – – 
Profit before taxation 82.8 31.4 67.7 111.4 81.4 
income tax expense (20.1) (8.7) (19.7) (32.6) (22.1)
Profit after taxation before discontinued operations 62.7 22.7 48.0 78.8 59.3 
d iscontinued operations – – – – 21.0 
Profit for the period 62.7 22.7 48.0 78.8 80.3 
Assets employed
Property, plant and equipment 319.6 276.2 269.2 259.8 245.5 
intangible assets 177.0 296.9 285.0 283.3 265.1 
investments and other receivables 50.6 9.3 9.1 10.3 10.0 
d eferred tax assets 36.6 37.2 38.5 41.1 40.6 
n et current assets 189.9 136.5 131.0 160.1 194.4 
Total assets less current liabilities 773.7 756.1 732.8 754.6 755.6 
employee benefits 101.8 105.9 103.9 135.1 166.6 
Provisions and other items 423.1 388.1 331.6 304.8 276.7 
d eferred tax liabilities 40.8 47.5 45.2 44.5 40.5 
208.0 214.6 252.1 270.2 271.8
Equity
t otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Company 177.8 184.6 215.0 229.4 234.0 
n on-controlling interests 30.2 30.0 37.1 40.8 37.8 
t otal equity 208.0 214.6 252.1 270.2 271.8 
Ordinary dividends per share (paid) 7.0p 4.5p 7.0p 7.7p 9.25p 
Earnings per share
Basic 22.2p 7.1p 15.8p 26.9p 20.2p
d iluted 21.6p 6.8p 15.0p 25.7p 19.9p
Basic before amortisation of intangible assets 23.4p 13.2p 18.7p 29.9p 23.2p
d iluted before amortisation of intangible assets 22.8p 12.6p 17.8p 28.6p 22.8p
GRo UP statisti Cal in Fo Rmation
Under adopted iFRss Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 127
o verview Business review Governance Financial statements
sHa ReHolde R in Fo Rmation
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2012
 n umber of holdings % of total holdings n umber of shares % of share capital 
size of holding 1 – 2,000 6,072 72.64 3,303,042 1.18
2,001 – 5,000 1,218 14.57 3,912,488 1.40
5,001 – 10,000 524 6.27 3,705,374 1.32
10,001 – 50,000 311 3.72 6,621,728 2.37
50,001 – 100,000 52 0.62 3,728,317 1.33
100,001 and above 182 2.18 258,470,466 92.40
8,359 100.00 279,741,415 100.00
Holding classification individuals 7,130 85.30 14,996,936 5.36
n ominee companies 1,124 13.45 258,546,337 92.42
t rusts (pension funds etc) 9 0.10 104,734 0.04
o thers 96 1.15 6,093,408 2.18
8,359 100.00 279,741,415 100.00
Key dates
d ividends subject to members’ approval at the 2013 a Gm and to any s crip alternative, a final cash  
dividend of 6.4 pence per o rdinary share of 25 pence shall be paid in respect of the  
financial year ended 31 d ecember 2012.
31 may 2013
t he dividend shall be paid on 31 may 2013 to holders of o rdinary shares on the register  
of members at the close of business on 19 a pril 2013.
Preference dividends subject to the relevant detailed terms and approvals of the Board of d irectors where 
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and 28 march 2013 and
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each 1 o ctober 2013
a nnual General meeting t he 2013 a nnual General meeting will take place on 10 may 2013
Financial results t he half-year results are announced in July with the Report and a ccounts for the year  
normally posted in march
Other information 
Capital gains tax t he market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 march 1982 were: 
o rdinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence 
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each 30.5 pence 
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each 28.5 pence 
For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of o rdinary shares is adjusted to take account of  
rights issues. a ny capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account  
of indexation allowances. since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, 
shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
share price t he price can be obtained on the Company’s website: www.morgancrucible.com
isin Code GB0006027295
ticker symbol mGCR  128 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012 128 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
sHa ReHolde R in Fo Rmation
continued
Company details 
Registered office Quadrant, 55-57 High street, Windsor, Berkshire sl 4 1l P Registered in england n o. 286773
t elephone: 01753 837000   Fax: 01753 850872
Website: www.morgancrucible.com 
Company registrars Capita Registrars, t he Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4t U
t elephone (in UK): 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are  
open monday-Friday, 9.00am-5.30pm)
t elephone (from overseas): +44 (0) 20 8639 3399
email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
share portal t he Capita share Portal (www.capitashareportal.com) is an online service enabling you to quickly 
and easily access and maintain your shareholding online, reducing the need for paperwork and 
providing 24-hour access for your convenience. t hrough the share portal you may, for example, 
view your holding balance, view the dividend payments you have received and register and  
change bank mandate instructions so that dividends can be paid directly to your bank account.
Scrip Dividend Scheme t he Company’s scrip d ividend scheme enables shareholders to receive new, fully paid,  
o rdinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends whenever a scrip alternative is  
offered. s crip elections can be made or revoked either online at www.capitashareportal.com  
or by contacting the Company’s registrars to request a paper copy of the mandate form and  
the scrip d ividend scheme terms and conditions.
Unsolicited telephone  
calls and mail
if you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares  
you own, or free company or research reports, further information about what you should do 
before handing over any money is available on our website (www.morgancrucible.com/investors/
shareholder-centre/unsolicited-telephone-calls-and-mail/). This Report has been printed in the UK. our printers are environmental management 
system ISo 14001-accredited and f orest Stewardship Council (fSC) chain of 
custody-certified. All inks used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally  
friendly ECf (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-free with a high content of selected 
pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully fSC-certified. The paper is also 
completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to 
other interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
FSC logo to be placed here
Overview
01 Strategy
02 Morgan Crucible at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
Business review
06  Chief Executive o fficer’s 
review
08 Group business review
09 Key performance indicators 
10 Review of operations 
18 Corporate responsibility
28 f inancial review
32 Risk management 
34  Key resources and  
contractual relationships
35 Cautionary statement
Governance
36  Board of Directors and
 Executive Committee
38  Directors’ report
42  Corporate governance
49  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
50 Remuneration report
67 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
68  C o n s ol i d a t ed i n c o m e 
statement
69  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t e m en t  
of comprehensive income
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of changes in equity
72  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of cash flows
73 Notes to the consolidated 
 financial statements
116 Company balance sheet
117  Notes to the Company  
balance sheet
126 Group statistical information
127 Shareholder information
MOr Gan Cru CiBle  
IS A Wo RLD-LEADER IN 
ADVANCED MATERIALS
We produce a wide range of specialist, 
high-specification materials that have 
extraordinary attributes and properties.
Engineered into products, they deliver 
enhanced performance, often under 
extreme conditions.
o ur dynamic, highly skilled people are 
continuously engaged in finding solutions  
for complex and technologically demanding 
applications, which are used all over  
the world.
In short, we supply innovative, differentiated 
products made from highly technical advanced 
materials which enable our customers’ 
products and processes to perform more 
efficiently, more reliably and for longer.
  f or more information about Morgan Crucible, 
please visit our website.
   www.morgancrucible.com
  f ind out more about Morgan Crucible graduate 
recuitment on facebook.
   www.facebook.com/morganceramics Morgan Crucible
Annual Report 2012
ADVANCED MATERIALS
 RESILIENT pERfoRMANCE
The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012 
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1Lp
Tel: +44 (0)1753 837000 
f ax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morgancrucible.com
