 Morgan Crucible
Annual Report 201 1
ADVANCED MATERIALS
RECORD RESULTS
CONTINUING AMBITION
The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 201 1
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP
Tel: +44 (0)1753 837000 
Fax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morgancrucible.com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Overview
01  Operational and financial 
highlights
02 Morgan Crucible at a glance
04  Chief Executive Officer’s 
strategic review 
06 Market sector reviews
20 Chairman’s statement
Business review
22  Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
24 Group business review
25 Key performance indicators 
26 Review of operations 
34 Corporate responsibility
44 Financial review
48 Risk management 
50  Key resources and  
contractual relationships
51 Cautionary statement
Governance
52  Board of Directors and  
Executive Committee
54  Directors’ report
58  Corporate governance
65  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
66 Remuneration report
77 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
78  C o n s ol i d a t ed i n c o m e 
statement
79  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of comprehensive income
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of changes in equity
82  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of cash flows
83 Notes to the consolidated 
 financial statements
129 Company balance sheet
130  Notes to the Company  
balance sheet
139 Group statistical information
140 Shareholder information
This Report has been printed in the UK. Our printers are environmental management 
system ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of 
custody-certified. All inks used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally  
friendly ECF (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-free with a high content of selected 
pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully FSC-certified. The paper is also 
completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on  
to other interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
FSC logo to be placed here
MORGAN CRUCIBLE  
IS A WORLD-LEADER  
IN ADVANCED MATERIALS
We produce a wide range of specialist,  
high-specification materials that have  
extraordinary attributes and properties.
Engineered into products, they deliver  
enhanced performance, often under  
extreme conditions.
Our dynamic, highly skilled people  
are continuously engaged in finding  
solutions for complex and technologically  
demanding applications, which are  
used all over the world.
In short, we supply innovative,  
differentiated products made from highly  
technical advanced materials which enable  
our customers’ products and processes  
to perform more efficiently, more reliably  
and for longer.
 T r ans por t a t i on
page 08
 P etrochemical
page 14
 Healthcare
page 18
Security & Defence
page 10
Energy
page 16
 Electronics
page 12
 Industrial
page 06 Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 01
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
>  A year of strong performance 
with record revenue and 
operating profit for the Group
>  Revenue for the year increased 
by 8.2% to £1,101.0 million
>  Underlying profit before  
taxation
*
 increased by 58.1%  
to £1 19.7 million
>  Underlying earnings per share
***
 
increased by 59.9% to 29.9 pence 
per share
>  Proposed final dividend increased 
by 20.0% to 6.0 pence, giving a 
full-year dividend of 9.25 pence
OPeRAti On Al A nd  
Fin Anci Al hiG hliG hts
Revenue
Continuing businesses £m
2009
2010
2011
942.6
1,017.1
1,101.0
+8.2%
Underlying profit 
before taxation
*
Continuing businesses £m
2009
2010
2011
47.7
75.7
119.7
+58.1%
Underlying earnings 
per share
***
Pence
2009
2010
2011
13.2
18.7
29.9
+59.9%
Underlying operating 
profit
**
 margin
Continuing businesses %
2009
2010
2011
8.2
10.0
12.9
*
  Defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets  
less net financing costs.
**
  Defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
***
  Defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation  
of intangible assets.  02 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
A truly global operation with 
significant and growing levels  
of business in the dynamic 
growth economies of Asia  
and south America.
Our regions
> 
Morgan c rucible’s markets
> 
MORGAn c RUci Ble 
At A G l Ance
1 Industrial 41% 5 Petrochemical 8%
2 Transportation 1 7% 6 Energy 8%
3 Security & Defence 1 1% 7 Healthcare 4%
4 Electronics 1 1%
2
3
4
5
6
7
£1 , 101.0m
2011 total revenue
1
£429.3m
£382.5m
£45.4m
£243.8m
South America
Asia and Rest of World
North America
Europe Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 03
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Our d ivisions
> 
Morgan Ceramics uses its expertise in material science 
and applications engineering to manufacture custom 
products for demanding environments.
t hrough its t echnical c eramics Business it supplies customer-specific, 
applications-engineered industrial products manufactured from 
advanced materials including structural ceramic, electro-ceramic and 
precious metals. t he t hermal c eramics Business provides thermal 
management solutions for high-temperature applications which 
benefit technically, financially and environmentally from optimised 
energy and emissions control.
Core products
 > insulating fibre, insulating bricks and monolithics
 > c eramic cores for complex turbine blades
 > c omponents for electron tubes
 > Feedthroughs for medical implants
 > Piezoelectric ceramic actuators 
Core markets
 > industrial
 > t ransportation
 > electronics
 > Petrochemical
 > energy
 > h ealthcare
Revenue £m
685.2m
Divisional EBITA
*
 £m 
c ontinuing business
92.7m
Morgan Engineered Materials delivers materials 
technology through its global businesses.
Morgan engineered Materials delivers highly engineered solutions 
across the world from a portfolio of advanced material technologies 
that include carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics and 
advanced polymeric composites. t he d ivision’s core applications  
are industrial and rail transportation, fluid handling, power generation 
(gas turbine, solar and wind), molten metal handling and advanced 
lightweight ceramic/composite armour systems for personnel and 
vehicle protection.
Core products
 > electrical brushes
 > seals and bearings
 > Protective ballistic armour
 > Ultra-high-temperature insulation
 > crucibles
 > l ithium ion battery anode materials
Core markets
 > industrial
 > security & d efence
 > t ransportation
 > energy
 > electronics
 > Petrochemical
Revenue £m
4 15.8m
Divisional EBITA
*
 £m 
c ontinuing business
55.7m
*
 Divisional EBITA is defined as segment operating profit before restructuring costs,  
other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
MORGAn c eRAMics MORGAn en GineeR ed M AteR iAls  04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Ambitious goals to 2013 with  
very substantial progress made  
against them in 201 1.
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer
chie F exec Utive OFF ice R’s  
stRA te Gic R eview
    Be number one or  
number two in our  
chosen market segments
     Be innovative, differentiated 
and high value-added  
to our customers
   Our goal is to continue  
to be one of the world’s  
very best advanced  
materials companies
OUR GOAl
   Our aim is to create 
long-term sustainable 
shareholder value
OUR AiM
    Focus on higher growth, 
higher margin, 
non-economically  
cyclical markets
     have a culture of  
operational excellence  
and cost efficiency
st RAte Gic PR iORities
     Find, keep and develop  
the right people Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 05
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
*
 Group underlying PBT is defined as operating profit before amortisation.
**
 Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
***
  Return on Operating Capital Employed is defined as Group underlying operating profit divided by the sum of Working Capital (which excludes pension liability and provisions) 
and the net book value of tangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
in the early part of 201 1 we announced  
three financial goals which we aim to  
deliver by the end of 2013. t hese are to:
1.  d ouble Group underlying PBt
*
  
from £75.7 million to circa £150 million
2.  Achieve mid-teen underlying operating 
profit
**
 margin
3.  improve Return on Operating c apital 
employed
***
 from circa 25% in 2010  
to circa 35% by 2013
3-YeAR GOAls
t he Group’s strong financial performance  
in 201 1 means that we have made significant 
progress on all three of these goals over the 
past year.
h Ow we AR e d Oin G
1.  Group underlying PBt increased  
by 58.1% from £75.7 million to  
£1 19.7 million
2.  Underlying operating profit margin 
increased by 290 basis points from  
10.0% to 12.9%
3.  Return on Operating c apital employed 
improved from 25.4% to 33.7%
circa 
£150m
2013 
Underlying 
PBt
£75.7m
2010  
Underlying 
PBt
*
selective use of  
value-accretive M&A
Growth in new  
markets/products,  
eg clean energy, hdd
Recovery and organic 
growth in traditional 
businesses
Rapid growth potential 
in dynamic growth 
economies
c ost benefits of low-cost 
manufacturing and 
divisional streamlining  06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics makes high-performance ceramic materials  
that are resistant to chemical and physical wear, corrosion and  
extreme heat. t hey are ideal for equipment destined for harsh 
processing environments.
t he d ivision is developing new ceramic membranes for efficient 
industrial water filtration and purification. i t makes a range of  
high-temperature components that are used in heating pumps, 
thermocouples and other specialist thermal processing equipment  
for applications from industrial annealing to the manufacture of 
medical devices.
its ceramic rollers are deployed in kilns used to manufacture metals, 
glass and ceramic-ware and its n ilcra
®
 MgPsZ (magnesia partially 
stabilised zirconia) is widely used in severe-service valves and pumps.
insulating products from Morgan c eramics, such as monolithic linings 
and firebricks, help manufacturers control a variety of thermal processing 
operations, thereby optimising throughput and yields. its fire protection 
products are used in all types of building and infrastructure projects.  
its piezoelectric materials are used in high-power ultrasonic systems  
and it also designs and manufactures sensors and transducers.
Morgan Engineered Materials is a leading global supplier of carbon 
brushes, linear collectors and rotary current transfer products to 
equipment manufacturers in a large range of industrial markets.  
From the processing industries of steel, chemicals and pharmaceuticals 
to food, paper and cement, the d ivision has developed advanced brush 
materials to maximise performance, system life and energy efficiency, 
thereby lowering total maintenance and operating costs. in addition  
to these electrical applications, Morgan AM&t manufactures a range  
of carbon and graphite felt and rigid board materials and machined 
graphite that are used in high temperature furnaces, where the  
structural and purity characteristics of Morgan’s products are critical.
t he Molten Metal systems Business is the recognised world-leader in 
crucibles for foundries, die-casters and metal melting facilities working 
with for zinc, precious metals, aluminium, copper, brass, bronze and 
other non-ferrous materials.
iMPROvin G PeRFORMAnce 
in hi Gh -tech indU st RiAl 
PROcesses
Morgan t echnical c eramics has developed 
a new silicon carbide material for  
hardwearing seals used in ‘long-life’ pumps 
for demanding processing applications.
it offers better reliability for reduced  
downtime and maintenance costs.
2x
better wear rate than other materials
lO n G-li Fe PUMPs Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 07
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible’s products are used in a broad 
range of challenging process and manufacturing 
environments. From foundry equipment to seals 
and bearings for industrial fluids, handling and 
insulation products for thermal processing,  
its advanced materials improve process efficiency 
and productivity, minimise waste and reduce 
environmental impact.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
Morgan MMs is supporting c hina’s efforts 
to recycle more aluminium and other  
non-ferrous materials.
t raditionally a leader in the production and 
consumption of non-ferrous metals, china 
is increasingly turning to recycled materials 
for its manufacturing industries, creating 
new demand for crucibles.
>25%
increase in demand for recycled aluminium
in c hina
Met Al Rec Yclin G
One of the world’s largest sea defence projects, 
the Modulo sperimentale elettromeccanico 
(MOse ) in venice, italy, is using 40km of 
FireMaster
®
 Fastw rap xl ™ fire protection 
blanket from Morgan t hermal c eramics.
t he installation will provide essential 
protection for the historic city for the next 
hundred years.
 100 years
of protection
se A deF ence
Morgan AM&t ’s patented silicon carbide 
composite has increased reliability in 
down-hole submersible pump applications, 
enabling the extraction of water in the 
south-western United states plagued  
by drought conditions.
2x
the seal life of previous designs
sUBMeRsi Ble PUMP 
APPlic AtiO ns  08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics makes ceramic and brazed alloy parts that help  
its customers improve the efficiency and reliability of their products.  
t he ceramic materials offer a combination of mechanical, electrical, 
thermal and chemical properties that makes them an attractive, 
cost-effective option for designers of transportation systems, whilst  
the thermal management products are widely used for fire protection.
in the aerospace industry the d ivision supplies specialist braze alloy  
parts for use in aero-engine build and repair and ceramic components 
for engine monitoring and control, instrumentation and guidance 
systems. c eramic cores and insulation materials are used in the casting 
of turbine blades.
in the automotive sector it supplies ceramic components for a  
new hybrid vehicle and piezoceramic materials that are used widely  
in fuel level sensors, parking aids, alarm sensors, wheel balancing,  
engine knock sensors and ignition systems. 
Morgan Engineered Materials is a leading supplier of advanced material 
solutions to the railroad and transit industry, providing carbon brushes, 
commutation system components, earthing brushes, third rail and 
pantograph collectors through its global network. Application engineers 
work with customers to deliver customised solutions and research  
and development facilities enhance the solutions provided to customers 
with analytical and machine testing.
t he d ivision plays a vital role in the world’s aerospace industry from 
commercial airlines and military aircraft to helicopters. c arbon and 
graphite components are manufactured for a range of demanding 
applications, including jet engine main shaft bearing seals, electrical 
brushes for alternators and generators, bearings for fuel pumps and  
high temperature carbon fabrics for insulating systems.
in the automotive sector the d ivision supplies graphite anode materials 
for lithium ion batteries used in electric vehicles and is engaged in 
developing next generation materials with a number of partners  
in this exciting new growth market.
iMPROvin G eFFicienc Y  
And R eli ABilit Y in  
GlOBA l t RAns PORtAti On
Morgan t echnical c eramics is supplying 
ceramic components for water-cooling 
pumps used in electric vehicles. c eramic is 
resistant to chemical attack from the glycol 
coolant and provides long life. its reduced 
weight contributes to low noise running and 
increased energy efficiency of the vehicle.
 60%
lighter than steel
vehicle w Ate R-c OOlinG Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible plays a significant role in the 
world’s transport industries. t he Group makes 
precision-engineered materials for commercial 
and military aircraft and vehicles, as well as vital 
components for the rail and marine sectors.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
Morgan t hermal c eramics’ Min-K
®
 F382 
and Min-K
®
 F351 materials are used for  
fire barriers in challenging high-temperature 
aerospace applications. t hey offer  
20-25% lower thermal conductivity  
than the industry standard F182 and  
F150 microporous materials.
20%
lower thermal conductivity
AeROsPAce FiRe BARRieRs
Morgan AM&t provides high-duty water 
pump seal-face components using patented 
silicon carbide composite that have reduced 
warranty claims and significantly increased 
reliability in off-road vehicles.
 50%
reduction in warranty claims
OFF-ROAd w Ate R PUMPs
Modern rail systems have huge potential  
to make major savings in global demand  
for oil. Morgan AM&t is capitalising on 
significant global growth in this sector, 
supplying carbon pantographs for  
high-speed rail and city metro systems.
$ 1 trillion 
(
+
)
global rail investment
hi Gh -sPeed RAil s YsteM s  10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics’ superior materials technology and impressive 
manufacturing capability deliver real performance benefits in the field  
for applications from military hardware to surveillance equipment and 
armour for personnel and vehicle protection.
it makes lightweight, heavy-duty fire protection systems for naval vessels, 
working to far higher specifications than is required for commercial 
shipping. its FireMaster
®
 system is certified to meet most national and 
international military standards.
it manufactures lightweight pre-stressed piezoceramic tubes that provide 
high-acoustic output for the most demanding military sonar systems  
and is a major supplier to manufacturers of power tubes for use in image 
intensifiers, electronic counter-measure equipment and communications.
t he unique properties of its metallised alumina ceramics have enabled 
the manufacture of significantly smaller, higher resolution x -ray tubes for 
luggage and cargo scanners, and its d iamonex™ diamond-like carbon 
coatings are used in fingerprint swipe sensors.
Morgan Engineered Materials is a global leader in lightweight armour 
systems. its n P Aerospace business has an unparalleled record in rapid 
fielding of new equipment in support of defence programmes around 
the world. it is a critical resource supplier to the UK’s Ministry of 
d efence and has supplied tactical wheeled vehicles and other 
equipment for use in iraq and Afghanistan. 
n P Aerospace develops and manufactures advanced lightweight armour 
solutions for tactical wheeled vehicles. t hese unique solutions combine 
n P Aerospace’s expertise in ceramics, composites and ballistics and  
are typically less than 40% of the weight of an equivalent armoured  
steel solution.
Morgan AM&t is a major tier 2 supplier of body armour systems used 
by the Us military. i n the UK n P Aerospace is the prime supplier for 
integrated body armour systems to the UK Ministry of d efence.
enh Ancin G PROtective QUAlities  
FOR sec URit Y & de Fence APP lic AtiO ns
Metallised aluminas from Morgan t echnical 
c eramics enable security scanners to  
operate with higher accelerating voltages. 
As a result equipment manufacturers  
can build smaller x -ray tubes with  
a much better resolution and faster 
throughput speed for luggage, cargo  
and parcel inspection.
2x
increase in focal spot power
sec URit Y sc AnneR s Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible’s lightweight body and  
vehicle armour technology and its fire insulation 
products help to protect civilian, military and 
naval personnel around the world. t he Group 
also makes ceramic components for surveillance 
equipment and sonar systems.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
c oastal protection and naval ships  
worldwide use lightweight high-performance 
FireMaster
®
 fire protection products from 
Morgan t hermal c eramics.
t he products are chosen because they  
are able to meet higher specifications than 
those required for commercial shipping.
 13.5%
higher temperatures than commercial ships
c OAstA l PROtecti On
A new ceramic protection system 
developed by the d efence science and 
t echnology l aboratory and n P Aerospace, 
is being used to protect troops and military 
vehicles from the threat of improvised 
explosive devices and machine-gun fire.
50%
lighter than equivalent steel armour
Milit ARY PROtecti On
n P Aerospace has developed and  
manufactured armour solutions which  
are typically more than 40% lighter than an 
equivalent performance armoured steel 
solution by integrating high-technology 
ceramic and composite materials.
 40%
lighter than equivalent systems
ARMOUR sOl Uti Ons  12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics makes piezoceramic components that are versatile, 
durable, and stable, with excellent thermal and electrical properties.  
its broad range of dielectric materials offers high-quality capacitance  
for applications from laser instrumentation to microwave and  
high-voltage systems.
t he d ivision engineers many different ceramic components and 
ceramic-metal sub-assemblies to high specifications to meet the 
demanding precision, reliability and cost requirements of semiconductor 
fabricators and manufacturers of consumer electronics. 
examples include piezoceramic actuators for high-capacity hard drive 
disk (hdd ) data storage which enable the head to be positioned with 
extraordinary accuracy and vibration control, and wire-wound ceramic 
RF inductors for mobile phones, laptops, hd -tv s, lighting controls, 
sensors and wireless devices. t he d ivision is a major supplier of 
components for electron tubes used in communications, signalling  
and control equipment.
its high-purity alumina ceramic is used extensively for waveguides in 
cO
2
 lasers and insulators in excimer lasers creating robust assemblies 
that resist the combination of voltages, temperatures and harsh 
environments.
Morgan Engineered Materials is helping the electronics industry  
to achieve smaller, faster, lower-cost devices. its products are found  
at the heart of many electronics innovations and in semiconductor 
fabrication processes including ion implantation, epitaxy and compound 
crystal growth.
t he d ivision supplies products used in the manufacture of components 
such as optical fibres and silicon wafers and is securing a growing 
presence in the high-growth led market.
t he market has come to value the d ivision’s engineered solutions, 
innovation and global reach and its ability to deliver advanced materials 
that are able to work at higher temperature and have the higher purity 
levels needed to achieve the required performance.
en GineeR in G hi Gh -PeRFORMAnce , 
PRecisi On PROd Ucts FOR the 
elect ROnics sectOR
c eramic handling equipment from Morgan 
t echnical c eramics is a critical component 
in next-generation 450mm semiconductor 
wafer fabrication facilities.
Alumina’s combination of strength and 
stiffness allows for thinner wafer handlers, 
which enables closer stacking and better 
productivity.
 15%
increase in stacking density
seMic OndU ct OR  
stORAGe Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 13
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible engineers precision parts for  
an increasing number of niche applications in 
consumer, telecoms and specialist electronics. 
t he Group helps manufacturers continue to 
drive towards higher performance and reliability 
in smaller, lighter, more robust products.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
Morgan t echnical c eramics makes 
piezoceramic actuator plates for disk drive 
storage in devices from hd -tv s to Pc s. 
c eramic enables the head to be positioned 
with greater accuracy allowing for higher 
capacity without increasing disk size.
20%
more capacity
d AtA st ORAGe  
FAcilities
Graphite felt from Morgan AM&t is used to 
provide a uniform thermal environment for 
crystal growth in led sapphire production.
its stable insulation enables long process 
cycles and improves insulation life and its 
chemical inertness reduces contamination 
of the sapphire ingot.
 99.99 %
purity
led s APPhi Re  
PROdU ctiO n
Morgan AM&t ’s material expertise  
and custom process solutions is helping  
semiconductor device manufacturers  
to reduce the line width by 50%  
(45nm to 22nm in 2016) with ultra-pure, 
precision-machined graphite components 
used in the manufacturing processes.
50%
reduction in line width
seMic OndU ct OR 
c OMPOn ents  14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics supplies a wide range of products for projects in the 
global petrochemical market. t he d ivision’s high-performance ceramic 
materials provide a level of precision and reliability equally suited to the 
harsh environments of drilling and refining.
it also supplies entire heat management solutions for fired heaters, 
sulphur recovery units, fluid catalytic cracking units and boilers. 
FireMaster
®
 fire protection systems are comprehensively certified  
and extensively tested to meet national and international standards, 
offering proven fire protection performance.
Morgan c eramics recently launched a range of very hardwearing 
components made of d eranox
®
 975 alumina designed for use in 
hydrocyclones where sand and other solids are separated from  
the liquid hydrocarbon stream. it is a very harsh environment for 
mechanical equipment and the reliability of the specialist materials  
helps to protect sensitive instrumentation such as export pumps  
and heat exchangers downstream.
Morgan Engineered Materials uses its wide range of carbon and silicon 
carbide materials to manufacture critical seals and bearings for pumps 
and compressors used in fluid handling applications in the petrochemical 
industry. t he d ivision’s products are able to reduce and sometimes 
eliminate fugitive gas and product vapour emissions from valves, pumps, 
compressors and other pressurised equipment which is imperative 
across this sector. w ith leading edge materials offering excellent wear 
characteristics for extreme applications, a broad product offering  
and worldwide manufacturing and customer support, it is recognised  
as the leading global provider of seal faces, bearings, rotors and vanes  
in this market.
devel OPin G hAR de R-we ARin G  
And l On GeR-l Astin G PROd Ucts  
FOR the Pet ROche Mic Al indU st RY
Morgan t hermal c eramics provided
 1 0,000m
2
 of FireMaster
®
 Marine Plus  
blanket for living quarters of the fixed  
processing platform on GUd RUn oil field.
superior thermal conductivity allowed  
a very lightweight installation with  
a high standard of protection.
20%
lighter than conventional products
Oil R iG sAFet Y Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 15
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible supplies products to the  
global petrochemical industry including heat 
management insulation and fire protection 
systems for offshore exploration and 
downstream processing. its high-performance 
components are ideal for severe-duty service 
valves, pumps and tooling.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
h ardwearing d eranox
®
 975 alumina  
from Morgan t echnical c eramics is ideal  
for making long-lasting components for  
use in the harsh processing environment  
of the hydrocyclone where sand and  
other solids are separated from the  
liquid hydrocarbon stream.
98%
of 50µm particles screened
hYd ROc ARBOn 
PROcessinG
Morgan AM&t produces PG s -100 
graphite-loaded sintered silicon carbide, 
which is the material of choice for a wide 
range of petroleum industry equipment, 
including use with highly corrosive sour 
crude at 700°F.
n o other material can perform in  
these conditions.
 100%
better than any other material
PetRO le UM ind UstRY 
eQUiPMent
Using high-performance insulating materials 
from Morgan t hermal c eramics, the heat 
loss from high temperature furnaces, like 
those used in ethylene crackers, can be 
reduced by around 20%. t his ensures 
significant energy savings and reduces 
external casing temperatures.
20%
reduction in heat loss
hi Gh -PeRFORMAnce
insU l Ati On  16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics makes high-performance insulating products  
that enable users to reduce energy costs and improve environmental 
performance. t he d ivision’s ceramic live line indicators are used in  
high-voltage dc power distribution applications all over the world.  
t he d ivision’s high-temperature insulating fibre, bricks and monolithics 
are used to optimise thermal efficiency in industrial applications from 
500°c to 1,600° c . 
l atest-generation low bio-persistent superwool
®
 Plus™ Fibre is used  
in duct and chimney insulation, process heater linings, pipe wrap and 
automotive exhaust heat shields where its exceptionally low thermal 
conductivity allows engineers to specify a significantly thinner blanket  
to achieve the same level of insulation.
t he d ivision makes products used in the manufacture of thin-film 
photovoltaic cells for the solar industry, and it manufactures cores  
used in the production of blades for industrial gas turbines.
A new ultrasonic sensor launched this year helps reduce energy usage 
by providing precise and reliable measurement of heat and water flow 
even in harsh environments.
Morgan Engineered Materials makes components that are  
critical to traditional power generation, the nuclear industry and 
renewable energy.
t he d ivision is a world leader in advanced high-temperature solutions 
which provide major producers of poly-silicon and silicon ingots the 
means to enhance solar cell performance.
its crucibles are widely used in the manufacture of metal components 
for electricity distribution and transmission systems. its carbon brushes 
and rotary transfer systems, designed to perform in the harshest 
environment, are used widely in wind power applications and its  
634 grade is the gold standard for turbo generator brush applications  
the world over.
t he acquisition of Morgan AM&t h airong complemented on-going 
product development and broadened Morgan engineered Materials’ 
presence in renewable energy to now include graphite materials for 
anodes used in lithium-ion batteries for portable electronic devices  
and electric vehicles.
incR eAsin G POwe R  
And sUst AinAB ilit Y  
in the eneRGY sectOR
Morgan t hermal c eramics’ lining  
materials are used in insulating systems for 
high-temperature processing equipment in 
chemical plants and hydrocarbon refineries.
t his can have a significant effect in reducing 
energy usage, costs and greenhouse  
gas emissions.
20%
lower thermal conductivity
hi Gh -te MPeRAt URe 
PROcessin G Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 17
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible continues to develop  
high-performance products for the evolving 
energy sector. t he Group makes components  
for power distribution and generation  
from renewable and traditional sources  
and is a world-leader in heat management 
insulation products.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
Piezoceramic from Morgan t echnical 
c eramics is used in new smart gas meter 
technology being rolled out across the UK.
Accurate, real-time energy consumption 
data helps consumers save energy.
£14 billion
predicted UK savings through use of 
smart meters
sMARt GA s Mete Rin G
Morgan AM&t has helped to reduce energy 
and maintenance costs for production of 
electronic grade poly-silicon by up to 50%. 
customers benefit from a 20% reduction  
in the cost of capital due to optimised 
throughput using Morgan AM&t ’s materials 
and applications know-how.
50%
reduction in costs
eneRGY c Ost 
RedU ctiO n
Morgan AM&t provide low-friction 
high-strength seal face components  
that significantly improves the energy 
efficiency of water pumps allowing  
drinking water to be delivered more 
extensively in developing countries.
30%
reduction in energy consumption
elect Ricit Y sUPPl Y  18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan Ceramics’ materials are used in precision tools including dental 
descalers and specialist ultrasonic surgery scalpels. its ceramic capacitors 
and reflectors can be found in lasers for eye surgery. it supplies critical 
components used in implantable devices such as pacemakers, cochlear 
implants, defibrillators and implants for neuro-stimulation.
in a recent breakthrough in cancer treatment, an efficient and minimally 
invasive new procedure to ablate tumours has been made possible 
because of a very small, precision ceramic tip engineered for the 
treatment needle by Morgan c eramics. Additionally, for throat cancer 
patients, a new long-lasting speech valve has been developed using 
zirconia ceramic components.
t he d ivision recently launched a tube contact sensor for accurate 
detection of occlusions in medical infusion lines. t he sensor gives 
non-invasive detection of pressure changes, providing instrument 
manufacturers with a simple and reliable method of recognising  
when the tube is blocked.
t he d ivision also makes key components for instrumentation and 
diagnostic equipment such as ultrasonic imaging, x -ray, c At and MR i 
scanners. t he superior piezoelectric ceramic components are used 
extensively in medical ultrasound to enable increased image resolution, 
while its multilayer chip capacitors are used in MRi systems to tune the 
magnetic field accurately.
Piezoelectric components are popular in applications such as blood flow 
measurement and foetal heart monitors for their reliability and accurate 
detection. Additionally, they can be found in ultrasonic air-in-line sensors 
in medical devices and infusion pumps.
Morgan Engineered Materials makes advanced composites  
used in place of metal components in an x -ray treatment couch.  
t he components help to ensure that patients are positioned correctly 
for optimum treatment, higher image quality and lower x -ray doses.
in endoscopes and scanners, rotary distributors are employed wherever 
rotary transmission of electric currents, data and signals is called for. 
small-diameter slip rings are installed in operating theatre lamps.
inn OvAtin G in Medic Al  
devices A nd he Althc ARe 
inst RUMentAti On
A precision-engineered ceramic tip made  
by Morgan t echnical c eramics is used  
in a new treatment to ablate tumours.
t he minimally invasive procedure means 
that patient trauma following surgery is 
reduced and post-operation recovery  
times are significantly shorter.
70%
reduction in hospital recuperation time
t UMOUR tR eAtM ent Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible makes ceramic components 
used in medical instrumentation for monitoring 
and diagnostics, and tools for treatment and 
surgery. its medical engineering expertise 
includes orthopaedic replacement ceramic  
joints and specialised ceramic assemblies for 
implantable devices.
SUSTAINABILITY     EFFICIENCY      RELIABILITY        PERFORMANCE
ADVANCED
MATERIALS
INDUSTRIAL  /  HEALTHCARE  /  ENERGY  /  PETROCHEMICAL  /  ELECTRONICS  /  SECURITY & DEFENCE  /  TRANSPORTATION  /
Morgan t echnical c eramics has created  
a medical ceramic-to-metal feed-through 
array for an implantable device, which,  
it is hoped, will be able to restore sight  
to patients suffering from blindness caused 
by Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP).
 > 75,000
people suffer from RP in the Us A
eYe iMPl Ants
Morgan t echnical c eramics components 
are increasingly used in x -ray and  
c At scanning machines in preference  
to traditional glass. t he high-purity, 
engineered components help equipment 
manufacturers produce machines that  
offer longer life, higher power and  
better performance.
2x
the speed of conventional scanners
x -RAY And  
c At sc Anne Rs
Morgan t echnical c eramics is working  
with medical equipment suppliers on  
highly engineered multi-pin feed-throughs 
for use in implantable devices to treat 
currently incurable brain diseases including 
Parkinson’s, dystonia and epilepsy.
Precision engineering enables accurate  
application of deep brain stimulation therapy.
 16x
more leads per unit area
BRAin the RAPY  20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
chA iRMAn ’s st Ate Ment
A record year for Morgan c rucible:  
the strongest performance in 155 years 
of history – tribute to a sound and  
well-implemented strategy and a  
skilled and dedicated team of employees.  
A result which puts us well on track  
to achieving our three published goals  
for 2013: doubling of underlying PBt  
to circa £150 million; mid-teen operating 
profit margins and an Operating ROce  
of 35%.
Overview
A stronger global economy and a disciplined 
approach to making reality of our strategy 
delivered sales growth of over 8% at £1,101.0 
million compared to £1,017.1 million in 2010. 
Underlying operating profit was £141.5 million 
compared to £101.6 million in 2010, and 
underlying diluted earnings per share was  
28.6 pence (2010: 17.8 pence). n et debt was 
reduced from £236.2 million to £215.4 million, 
meaning that the net debt to eBitd A ratio 
improved to 1.2 times, compared to 1.7 times 
at d ecember 2010.
A particular success in the year has been the  
positive results achieved from the integration of 
the t hermal c eramics and t echnical c eramics 
businesses in 2010. t he anticipated benefits 
have been successfully delivered; more 
important, it is clear that the relative strengths 
of each Business complement each other  
in a way that can be used to improve the 
performance of both. 
Dividend
Against this background the Board is 
recommending a 20% increase in the final 
dividend to 6.0 pence per Ordinary share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to  
9.25 pence.
Tim Stevenson Chairman
Dividend per share
Pence
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
6.75
7.0
7.0
7.7
9.25
+20%
Tim Stevenson Chairman Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Board and Governance
w e pay close attention to the need for our 
Board to add substantial value to the work of 
the executive by ensuring that non-executives 
have a real understanding of the business;  
that they know its senior people and that  
the culture of the Board is conducive to 
straightforward debate and challenge on  
the right issues at the right level of discussion.  
t he setting of agendas is carefully managed 
through the year to ensure that all key areas  
of strategy are covered and that the Board  
has the maximum possible exposure to  
senior employees from across the Group.  
t his is achieved also by ensuring regular visits 
to Group locations and attendance at Group 
executive meetings.
w ith seven members the Board is small 
enough to enable full discussion and the 
characteristics of the non-executive cadre 
provide a valuable variety of approach in 
discussion of major issues. t he current 
effectiveness of the Board was confirmed by  
a thorough external review conducted during 
the year by d r t racy l ong. d r l ong’s review 
made suggestions for ways in which the Board’s 
performance could be further improved:  
these are dealt with in more detail later in  
the Governance section of this Report. Most 
important is the need to ensure that as existing 
non-executive directors retire there is an 
appropriate, managed process of renewal.  
An important part of this will be to ensure that 
so far as possible there is useful diversity of skill 
and experience. By diversity we imply by no 
means just the gender issue – although that  
is important – but the requirement to have 
non-executives with a variety of different 
backgrounds to enable the most appropriate 
stretch and challenge for the executive. 
Outlook
it is impossible in current circumstances to  
be other than cautious about the outlook  
for business in 2012. Yet after a record year  
of revenue and operating profit in 201 1 and 
with healthy order books as we go into the 
new year, we are confident that absent a 
serious exogenous shock – most obviously a 
euro-led crisis – we can successfully continue 
with implementation of what is now a 
well-proven strategy for growth in our 
businesses. even if there is a major economic 
problem, we are well-placed to manage 
through it, both because of the underlying 
strength of all our businesses and because 
management, having amply demonstrated 
appropriate agility through the last recession, 
will be well-prepared for taking the right steps, 
early, to see our way through another.
Morgan c rucible is a well-managed Group 
with a sound culture which elicits strong loyalty 
and commitment from all of its employees.  
t he success that we have had in 201 1 – and 
our firm foundations for the future – is very 
much their success. As always, the Board 
thanks them for their effort, enthusiasm  
and commitment.
Tim Stevenson
chairman  22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
chie F exec Utive OFF ice R’s Review
Group results
t he Group’s continuing strategy of focusing on 
the right growth markets and the right growth 
geographies with innovative, differentiated, 
added-value products drove revenue and 
operating profit to record levels in 201 1.  
As one of the world’s leading advanced 
materials companies, innovation and 
differentiation in our product offerings are  
the bedrock of our long-term profitable  
growth aspirations. i am therefore very 
encouraged by the success we achieved in  
201 1 in commercialising an increasing number 
of new products and technologies, such as our 
growing range of offerings to renewable energy 
markets, our environmentally friendly range of 
low bio-persistent superwool
®
 high-temperature 
insulating fibres, and our piezoceramic 
components being sold into the hard disk drive 
(hdd ) end-market. each of these new 
products and technologies, along with the 
many others which are highlighted in case 
studies throughout this Annual Report, reflect 
the benefits of the investment in research and 
development, innovation, and differentiation 
that Morgan c rucible has been making over 
recent years. t he strong levels of revenue 
growth in 201 1 are the commercial results of 
seeds planted in previous years now beginning 
to blossom and bear fruit.
Our continued expansion into the dynamic-
growth economies of the world such as china, 
india and l atin America also made significant 
strides in 201 1 with our revenue to non-
w estern world markets growing substantially 
year-on-year, up by nearly 20% versus 2010.  
At the same time, our w estern world 
businesses also delivered good growth  
with revenue to n orth America and europe 
(excluding n P Aerospace) up by 7.5% and 
9.8% respectively. w hilst we strongly believe 
that the true test of a long-term, sustainable, 
high-quality business is one which is able to 
deliver profitable long-term organic top-line 
growth, we are equally committed to a 
mindset of continuous improvement to  
drive year-on-year operational efficiencies.  
As a result, during 201 1 we continued to 
increase our production in low-cost locations 
to improve our unit costs of manufacturing.  
in particular, our three factories in Mexico  
are playing a growing role in the supply of 
products to our markets in the United states 
and increasingly other parts of the world. 
t here have also been some significant 
improvements to our operating efficiencies  
in w estern world plants, most notably in  
the new high-temperature products from  
our Morgan AM&t Business as we ramp-up 
into larger commercial volumes and,  
in doing so, find additional ways to improve  
our manufacturing processes.
Overall therefore, the healthy levels of top-line 
growth achieved in 201 1 allied to continuous 
improvement initiatives on our cost base  
meant that our profit increased substantially, 
with Group underlying PBt up by 58.1% 
compared to 2010.
Divisional highlights
t he Morgan c eramics d ivision had a very 
strong year in 201 1 with reported revenue  
up 12.5% versus 2010 (13.7% on a constant 
currency basis). Both the t echnical and 
t hermal c eramics Businesses registered 
double-digit top-line growth rates with  
excellent performance in the dynamic growth 
economies and healthy growth also in the 
w estern world. t echnical c eramics revenue 
grew by 14.0% (16.1% on a constant currency 
basis) compared to 2010 with t hermal 
c eramics delivering 1 1.4% growth  
(12.2% on a constant currency basis).
i am also pleased to report very good progress 
during 201 1 in realising the benefits of the 
merger of the t echnical c eramics and t hermal 
c eramics Businesses that was announced  
in the summer of 2010. t his was undertaken 
with the aim of increasing the potential top-line 
growth rate of each business through 
leveraging their respective strengths: that of 
t hermal c eramics’ deep and well-established 
presence in the dynamic growth economies 
and that of t echnical c eramics in identifying 
distinctive advanced material competencies  
in secular growth, higher margin end-markets. 
Revenue growth initiatives are by their  
nature focused on a medium- to longer-term 
timeframe but the early signs are encouraging 
from both Businesses. For example, we have 
now put in place dedicated t echnical c eramics 
sales and application engineering expertise into 
t hermal c eramics locations around the world 
to open up new potential geographic markets 
in both Asia and l atin America, with a resultant 
i am pleased to report that 201 1 was  
a record breaking year of revenue and 
operating profit for the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23
increase in the flow of new business prospects 
coming into our pipeline. On the t hermal 
c eramics side, significant progress has been 
made in our strategy and plans for global  
high-temperature insulating fibre products. 
Fibre products represent some 20% of total 
Group revenue and i am delighted to say  
that our efforts in research and development  
now mean that we are have a full range of  
low bio-persistent fibres (superwool
®
 products)  
to offer to the market. w e believe that the 
environmentally friendly credentials of the  
new superwool
®
 range combined with their 
technical performance leave us well-placed  
to deliver profitable growth in this important 
business area over the coming years.
t he cost synergies of the d ivisional merger 
– which relate primarily to shared management 
and administration costs – have been delivered 
as planned during the year with circa £6 million 
of benefits in 201 1 which we anticipate will  
rise to a full-year benefit of £8 million pa from 
2012 onwards.
Another highlight of the year in the Morgan 
c eramics d ivision has been the successful 
commercial ramp-up of our hard disk drive 
(hdd ) business. t he operational demands of 
such a significant step-up in volumes have been 
handled admirably by the t echnical c eramics 
team with excellent global co-ordination of 
production activities both in n orth America 
and Asia. Revenue from this product increased 
from circa £6 million in 2010 to over  
£15 million in 201 1 and we are optimistic  
about further revenue growth potential in  
this business during 2012.
t he combination of strong top-line growth 
allied to the benefits of cost reduction initiatives 
mean that d ivisional eBit A for the Morgan 
c eramics d ivision increased by 34.7% from 
£68.8 million to £92.7 million, with d ivisional 
eBit A margin improving from 1 1.3% to 13.5%. 
d ivisional eBit A for the t echnical c eramics 
Business was up 26.8% from £34.0 million  
to £43.1 million with the d ivisional eBit A 
margin improving from 13.6% to 15.1%. 
t hermal c eramics’ d ivisional eBit A  
was up by 42.5% from £34.8 million to  
£49.6 million with operating profit margin 
improving from 9.7% to 12.4%.
t he Morgan engineered Materials d ivision  
also delivered good d ivisional eBit A margin 
progression during the year from 1 1.2%  
in 2010 to 13.4% in 201 1. in this d ivision,  
the top-line growth was 1.9% (2.8% on a 
constant currency basis) as the anticipated 
reduction in Ministry of d efence spending  
on personal and vehicle ballistic protection 
following the surge of troops and equipment 
into Afghanistan during 2007 to 2009 was 
continued from 2010 into 201 1. As a result,  
n P Aerospace, which provides ballistic 
protections solutions into this market,  
saw revenue decline from £120.9 million in 
2010 to £93.0 million in 201 1. encouragingly 
our initiatives to take n P Aerospace’s 
differentiated, light-weight vehicle armour 
solutions to international markets made 
progress during the year. h aving established  
an n P Aerospace office in the Us A in the 
summer of 2010 n P Aerospace won a first 
prototype order for vehicle armour in the  
early part of 201 1 which was then successfully 
converted into a full production order later  
in the year for delivery in the first half of 2012. 
w hilst only small scale at this point, this first 
production order reinforces our view that  
n P Aerospace has an attractive range of 
technologies and solutions with commercial 
potential well beyond the traditional UK market.
t he rest of the Morgan AM&t Business 
delivered healthy revenue growth in 201 1,  
up 1 1.9% versus 2010 at reported rates  
(13.1% on a constant currency basis). t he most 
notable driver of this was strong performance 
from our growing range of carbon-graphite 
insulating materials for high-temperature 
applications such as photovoltaic and led 
processing markets. sales into these markets 
have benefited from significant research and 
development initiatives to develop innovative, 
differentiated products that set industry-leading 
levels of performance in terms of their energy 
efficiency and purity characteristics. As a result, 
sales of high-temperature products increased 
from circa £12 million in 2010 to circa  
£27 million in 201 1. As production levels have 
ramped up in the high-temperature business 
we have been able to drive operational 
improvements in our manufacturing processes 
to improve yields and reduce our unit costs  
of production. elsewhere the Morgan AM&t 
Business has continued to increase the use  
of low-cost manufacturing locations which  
has also had a beneficial impact on our 
operating costs.
t he combination of robust revenue growth 
allied to the cost efficiencies has driven strong 
d ivisional eBit A margin progression from 
9.0% in 2010 to 12.7% in 201 1 for Morgan 
AM&t excluding n P Aerospace with eBit A 
increasing 58.4% over the period from  
£22.1 million to £35.0 million.
similarly strong performance has also been 
delivered in the Molten Metal systems (MMs) 
Business, where revenue increased 15.9% 
year-on-year (17.6% at constant currency)  
with good growth across all regions with the 
Asian businesses performing particularly well. 
MMs d ivisional eBit A improved 22.2% from 
£6.3 million to £7.7 million with d ivisional 
eBit A margins rising from 15.6% in 2010 to 
16.5% in 201 1.
Looking forward
t he macroeconomic outlook as we enter  
2012 remains uncertain, particularly with the 
on-going risks to the eurozone and indeed the 
global economy due to sovereign debt issues  
in several countries. h owever we believe  
that, unless there is a major and pronounced 
global downturn, Morgan c rucible remains 
well-placed in 2012 to make further progress 
against the three-year financial goals that we 
announced in early 201 1. w e have an exciting 
pipeline of innovative, differentiated new 
products and technologies. w e have a strong 
and growing presence in the dynamic growth 
economies of the world. Above all we have  
a talented and committed workforce around 
the world who have shown themselves to be 
nimble, imaginative and tenacious in driving  
the Group’s business forward once more in 
201 1. i would like to take this opportunity to 
thank them all for their efforts in making 201 1  
a record-breaking year of revenue and 
operating profit and know they will be equal  
to the challenge of trying to make our 2012 
performance even better once again.
Mark Robertshaw
c hief executive Officer
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements  24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Group activities
Morgan c rucible is a world-leader in advanced 
materials, focused on specialist ceramics, carbon 
and composites. w orking at the forefront  
of advanced materials technology, the Group 
develops solutions that help to make the world 
more efficient, better protected and healthier.
t he Group has two global d ivisions: Morgan 
engineered Materials and Morgan c eramics.
Morgan Engineered Materials delivers highly 
engineered solutions built from a portfolio of 
advanced material technologies that includes 
carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics 
and advanced polymeric composite materials. 
t he d ivision consists of two global reportable 
operating segments: Morgan AM&t , which 
includes n P Aerospace, with core applications 
including current transfer systems for industrial 
and rail transportation, seals and bearings for 
fluid handling, high-temperature insulation for 
solar silicon wafer production and advanced 
lightweight ceramic/composite armour systems 
for personal and vehicle protection; and  
Molten Metal systems, with core products  
of crucibles and foundry consumables.
Morgan Ceramics consists of two global 
reportable operating segments. t echnical 
c eramics is a leading supplier of customer-
specific, applications-engineered industrial 
products with core products manufactured 
from advanced materials including structural 
ceramic, electro-ceramic and precious  
metals. t hermal c eramics provides thermal 
management solutions for high-temperature 
applications which benefit technically, financially 
and environmentally from optimised thermal 
and energy efficiency management. c ore 
products are high-temperature insulating fibre, 
bricks and monolithics.
Group strategy
Morgan c rucible’s goal is to continue to  
be one of the world’s very best advanced 
materials companies.
t he Group’s aim is to create long-term 
sustainable shareholder value.
t he Group’s five strategic priorities are:
 > t o focus on higher growth, higher margin, 
non-economically cyclical markets. 
 > t o be high value-added to its customers. 
 > t o be number one or number two in its 
chosen market segments.
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence 
and cost efficiency. 
 > t o find, keep and develop the right people. 
t he Group uses its strategic priorities to test 
new investment opportunities, to screen its 
businesses for fit with the existing Group and  
to identify areas requiring strategic attention 
and action.
Business model
Morgan c rucible’s business model is aligned 
with and driven by the Group’s strategy as  
set out above. in each d ivision and across  
all businesses and sites Morgan c rucible  
utilises advanced materials technology and 
manufacturing expertise to design, develop, 
manufacture and integrate technically 
differentiated solutions that help enhance the 
performance and efficiency of its customers’ 
products or operations. t his is supported  
with a focus on service excellence and the 
development of genuine partnerships such that 
the Group works alongside its customers and 
suppliers in the ongoing refinement of products 
and solutions. Further details of the Group’s 
key resources and contractual relationships  
are set out on page 50 of this Business review.
t his outward-facing part of Morgan c rucible’s 
business model is combined with an internal 
focus on operational excellence and effective 
cost management. t he 2010 combination of 
businesses to create the two d ivisions through 
which Morgan c rucible now operates and  
the ongoing work to take full advantage of the 
Group’s low-cost manufacturing footprint are 
tangible examples of this.
t he Group’s focus on high-quality customer 
solutions and efficient operations combine to 
satisfy Morgan c rucible’s stated aim of creating 
long-term sustainable shareholder value.
Additional information on the markets  
served by the Group and on its products  
are included in the Review of operations on 
pages 26 to 33 and in the Overview section  
on pages 1 to 21.
Revenue and profits
Group revenue increased by 8.2% to £1,101.0 
million (2010: £1,017.1 million). Group eBit A 
before restructuring charges and one-off items 
was £143.4 million (2010: £109.5 million), 
representing a margin of 13.0% (2010: 10.8%). 
t he main factors for these movements are  
as follows:
Morgan Engineered Materials
 > Morgan AM&t : Revenue including  
n P Aerospace was £369.1 million  
(2010: £367.7 million). d ivisional eBit A 
was £48.0 million, an 22.4% increase  
at reported rates, reflecting the strong 
performance in the core Morgan AM&t 
business. n P Aerospace trading has been 
in line with expectations with revenue  
of £93.0 million (2010: £120.9 million)  
and d ivisional eBit A of £13.0 million, 
maintaining a mid-teen margin of  
14.0% despite the reduced revenue.
 > Molten Metal systems: Revenue was  
up by 15.9% compared to 2010 at  
£46.7 million (2010: £40.3 million). 
d ivisional eBit A was £7.7 million, 
compared to £6.3 million for 2010, with 
growth continuing to come in particular 
from china and i ndia where low-cost 
manufacturing bases continue to enhance 
margin performance.
Morgan Ceramics 
 > t echnical c eramics: Revenue for 201 1  
was £285.1 million (2010: £250.1 million), 
an increase of 14.0%, with all regions 
showing strong improvement. d ivisional 
eBit A was £43.1 million (2010: £34.0 
million), reflecting a year-on-year increase 
of 26.8% at reported rates.
 > t hermal c eramics: Revenue increased  
by 1 1.4% to £400.1 million in 201 1  
(2010: £359.0 million). d ivisional eBit A 
also increased in the year to £49.6 million 
(2010: £34.8 million), an increase of  
42.5% at reported rates.
Cash generation
Free cash flow before acquisitions and 
dividends was £57.8 million (2010: £76.5 
million). t here was an outflow from working 
capital of £29.1 million (2010: inflow of £10.5 
million). t he Group excluding n P Aerospace 
improved its working capital to sales ratio from 
20.0% at the end of 2010 to 19.2% at the end 
of 201 1. n P Aerospace had a higher level of 
trade receivables and inventory than expected 
at the year end, which is expected to reduce 
significantly during 2012.
GROUP BUsiness Review Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 25
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
t o support the Group’s strategy and to 
monitor performance, the Board of d irectors 
and the executive c ommittee use a number of 
financial and non-financial key performance 
indicators (KPis). t hese KPis are selected as 
being important to the success of the Group in 
delivering its strategic objectives. Progress is 
assessed by comparison with the Group’s 
strategy, its budget for the year and against 
historic performance. At a business level, a 
range of further benchmarks and other KPis 
are also used as part of the d ivisional planning 
and performance review processes. in order to 
measure the underlying performance of the 
business, management further analyse the 
headline KPis to exclude the impact of 
acquisitions and foreign exchange.
As Morgan c rucible’s businesses grow and 
evolve we will review and update the list of 
KPis selected to ensure they remain important 
to the success of the Group.
Financial and non-financial performance is 
reviewed in more detail in the d ivisional, 
financial and corporate responsibility sections  
of this Business review.
KeY PeRFORMAnce indic At ORs
Performance
KPi 2011 2010 Relevant strategic objective
Financial KPIs
Revenue growth 8.2% 7.9% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
Underlying operating profit
*
 growth 39.3% 31.9% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o be high value-added to our customers
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
Underlying operating profit
*
 margin 12.9% 10.0% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
Underlying profit before taxation
**
£119.7m £75.7m > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
 > Focus on higher growth markets
 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
Free cash flow before acquisitions and dividends £57.8m £76.5m > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
Return on Operating c apital employed
***
33.7% 25.4% > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
Underlying earnings per share
****
29.9p 18.7p > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
d ividend per share 9.25p 7.7p > c reating consistent long-term value for shareholders
Non-financial KPIs
u
Year-on-year pricing change 2.3% 1.1% > t o be high value-added to our customers
t otal employment costs as % of sales 29.2% 29.5% > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
employee turnover 13.7% 13.7% > t o find, keep and develop the right people
t raining hours per employee 13.3 12.9 > t o find, keep and develop the right people
l ost time accident frequency (per 100,000 hours worked) 0.57 0.57 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
 > t o find, keep and develop the right people
t onnes c O
2
 per £m revenue 394 416 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
t onnes waste per £m revenue 41 44 > t o have a culture of operational excellence and  
cost-efficiency
*
  Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
**
  Underlying profit before taxation is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets less net financing costs.
***
  Return on Operating c apital employed is defined as Group underlying operating profit* divided by the sum of w orking c apital (which excludes pension liability and provisions)  
and the net book value of tangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
****
  Underlying earnings per share is defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets. s ee note 9 on page 98 for definition of basic earnings per share.
u 	
n on-financial KPis are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.  26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review OF OPeRAti Ons
Business description
t he businesses within engineered Materials  
are global suppliers of highly engineered 
solutions built from a portfolio of material 
technologies that includes carbon, silicon 
carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced 
polymeric composites. t he d ivision’s footprint 
provides a global reach that enables the 
delivery of market-leading solutions to a  
variety of chosen end-markets. t hese chosen 
end-markets are served through three global 
businesses: Morgan Advanced Materials & 
t echnology (Morgan AM&t ), n P Aerospace 
and Molten Metal systems (MMs). For 
reporting purposes the d ivision consists of  
two global reporting segments: Morgan AM&t 
(including n P Aerospace) and Molten Metal 
systems (MMs).
t he d ivision’s capabilities are rooted in the 
understanding, application and processing  
of its broad range of advanced materials.  
t he acquisition of a majority equity stake in  
n P Aerospace in 2009 extended the d ivision’s 
materials and ballistic technologies to include 
lightweight ceramics/composites, and the 
acquisition of changsha h airong n ew Materials 
c o., l td. (h airong) in china at the end of 2010 
complemented on-going product development 
to broaden the d ivision’s presence in 
renewable energy to now include anode 
materials for lithium ion batteries. t oday the 
engineered Materials d ivision has strong 
positions in carbon brushes for industrial and 
rail traction applications, seals and bearings  
for fluid handling, crucibles for the processing  
of non-ferrous metals, high-temperature 
insulation for silicon solar wafer production  
and advanced lightweight protective ceramic/
composite armour systems.
As at 1 January 2012 the d ivision employs 
some 4,000 people, serving customers in 
around 100 countries worldwide. its global 
presence includes 40 operating facilities in  
25 countries, with major materials processing 
plants in the Us A, europe, south America and 
Asia feeding an integrated network of finishing 
plants. t he d ivision benefits from a strategically 
located low-cost manufacturing base, with sites 
in Mexico, china, h ungary and india that  
allow the d ivision to serve customers across 
the globe.
t he d ivision’s strategy aligns with the Group’s 
strategic priorities and has fostered success  
in the ballistic protection market, entry to  
the silicon solar cell market, and entry into  
the lithium ion anode market. specifically,  
the d ivision’s strategy is to:
 > Add value to advanced materials and 
technology to deliver engineered solutions 
to chosen markets. 
 > engender a culture of operational 
excellence with a focus on continually 
improving the value the d ivision delivers  
to its customers. 
 > establish and fully embed a mindset  
for growth through focused business 
development, specifically in high-growth 
and high-margin markets. 
 > invest in our future through its technology 
centres of excellence and through 
acquisitions, alliances and partnerships.
 > Fully engage its entire workforce and  
instil a culture of continuous reinvention. 
 > c ontinuously seek and develop the  
right people. 
t he d ivision’s three global businesses go to 
market through an effective array of channels 
that include both direct sales and distributor 
networks. Morgan AM&t primarily uses direct 
sales channels complemented by strategic 
distribution partners, who serve both the 
original equipment market and the aftermarket 
and are supported by a global network of 
applications engineers. n P Aerospace uses 
direct channels to serve major militaries  
and vehicle OeMs around the world, while 
MMs leverages an effective global network  
of independent distributors to serve the global 
non-ferrous metals industry. t he d ivision  
is strategically positioned to ensure that the  
best possible resource is deployed to provide 
advanced materials and technologies in the 
form of engineered solutions to the following 
key global markets:
Revenue
£m
2009
2010
2011
421.5
408.0
415.8
+1.9%
Divisional EBITA
£m
2009
2010
2011
41.4
45.5
55.7
+22.4%
MORGAn en GineeR ed M AteR iAls d ivisi On Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Transportation
Morgan AM&t plays a vital role in the world’s 
aerospace industry as well as in the railroad  
and transit industry. electric current transfer  
is critical in many transportation systems such 
as rail, trams, the underground and helicopters. 
As well as supplying carbon brushes, collectors 
and rotary current transfer products,  
Morgan AM&t has developed an innovative 
carbon material which transfers current 
between stationary wires and moving parts  
in the low-humidity environments found  
at high-altitude and in space. Used in starter 
motors for fixed and rotary wing aircraft,  
it provides high-performance with increased 
life, reducing maintenance and operating costs.
Security & Defence
Already a major t ier 2 supplier of ceramic 
body armour plates to the Us d epartment  
of d efense, Morgan c rucible’s acquisition  
of a majority equity stake in n P Aerospace  
in 2009 broadened the company’s materials 
portfolio and competency in ballistics, 
positioning Morgan c rucible as a global leader 
in lightweight armour systems. Founded  
in 1926, n P Aerospace is headquartered  
in c oventry, UK and has offices in Kingston, 
Ontario, c anada. in 2010, n P Aerospace 
opened a new location in sterling h eights, 
Michigan, Us A. w ith a clear focus on delivery 
to the front-line soldier and leading-edge 
technical innovation at the core of its business, 
n P Aerospace has an unparalleled record  
in the rapid fielding of new survivability  
systems and equipment in support of defence 
programmes around the globe. t he business 
remains a critical resource to the UK’s Ministry 
of d efence for major integration contracts for  
the fielding of next-generation tactical wheeled 
vehicles and the highly advanced systems have 
seen service in both iraq and Afghanistan.
Industrial
t he Morgan AM&t Business has a strong 
position in the global market, providing 
engineered solutions that add value and 
improved reliability to a diversified customer 
base. t he Business utilises a proven advanced 
materials portfolio combined with a customer-
focused global footprint to supply carbon 
brushes, linear collectors and rotary current 
transfer products to a diverse OeM and 
end-user base operating within steel, mining 
and a variety of other key industrial markets.
w ith more than 150 years experience,  
the MMs Business is the recognised leader 
worldwide in the supply of crucibles to 
non-ferrous metals industries. MMs crucibles 
and foundry products provide melting solutions 
to foundries, die-casters and metal melting 
facilities covering melting applications that include 
zinc, precious metals, aluminium, copper, 
brass, bronze and other non-ferrous metals.
Petrochemical
Morgan engineered Materials uses its wide 
range of carbon and silicon carbide materials  
to manufacture critical seals and bearings for 
pumps and compressors used in fluid handling 
applications in the petrochemical, oil and gas 
industries. w ith a broad product offering  
and worldwide manufacturing and customer 
support, it is recognised as the leading global 
provider of seal faces, bearings, rotors and 
vanes in this market.
Energy
Over the past few years the global energy 
sector has become an increasingly important 
target market for the d ivision. t he Business’s 
technology and product portfolio includes 
components which are critical to traditional 
power generation companies, the nuclear 
industry and the renewables sector. in solar 
power, Morgan AM&t is a world-leader in 
advanced high-temperature solutions providing 
major producers of polysilicon and silicon  
ingots with the means to enhance solar cell 
performance. in wind power generation, the 
Business supplies carbon brushes and rotary 
transfer systems which perform in the harshest 
environments around the globe. w ith the 
acquisition of changsha h airong n ew Materials 
c o., l td. (h airong) Morgan AM&t added a 
recognised technical leader in the production  
of graphite materials for anodes used in lithium 
ion batteries for portable electronic devices 
and electric vehicles.
Electronics
Morgan AM&t products are at the heart of 
many electronic innovations, and are used in 
semiconductor manufacturing processes such 
as ion implantation, epitaxy and compound 
crystal growth. w ith the drive to faster,  
smaller and lower cost devices, semiconductor 
processing equipment companies are 
dependent on advanced materials being  
able to work at higher temperatures and  
having higher purity levels to achieve the 
required performance. t he Business also 
supplies products used in the manufacture  
of components such as optical fibres and laser 
diodes, and is securing a growing presence  
in the high-growth market for led s. Growing 
significantly in 201 1, the market has come  
to value the Business’s engineered solutions, 
innovation and global reach.  28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review OF OPeRAti Ons
continued
Research and development
t he Businesses within the engineered Materials 
d ivision are leaders in carbon-based materials, 
oxide and non-oxide ceramics, lightweight 
composites, and in ballistics and blast 
technology. h airong has added the sciences  
of electro-chemistry and rechargeable batteries 
to the d ivision’s expanding technology 
portfolio. t he d ivision’s research activities 
include material and process capabilities as  
well as product and systems development. 
t hese activities are located within the major 
material processing facilities in the Us A,  
the UK and china. t he d ivision’s businesses 
deploy application development engineers 
worldwide to work with customers in applying 
advanced materials and technologies to develop 
leading-edge engineered solutions according  
to customer need, with a focus to position each 
Business as leaders in dynamic growth markets.
Business performance
Revenue in the engineered Materials d ivision 
was £415.8 million (2010: £408.0 million), 
representing an increase at reported rates  
of 1.9%. At constant currency this increase  
in revenue was 2.8%. t he revenue for  
Morgan AM&t excluding n P Aerospace  
was £276.1 million (2010: £246.8 million) 
representing an increase of 1 1.9% at reported 
rates and 13.1% on a constant currency basis. 
n P Aerospace revenue was £93.0 million 
(2010: £120.9 million), in line with the  
Group’s expectations. MMs achieved  
revenue of £46.7 million (2010: £40.3 million), 
representing growth of 15.9% (17.6%  
on a constant currency basis).
d ivisional eBit A for the engineered  
Materials d ivision was £55.7 million  
(2010: £45.5 million), a margin of 13.4%  
(2010: 1 1.2%). Morgan AM&t e Bit A margin 
was 13.0% (2010: 10.7%), and MMs d ivisional 
eBit A margin was 16.5% (2010: 15.7%).
t he improvement in the Morgan AM&t  
results reflects sustained recovery from  
its core markets, continued expansion in  
dynamic growth markets and the successful 
introduction of new products, particularly the 
high-temperature product range. A continued 
focus on improving cost efficiencies through  
the Operational excellence Programme also 
realised further significant benefits in 201 1.
MMs revenue grew across all regions with a 
particularly strong performance in china and 
india. t he Business has continued to improve 
profitability through to high-teen margins  
by driving through cost improvements and 
focusing on high-growth markets.
Business developments
t he Morgan AM&t Business saw strong 
demand throughout the year with nearly  
all sectors and regions performing above 
pre-recession levels. Revenue from  
high-temperature products more than 
doubled. t he china and Asia regions continued 
strong growth in the wind market for electrical 
and rotary products, while continuing to 
advance penetration into the solar market  
for high-temperature products.
t he Business increased its efforts to rebalance 
resources and focus to growth sectors such as 
renewable energy, while continuing to expand 
capacity in low-cost countries.
Morgan AM&t ’s focus on pursuing 
opportunities in renewable energy  
extends to the lithium ion anode market.
d uring the year the recently acquired chinese 
lithium ion battery material supplier, Morgan 
AM&t h airong, was successfully integrated into 
the d ivision and has made significant progress 
in advancing relationships with a number of 
lithium ion battery manufacturers for portable 
electronic devices and electric vehicles.
t he d ivision continues to invest heavily in the 
development of ballistic solutions to counter 
ever-increasing threats and to meet demand  
for lighter weight solutions. As expected,  
n P Aerospace is trading below 2010 levels due 
to reduced Urgent Operational Requirement 
demand for tactical wheeled vehicles by  
the UK Ministry of d efence. n P Aerospace 
continues to pursue a number of additional 
domestic and international opportunities  
with existing and new customers, leveraging its 
strong portfolio of advanced materials, ballistic 
expertise, and long history of delivering 
advanced armour solutions to the UK’s Ministry 
of d efence. Following the opening of a 
dedicated n P Aerospace office in d etroit the 
business has developed working relationships 
with major OeMs on current and future 
projects, resulting in an order in late 201 1  
with a well-established Us A vehicle OeM,  
to be delivered in 2012.
MMs continued to see strong growth across  
all regions, in particular from china, i ndia and 
the Far east. t he Business maintained and 
improved its margins, with the chinese and 
india low-cost manufacturing bases enhancing 
margin performance.
MORGAn en GineeR ed M AteR iAls d ivisi On continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Outlook
entering 2012 Morgan AM&t ’s order book  
is at a healthy level and the outlook remains 
positive for continued growth in Asia and 
sustained performance in core markets in 
europe and the Americas. d emand for led  
high-temperature products is expected to 
remain strong while demand from the solar 
sector has softened. improvements to the  
cost base and to global operational capability, 
along with increased focus and resource  
on higher growth markets, mean that the 
Business is well-positioned to take advantage of 
opportunities throughout the global economy.
n P Aerospace revenue is expected to  
continue to decline in 2012 as demand  
for tactical wheeled vehicles by the  
UK Ministry of d efence ramps down. 
h owever, there are new opportunities  
being actively pursued to commercialise  
n P Aerospace’s technologies overseas, 
particularly in the n orth American market.
t he outlook for MMs remains positive with 
continued sales growth in all regions, focused 
commitment to Operational excellence and 
strengthening positions in china, i ndia and 
Brazil. MMs continues to be well-placed to 
take advantage of its market-leading position  
in dynamic-growth economies.  30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review OF OPeRAti Ons
continued
Business description
Morgan c eramics comprises two operating 
Businesses. t echnical c eramics is a leader in 
customer-specific components and assemblies 
manufactured from advanced materials, while 
t hermal c eramics is a world-leader in thermal 
management solutions for high-temperature 
applications in industrial markets.
As at 1 January 2012 Morgan c eramics 
employs some 5,900 people worldwide.  
t he d ivision is a truly global business,  
with 57 manufacturing sites across six 
continents. it is structured with regional teams 
supported by global engineering, marketing, 
technology, research and development, 
strategy and finance functions. t he d ivision’s 
major sites are located in Argentina, Australia, 
Brazil, china, France, Germany, i ndia, italy, 
Japan, Korea, Mexico, Russia, the UK and the 
Us A. t he d ivision has 50 sales offices working 
directly with end-users and also sells some 
products through distribution networks.
t he d ivision’s engineering and design 
capabilities are the key to its success.  
Full technical support and advice is offered  
to customers throughout their product 
development cycle, working closely with  
them to understand their needs and provide 
engineered solutions that add value and  
help differentiate their end-products.
t he Morgan c eramics business strategy  
is aligned with that of the Group, with the 
objective of being a world-leader in engineered 
solutions based on advanced ceramic and 
related materials. t he d ivision’s strategy is:
 > t o focus on market niches where the 
d ivision’s distinctive competences and 
innovation skills differentiate it.
 > t o structure the d ivision’s businesses for 
simplicity and high levels of accountability. 
 > t o drive operational excellence in all of  
the d ivision’s facilities.
 > t o actively manage the d ivision’s portfolio 
to achieve optimum shareholder returns.
 > t o develop the d ivision’s leaders, teams 
and technical talent to deliver its strategy.
t he t echnical c eramics Business is a leading 
supplier of bespoke, application-engineered 
industrial products manufactured from 
materials including structural ceramics, 
electro-ceramics and precious metals.  
Key markets for these products include 
electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, 
healthcare and energy.
t echnical c eramics’ components and 
assemblies are used in hundreds of  
high-technology application niches, including:
 > c eramic cores used in the casting of 
turbine blades for aero-engine and 
industrial gas turbines.
 > Braze alloys, ceramics and sub-assemblies 
used in the manufacture, monitoring and 
control of aero engines.
 > c omponents and sub-assemblies for  
a broad range of medical applications, 
including implantable devices, prosthetics, 
surgical and diagnostic equipment.
 > c eramics and assemblies for electron 
tubes used in a range of medical, security, 
industrial and research applications such  
as airport security scanners, tv and radio 
broadcasting and x -ray equipment.
 > engineered ceramics for fluid handling 
equipment.
 > Piezoelectric ceramic actuators for 
electronic data storage.
 > c omponents and assemblies for lasers 
used in product marking, medical and 
industrial applications.
t he t hermal c eramics Business is a world-
leader in heat management solutions, serving  
a broad spectrum of industrial markets with 
insulation requirements ranging from 500°c to 
1,600°c . its high-temperature insulating fibre, 
insulating bricks and monolithics enable users 
to optimise thermal efficiency, reduce energy 
costs and improve environmental performance 
through reduced c O
2
 emissions. t he Business 
also provides passive fire protection for the 
industrial and construction sectors.
Products are manufactured from advanced 
insulating materials marketed under a number 
of leading brands, including superwool
®
,  
JM™, Pyro-Bloc ™, FireMaster
®
 and t ri-Mor ™.  
t hey are used worldwide in demanding 
applications, which are increasingly influenced 
by legislative and environmental requirements. 
Major markets include petrochemical, iron and 
steel and industrial equipment.
Revenue
£m
2009
2010
2011
521.1
609.1
685.2
+12.5%
Divisional EBITA
£m
2009
2010
2011
51.8
68.8
92.7
+34.7%
MORGAn ce RAMics d ivisi On Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Market sectors
Industrial
Morgan c eramics makes high-performance 
ceramic materials that are resistant to chemical 
and physical wear, corrosion and extreme heat. 
t hey are ideal for equipment destined for 
harsh processing environments.
t he d ivision is developing new ceramic 
membranes for efficient industrial water 
filtration and purification, helping businesses  
to reduce maintenance and save energy. 
it makes a range of high-temperature 
components that are used in heating pumps, 
thermocouples and other specialist thermal 
processing equipment for applications from 
industrial annealing to the manufacture of 
medical devices. 
its ceramic rollers are deployed in kilns used  
to manufacture metals, glass, ceramic-ware  
and fuel cells and its n ilcra
®
 MgPsZ (magnesia 
partially stabilised zirconia) is widely used in 
severe-service valves and pumps.
insulating products from Morgan c eramics 
help manufacturers control a variety of  
thermal processing operations, thereby 
optimising throughput and yields. t he d ivision 
supplies monolithic linings for blast furnaces  
and fibre modules and firebricks for heat 
treatment furnaces. its fire protection  
products are used in all types of building  
and infrastructure projects.
its piezoelectric materials are used in  
high-power ultrasonic systems and it also designs 
and manufactures sensors and transducers. 
Transportation 
Morgan c eramics makes ceramic and brazed 
alloy parts that help its customers improve  
the efficiency and reliability of their products. 
t he ceramic materials offer a combination  
of mechanical, electrical, thermal and chemical 
properties that makes them an attractive, 
cost-effective option for designers of 
transportation systems including road, rail and 
aircraft, whilst the thermal management 
products are widely used for fire protection.
in the aerospace industry the d ivision  
supplies specialist braze alloy parts for use  
in aero-engine build and repair and ceramic 
components for engine monitoring and control, 
instrumentation and guidance systems. c eramic 
cores and insulation materials are used in the 
casting of turbine blades. 
in the automotive sector it supplies ceramic 
components for a new hybrid vehicle and 
piezoceramic materials that are used widely in 
fuel level sensors, parking aids, alarm sensors, 
wheel balancing, engine knock sensors and 
ignition systems. Alumina and zirconia are ideal 
as materials for injector units, pump bearing 
and valve plates.
Electronics
Morgan c eramics makes piezoceramic 
components that are versatile, durable, and 
stable, with excellent thermal and electrical 
properties. its broad range of dielectric 
materials offers high-quality capacitance  
for applications from laser instrumentation  
to microwave and high-voltage systems.
t he d ivision engineers many different ceramic 
components and ceramic-metal sub-assemblies 
to high specifications to meet demanding 
precision, reliability and cost requirements of 
semiconductor fabricators and manufacturers 
of consumer electronics. 
examples include piezoceramic actuators  
for high-capacity hard drive disk (hdd ) data 
storage which enable the head to be positioned 
with extraordinary accuracy and vibration 
control, and wire-wound ceramic RF inductors 
for mobile phones, laptops, hd -tv s, lighting 
controls, sensors and wireless devices. t he 
d ivision is a major supplier of components  
for electron tubes used in communications, 
signalling and control equipment.
its high-purity alumina ceramic is used 
extensively for waveguides in c O
2
 lasers and 
insulators in excimer lasers, creating robust 
assemblies that resist the combination of 
voltages, temperatures and harsh environments.
Petrochemical
Morgan c eramics supplies a wide range  
of products for projects in the global 
petrochemical market. t he d ivision makes 
components used in machinery and equipment 
for hydrocarbon processing. it also supplies 
entire heat management solutions for fired 
heaters, sulphur recovery units, fluid catalytic 
cracking units and boilers. FireMaster
®
  
fire protection systems are comprehensively 
certified and extensively tested to meet 
national and international standards, offering 
proven fire protection performance. t he 
d ivision works with fire protection specialists  
in the sector and supplies the market through 
both direct sales and distributors.  32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review OF OPeRAti Ons
continued
A range of parts and sub-assemblies are 
manufactured for use in equipment for  
the petrochemical sector, including specialist 
valves, pumps, seals and bearings. t he 
high-performance ceramic materials provide a 
level of precision and reliability equally suited to 
the harsh environments of drilling and refining.
Morgan c eramics recently launched a range  
of very hardwearing components made of 
d eranox
®
 975 alumina designed for use in 
hydrocyclones where sand and other solids are 
separated from the liquid hydrocarbon stream. 
it is a very harsh environment for mechanical 
equipment and the reliability of the specialist 
materials helps to protect sensitive 
instrumentation such as export pumps  
and heat exchangers downstream.
Energy
Morgan c eramics makes high-performance 
insulating products that enable users to reduce 
energy costs and improve environmental 
performance. t he d ivision’s ceramic live line 
indicators are used in high-voltage dc power 
distribution applications all over the world.  
t he d ivision’s high-temperature insulating 
fibre, bricks and monolithics are used to 
optimise thermal efficiency in industrial 
applications from 500°c to 1,600° c . 
l atest-generation low bio-persistent 
superwool
®
 Plus ™ fibre is used in duct and 
chimney insulation, process heater linings,  
pipe wrap and automotive exhaust heat  
shields where its exceptionally low thermal 
conductivity allows engineers to specify  
a significantly thinner blanket to achieve  
the same level of insulation. 
t he d ivision makes products used in the 
manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic cells for 
the solar industry and it manufactures cores 
used in the production of blades for industrial 
gas turbines.
A new ultrasonic sensor launched this year 
helps reduce energy usage by providing precise 
and reliable measurement of heat and water 
flow even in harsh environments.
Healthcare
Morgan c eramics’ materials are used in 
precision tools including dental descalers  
and specialist ultrasonic surgery scalpels.  
its ceramic capacitors and reflectors can  
be found in lasers for eye surgery. it supplies 
critical components used in implantable devices 
such as pacemakers, cochlear implants, 
defibrillators and implants for neuro-stimulation.
in a recent breakthrough in cancer treatment, 
an efficient and minimally invasive new 
procedure to ablate tumours has been made 
possible because of a very small, precision 
ceramic tip engineered for the treatment 
needle by Morgan c eramics. Additionally,  
for throat cancer patients, a new long-lasting 
speech valve has been developed using zirconia 
ceramic components.
t he d ivision recently launched a tube contact 
sensor for accurate detection of occlusions  
in medical infusion lines. t he sensor gives 
non-invasive detection of pressure changes, 
providing instrument manufacturers with a 
simple and reliable method of recognising 
when the tube is blocked.
t he d ivision also makes key components  
for instrumentation and diagnostic equipment  
such as ultrasonic imaging, x -ray, c At and  
MRi scanners. t he superior piezoelectric 
ceramic components are used extensively in 
medical ultrasound to enable increased image 
resolution, while its multilayer chip capacitors 
are used in MRi systems to tune the magnetic 
field accurately.
Piezoelectric components are popular in 
applications such as blood flow measurement 
and foetal heart monitors for their reliability 
and accurate detection. Additionally, they  
can be found in ultrasonic air-in-line sensors  
in medical devices and infusion pumps. 
Security & Defence
Morgan c eramics’ superior materials 
technology and impressive manufacturing 
capability deliver real performance benefits  
in the field for applications from military 
hardware to surveillance equipment and 
armour for personnel and vehicle protection.
it makes lightweight, heavy-duty fire protection 
systems for naval vessels, working to far higher 
specifications than is required for commercial 
shipping. its FireMaster
®
 system is certified  
to meet most national and international  
military standards.
it manufactures lightweight pre-stressed 
piezoceramic tubes that provide high-acoustic 
output for the most demanding military  
sonar systems and is a major supplier to 
manufacturers of power tubes for use in  
image intensifiers, electronic counter-measure 
equipment and communications.
t he unique properties of its metallised alumina 
ceramics have enabled the manufacture of 
significantly smaller, higher resolution x -ray 
tubes for luggage and cargo scanners, and its 
d iamonex™ diamond-like carbon coatings  
are used in fingerprint swipe sensors.
Research and development
Research and development capabilities are led 
by two t echnical d irectors with a network of 
materials scientists and applications and process 
engineers across the d ivision’s global sites. 
t hey work with customers to engineer 
solutions that address their needs. t he d ivision 
also undertakes research in collaboration  
with leading universities in europe and  
n orth America.
Recent developments have focused on 
products for the medical, transportation  
and energy markets. Product innovation  
is driven by the customer’s end-application;  
the d ivision’s newest products are being  
used in hybrid vehicles, water filtration and  
the nuclear industry.
t he majority of the d ivision’s research and 
development into thermal management 
solutions is carried out at the d ivision’s 
Bromborough, UK site in a purpose-built 
world-class facility. w ith 25 dedicated  
scientists, the team has led the market in  
the development of low bio-persistent fibres, 
low-energy furnace operation and product 
development. t he role of low bio-persistent 
fibres is seen as being of increasing importance 
in the future of the high-temperature insulation 
market and so research and development 
activities have been directed towards extending 
the d ivision’s product range in this area. 
MORGAn ce RAMics d ivisi On continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
A major focus for the d ivision is on recruitment 
of high-calibre material scientists and engineers 
to provide the talent and resources that the 
d ivision requires to fuel the growth from these 
exciting expanding markets.
Business performance
Revenue in the Morgan c eramics d ivision  
was £685.2 million (2010: £609.1 million), 
representing an increase at reported rates  
of 12.5%. At constant currency the increase  
in revenue was 13.7%.
Revenue for the t echnical c eramics Business in 
201 1 was £285.1 million (2010: £250.1 million), 
an increase of 14.0% at reported rates. 
Revenue was up by 16.1% on a like-for-like 
constant currency basis with all regions showing 
strong improvement. t hermal c eramics’ revenue 
increased by 1 1.1% to £400.1 million in 201 1 
(2010: £359.0 million). On a constant currency 
basis, the year-on-year increase was 12.2%.
d ivisional eBit A for the Morgan c eramics 
d ivision was £92.7 million (2010: £68.8 
million), a margin of 13.5% (2010: 1 1.3%).  
For t echnical c eramics, d ivisional eBit A was 
£43.1 million (2010: £34.0 million), reflecting  
a year-on-year increase of 26.8 % at reported 
rates. t echnical c eramics raised its d ivisional 
eBit A margin by 1.5 percentage points, 
reaching 15.1% for the year (2010: 13.6%). 
t hermal c eramics’ d ivisional eBit A also 
increased in the year to £49.6 million (2010: 
£34.8 million), an increase of 42.5% at 
reported rates. t he d ivisional eBit A margin 
also showed good improvement to 12.4% 
(2010: 9.7%).
Business developments
in 201 1 major investments and decisions 
concentrated on opportunities to develop  
the d ivision’s footprint in the dynamic Asian 
and south American markets. c apital was 
invested in Moti Bhoyan, india, for a line to 
produce high-performance thin-fibre-based 
laminates for thermal insulation. t he d ivision 
approved the expansion of its fibre capacity  
in Brazil and in its facility in Yixing, china for 
fused silica production. it also established  
a superwool
®
 fibre line in Kailong, china.  
in n orth America and Malaysia the d ivision 
continued to invest in additional capacity for 
next-generation hard disc drive components. 
t he merger of the former t echnical and 
t hermal c eramics d ivisions was completed to 
time and the expected benefits were delivered, 
helping to improve profit and Operating 
ROce . t he new d ivision now has greater 
resources to establish a significant t echnical 
c eramics business in Asia and south America. 
t hese were strengthened by the addition of 
management and sales personnel who will be 
able to define and develop the opportunities 
that exist in these regions.
d uring the year, the t echnical c eramics 
Business continued to make progress towards 
its declared target of positive mix shift, 
increasing the number of new business  
projects in higher margin, higher value-added 
end-markets such as medical and aerospace, 
whilst continuing to reduce exposure to more 
commoditised and economically cyclical 
product areas. c ontinuous operational 
improvement programmes, cost reduction 
initiatives and emphasis on positive price 
pass-through are all helping to support  
margin growth. 
t he t hermal c eramics Business continued  
its growth from the low of 2009, with the 
majority of end-markets returning to  
pre-recessionary levels. t his growth was  
most notable in n orth America. it has also 
been a period of continued cost control  
and consolidation in the face of challenging  
global economic conditions. d uring 201 1  
the d ivision completed the process of  
reducing costs in mainland europe, principally  
by reducing overheads.
n ew product development in the t hermal 
c eramics Business remains concentrated in  
the field of low bio-persistent fibre with the 
continued roll-out of superwool
®
 Plus
tM
 and 
the higher temperature superwool
®
 ht
tM
. 
t hese products offer significantly improved 
insulation performance and position the 
Business as the global technology leader in the 
production of low bio-persistence products.
t he ‘Operational excellence’ programme,  
first established in 2010 with targets based  
on a benchmarking programme that have 
accountability and responsibility at plant level, 
delivered the improvements that were 
expected. t hese locally based and managed 
initiatives continue to be co-ordinated and 
supported by engineering and R&d personnel 
to optimise manufacturing processes. t hese 
now constitute a normal business activity.
Outlook
Overall, market demand strengthened in 201 1, 
as shown by the d ivision’s order books and 
improved new business pipeline. t he n orth 
American business traded strongly throughout 
the year, as did Asia. europe showed positive 
signs of improvement in most markets, with 
the possible exception of construction, which 
remains weak. t his principally affects sales of 
h aldenwanger
tM
 products, manufactured in 
Germany, for industrial applications involving 
thermal processing. t he south American 
business is looking particularly strong, driven by 
the significant investments that are being seen 
in the petrochemical sector. d espite these 
encouraging signals the d ivision continues to 
watch recessionary indicators and for any signs 
of inflation. 
w eakness in the industrial gas turbine sector 
and medical device markets continued in 201 1 
but these are being offset by improvements  
in demand from sectors within the electronics 
market. t he production ramp-up to meet 
demand for the next generation of hdd 
products remains on plan. t owards the end  
of the year some weakness was noted for 
products supplied to the solar market.
t he medium-term outlook for the t hermal 
c eramics Business remains encouraging,  
driven by the growth in global population  
and the continuing industrialisation of dynamic 
growth economies. t hese factors, combined 
with the need to reduce energy expenditure 
and the increasingly stringent environmental 
legislation that favours low bio-persistent fibres 
such as superwool
®
, will continue to drive 
demand for heat management solutions. 
Methodology transferred from the t echnical 
c eramics Business is encouraging further 
differentiation of the d ivision’s fibre products 
and will allow it to leverage the strength of  
its worldwide management team. t his will  
be helped by a new management focus being 
applied to the global business streams – Fibre, 
insulating Fire Bricks and engineering projects.
t he Business continues to look carefully  
at potential bolt-on acquisition opportunities 
that would enhance the offering in key markets, 
which together with a strong new business 
pipeline leaves the d ivision well-placed for  
the future.  34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
c ORPORAte ResPOnsiB ilit Y
c orporate responsibility  
is integral to Morgan 
c rucible’s business and  
the Group’s activities  
and programmes in  
this area support each of  
the Group’s five strategic 
priorities and address key 
risks and opportunities. 
t his report summarises 
the Group’s key corporate 
responsibility policies  
and procedures, their 
implementation and their 
effectiveness which is, 
where appropriate, 
monitored using key 
performance indicators. 
t he following section reports on Morgan 
c rucible’s Responsible Business Programme, 
including the Group’s policies, procedures  
and performance in respect of business ethics, 
community relations and suppliers and 
customers. subsequent pages cover 
environment, health and safety (ehs ) and 
People. in addition, Morgan c rucible’s 201 1 
ehs Report, planned for publication on the 
website in May 2012, will provide a more 
comprehensive review of the Group’s ehs 
performance in 201 1.
Morgan c rucible’s approach to corporate 
responsibility is encapsulated in the Group’s 
c ore values statement, which was first 
published in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.  
As the Group works to implement its strategic 
priorities, the c ore values statement provides 
the framework for the Group’s policies, 
programmes and procedures. t he statement  
is available on the website and applies  
to all Morgan c rucible businesses and  
employees worldwide.
t he governance structure for corporate 
responsibility is aligned with the management 
structure of the Group. t he Board is 
accountable for corporate responsibility policies 
and procedures. t he chief e xecutive Officer, 
Mark Robertshaw, is the executive in charge  
of all corporate responsibility matters including 
internal and external stakeholders. h e is 
supported by the executive team with 
functional heads having specific responsibility 
for environment, health and safety, human 
resources and other areas. Operational 
implementation is delegated to the c hief 
executive of each of the Group’s d ivisions.
Corporate responsibility policies  
and procedures
t he Group continues to develop its 
Responsible Business Programme as a training 
and education platform for Morgan c rucible’s 
corporate responsibility-related policies and 
procedures. d uring 201 1 the Programme  
was extended to include the refreshed and 
updated Anti-t rust c ompliance Programme. 
t his was relaunched in 201 1 with implementation 
continuing into 2012. 
t he Group provides employees with access  
to the Group’s policies and related procedures 
and guidance notes. Key policies and other 
relevant material are also published on  
the Group website and are required to  
be displayed on site noticeboards.
Business ethics
t he Audit c ommittee is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s ethics Policy, and 
reports to the Board on its effectiveness.
t he Group’s c ore values statement and  
ethics Policy oblige all employees to operate  
in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations and specifically prohibit the giving  
or receiving of bribes. t hese policies apply,  
so far as is appropriate, to Morgan c rucible’s 
business partners, including contractors,  
agents, joint ventures and representatives.  
t he c ompany also requires that no employee 
shall suffer discrimination as a result of refusing 
to pay or receive a bribe. 
t he Morgan c rucible Responsible Business 
Programme covers ethics and anti-bribery, 
human rights, legal and contract risk 
management and, as noted above,  
now incorporates the Group’s Anti-t rust 
c ompliance Programme. d uring 2012 the 
Group plans to further develop and implement 
the Responsible Business Programme and  
to make further use of scenarios and dilemmas 
to reinforce the existing training materials.
d uring the year the Group also updated  
its whistleblowing procedures and a new 
third-party operated ethics h otline was 
launched globally. t he Morgan c rucible  
ethics h otline enables employees and other 
stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, 
misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse  
of c ompany assets or violations of Morgan 
c rucible’s ethics Policy to report these 
confidentially without fear of retribution should 
they feel they cannot use a local channel.
Customers and suppliers
Morgan c rucible’s customer service strategy  
is to respond quickly to changing customer 
demand, to identify emerging needs and to 
ensure product availability, quality and value. 
t he Group stays close to its current and 
potential customers, building long-term 
relationships. each d ivision and Business 
implements appropriate sales and customer 
account management structures with customer 
contacts and monitoring at senior level to help 
ensure that customer feedback, concerns and 
opportunities are addressed. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 35
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Over 90% of the Group’s manufacturing 
output is accredited to is O 9001 and the 
Group’s quality management systems help 
ensure that Morgan c rucible’s products  
meet or exceed customer requirements. 
Management of the supply chain is a key part  
of is O 9001 and is O 14001 accreditation  
and includes supplier audits and screening  
as appropriate.
t he Group engages with its customers, 
suppliers and other partners in mutually 
beneficial ways and works with business 
partners who the Group believes will act in 
accordance with Morgan c rucible’s policies  
and values. Morgan c rucible’s support for  
the Universal d eclaration of h uman Rights, 
referred to in the People section on page 42, 
commits the Group in respect of all those who 
work for it and those who have dealings with it,  
including suppliers.
Community
t he Group’s practice is to engage with local 
communities in relation to matters of mutual 
interest and concern. At a local level, where 
Morgan c rucible often has long-established 
roots and is frequently a major employer,  
this helps to foster mutual understanding  
and credibility. in addition, Morgan c rucible 
engages with local and national governments 
and agencies, both directly and through 
professional bodies. d onations to political 
parties or causes are prohibited.
Corporate responsibility policy 
implementation
t he implementation of Morgan c rucible’s 
corporate responsibility-related policies  
and procedures is aligned with the overall 
governance structure of the Group. t he 
implementation of the Group’s ehs and 
people-related policies is covered in more 
detail on pages 37 to 43.
d escribed below are some of the processes 
for implementing and monitoring the Group’s 
key corporate responsibility policies and 
procedures and those in respect of the 
verification of Morgan c rucible’s environmental, 
social and governance (esG) disclosures.
Business ethics
t he Board of Morgan c rucible is committed  
to ensuring that the c ompany’s policies  
relating to business integrity are upheld.  
t he Group’s ethics Policy is translated into 
appropriate languages for the c ompany’s sites 
worldwide. t he c ore values statement and 
ethics Policy are promoted to employees 
globally, in particular through coverage in ‘360’,  
the Group’s global employee e-magazine, 
which is available in 13 languages. Appropriate 
induction training is provided for new 
employees in addition to training under  
the Responsible Business Programme.
t he Morgan c rucible Responsible Business 
Programme is implemented via ‘train-the-
trainer’ sessions for general managers and 
compliance officers who then deliver  
face-to-face training to relevant local and site 
staff. t he face-to-face training is complemented  
by e-learning modules available in up to  
13 different languages.
t he first phase of the Programme was 
completed during 201 1. t his covered human 
rights, contract risk management, ethics and 
anti-bribery with training delivered to over 
1,900 relevant employees worldwide.
d uring 201 1 the Group’s Anti-t rust 
c ompliance Programme, which helps ensure 
that the Group complies with anti-trust and 
competition laws around the world, was 
updated and fully incorporated into the second 
phase of the Responsible Business Programme. 
in addition to covering anti-trust, the second 
phase of the Programme reinforces and 
refreshes the training provided in phase one.
Anti-t rust c ompliance Officers within each 
business report to the c ompany secretary, as 
Global c ompliance d irector, on the continuing 
effectiveness of the programme. t he Anti-t rust 
c ompliance Programme includes independent 
audits. t he results of the audits are considered 
by the c ompany secretary as Global 
c ompliance d irector who reports to the 
executive c ommittee and the Board on the 
effectiveness of the programme and on any 
issues arising.
d uring the year the new third-party-operated 
Morgan c rucible ethics h otline was launched 
globally. t he ethics h otline is promoted on  
the Group’s intranet, through site posters and 
other promotional materials in 17 languages. 
t he implementation of the h otline is 
complemented by training as part of the 
Responsible Business Programme. t he ethics 
h otline includes local free-phone numbers  
in each of the countries in which the Group 
operates with real-time translators available as 
necessary. t he remit of internal audit includes 
ensuring the availability of the ethics h otline is 
suitably promoted at site level.
Customers and suppliers
t he chief e xecutives of each of the  
Group’s d ivisions have specific responsibility  
for customers and suppliers and related  
policies and procedures within their  
respective d ivisions.
in additional to quality and capability 
assessments, d ivisional supplier audits and 
screening cover matters such as the Un Global 
c ompact, health and safety, labour standards 
(including with regard to minimum age, 
maximum hours, minimum wages, equal 
opportunities, grievance procedures and 
human rights), anti-corruption procedures  
and environmental management.
Community
t he implementation of Morgan c rucible’s 
community-related policies and procedures is 
aligned with the management of the Group’s 
overall business and is focused at site level on 
engagement and initiatives which are relevant 
to the local community and to the Group’s 
business. d ivisional and Group support  
is made available where appropriate.  
All charitable and other donations are  
fully accounted for.
Verification of ESG disclosures
t he c ompany secretary and the d irector  
of ehs work with independent external 
consultants to review and where appropriate 
verify the Group’s es G disclosures. t his 
process covers the environmental and  
health and safety-related non-financial key 
performance indicators included in this Report.  36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
c ORPORAte ResPOnsiB ilit Y
continued
As described on page 37, the Group has 
engaged Pricewaterhousec oopers ll P  
to provide independent external assurance  
on selected environmental data for 201 1.  
t heir independent assurance report is set out  
on page 41.
in addition, all Morgan c rucible businesses  
are regularly reviewed under the Group’s  
ehs c ompliance Audit Programme and those 
sites and businesses certified to is O 9001,  
is O 14001, Ohs As 18001 and other 
standards have regular external audits. t he 
Group also uses external professional advisers 
in relation to specific ehs matters as required.
t he Board considers that these procedures 
provide a reasonable level of assurance that  
the Group’s es G disclosures are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or other irregularity or error.
Corporate responsibility 
policy effectiveness
Business ethics
Participation in the Responsible Business 
Programme and implementation of the 
site-by-site training are monitored at a Group 
level. Participants are required to achieve  
a 100% score in each e-learning module in 
order to pass.
t he Anti-t rust c ompliance Programme is also 
subject to independent audit to confirm the 
continued effectiveness of the programme 
which, as noted above, is monitored by the 
c ompany secretary with a direct reporting line 
to the executive c ommittee and the Board.
issues raised through the ethics h otline or via 
other channels are followed up by the d irector 
of Risk Assurance in consultation with the 
c ompany secretary. Further investigations may 
be conducted through the Audit c ommittee  
as required. w here appropriate, disciplinary 
action up to and including dismissal is taken 
and/or additional guidance and training provided. 
d uring the year 14 reports were received  
via the h otline from nine different countries, 
indicating that the whistleblowing facility is  
being used worldwide and in different cultures.  
t he Audit c ommittee monitors and reviews 
the effectiveness of the ethics h otline and  
of the follow-up and investigation processes.
Customers and suppliers
Morgan c rucible continues to benefit from 
long-term relationships with many customers 
and suppliers, reflecting the effectiveness of the 
Group’s customer service and supplier-related 
strategies. some examples of the products and 
markets served are included on pages 6 to 19 
of this Annual Report.
Community
d uring the year the Group’s charitable 
donations were £194,744 (2010: £250,229). 
t his is in addition to the time given and 
donations made by Morgan c rucible 
employees around the world.
d uring 201 1, Morgan c rucible supported a 
number of initiatives at Group, d ivisional and 
site level. t he main emphasis of this support  
is to help disadvantaged young people and 
sponsor local community projects which  
can also engage and involve employees. 
example initiatives include:
 > t he Group continued its three-year, 
£60,000 programme to support the  
Army c adet Force Association (Ac FA) 
Outreach Project. 
 > Morgan c rucible continues to support the 
joint Barnardo’s/Outward Bound initiative 
which provides opportunities for young 
people to develop life skills at a centre in 
Ullswater, UK. 
 > n P Aerospace in c oventry, UK, is a major 
sponsor of the local Godiva h arriers 
athletics club and other local community 
and charitable initiatives and also supports 
the Army w inter sports Association which 
creates the opportunity for many hundreds 
of soldiers to take part in winter challenges. 
 > t he Group also supported the British 
h eart Foundation and a number of  
other sports and health-related charities 
and appeals.
t he Group’s staff also support a variety  
of local and national initiatives and projects, 
helping to raise funds and giving their time. 
examples of employee activities include:
 > employees from the Morgan c eramics 
Asia office took part in the s ingapore 
marathon in the 10km, half and full 
marathon categories. Funds were raised 
for a number of different charities including 
the Autism Association and everyman,  
the prostate and testicular cancer campaign.
 > employees at the Morgan c eramics site in 
n ew Bedford, MA, Us A, continued their 
tradition of community and charitable 
initiatives. in 201 1 they held a raffle to raise 
money for the American c ancer society, 
participated in the salvation Army’s Angel 
t ag fund raiser and collaborated to donate 
t hanksgiving turkeys to the United w ay’s 
h unger c ommission for the benefit of 
needy members of the local community. 
 > A team from the Morgan c eramics site  
in Ruabon, UK, organised a local fun run  
to raise funds to support a colleague who 
suffered brain damage. Friends, family and 
colleagues all wore outrageous costumes 
as they took to the track. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Morgan c rucible is committed to conducting  
all its activities in a manner which achieves the 
highest practicable standards of health and 
safety for employees and others affected by  
its operations. t he Group is also committed  
to minimising the impact of its business on the 
environment and to maximising the positive 
environmental benefits of its products. 
examples of Morgan c rucible’s products  
which help enhance the environment-related 
performance and efficiency of the products  
and operations of the Group’s customers are 
included in pages 6 to 19 of this Report.
Morgan c rucible’s environment, h ealth and 
safety (ehs ) Policy and implementation 
programmes support the Group’s five strategic 
priorities and c ore values statement. ehs 
performance has a direct and significant effect 
on operating performance and is therefore a 
key focus for operational management across 
the Group. t he regular collection and 
reporting of ehs key performance indicators 
(KPis) and the setting of ehs -related targets 
assists in the development and monitoring  
of programmes to enhance the operational 
performance and to reduce the impact of  
the Group’s operations on the environment.
t his Report includes a summary of the  
Group’s ehs Policy and its effectiveness  
as demonstrated through its ehs KP is and 
programmes. Further detail will be included  
in the 201 1 ehs Report to be published  
on the Group’s website in May 2012.  
t he ehs Report will also include case studies 
to help demonstrate the Group’s approach  
to ehs performance improvement.
EHS Policy
Morgan c rucible’s ehs Policy applies 
Group-wide; it forms the basis for the  
executive and management focus and has  
been communicated across all sites within  
the Group. t he Policy is published on the 
Group’s website and in the annual ehs Report.
EHS Policy implementation
Morgan c rucible’s ehs Policy forms the basis 
of the Group’s ehs management systems and 
processes. it requires high standards of ehs 
management at all sites. t his is implemented 
through risk assessment and the management 
and mitigation of identified risks to help provide 
continuous improvement in ehs performance 
in support of the Group’s strategic priorities. 
ehs performance is reported regularly  
to the Board by the chief Financial Officer.  
t he governance structure for ehs places 
responsibility for ehs performance on  
the chief e xecutive of each of the Group’s 
d ivisions, with each site having a point of 
accountability. t he chief Financial Officer is 
responsible for ehs Policy and performance 
monitoring and the Group’s d irector, 
environment, h ealth and safety provides 
Group direction, oversight and has 
responsibility for implementation of the Group 
ehs programmes including: standards and 
procedures, review of the adequacy of ehs 
resources across the Group as well as training, 
performance reporting and all assurance 
processes. d uring 201 1, the Group has been 
active in the recruitment of d ivisional ehs 
leaders in india and china, which has helped 
improve the progress and standards of 
implementation of ehs management in  
these countries.
t he Group recognises the need for high, 
consistent and demonstrable standards in  
ehs governance and control. As a result  
of this, ehs governance arrangements have 
been reviewed during 201 1 and proposals for 
further enhancement and formalisation have 
been presented to the Board for adoption  
during 2012. in addition, as described  
below, the Group commissioned an  
external assurance process from 
Pricewaterhousec oopers llP (Pw c ).
envi ROn Ment, he Alth A nd s AFet Y
Morgan c rucible’s Group-level ehs 
management processes include:
 > t he ehs c ompliance Audit Programme, 
which is carried out by external ehs 
consultants in europe and Asia and 
in-house resources in the Americas. t his 
programme reviews the ehs management 
at each site and helps ensure compliance 
with local regulations and good 
management practice. d uring 201 1 the 
ehs c ompliance Audit Programme was 
extended to cover the ehs management 
systems and the ehs KP is reported by 
each site. All of the Group’s manufacturing 
facilities are reviewed on a three-year 
rolling cycle. d uring 201 1 25 sites were 
audited and the target for 2012 is to audit 
32 sites. t he audit reports are reviewed  
by the d irector, environment, h ealth  
and safety and by the d ivisional chief 
executives. Action items are tracked 
through a formal follow-up process.
 > Formal training as an integral part of the 
implementation of the Group’s ehs Policy. 
t his is undertaken at a d ivisional level 
according to business-specific risks and 
opportunities with Group-level support 
and oversight. For example, during 201 1 
the Group’s ongoing training programme  
in china focused on reinforcing the 
effectiveness of the ehs management 
systems at each site. in india substantial 
progress was made in the implementation 
of ehs management systems-related 
training and specific training in job safety 
analysis was carried out at the sites. 
 > Monthly performance reporting against  
the Group KPis by all Group sites. t he 
data is subject to bi-annual review and 
challenge at Group level with reporting  
of performance to the executive 
c ommittee and the Board by the  
chief Financial Officer.  38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
c ORPORAte ResPOnsiB ilit Y
continued
in 201 1 environmental management  
systems were in place at 93 sites worldwide, 
including 38 major sites certified to is O 14001 
(2010: 34 sites). Four additional sites in india, 
china and Japan achieved certification in 201 1. 
t hese new certifications are in addition to  
the ongoing programme of recertifications.  
All major production sites worldwide have 
health and safety management systems in 
place, with 15 sites certified to or working 
towards Ohs As 18001 (201 1:1 1).
EHS Policy effectiveness
t he Group monitors the effectiveness of its 
ehs Policy through the ehs c ompliance Audit 
Programme and the review of performance 
against a series of relevant KPis as is referred  
to above. 
t he summary charts on pages 39 and 40 
represent the Group’s ehs performance, 
covering 100% of production sites during  
the year.
environmental intensity KPis are reported  
at constant currency, and, where necessary, 
historic ehs data is updated to reflect changes 
in reporting methodology and to ensure 
year-on-year consistency.
As noted above, in 201 1 the Group engaged 
Pwc to provide independent external 
assurance on the Group’s c O
2 
intensity,  
energy intensity and water intensity using 
international assurance standards. t he report 
from Pwc is set out on page 41. i n addition,  
a work-programme is underway with a view  
to gain assurance for the Group’s waste and 
lost time accident frequency data in future. 
t he overall verification of Morgan c rucible’s 
environmental, social and governance 
disclosures is further discussed on page 35.
t he Group participates in a number of external 
initiatives which help to benchmark policy 
effectiveness and progress, including:
 > d uring the year Morgan c rucible’s  
UK sites were accredited to the c arbon 
t rust standard. t his certified that the  
UK businesses have measured, managed 
and reduced their carbon footprint. 
 > Morgan c rucible has made filings in 
respect of the Group’s UK facilities under 
the UK government’s c arbon Reduction 
c ommitment (energy efficiency) scheme. 
 > t he Group also participates in the c arbon 
d isclosure Project (cd P). t he cd P is a 
charity that assesses and ranks companies 
in the major industrial countries according 
to their carbon-related reporting, 
strategies, management and performance. 
in 201 1 the cd P Ftse 350 Report 
positioned the Group’s performance  
as among the best of its peer group of 
participating UK industrial companies.
Environmental performance
w herever possible the Group works to 
minimise the impact of its business on the 
environment and to maximise the positive 
environmental benefit of its products.
Morgan c rucible sets two-year targets for  
the reduction of the impact of its operations  
on the environment, as measured by  
cO
2
 emissions, energy, waste and water 
intensity. t he Group’s 201 1 performance is  
an interim report against the current targets  
for the two-year period 2010-12. Further 
details of the Group’s ehs targets and 
objectives will be included in the Group  
201 1 ehs Report which is due for publication 
on the Group’s website in May 2012.
in 201 1 the Group’s c O
2
 intensity was reduced 
by 5% compared to 2010 with performance 
on track to achieve the target to reduce the  
cO
2
 emissions intensity due to energy use by 
5% over the two years 2010-12. energy intensity 
was down by 6% compared to 2010. t his was 
achieved through increased efficiency at many 
of the Group’s energy-intensive businesses 
driven by a combination of sales growth and 
energy reduction programmes. t his 6% 
reduction follows on from the 1 1% reduction 
achieved over the two-year period 2008-10.  
in absolute terms total c O
2
 emissions due to 
energy use in 201 1 were some 432,900 tonnes 
against 417,200 tonnes in 2010. t otal energy 
use was some 1,434 Gw h in 201 1 against 
1,390 Gw h in 2010. t he Group will be 
seeking further reductions in energy intensity  
in 2012.
w aste intensity was down by 6% in 201 1, 
ahead of the target to reduce waste intensity  
by 5% over the two years 2010-12. t his was 
achieved through increased emphasis on waste 
management and reduction with an increase  
in sales volume. t he proportion of total waste 
which was recycled was increased from 20%  
in 2010 to 21% in 201 1 which is not on track  
to achieve the target to increase recycling  
to 25% of total waste over the two years 
2010-12. t he Group will increase its focus  
on this area over the coming year with  
a view to increasing recycling rates, however, 
performance in this area is highly dependent  
on the markets for recycled materials.  
t otal waste in 201 1 was some 45,100 tonnes  
in 201 1 against 43,900 tonnes in 2010.
w ater intensity was down by 12% in 201 1, 
ahead of the target to reduce water intensity  
by 5% over the two years 2010-12. t his 
improvement was achieved through a focus  
on reducing water use at the Group’s more 
water-intensive businesses, combined with 
further reductions achieved through re-use  
and recycling of water at a number of sites  
and an increase in sales. t otal water use  
in 201 1 was 2.80 million m
3
, down from  
2.91 million m
3
 in 2010.
envi ROn Ment , he Alth A nd s AFet Y continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 39
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
CO 2 intensity
*
T onnes/£m revenue
**
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
494
469
403
416
394
Waste intensity
~
T onnes/£m revenue
**
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
74
67
55
44
41
Energy intensity
+
MWh/£m revenue
**
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
1,641
1,563
1,362
1,385
1,306
Water intensity
#
m
3
/£m revenue
**
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
3,299
2,814
2,609
2,904
2,553
  t he 201 1 c O
2
 intensity, energy intensity and water intensity information has 
been subject to assurance by Pwc .
* cO
2
 equivalent from all fossil fuels, including country-specific electricity.
**  c onstant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
+  energy from all sources.
~ h azardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
#   w ater from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.  40 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
c ORPORAte ResPOnsiB ilit Y
continued
Health and safety performance
Morgan c rucible’s long-term health and safety 
objective is to have no accidents or injuries.  
in 201 1 the Group continued to extend its 
accident prevention and training programmes 
with the objective of reducing accident 
numbers and the time lost per lost time 
accident. Particular focus is placed on those 
sites with below-average performance.
t he Group’s health and safety KPis include 
accident frequencies and causes and related 
lost working time. t hese are used to monitor 
the effectiveness of the Group’s h ealth and 
safety Policies and related systems on a 
monthly basis.
in 201 1 lost time due to accidents and 
work-related illnesses as a proportion of 
working time was down 9% to 0.10% of 
working time. t he number of days lost was 
down 4%. t he average time lost per lost time 
accident decreased to 22 days from 24 days  
in 2010. 
t he frequency of lost time accidents  
across the Group was 0.57 per 100,000 hours 
worked (2010: 0.57). t he number of lost time 
accidents was 129 (2010: 123) with the number 
of hours worked up 6%. Manual handling,  
cuts and abrasions remain the most common 
causes of accidents and the Group continues  
to address this, specifically targeting businesses 
with below-average performance.
Lost time accident
frequency
*
LTAs/100,000 hours
*
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0.55
0.69
0.56
0.57
0.57
Health and safety-related
lost time
% of total working time
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0.08
0.15
0.14
0.11
0.10
Lost time per LTA
*
Days per LTA
*
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
19
27
32
24
22
*  l ost time accident (lt A): accident 
which results in one or more days’  
lost time.
envi ROn Ment , he Alth A nd s AFet Y continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 41
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
indeP endent A ss URAnce R ePORt
To the Directors of The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
What we found
Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the s elected d ata for the year ended  
1 January 2012 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting c riteria.
What we did
t he Morgan c rucible c ompany plc (Morgan c rucible) engaged us  
to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected performance  
data within the environment, h ealth and safety (ehs ) section of the 
Morgan c rucible 201 1 Annual Report for the year ended 1 January 2012 
(the Annual Report).
Selected Data
1
t he 201 1 performance data set out in the charts and related narrative 
on pages 38 and 39 of the Annual Report in respect of:
 > cO
2
 intensity
 > energy intensity
 > w ater intensity
Reporting criteria
t he basis of preparation of the selected d ata is available under the 
heading ‘Reporting c riteria’ on the ehs performance reporting page  
of Morgan c rucible’s website www.morgancrucible.com/governance/
responsible-business/environment-health-safety/ as at 15 February 2012.
Responsibilities
Morgan Crucible
Morgan c rucible is responsible for the contents of the Annual Report, 
including preparation and presentation of the selected d ata in 
accordance with the Reporting c riteria, and implementation and 
maintenance of systems that support production and reporting of  
the selected d ata.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Our responsibility is to express an independent limited assurance
2
 
conclusion based on the procedures described below.
t his report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the 
d irectors of Morgan c rucible to assist them in reporting ehs performance. 
w e consent to the inclusion of this report in the Annual Report to  
assist the d irectors to demonstrate how they have discharged their 
responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in 
connection with the selected d ata. t o the fullest extent permitted by 
law we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
d irectors as a body and Morgan c rucible for our work or this report save 
where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.
What our work involved
w e conducted our work in accordance with the international s tandard 
on Assurance engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. t his standard 
requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements 
and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
Main procedures performed
 > Making enquiries of relevant Morgan c rucible management.
 > evaluating the design of the key processes and controls for  
managing and reporting the selected d ata.
 > t esting the selected d ata, on a sample basis, substantively  
at both an operational and corporate level.
 > Undertaking analytical procedures over the selected d ata.
 > Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and 
documentation supporting assertions made in the selected d ata.
w e believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
c hartered Accountants
l ondon
15 February 2012
1 Inherent limitations
n on-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data given  
both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. 
t he range of different, but acceptable, techniques used can result in materially different 
reporting outcomes which may affect comparability with other organisations.
2 Limited assurance
w e have sought to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to support our assurance 
conclusions. A limited assurance engagement is restricted primarily to enquiries and 
analytical procedures. t he work is substantially less in scope than that undertaken for  
a reasonable assurance engagement, accordingly the level of assurance is lower than  
would be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement.  42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
c ORPORAte ResPOnsiB ilit Y
continued
Morgan c rucible has continued to make good 
progress through improvements in the financial 
performance of the business and realising  
the benefits of streamlining the c ompany’s 
organisational structure. t he creation of the  
two d ivisions, Morgan c eramics and Morgan 
engineered Materials, has been supported by 
strategic recruitment of new talent, as well as 
internal development of existing leadership 
capability. t his has been particularly important 
to support enhanced growth opportunities. 
t hese changes in the business have enabled 
the Group to further enhance the positive 
working environment for employees and create 
new and exciting challenges all over the world. 
d uring this period the Group has continuously 
worked to develop the skills of individuals and 
the capabilities of the organisation as a whole  
to meet these challenges, as the performance  
of the Group’s people is critical to its success.
t he Group’s people resource management 
performance is evaluated monthly, quarterly 
and annually through the collation of key 
performance indicators, which are summarised 
in the sections below.
People Policies
t he Group supports the Universal d eclaration 
of h uman Rights and the Group’s h uman 
Rights Policy commits the Group to protect  
the rights of everyone who works for it and all 
those who have dealings with it. t he principles 
of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, 
health and safety, freedom of association, 
discrimination, discipline, working hours and 
compensation and the Policy is published on 
the Group’s website. t he d irector of h uman 
Resources reports to the chief e xecutive 
Officer and is responsible for the development 
of the h uman Rights Policy and related matters, 
with the chief e xecutives of each d ivision 
having responsibility for policy implementation 
within their respective d ivisions. t he d ivisional 
chief e xecutives report annually on their 
implementation of the h uman Rights Policy. 
t he Morgan c rucible ethics h otline enables 
employees who are aware of or suspect issues 
under the Group’s h uman Rights Policy to 
report these confidentially.
t he Group’s global h uman Resources Policy 
provides an infrastructure of human resource 
activities that enables the business to attract, 
retain and engage people with the skills and 
capabilities to deliver its business plans and 
outperform the competition.
Key to building and maintaining the trust and 
respect of the Group’s people and growing 
their understanding and motivation levels  
is open, timely and factual communication.  
t he d ivisions communicate regularly through 
employee forums, team briefs and d ivisional 
magazines. t he Group regularly requests 
feedback from employees on many different 
aspects of its business.
d emands on the business as a whole are 
continuously changing, and the Group’s 
individual businesses are exploring different 
business development opportunities as they 
evolve into new markets and industries.  
t he Group’s approach is therefore to develop 
existing employee talent and recruit new 
people into jobs that fit those business 
requirements, at the time they are needed. 
t he Group reviews short- and long-term 
business needs on a regular basis and carries 
out succession planning and talent reviews  
to identify any skill gaps. w hether recruiting 
internally or externally for a vacant position, 
selection is based on many factors including  
a candidate’s relevant education, work 
experience, competencies and performance 
record. t he Group does not unfairly 
discriminate and it respects human rights. 
should existing employees become disabled, 
the Group’s policy is to provide continuing 
employment and training wherever practicable.
For the business to achieve superior 
performance there is an expectation that its 
people need to perform at their very best.  
t he Group aims to support them through a 
formalised performance management system 
cascaded through the businesses that focuses 
on setting clear results-based objectives, 
directly linked to the strategic goals and annual 
objectives of the business. Providing people 
with the skills to perform at a superior level  
is also critical, and the Group sees continuous 
learning and professional development as a 
major investment in its future.
PeOPle
T otal lost time
% of working time
2008
2009
2010
2011
2.4
2.7
2.6
2.9
Employee turnover
% per year
2008
2009
2010
2011
14.2
16.7
13.7
13.7
Training
hours per employee
2008
2009
2010
2011
14.9
12.4
12.9*
13.3
*  2010 data rebased
  Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
t he Group recognises and celebrates the 
accomplishments of its people individually  
or as teams, and makes recognition awards  
to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, and 
innovation. t he Group’s compensation 
systems reward people who apply their 
knowledge, skills and talents to support the 
achievement of business goals. t he Group  
pays for performance in all its compensation 
practices. t he total reward package includes  
a mix of base pay, variable pay and benefits. 
t he Group establishes compensation levels  
that are both competitive and affordable to 
Morgan c rucible. t he Group has the flexibility 
to respond to changing market conditions  
and competition for high-demand skills,  
while maintaining equity in salary ranges  
and pay levels.
Implementation of the  
Group’s People-related Policies
in 2010 the Group launched its Responsible 
Business Programme, a blended learning 
programme focused on human rights, 
anti-bribery and corruption, and contract risk 
awareness. in 201 1, the Group updated and 
refreshed its existing Anti-t rust c ompliance 
Programme and fully incorporated this training 
within the wider programme. t he programme 
covers direct training of general managers and 
compliance officers, utilising the Group’s online 
training programmes in these areas and 
providing them with the skills to cascade this 
training through their respective parts of the 
business. t his programme will evolve with  
the changing demands of the business and 
regulatory frameworks around the world.  
All of the Group’s businesses must complete  
an annual certification process confirming their 
compliance with the Morgan c rucible Policies.
d uring the year ‘Morgan et’, the Group’s 
intranet site, has grown to provide faster and 
more efficient access to information from 
diverse sources across the globe. in addition, 
the two d ivisions have developed their own 
sites to facilitate more effective communication.
t he Group keeps employees informed about 
what is happening in other parts of the Group 
through its global ‘360’ e-magazine, which is 
translated into 13 languages, including chinese. 
t he d ivisions continue to issue regular 
d ivisional newsletters both electronically and  
in hard-copy formats. in europe, the Group 
has an established consultative arrangement 
that provides an arena for the exchange of 
relevant and appropriate information across  
the european region. t he Group also held  
its 15th annual european employee Forum in  
May 201 1 where site representatives attended 
from France, Germany, h ungary, italy,  
the n etherlands and the United Kingdom.
l ocal business units have conducted employee 
surveys during the year according to the needs 
of local employee relations and team agendas. 
t hese have measured a range of issues 
relevant to the business units, including 
employee satisfaction and awareness of 
business objectives. surveys of leadership  
style and culture have also been conducted  
at regional and d ivisional levels.
in 201 1, the Group continued to make progress 
with its online ‘d eveloping for Performance’ 
system. t he system focuses on developing  
the skills of the Group’s employees through 
performance management, goal-setting, 
competency assessment and development 
planning.
in addition, the Group’s businesses continue  
to deliver local learning initiatives, to meet 
operational and local leadership needs.
t he Group has further developed its existing 
approaches to the assessment of management 
capability and development. t here has been 
increased investment in management training 
and leadership development in both d ivisions, 
and across all regions. A new approach to the 
assessment of capability and potential of senior 
management has been introduced.
in pursuit of growing capability in the labour 
market, Morgan c rucible continues to sponsor 
annually the science, engineering & t echnology 
student of the Year awards. Morgan c rucible  
is proud to sponsor this event as it allows 
high-calibre students to showcase their 
outstanding research work, and demonstrate 
the depth of ability of graduates in the UK. in 
201 1 the winner of the Best Materials student 
Award was edward Pickering from c ambridge 
University. t he Group has also laid plans  
this year to increase the number of graduate 
recruits in 2012, and has established a  
global approach to graduate recruitment  
and development.
People Policy effectiveness
At the end of the year, Morgan c rucible 
employed circa 10,000 people. Additionally, 
the Group employs circa 1,000 people  
on short-term contractual arrangements  
to provide the numerical flexibility for the 
Group’s businesses to react quickly to  
changes in market conditions.
t he Group’s geographic spread of people  
is as follows: 35% of employees in europe, 
Middle east and Africa, 33% in n orth America,  
4% in south America and 28% in the Rest of 
the w orld. Of these employees 75% are male. 
l ost time as a proportion of total working time 
was 2.9% (2.6% in 2010), with lost time due  
to accidents in the workplace of 0.1% of total 
working time. t raining hours per employee 
were 13.3 (12.9 hours in 2010.) t he Group’s 
employee turnover was 13.7% in 201 1  
(13.7% in 2010). 1% of the workforce was 
made redundant during the year with higher 
levels of natural turnover coming from china 
and Mexico where the labour markets are 
exceptionally fluid.
d uring the year, 10 employees around the 
world celebrated 40 years of loyal service  
with Morgan c rucible, with 221 employees 
celebrating anniversaries of 20, 25 or 30 years’ 
service. t he Group is pleased by the number 
of employees who remain with the Morgan 
c rucible for significant periods of their careers, 
and whose experience we have retained.  
t he average length of service of the Group’s 
employees is 13.7 years.  44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Fin Anci Al Review
Introduction
t hese results are produced under international 
Financial Reporting standards as adopted  
by the eU (adopted iFRss). All the figures 
referred to below are extracted from the 
financial statements on pages 78 to 139 and 
comply with adopted iFRss.
Reference is made to ‘Underlying operating 
profit’
3
 and ‘Underlying earnings per share (ePs)’. 
ePs is defined in note 9 on page 98. t hese 
measures of earnings are shown because  
the d irectors consider that they give a better 
indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue and operating profit
Group revenue was £1,101.0 million  
(2010: £1,017.1 million), an increase of 8.2% 
compared to 2010. On a constant currency 
basis, revenue increased by 9.3%.
Group eBit A
2
 was £143.4 million (2010: 
£109.5 million) representing a margin of  
13.0% (2010: 10.8%).
Group underlying operating profit
3
  
was £141.5 million (2010: £101.6 million). 
Underlying operating profit margin was  
12.9%, compared to 10.0% for 2010.
Group operating profit was £133.2 million 
(2010: £93.6 million). Operating profit margins 
were 12.1%, compared to 9.2% for 2010.
Morgan engineered Materials Morgan c eramics
Morgan 
AM&t
Molten Metal
systems
t echnical 
ceramics
t hermal 
ceramics c onsolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue from external customers 369.1 367.7 46.7 40.3 285.1 250.1 400.1 359.0 1,101.0 1,017.1
Divisional EBITA
1
48.0 39.2 7.7 6.3 43.1 34.0 49.6 34.8 148.4 114.3
Unallocated costs (5.0) (4.8)
Group EBITA
2
143.4 109.5
Restructuring costs and other one-off items – (1.6) – 0.1 1.1 (1.7) (3.0) (4.7) (1.9) (7.9)
Underlying operating profit
3
141.5 101.6
Amortisation of intangible assets (4.5) (4.2) (0.1) (0.1) (2.5) (2.5) (1.2) (1.2) (8.3) (8.0)
Operating profit 133.2 93.6
Finance income 27.7 29.0
Finance expense (49.5) (54.9)
Profit before taxation 111.4 67.7
1. s egment profit is defined as d ivisional eBit A, which is segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
2. Group eBit A is defined as operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
3. Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
t he Group has delivered significantly 
improved results in 201 1 across all 
financial metrics and, importantly,  
a substantial achievement in  
delivering a significant part of  
our three-year financial goals.
Kevin Dangerfield Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 45
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
t he restructuring costs and other one-off  
items of £1.9 million charge (2010: £7.9 million) 
included restructuring costs of £5.6 million 
(2010: £8.5 million), a gain on sale of properties 
of £2.4 million (2010: £0.6 million) and a net 
pension credit of £1.3 million (2010: nil).
Foreign currency impact
t he principal exchange rates used in the 
translation of the results of overseas subsidiaries 
were as follows:
Average rate Year-end rate
2011 2010 2011 2010
Usd 1.6043 1.5447 1.5541 1.5657
¤ 1.1529 1.1659 1.1972 1.1671
t he potential impact of changes in foreign 
exchange rates is given in note 19 on  
pages 108 to 1 16.
Amortisation of intangible assets
t he Group amortisation charge was  
£8.3 million (2010: £8.0 million).
Finance costs
t he net finance charge was £21.8 million 
(2010: £25.9 million). t his charge was primarily 
net bank interest and similar charges of  
£20.4 million (2010: £24.7 million), a decrease 
of £4.3 million. t he decrease in the net interest 
charge is due to the continuing reduction in 
debt levels and improvement in overall bank 
facility costs as a result of the refinancing in  
April 201 1, in part offset by the write-off of the 
previous facility fees. t he balance of the finance 
charge under iFRs is the net interest charge  
on pension scheme net liabilities, which was 
£0.9 million (2010: £2.0 million) and interest 
expense of £0.5 million (2010: £1.2 million) on 
the unwinding of the discount on the deferred 
consideration relating to the n P Aerospace 
acquisition. t he impact of potential changes  
in interest rates on profit or loss is stated in 
note 19 on pages 108 to 1 16.
Taxation
Group taxation for the year was £32.6 million 
(2010: £19.7 million). t he effective tax rate  
was 29.3% (2010: 29.1%). t he medium-term 
view is that the effective tax rate will remain  
at approximately 29%.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share was 29.9 pence 
(2010: 18.7 pence), basic earnings per share 
was 26.9 pence (2010: 15.8 pence). d etails  
of these calculations can be found in note 9  
on page 98.
Dividend
t he d irectors recommend the payment  
of a final dividend at the rate of 6.0 pence  
per share on the Ordinary share capital of  
the c ompany, payable on 6 July 2012 to 
Ordinary shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 25 May 2012. t ogether 
with the interim dividend of 3.25 pence  
per share paid on 12 January 2012, this final 
dividend, if approved by shareholders, brings 
the total distribution for the year to 9.25 pence  
per share (2010: 7.7 pence).
A scrip alternative to the cash dividend will 
again be offered. 
A five-year summary of the Group’s financial 
results is set out on page 139 of this Report.
Cash flow
Free cash flow before acquisitions and dividends 
was £57.8 million (2010: £76.5 million).  
t here was an outflow from working capital  
of £29.1 million (2010: inflow of £10.5 million). 
t he Group excluding n P Aerospace improved 
its working capital to sales ratio from 20.0%  
at the end of 2010 to 19.2% at the end of 201 1. 
n P Aerospace had a higher level of trade 
receivables and inventory than expected  
at the year end, which is expected to reduce 
significantly during 2012.
n et debt at the year end was £215.4 million  
(2010: £236.2 million). As a result of the 
significant improvement in operating 
performance the net debt
*
 to eBitd A ratio  
at the year end was improved to just below  
1.2 times (2010: 1.7 times).
2011
£
2010
£
Net cash inflow from  
operating activities 137.4 148.1
n et capital expenditure (25.5) (17.0)
Restructuring costs and  
other one-off items (8.1) (7.8)
n et interest paid (20.4) (22.7)
tax paid (25.6) (24.1)
Free cash flow before  
acquisitions and dividends 57.8 76.5
c ash flows in respect  
of acquisitions (10.4) (32.9)
d ividends paid (18.4) (15.4)
exchange movement and  
other items (8.2) (11.7)
Movement in net debt
*
  
in period 20.8 16.5
Opening net debt (236.2) (252.7)
c losing net debt (215.4) (236.2)
*
 n et debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and  
cash equivalents.
c ommitments for property, plant and 
equipment and computer software for which 
no provision has been made are set out in  
note 24 on page 127.  46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Fin Anci Al Review
continued
Capital structure
At the year end total equity was £270.2 million 
(2010: £252.1 million) with closing net debt of 
£215.4 million (2010: £236.2 million).
n on-current assets were £594.5 million  
(2010: £601.8 million) and total assets were 
£1,041.4 million (2010: £1,033.2 million).
d etails of undiscounted contracted maturities 
of financial liabilities and capital management 
are set out in note 19 on page 1 1 1.
t here have been no significant post-balance 
sheet events.
c apital structure is further discussed in  
note 19 on page 1 15 under the heading  
c apital management.
Pensions
t he Group operates a number of pension 
schemes throughout the world, the majority  
of which are of a funded defined benefit type. 
t he largest of these are located in the UK  
and the Us A with the majority of others in 
c ontinental europe. t he Group pension  
deficit increased by £31.2 million since last  
year end to £135.1 million on an iAs 19 basis. 
t he main movements were in the Us A and 
UK defined benefit pension schemes. t he  
UK schemes’ deficit increased by £20.8 million  
to £47.4 million (2010: £26.6 million) and the 
Us A schemes by £8.2 million to £58.5 million 
(2010: £50.3 million), both mainly due to the 
impact of lower discount rates. t he UK defined 
benefit pension schemes’ deficit also includes  
a reset of the future indexation of current 
employees’ accrued benefits to the c onsumer 
Prices index, rather than the Retail Price index. 
t his has resulted in a pension credit of  
£3.1 million being recognised in the  
income statement.
Treasury Policies
t he following policies were implemented  
and in place across the Group throughout  
the year. t he manager of each business unit  
is required to confirm compliance as part of  
the year end process.
Financial Risk Management and  
Treasury Policy
Group t reasury works within a framework  
of policies and procedures approved by  
the Audit c ommittee. it acts as a service to 
Morgan c rucible’s businesses, not as a profit 
centre, and manages and controls risk  
in the treasury environment through the 
establishment of such procedures. Group 
t reasury seeks to align treasury goals, 
objectives and philosophy to those of the 
Group. it is responsible for all of the Group’s 
funding, liquidity, cash management, interest 
rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other 
treasury business. As part of the policies  
and procedures, there is strict control  
over the use of financial instruments to  
hedge foreign currencies and interest rates. 
speculative trading in derivatives and other 
financial instruments is not permitted.
Foreign exchange risks
d ue to the international reach of the Group, 
currency transaction exposures exist.  
t he Group has a policy in place to hedge all 
material firm commitments and highly probable 
forecast foreign currency exposures, and 
achieves this through the use of the forward 
foreign exchange markets. t he Group 
continues its practice of not hedging income 
statement translation exposure.
t here are exchange control restrictions  
which affect the ability of a small number of  
the Group’s subsidiaries to transfer funds to  
the Group. t he Group does not believe such 
restrictions have had or will have any material 
adverse impact on the Group as a whole or 
the ability of the Group to meet its cash flow 
requirements.
currency translation risks are controlled 
centrally. t o defend against the impact  
of a permanent reduction in the value of  
its overseas net assets through currency 
depreciation, the Group seeks to match the 
currency of financial liabilities with the currency 
in which the net assets are denominated.  
t his is achieved by raising funds in different 
currencies and through the use of hedging 
instruments such as swaps, and is implemented 
only to the extent that the Group’s gearing 
covenant under the terms of its loan documents, 
as well as its facility headroom, are likely to 
remain comfortably within limits. in this way, 
the structure of the Group’s borrowings 
becomes more aligned to the trading cash 
flows that service them.
Interest rate risk
t he Group seeks to reduce the volatility in its 
interest charge caused by rate fluctuations. t he 
Group seeks to ensure that between 30% and 
80% of its exposure to changes in interest rates 
on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis. t his is 
achieved through a combination of fixed rate 
debt and interest rate swaps. Group t reasury 
may not actively seek to fix or cap more than 
80% of the Group’s current overall debt. 
h owever, the fixed or capped proportion is 
permitted to rise above that level with Audit 
c ommittee approval.
Credit risk
c redit risk arises when a counterparty fails to 
perform its obligations. t he Group is exposed 
to credit risk on financial instruments such  
as liquid assets, derivative assets and trade 
receivables. c redit risk is managed by investing 
liquid assets and acquiring derivatives in a 
diversified way from high-credit-quality financial 
institutions. c ounterparties are reviewed 
through the use of rating agencies, systemic  
risk considerations, and through regular review 
of the financial press. t he Group has a c redit 
Policy in place in relation to trade receivables 
and exposure to credit risk is monitored  
on an ongoing basis. c redit evaluations are 
performed on all customers requiring credit 
over a certain amount. t he nature of the 
Group’s operations is such that the Group  
has a significant number of low-value trade 
receivables. t he risk is therefore considered 
minimal. c redit risk is further discussed  
in note 19 on pages 108 to 1 16. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 47
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Capital investment
t he Group has well-established formal 
procedures for the approval of investment in 
new businesses and of capital expenditure to 
ensure appropriate senior management review 
and sign-off.
Tax planning risk
t he Group’s reported after-tax income is 
calculated based on the relevant tax legislation 
in each of the jurisdictions that it operates in. 
changes in tax legislation (including tax rates) 
could materially affect the Group’s after-tax 
income. t he Group undertakes tax planning 
initiatives where appropriate. t he outcome  
of such planning cannot be assured and could 
materially influence the effective tax rate.
Accounting Policies
w e adopted international Financial Reporting 
standards as adopted by the eU (adopted 
iFRss) in 2005. All Accounting Policies  
shown on pages 83 to 90 are compliant  
with adopted iFRss.
Borrowing facilities and liquidity 
All of the Group’s borrowing facilities are 
arranged by Group t reasury and the funds 
raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries on 
an arm’s-length basis. in a few cases operating 
subsidiaries have external borrowings but these 
are supervised and controlled centrally. Group 
t reasury seeks to obtain certainty of access to 
funding in the amounts, diversity of maturities 
and diversity of counterparties as required to 
support the Group’s medium-term financing 
requirements and to minimise the impact of 
poor credit market conditions.
in April 201 1 the Group completed the 
refinancing of its bank facility with a £150 million 
unsecured five-year multicurrency revolving 
credit facility on improved terms. t he Group 
has retained the same lending group of  
eight banks. Further information on the 
Group’s debt and maturity profile is provided  
in note 18 on page 107.
Going concern
t he Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business review on pages 22  
to 51. t he financial position of the Group,  
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities, are described earlier in this Financial 
review. in addition, note 19 includes the 
Group’s policies and processes for managing 
financial risk; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
t he Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital requirements through local banking 
arrangements that are supported by the 
flexibility provided by the facility. t he Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account  
of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance and exchange rates, show the 
Group operating comfortably within its debt 
financial covenants for the next 12 months.
t he current economic climate continues to 
have an impact on the Group, its customers 
and suppliers. t he Board fully recognises  
the challenges that lie ahead but, after making 
enquiries, the d irectors have a reasonable 
expectation that the c ompany and the  
Group have adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the  
Annual Report and Accounts.  48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Ris K MAnAG eMent
t he Group has an established risk 
management methodology together with a 
comprehensive internal control framework  
and appropriate assurance processes. t he risk 
management processes are forward-looking in 
the identification, management and mitigation 
of business risks that could impact the Group’s 
immediate and long-term performance and 
value. w hilst they will not fully eliminate risks, 
they will facilitate mitigation to an acceptable 
level within the context of the business 
environment in which the Group operates. 
Management of business risk is an integral  
part of delivering performance and is the 
responsibility of all managers. some specific 
areas of risk (for example supply chain) are 
assessed and managed through steering groups. 
t he risk management decision-making and 
reporting procedures are integrated into  
formal business reporting up to the Board. 
Assurance of the effectiveness of risk 
management processes, procedures and 
internal control continues to be monitored by 
the Audit c ommittee. d ivisional management 
attend the Audit c ommittee at least annually  
to report on internal control and compliance 
with Group policies. Key risks and  
issues are reported to the Board via the  
Risk Management c ommittee and the 
executive c ommittee.
t he following key risk areas are those that  
the Group feels could have the most serious 
adverse effect on its performance and 
reputation. t he relative importance of some  
of these risks has changed during 201 1 as 
business conditions change. w here necessary, 
monitoring and controls to manage risk have 
been adjusted to ensure that the risks continue 
to be managed within acceptable limits.
Strategy and strategic planning risks
Obstacles to delivery of strategy
Ability to exploit new business opportunities.
Ability to deliver anticipated benefits from investments.
d elivering the benefits of acquisitions and disposals.
Balancing cyclical business sectors to smooth results.
Overdependence on key customers.
External risks
Changing political, economical and social environment
t his includes the types of risks that have manifested themselves in 201 1,  
for example Arab spring, Japanese earthquake and tsunami and c hina 
slowdown. Many of these events impacted local markets and some had  
a worldwide impact on supply chains and markets.
c urrent eurozone issues
Changing global financial environment
t he Group, like its peers, is exposed to the risks presented by the  
ongoing state of the financial markets, the banking sector and the challenge  
to the euro.
t he Board approves and monitors strategy, consulting external advisers  
and experts when necessary. w ithin its delegated authority, the executive 
c ommittee and d ivisional management implement strategic plans and 
regularly report performance.
Businesses are spread geographically, with reduced reliance on cyclical markets. 
w here the Group chooses to continue to operate in cyclical markets,  
it selects industries with different cycles to reduce the impact on Group results.
Processes are in place to ensure a structured approach to strategy,  
three-year plans, budgets, investment approval as well as monitoring  
and reporting performance.
Acquisitions and disposals are managed through an established process  
with appropriate monitoring and reporting.
Risk mitigation and contingency planning minimised the negative impact  
of the 201 1 events on the Group.
Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a Business, d ivisional and Group 
level with contingency plans adjusted to manage the changing situation.
Mitigation plans are in place to manage the financial and business impact  
of the eurozone crisis and any large currency swings. t hese include not  
only cash and banking but also operational issues in the businesses.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest 
rate, credit and liquidity risk.
Our pension funds are managed using independent, competent t rustee 
Boards and external advisers. 
t he Group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure  
that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
RISk MITIGATION Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 49
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Market dynamics and competition
Maintaining technology and innovation lead 
d ealing with increasing competition.
As some of our business opportunities are in substitute materials,  
we are frequently in competition with existing technology producers  
or other innovators.
Operational risks
Treasury risks
t he uncertainty in the financial markets and the banking sector impact  
foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk  
of bank failure impacting the Group’s cash.
Supply chain exposures including raw materials
supply chain risks include internal risks within the Group, especially where 
some sites supply and contribute to the profitability of several businesses.
Natural or man-made catastrophes impacting operations and  
business continuity
t he Group’s facilities and processes are exposed to a number of potential 
catastrophes including fire and explosion that are inherent to the industry.  
in addition, some sites are exposed to natural hazards such as windstorm, 
flooding and earthquake, that are inherent to their geographical location.  
A major incident could impact the continuity of the business.
Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff
As many of the Group’s processes require a high degree of skill, loss of these 
employees to other markets or competitors would impact the businesses.
similarly, loss of key persons in commercial or management areas could  
also impact profitability.
Product safety and liability
Products used in applications for which they were not intended.
Materials that require special handling.
Potential liability from product quality, performance, service, safety.
Compliance and ethics risks
Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation
Unethical behaviour including bribery, corruption, anti-trust, human rights, etc. 
t he Group operates in countries where bribery, corruption, and anti-trust 
are known risks.
t he increasing volume and scope of legislation and regulation complicate  
the business environment and increase non-compliance risk and the 
associated penalties.
Environment, health and safety risks
t he d ivisions monitor technology, business developments and future 
regulation to ensure that they are in a strong position to optimise future events.
 
R&d investment is maintained in new/improving technologies through  
the Group’s research and development facilities.
As many of the Group’s products are designed for a specific customer,  
they are developed in tandem with them to maintain leading-edge solutions.
t hrough the t reasury function there are strict controls on the selection  
of banks and cash management. Additional actions have been taken to 
respond to the eurozone crisis.
d ual sourcing of materials or strategic stocks.
Key risk areas identified, managed and monitored.
supply c hain steering Group monitors risks throughout the Group.
Key processes and equipment assessed. Risks mitigated to an acceptable  
risk level using improved procedures, protection and controls.
t here is an ongoing risk management process together with external experts 
to identify and assess key risk areas. Risk is mitigated through improved 
processes and protection is installed where needed (fire protection, 
equipment controls, natural hazard protection, etc).
c risis management and business continuity plans are in place and tested.
t he Group maintains human resource policies and processes to manage  
the risks relating to its people. t hese cover areas including reward and 
recognition, health and safety, talent management, including succession 
planning, skills assessment and development, performance management  
and employee consultation.
Many products designed to customers specifications.
w here necessary products are tested and certified to meet  
national/international standards.
Quality control processes on materials and finished products.
Monitoring of legislation and regulation to manage future risk issues.
t he Group monitors changes in legislation and regulation, pro-actively 
modifying existing controls and compliance frameworks and providing 
training where needed. 
t he Group has a Responsible Business Programme dealing with most areas 
of ethics, compliance and regulation. 
t he Group’s ethical standards are defined and driven by the Group ethics 
Policy and an external hotline is maintained in countries in which we operate. 
in 201 1 controls and training were reviewed and upgraded to support 
worldwide compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
w here the Group is occasionally subject to legal action, we maintain adequate 
provisions (see notes 21 and 25 on pages 126 and 127).
Further detail of the programmes in place to manage these risks  
are included on pages 37 to 40.
RISk MITIGATION  50 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
KeY ResOURces A nd  
c Ont RAct UAl Rel Ati Onshi Ps
Morgan c rucible has built up significant 
resources and benefits from contractual and 
other relationships with multiple stakeholders, 
including customers and suppliers, employees 
and joint venture partners. t hese relationships 
have been built up over many years to support 
Morgan c rucible’s competitive positioning in 
the key markets which the Group serves.
As is described below, no one contractual  
or other relationship is considered essential  
to the business of the Group as a whole. 
Further information on the Group’s 
stakeholder relationships is included elsewhere 
in this Business review, including in the 
c orporate responsibility section on pages 34  
to 43. As referred to in the d irectors’ report 
on page 57, a number of commercial and 
contractual agreements include change of 
control provisions which come into effect  
in the event of a change in ownership of the 
c ompany following a takeover.
in accordance with its goal, aim and strategic 
priorities, the Group continues to invest  
in the areas discussed below to maintain  
its leading market positions.
Commercial relationships, market 
position and reputation
Morgan c rucible is generally ranked number 
one or two in its chosen market segments.  
t he Group is a world-leader in advanced 
ceramic and composite materials. t he 
c ompany was founded in 1856 and has  
a worldwide reputation.
Morgan c rucible’s Businesses provide  
products and services to other companies  
and the Group has developed close working 
relationships with many of its customers  
and suppliers and collaborates with them  
to develop new products.
t he Group has a wide range of customers  
and suppliers and, while the loss of or 
disruption to certain of these arrangements 
could temporarily affect the operations of a 
particular Business, none is considered essential 
to the Group as a whole. n otwithstanding  
this, the Group devotes significant resources  
to ensuring these relationships continue to 
operate satisfactorily.
Employees
Morgan c rucible’s most important resource  
is its people and the Group employs a highly 
skilled and qualified workforce. One of the 
Group’s strategic priorities is ‘finding, keeping 
and developing the right people’. Many 
employees stay with the Group for their  
whole careers, as is highlighted on page 43. 
Morgan c rucible places great emphasis on 
recruitment and training and the Group’s 
policies and performance in these areas are  
set out on pages 42 and 43.
succession plans are in place covering key 
management and technical roles and as such  
no individual employee is considered essential 
to the business of the Group as a whole.
t he executive d irectors’ contracts and the 
terms and conditions of appointment of the 
non-executive d irectors are referred to on 
page 71 and are available for inspection prior  
to the Annual General Meeting and at the 
c ompany’s registered office.
Research and development,  
patents and intellectual property
Morgan c rucible’s goal is to continue to be  
one of the world’s very best advanced materials 
companies, supported by the strategic priority 
of ‘offering high added-value to our customers’. 
t he Group’s d ivisions use their extensive 
knowledge base, particularly in the areas of 
advanced ceramic and composite materials,  
to develop new products and services to meet 
customer needs and to differentiate themselves 
in the markets they serve.
Morgan c rucible benefits from technological 
know-how and other forms of intellectual 
property, some of which are covered by 
patents. c ollectively this intellectual property 
supports the development and manufacture of 
new products and services to meet customer 
needs, but no one single patent is considered 
essential to the business of the Group as  
a whole.
Both of Morgan c rucible’s d ivisions have  
a t echnical d irector, and have research and 
development capabilities variously located at 
d ivisional centres of excellence and diffused 
through the business in the form of applications 
engineering. Further details are included in the 
Review of operations for both d ivisions on 
pages 26 to 33.
Manufacturing capabilities
Over many years Morgan c rucible has 
invested heavily in manufacturing capacity and 
technology to develop its capability to serve  
its chosen markets worldwide. in recent years 
the Group has developed and extended  
its manufacturing presence and capabilities  
in china, i ndia and l atin America to meet 
customer needs in both local and global 
markets. t his investment supports the  
Group’s strategic priority of ‘having a culture  
of operational excellence and cost efficiency’.
Joint venture partners
in a number of territories around the world, 
the Group has established joint ventures with 
local partners. Many of these joint ventures 
have been in operation for many years; 
however, no individual joint venture agreement 
is considered to be essential to the business of 
Morgan c rucible as a whole.
Banking and other financial 
relationships
d etails of significant banking and other financial 
relationships are referred to on page 57 in the 
d irectors’ report. h owever, no one banking  
or financial relationship is considered to be 
essential to the performance and value of  
the c ompany. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 51
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
t his document has been prepared for and 
only for the members of the c ompany as  
a body and no other persons. its purpose  
is to assist members to assess how the 
d irectors have performed their duties,  
the c ompany’s strategies and the potential  
for those strategies to succeed and for no 
other purpose. save as would otherwise  
arise under english law, the c ompany,  
its d irectors, employees, agents or advisers  
do not accept or assume responsibility or 
liability to any third parties to whom this 
document is shown or into whose hands  
it may come and any such responsibility  
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
t his document contains forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risk factors 
associated with, amongst other things,  
the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries, 
sectors and markets in which the Group 
operates. t hese and other factors could 
adversely affect the outcome and financial 
effects of the plans and events described. 
Forward-looking statements by their nature 
involve a number of risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions because they relate to events 
and/or depend on circumstances that may  
or may not occur in the future and could 
cause actual results and outcomes to  
differ materially from those expressed in or  
implied by the forward-looking statements.
it is believed that the expectations reflected  
in these statements are reasonable but  
they may be affected by a wide range  
of such variables. n o assurances can be  
given that the forward-looking statements  
in this document will be realised. t he 
forward-looking statements reflect the 
knowledge and information available at  
the date this document was prepared and  
will not be updated during the year but  
will be considered in the Annual Report  
for next year. n othing in this document  
should be construed as a profit forecast.
c AUti On ARY stAte Ment  52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Tim Stevenson OBE
†§
Non-executive Chairman
Tim was appointed as Chairman of Morgan Crucible 
in December 2006. He is also Chairman of Johnson 
Matthey plc. Tim was Chairman of Travis Perkins plc 
from 2001 to 2010, a non-executive Director of 
Tribal Group plc from 2004 to 2008 and was latterly 
their Senior Independent Director. From 2001 to 
2005 Tim was Senior Independent Director and 
Chair of the Audit Committee of National Express plc 
and from 2000 to 2004 he was a non-executive 
Director of Partnerships UK plc. From 1975 to 
2000, Tim held a variety of senior management 
positions at Burmah Castrol PLC, including Chief 
Executive from 1998 to 2000. He is a qualified 
barrister and is Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
Mark Robertshaw
§
Chief Executive Officer
Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in 
August 2006. Prior to this he was Chief Operating 
Officer from February 2006 and Chief Financial 
Officer from October 2004. Before joining  
Morgan Crucible he was Chief Financial Officer  
of Gartmore Investment Management plc from  
2000 to 2004. Mark is a non-executive Director of 
SEGRO plc and was a non-executive Director of 
Rathbones Brothers plc from 2006 to 2010. 
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics
Andrew was appointed as Chief Executive Officer  
of Morgan Ceramics and joined the Morgan Crucible 
Board in July 2010. Before this appointment  
he held a number of senior positions within the  
Morgan Crucible Group. Andrew was Chief Executive 
Officer of Technical Ceramics from 2004 to  
July 2010, whereupon the Technical Ceramics  
and Thermal Ceramics Businesses were brought 
together as the Morgan Ceramics Division.  
He is a non-executive Director of British Ceramic 
Research Limited and was President of the British 
Ceramics Confederation from 2003 to 2005.
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer
Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Officer  
in August 2006, having joined Morgan Crucible  
in July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial Controller 
before being promoted to Group Financial 
Controller. He is a non-executive Director of e2v 
technologies plc. Before joining Morgan Crucible 
Kevin worked for London International Group plc 
and Virgin Retail Europe Limited. He qualified as a 
chartered accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Martin Flower*
†§
Senior Independent Director
Martin was appointed as a non-executive Director  
in December 2004 and Senior Independent 
Director in April 2008. He is Chairman of Croda 
International plc and Low & Bonar PLC. He was 
previously Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK plc,  
a non-executive Director of Autogrill Group Inc. and 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
of Severn Trent Plc. Martin held a variety of senior 
management positions with Coats plc from 1968 to 
2004, and was Group Chief Executive of that Group 
and Chairman of the Board from 2001 to 2004.
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer
Mark Robertshaw
§
Chief Executive Officer
Tim Stevenson OBE
†§
Chairman
Martin Flower
*†§
Senior Independent Director
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 53
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Andrew Given*
†§
Non-executive Director
Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Director  
in December 2007 and is the Chairman of the  
Audit Committee. He was previously the senior 
non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee of VT Group plc, the Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee  
of Spectris plc and a non-executive Director  
and Chair of the Audit Committee of Spirent 
Communications plc. Andrew was formerly  
Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc and held  
senior management positions in Plessey and  
Nortel Networks.
Simon Heale*
†§
Non-executive Director
Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director  
in February 2005 and is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. He is a non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Coats plc, a non-executive Director  
and Chair of the Audit Committee of Kazakhmys plc,  
a non-executive Director and Chair of the CSR 
Committee of PZ Cussons Plc, a non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit and Compliance 
Committee of Marex Spectron Group Limited  
and Trustee and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer 
Support chairing their Finance and Legal Committee 
and sitting on their Audit Committee. He was  
Chief Executive of China Now from 2007 to 2008 
and was Chief Executive of the London Metal 
Exchange from 2001 to 2006. Simon qualified  
as an accountant with Price Waterhouse and has  
had extensive experience in the Far East, having held  
senior positions with the Swire Group in Japan and 
Hong Kong and with Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Hosty
CEO Morgan Ceramics
Don Klas
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary
Peter Blausten
Director of Human Resources
* Member of the Audit Committee
† 
Member of the Remuneration Committee
§ 
Member of the Nomination Committee
Simon Heale
*†§
Non-executive Director
Peter Blausten
Director of Human Resources
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary
Don Klas
CEO Morgan Engineered Materials
Andrew Given
*†§
Non-executive Director  54 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report together with the financial 
statements and independent auditor’s report for the year ended  
1 January 2012. This Directors’ report was approved by the Board  
on 15 February 2012.
Principal activities
The Morgan Crucible Company plc (the Company) and its subsidiary 
undertakings comprise two Divisions covering four operating segments  
(as outlined on page 24) that design, manufacture and market primarily 
carbon and ceramic components for applications in a wide range of 
markets. A review of developments affecting the Group during the year 
and of its prospects for the future appears on pages 22 to 50, to be  
read in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 51.
Business review
The Business review sets out a comprehensive review of the 
development and performance of the business of the Company for  
the year ended 1 January 2012 and future developments. The Business 
review is set out on pages 22 to 51 (inclusive) of this Annual Report.  
All information detailed in those pages is incorporated by reference  
into this Directors’ report and is deemed to form part of this  
Directors’ report.
Corporate governance statement
The Corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.1 of  
the FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out on pages 58  
to 64 of this Annual Report. All information detailed in the Corporate  
governance statement is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ 
report and is deemed to form part of this Directors’ report.
Financial results 
The total profit for the year ended 1 January 2012 was £78.8 million 
(2010: £48.0 million). Profit before taxation for the same period was 
£1 1 1.4 million (2010: £67.7 million). Revenue was £1,101.0 million  
(2010: £1,017.1 million) and operating profit was £133.2 million  
(2010: £93.6 million). Basic earnings per share was 26.9 pence  
(2010: 15.8 pence). Capital and reserves at the end of the year  
were £270.2 million (2010: £252.1 million). The total profit of  
£78.8 million will be transferred to equity. The Group’s accounting 
policies can be found on pages 83 to 90.
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate  
of 6.0 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, 
payable on 6 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on 25 May 2012. Together with the interim dividend of  
3.25 pence per share paid on 12 January 2012, this final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year  
to 9.25 pence per share (2010: 7.7 pence).
Acquisitions and disposals
On 8 April 201 1 the Company increased its equity stake in  
NP Aerospace from 70% to 80% by acquiring an additional  
10% of the equity for £9.1 million which represents full consideration  
for the 10% of share capital acquired.
Post-balance sheet events
There have been no material events since the year end.
Share capital
The Company’s share capital is set out in note 17 on pages 104 to 106. 
The Company’s Ordinary shares represent 99.84% of the total issued 
share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares 
representing 0.05% and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference 
shares representing 0.1 1%. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the transfer of shares  
in the Company, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association 
(Articles), copies of which can be obtained from Companies House  
in the UK or from the Company Secretary. The holders of Ordinary 
shares are entitled to receive dividends, when declared; to receive  
the Company’s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies; and to exercise voting 
rights. Details of the structure of the Company’s Preference share  
capital and the rights attached to the Company’s Preference shares  
are set out on page 106. No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. The 
Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights. The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 55
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company’s policy in relation to its suppliers is, where possible,  
to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, 
to ensure suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and  
to abide by those terms, provided that it is satisfied that the supplier 
provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms 
and conditions. The Company and its subsidiaries do not follow any  
one code or standard on payment practice due to the diverse nature  
of the global markets in which the Group operates.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the 
Company at the end of the year was 45 days (2010: 30 days) and  
for the Group was 58 days (2010: 69 days).
Research and development
Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue to be 
crucial to the successful development of new products and solutions to 
satisfy customer demands. The Company has research and development 
facilities at its key manufacturing sites. The spend on research and 
development, which excludes the amounts spent working with 
customers and others by way of product enhancement and application 
engineering, was £14.3 million during the year (2010: £15.9 million).  
The Group did not capitalise any development costs in 201 1 (2010: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments, together with 
information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow,  
credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 19 on  
pages 108 to 1 16. All information detailed in this note is incorporated 
into this Directors’ report by reference and is deemed to form part  
of this Directors’ report.
Human resources
Details of the Group’s Human Resources Policy and employee 
involvement are set out on pages 42 and 43.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or 
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise)  
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Employee share and share option schemes
The Company continues to encourage employee ownership of  
its shares through the provision of a number of employee share  
and share option schemes. 156 employees hold awards under the  
Morgan Crucible Long Term Incentive Plan, 36 employees hold awards 
under the Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan,  
34 employees have options under the Company’s Executive Share 
Option Schemes and 652 employees participate in the Company’s  
UK Sharesave Plan. There are 12 participants in the Company’s German 
Employee Share Purchase Plan. There are currently no participants  
in the Company’s US Employee Share Purchase Plan. Details of 
outstanding options are given in note 20 on pages 1 17 to 125.
NP Aerospace operates an employee share option scheme pursuant  
to which NP Aerospace employees who were in employment as at  
31 July 2007 have been granted options over shares in Clearpower 
Limited, the NP Aerospace holding company. 135 employees hold 
awards under this scheme. The NP Aerospace employee benefit trust 
holds 16,665 shares in Clearpower Limited in respect of the scheme.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to a 
change of control. Outstanding options and awards would normally  
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) held  
2,044,458 shares on 1 January 2012 in connection with awards granted 
under the Company’s employee share schemes. The trustees of the 
Trust (Trustees) have agreed to waive their entitlement to the payment 
of dividends on the shares held by the Trust. The Directors are not 
aware that any other shareholders waived or agreed to waive any 
dividends or future dividends during the period under review.
The Trustees have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to 
voting any shares held in the Trust at any general meeting. Their policy  
is not to vote the shares. If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire 
their shares, the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion  
on whether to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held  
by them.  56 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
Directors
All those who served as Directors at any time during the year under 
review are listed on pages 52 to 53.
Details of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company are 
listed on page 72. In the period from 1 January 2012 to 15 February 2012 
the executive Directors acquired further Ordinary shares in the Company 
pursuant to the Company’s Scrip Dividend Scheme. The Directors’ 
shareholdings are shown on page 72.
All information detailed on pages 72 to 76 in respect of Directors’ 
interests is incorporated into this Directors’ report by reference and  
is deemed to form part of this Directors’ report.
All of the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 8 May 2012. Details  
of their background and experience can be found on pages 52 and 53 
and details of the Board Committees on which they serve can be found 
on pages 62 to 64.
Appointment and replacement of Directors and amendments 
to the Articles
The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors. 
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any 
appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee 
for approval by the Board of Directors. The Articles also require 
Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first  
AGM following appointment and all Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at the third AGM following their appointment 
or re-election. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the Board 
has once again determined that the full Board of Directors will stand for 
re-election at the forthcoming AGM in compliance with the provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and any directions given by special 
resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, 
which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Share allotment and repurchase authorities
The Directors were granted authority at the 201 1 AGM to allot shares  
in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 
securities into shares in the Company up to (a) a nominal amount of 
£22,742,584 and (b) a nominal amount of £45,485,168 in connection 
with a rights issue (such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted 
under (a)). This authority is due to lapse at the 2012 AGM. At the AGM, 
shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors’ 
powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate 
nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued share 
capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the notice 
of AGM 2012.
The Directors did not seek an authority at the 201 1 AGM to repurchase 
shares in the capital of the Company. As at 1 January 2012, there was no 
such authority in place. The Directors do not intend to seek an authority 
to repurchase shares at the 2012 AGM.
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2012 AGM are set out 
in the Circular to Shareholders which will be circulated in March 2012.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each 
Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined at section 
236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company has agreed 
to indemnify him in respect of certain liabilities which may attach to  
him as a Director or as a former Director of the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries. The indemnity deeds were in force during the financial year 
to which this Directors’ report relates and are in force as at the date of 
approval of the Directors’ report.
Donations
During the year, Morgan Crucible companies made charitable donations 
of £194,744 (2010: £250,229).
Further details of charitable donations and activities of the Group are 
given on page 36. No political donations have been made. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 57
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Significant agreements
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various 
financial institutions. These facility agreements generally include change 
of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the 
Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The most significant of such agreements are the UK £150 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Facility Agreement which was signed on  
5 April 201 1 and the privately placed Note Purchase and Guarantee 
Agreements signed on 6 March 2003, 15 December 2007  
and 30 June 2010, for which the outstanding loan amounts are  
USD18 million, USD350 million and €60 million respectively.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter  
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture 
agreements. No such individual contract is considered to be significant  
in terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 January 2012, the Company had been notified of the following 
interests representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital 
of the Company*:
Number of
Ordinary
shares %**
Ax A Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.630
Prudential Plc group of companies (M&G) 21,128,681 7.730
Standard Life Investments Ltd 18,828,160 6.893
HSBC 13,736,314 5.030
Ameriprise Financial Inc 13,170,196 4.822
Schroders plc 12,494,272 4.522
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 11,935,619 4.420
Lloyds TSB Group plc 10,907,770 4.037
Legal & General Group plc 10,738,156 3.970
Norges Bank 8,203,282 3.003
*  As at 28 February 2012, there was no change in the details shown in the above table. 
**  Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s issued share capital as at  
1 January 2012.
Disclosures of information to auditors
Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and that  
he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to  
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office. 
Resolutions for its reappointment as auditors and authority for the 
Directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration will be proposed  
at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on 8 May 2012 at  
The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.  
A Circular will be sent with this Report to shareholders in March 2012 
incorporating the Notice of AGM.
FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules
For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8, this Directors’ report 
is the management report.
Directors’ responsibility statement in respect of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, the names and roles of whom are set out  
on pages 52 and 53, confirms to the best of his knowledge:
 > The Group financial statements in this Report, which have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs), including 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) and those sections of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs as adopted in the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group taken as a whole. 
 > The parent Company financial statements in this Report, which  
have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position  
and profit of the Company. 
 > The Business review contained in this Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole,  
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
For and on behalf of the Board
Paul Boulton
Company Secretary
15 February 2012
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP 
Registered in England, No. 286773  58 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
Throughout the year ended 1 January 2012 the Company has been  
in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.frc.org.uk.
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main 
principles of the Code. It should be read in conjunction with the 
Business review and Remuneration report on pages 22 to 51 and  
66 to 76 respectively.
Directors
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders  
for the success of the Company. The Board is satisfied it has met the 
Code’s requirements for its effective operation. It has set the Company’s 
strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its strategy meeting 
during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent 
and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. 
The Board sets the Company’s values and standards, which are 
contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of  
which are referred to on page 34 in the Business review.
The Board met formally eight times during the year to review current 
performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major 
business decisions. There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
for the Board including significant contractual commitments (including 
the acquisition or disposal of companies/businesses, treasury and 
intellectual property transactions), the review of the effectiveness  
of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate 
responsibility. One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy 
and the longer term development of the Group. Various matters are 
delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board, as is further 
described below.
During the year there were no changes of membership of the Board 
and there were no changes of role.
As at 15 February 2012 the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman; 
Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Dangerfield, 
Chief Financial Officer; Andrew Hosty, Chief Executive Officer of  
the Morgan Ceramics Division and three non-executive Directors 
deemed by the Board to be independent, Martin Flower, Andrew Given 
and Simon Heale. Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director. 
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main 
commitments, are set out on pages 52 and 53.
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Director
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Tim Stevenson* 8 8 – – 5 5 2 2
Mark Robertshaw 8 8 – – – – 2 2
Kevin Dangerfield 8 8 – – – – – –
Andrew Hosty 8 8 – – – – – –
Martin Flower* 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2
Andrew Given* 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2
Simon Heale* 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2
Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
* Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders  
at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.  
All Directors who are willing to continue in office stand for re-election 
by the shareholders each year. Non-executive Directors are appointed 
for a term of three years, subject to annual re-election. The 
independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive 
Director who has served for two terms is subject to rigorous review 
prior to reappointment for a further three-year term.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
 
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the 
executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the  
year. In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other 
non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company  
or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would  
be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy is  
in place.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate,  
clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of  
the Board including setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring sufficient 
time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic 
issues, for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive 
challenge, facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive 
Directors and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive 
and non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible 
for the management of the Company, including the delivery of the 
Group’s business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, 
chairing the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation 
of the Group’s policies and strategies. The management of the Group’s 
operating Divisions reports to the Chief Executive Officer. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 59
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Board balance and independence
The size, structure and composition of the Board was reviewed  
during the year, taking into account succession planning and  
the need to progressively refresh the membership of the Board. 
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company 
deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised 
three executive Directors and three non-executive Directors deemed 
by the Board to be independent. Thus there is a balance of executive 
and non-executive Directors which helps ensure that no individual or 
small group can dominate the Board’s decision-making. Throughout  
the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code  
that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise 
non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent. 
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Board’s assessment  
of a non-executive Director’s independence and effectiveness covers 
their total number of commitments and any relationships with major 
suppliers and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
Appointments to the Board
As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set 
out on page 64, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 
for appointments to the Board. Appointments are made on merit  
and against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, including 
gender. The Board has also considered the recommendations made  
by the Davies Report on Women on Boards and has concluded that 
ensuring the Board has the right balance and an appropriately diverse 
mix of skills and experience is of paramount importance but that quotas 
are not appropriate for the Group.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for 
appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development
The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring 
the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to 
enable it to discharge its duties. Board papers are generally sent out  
five working days before each meeting. Non-executive Directors  
also receive updates and information between formal Board meetings. 
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining  
the Board. A new Director’s experience and background is taken into 
account in developing a tailored programme.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development  
needs of each Director, taking into account environmental, social and 
governance matters. The Company Secretary keeps the suitability  
of external courses under review and facilitates the induction of  
new Directors and the ongoing training and development of all 
Directors as necessary. 
Non-executive Directors have access to management and staff  
at all levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites. In addition to 
visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one 
Board meeting is held at an operating facility. During 201 1 formal Board 
meetings were held at the Technical Ceramics site in Corby, UK and  
at the Thermal Ceramics site in Saint Marcellin, France. In addition,  
the non-executive Directors attended the Group’s leadership 
conference held in Singapore.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are observed. A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in 
connection with their duties as Directors.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its 
committees and of the individual Directors during the year. The Code 
requires that the Company conducts an externally facilitated evaluation 
every three years and the 201 1 Board performance evaluation was 
facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review. Dr Long and 
Boardroom Review have no other connection with the Company.  
The evaluation process consisted of a structured interview with the 
Chairman, each Director, the Divisional Chief Executives and the 
Company Secretary with an outline of the topics to be covered in the 
interview sent to each Director in advance. The evaluation also included 
the review of relevant papers and the observation of Board Committee 
meetings. The output from the evaluation was summarised as a 
discussion document which was presented to the December Board 
meeting with collective and individual feedback provided as appropriate. 
The evaluation concluded that the Board performed effectively,  
with the Chairman facilitating a culture of openness and transparency 
which encourages constructive challenge. The meetings of the Board 
follow a structured pattern with flexible agendas focused on debate 
rather than presentation. Strategy discussions are part of a continuing 
cycle through the year with the Chief Executive providing leadership  
in setting strategic priorities in conjunction with the Board. The 
non-executive Directors have strong familiarity with the Group  
and its businesses and contribute to strategic thinking and judgment, 
providing multiple and relevant perspectives. The relationship between 
the Board and management is open and transparent. The Audit 
Committee has a positive and appropriately challenging relationship  
with the external auditor and provides good quality oversight through 
the detailed reporting, identification and mitigation of key control risks.  
The Remuneration Committee is constructive and there is alignment 
between the Group strategy, performance expectations and rewards.  60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
The recommendations which will be implemented following the 201 1 
Board performance evaluation include a review of the style, presentation 
and length of Board papers in the context of the planned transition  
from paper-based to electronic Board papers in 2012 and ongoing 
emphasis on succession planning to ensure the composition of the 
Board and the balance of skills and experience of the Directors 
continues to be appropriate. 
The recommendations made following the 2010 Board performance 
review were implemented during the year. Further emphasis was placed 
on succession planning and the composition of the Board, allowance 
was made in the Board timetable for informal meetings and the Board 
used an external facilitator to support the 201 1 Board performance 
evaluation process, as described above. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, 
met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairman’s 
performance during the year, taking into account the views of the 
executive Directors.
During the year the Chairman took up an additional role as  
non-executive Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc, a FTSE 100 company. 
Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment,  
the Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm  
that they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments  
to the Company.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors  
to avoid conflicts of interest. Accordingly the Directors are required to  
(1) disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order  
to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict; and  
(2) disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise  
to an actual or potential conflict.
The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any 
conflicts disclosed and authorisations given at least annually. Should an 
actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether  
to authorise the situation in accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation. In the event  
of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the 
Chairman (the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director) 
and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, 
debate and decision.
Remuneration
Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration 
report on pages 66 to 76.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that it has met  
its obligations to present a balanced and understandable assessment of 
the Company’s position and prospects as required by the Code and in 
accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s Reporting Statement 1 , 
The Operating and Financial Review (RS1 ). This is included in the 
Business review on pages 22 to 51. The Board also presents updated 
information in its half year and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 65 
and the ‘going concern’ statement is set out in the Business review on 
page 47.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a 
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of such 
system. The Company’s system of internal control has been in place 
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the  
Annual Report. Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the 
effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so during 
the year. The system of internal control accords with the Financial 
Reporting Council’s guidance on the internal control requirements of  
the Code (Turnbull). This review covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management 
systems. The Audit Committee receives regular risk management 
reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a 
Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates 
their effectiveness. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 61
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
The Directors believe that the Group’s system of internal financial 
controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the 
assets of the Group are safeguarded; that transactions are authorised  
and recorded in a correct and timely manner; and that such controls  
would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or 
irregularities. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, 
environmental and ethical risks. The internal control framework 
complements the Group’s management structure. The main features of 
the Group’s systems for internal control and for assessing the potential 
risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows:
 > Control environment The Group’s management processes  
include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties  
with documented policies and manuals. These cover financial 
procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other 
areas. In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for  
the Board. The Group’s Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy  
and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Group’s 
commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual 
behaviour and provide guidance for employees. The Group’s 
Responsible Business Programme includes relevant training and 
reporting and is part of the control framework. The Ethics Hotline  
is available to employees and others in this regard. The Chief 
Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance 
to the Board confirming that for each of the businesses for which  
he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in  
all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have 
been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with 
Group policies and procedures.
 > Financial reporting Risk management systems and internal controls 
are in place in relation to the Group’s financial reporting processes 
and the process for preparing consolidated accounts. These include 
policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records 
which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of 
assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and the review and reconciliation of reported data. As noted above, 
representatives of the business are required to certify that their 
reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the business and its results for the period. The Audit Committee 
is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and 
internal controls.
 > Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board 
and of the Executive Committee. A comparison of forecast and 
actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons 
against budget and the prior year. Divisional management teams  
also meet regularly to review performance. Presentations of actual 
and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee 
and the Board by the Group’s Divisional Chief Executives.  
In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the  
Executive Committee.
 > Risk management The identification of major business risks is  
an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating 
management. Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material 
risks identified. The Board, either directly or through the Audit 
Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, 
treasury, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks 
from management. The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues  
at their management meetings and the Director of Risk Assurance 
helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is 
embedded into the Group’s operations through the Risk Management 
Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is 
attended by the Chief Financial Officer of each Division. 
 > Risk factors Morgan Crucible’s businesses are affected by a number 
of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic  
trends and are therefore outside the Company’s immediate  
control, although, as described above and in the Business review,  
the identification and management of such risks is carried out 
systematically. These are further discussed in the Risk management 
section on pages 48 and 49.
 > Internal audit The Group’s internal audit function reviews internal 
control and risk management processes. The Audit Committee 
approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports 
accordingly. Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed 
with management. The Internal Auditor has direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Audit Committee and auditors
The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering 
how the Directors apply the Company’s financial reporting and internal 
control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with 
the Company’s auditors. This requirement is met by the work of the 
Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried 
out by the Company’s external auditors, KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc 
that its general procedures support the auditors’ independence and 
objectivity in relation to non-audit services. After considering such 
procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision  
of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.  62 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised  
and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding 
of objectives. In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders  
as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the  
half year and final results announcements. 
The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly  
with shareholders. The Chairman and the non-executive Directors  
avail themselves of opportunities to meet major shareholders and  
attend investor briefings to help ensure they have an understanding  
of the views of major shareholders. They would also attend meetings 
with major shareholders if requested. The Senior Independent Director  
is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders  
on request.
During 201 1, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended 
the annual and half year results presentations, the Group’s Capital 
Markets Day and other investor events. This provided the opportunity 
to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees and to further 
develop an understanding of their views.
Following the announcement of the Group’s results and after other 
significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed 
and any feedback is made available to the Board. In addition, the Board 
is provided with brokers’ reports and feedback from shareholder 
meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the 
Company’s website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, 
press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members  
of the Board and by a representative of the auditors. At the AGM  
held in May 201 1, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business 
presentation. Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the 
meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other 
members of senior management before and after the formal meeting. 
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all 
attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published 
on the Group’s website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Board committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are 
available upon request and are also available on the Group’s website.
Audit
The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging  
its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.  
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of  
the Committee throughout the year. All members of the Committee 
are independent Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the 
Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the  
power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, 
auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate 
by the Committee. At the end of each meeting the non-executive 
Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors 
without the executive Directors or other members of management 
present. Between meetings the members of the Audit Committee keep 
in contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditors and the Internal Auditor 
as necessary.
The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information  
it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities. This is complemented  
by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and 
Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their 
respective Divisions. Training and development information is made 
available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed and updated 
during the year. They are available on the Group’s website and include:
 > Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board 
with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements,  
half year reports and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance, and reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgments contained in them.
 > Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their 
consistent application across the Group.
 > Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting 
standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking 
into account the views of the external auditor.
 > Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk 
management systems. 
 > Reviewing and monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements 
and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
 > Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors 
and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditors. 
 > Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence  
and objectivity.
 > Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of 
the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory requirements. 
 > Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditors. 
 > Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which  
it considers that action or improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 63
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according  
to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost  
of the Company, but did not do so during the year. The Director  
of Risk Assurance and the Internal Auditor both have access to the 
Chairman of the Committee and regularly meet with the Committee 
without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 
respect of 201 1 included:
 > Reviewing the Group’s 2010 financial statements and 201 1 half year 
statements prior to Board approval. 
 > Reviewing the scope of the external audit, and confirmation of  
the external auditors’ terms of engagement and fee structures.
 > Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and all 
aspects of the service provided by the external auditors.
 > The review of the work of the Risk Management Committee  
and of the process by which the Group’s main business risks are 
assessed and managed, with the principal risks being considered  
by the Board as a whole. 
 > Reviewing the effectiveness of and receiving reports from 
management on the Group’s internal audit and risk management 
systems and updates to the Group’s governance, risk and 
compliance plans. 
 > Approval of the work and plans for the internal audit function  
and the monitoring of progress against the plan. 
 > Appraisal of the Group’s whistleblowing provision and related 
procedures and policies and of any breaches of the Group’s 
ethics-related and other policies. 
 > Reviews of material litigation, crisis management plans and controls  
in relation to joint ventures.
 > Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which  
in 201 1 included services amounting to £0.3 million, mainly in 
connection with tax services.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision  
of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows:
 > Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external 
auditors, including the review of their own work; they may not  
make management decisions; their work must not create a mutuality 
of interest; and they may not put themselves in the position  
of advocate. 
 > Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external 
auditors with a fee between £50,000 and £200,000 must be 
approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Projects in excess of £200,000 must be approved in advance  
by the Audit Committee. Work which includes multiple phases  
is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
 > The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any 
non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other 
non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
During the year the proportion of the auditors’ fees for non-audit work 
relative to the audit fee was 14% (2010: 6%).
The Committee’s policy is to undertake an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external 
auditor’s performance and independence before determining whether 
to undertake a formal review of the auditors including a re-tender 
presentation or whether to put the Group’s audit work out to full 
third-party tender.
The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their 
independence and have written to the Committee confirming that,  
in their opinion, they are independent. The Group last changed its 
auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external 
auditors, which included a re-tender presentation, during 2007.  
The external auditors rotated the partner responsible for the Group’s  
audit work in 2008 and the next rotation of audit partner will take  
place in 2013. Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process,  
all aspects of the service provided by the auditors and taking account  
of the assurance given by the auditors as to their independence, the 
Committee recommended to the Board that the Group’s audit work 
should not be put out to third-party tender during 201 1 and will further 
review the situation during 2012.  64 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
continued
Remuneration
As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 76, 
the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration 
for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as 
share options and awards under the Company’s incentive plans, pension 
rights and any compensation payments. The Committee also monitors 
the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.  
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed and updated 
during the year and are available on the Group’s website.
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale,  
who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee 
throughout the year. The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human 
Resources. No member of the Committee or attendee is present when 
their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do they participate 
in any relevant voting. The Committee also has the power to request, 
for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member 
of management as may be considered appropriate by the Committee. 
The Committee met five times during the year.
It is the Company’s policy to disclose the fees of any executive  
Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company. 
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director 
of SEGRO plc, Kevin Dangerfield was appointed as a non-executive 
Director of e2v technologies plc on 28 January 201 1 and Andrew Hosty 
served as a non-executive Director of British Ceramic Research Limited. 
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and  
Andrew Hosty in this regard are shown on page 72.
The report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details  
of the Committee’s responsibilities and terms of reference and of the 
Directors’ remuneration and Directors’ interests in options and shares, 
is set out on pages 66 to 76.
Nomination
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments 
and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new 
Directors. A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are 
independent non-executive Directors. Tim Stevenson, as Chairman  
of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale and 
Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the 
year. The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed and updated 
during the year and are available on the Group’s website.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other 
Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting,  
as may be considered appropriate by the Committee. The Committee 
met twice during 201 1.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership 
needs of the Group. In the light of this review, the Committee  
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the 
Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors 
are available for inspection. Non-executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time  
to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant 
commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an 
indication of the time involved. The Board is informed of any subsequent 
changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are taken. 
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include  
a notice period.
There were no nominations to the Board or changes in role during  
the year.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1; 2.2(1); 2.3(1); 2.5;  
2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. The information required to be disclosed by 
sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors’ report on  
pages 54 to 57 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
Information on share capital and other matters
The information about share capital required to be included in this 
statement can be found on pages 54 to 57 of the Directors’ report. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 65
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT 
OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  
the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance  
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law  
and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements  
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view  
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently. 
 > Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent. 
 > For the Group financial statements, state whether they have  
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU. 
 > For the parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company financial statements. 
 > Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless  
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure  
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration report  
and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and 
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Paul Boulton 
Company Secretary
15 February 2012  66 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
REMUNERATION REPORT
Introduction by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
I am pleased to introduce this year’s Remuneration report, following another year of strong performance by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee considers that its approach to aligning management incentives with shareholders’ interests is helping to produce 
strong returns that are in the longer term interests of the Group. We think the changes to some of the performance measures we made last year 
– in particular, the introduction of long-term EBITA and ROCE measurement at Divisional level – have enhanced management focus on value 
creation and provide clearer line-of-sight in relation to the Group’s strategy. In addition, for 2012, we have also included ROCE as an LTIP measure  
at Group level.
The Committee believes that the Directors are fairly and appropriately remunerated with a significant element of their package being linked to  
the long-term success of Morgan Crucible.
Shareholders will be aware of the considerable achievement by management of key performance measures over the last three years, not least  
the upper-quartile growth in shareholder return, including a more than threefold increase in the share price.
This performance has resulted in a maximum vesting of the 2009 LTIP and a 1.8 times match vesting of the 2009 BDSMP , which is subject to  
very demanding earnings per share (EPS) growth targets. Those shares will be released during 2012 at the end of their three-year vesting period 
(and will be detailed in the 2012 Annual Report).
The 2008 LTIP awards were tested for the three-year performance to the end of 2010 and lapsed in full, and hence no long-term shares  
were released to executive Directors during 201 1.
EPS targets continue to be set considering internal and external reference points. Awards made this year will be on the back of a strong set  
of financial results. The Committee believes that the existing 8%-15% pa range for the 2012 LTIP and the 8%-20% pa for the bonus deferral  
plan represent demanding yet appropriate performance targets over the next three years and remain appropriate for the 2012 award cycle.
ROCE targets have been set using a similar approach with external references and reflecting the returns required to meet and exceed the Group’s 
internal strategic plan. The target range for Group ROCE has been set at 33%-37% which the Committee believes provides a significant degree 
of demanding performance.
The Committee feels that, although challenging, the targets it sets are fair, and incentivise both strong earnings growth (EPS) and high returns on 
capital (ROCE) simultaneously, whilst taking proper account of risk.
As with 201 1, the Committee’s approach to setting bonus targets for 2012 is that bonuses are only paid “at threshold” if Morgan Crucible’s profit 
increases versus the prior year’s achievement.
The Committee welcomes and carefully considers feedback from shareholders, and particularly the encouragement that overall remuneration 
should both be in the longer term interests of shareholders and meaningful for management. I hope you will find this balance appropriately 
reflected in the report that follows.
Simon Heale
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report 
The Directors’ Remuneration report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) and has been approved by the Board. 
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to approve the report at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2012.
The report has been drawn up in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration report is divided into two parts. The first part contains commentary on remuneration policy, which is not required to be audited. 
The second part contains the remuneration tables that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, 
specific remuneration packages for the executive Directors and the Chairman. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website.
During the year the members of the Committee were: Simon Heale, who is the Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Tim Stevenson and 
Andrew Given. Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent. Tim Stevenson was independent at the time of his 
appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year. Each Committee member’s attendance at these meetings is set out in the Corporate 
governance report on page 58. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 67
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. The Chief Executive Officer and the Director of Human Resources attend meetings 
of the Committee by invitation. The Committee also had access to advice from the Chief Financial Officer. No executive Director or other 
attendee is present when his or her own remuneration is under consideration.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its independent executive remuneration advisers and during 201 1 provided advice 
on performance measurement, setting of annual bonus and long-term incentive targets, total shareholder return (TSR) analysis and provided market 
data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees. Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and provided no other services to the Group during the year.
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to attract, retain and 
motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre in order to run the Group successfully, and to create value for shareholders.  
The Committee takes a longer-term perspective on retention and motivation, and although the short-term is important, the Committee’s view  
is that this has to be put in the context of the Group’s long-term interests.
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with particular 
emphasis on long-term performance, and based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to and support the business strategy. 
This is in order to create a strong link between performance and reward which should be beneficial to shareholders, employees and the Group.
In assessing all aspects of pay and benefits, the Committee also takes into account the packages offered by similar companies to ensure the 
remuneration of executive Directors is competitive against the market in which the Company competes for talent. For the purposes of such analysis, 
comparator companies are chosen having regard to: business sector; the size of the company (eg in terms of market capitalisation, turnover and 
number of people employed); the diversity and complexity of its businesses; and the geographical spread of its businesses. The Committee also 
considers the level of pay and employment conditions throughout the Group when determining executive Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration structures are appropriate and support the business strategy.
Main components of remuneration
The table below summarises the Company’s policies in respect of each of the key elements of executive Directors’ remuneration as they applied 
during the year.
Element Policy Details
Base salary > Provides the fixed element of the remuneration package
 > Set at competitive levels against the market
 > Reviewed against companies of a similar sector, 
size and complexity in the FTSE 350
 > Annual review date of 1 January 
Annual bonus > Incentivises the achievement of specific goals over  
the short-term that are also aligned to the long-term  
business strategy
 > Maximum bonus award of 100% of salary
 > Targets based on profit before tax and 
amortisation and, for the CEO Morgan Ceramics, 
include key measures of Divisional performance
Bonus Deferral  
Share Matching Plan
 > Designed to encourage long-term Company growth and  
to retain key individuals over this time period
 > Provides an opportunity for individuals to invest in  
Company shares and receive matching shares based on 
Group performance
 > Designed to work alongside the Long Term 
Incentive Plan
 > Up to 75% of the annual bonus may be 
voluntarily deferred into shares for three years 
 > A matching award of up to three shares for  
each deferred share may be earned based on  
the Company’s performance against stretching 
EPS targets
Long Term  
Incentive Plan
 > Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders by 
delivering executive Directors and other senior executives 
shares as a reward for outstanding long-term performance
 > Award of shares based on performance over  
a three-year period
 > Awards made in 201 1 were based on  
TSR and EPS performance. 
 > 2012 awards will be based on ROCE,  
TSR and EPS performance
Pension > Provides post-retirement benefits for participants in a 
cost-efficient manner
 > Defined benefit scheme subject to a notional 
earnings cap with an above-the-cap allowance  
for current executive Directors
Shareholding  
guidelines
 > Encourages executives to build an interest in the Company’s 
shares and supports alignment with shareholder interests
 > Policy of 100% of basic salary for executive 
Directors
 > Supported by the Bonus Deferral Share  
Matching Plan, which encourages investment  
in Company shares  68 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
The relative proportion of fixed and variable remuneration for the executive Directors at ‘target’ and ‘stretch’ performance is illustrated below.  
This is based on the Group’s remuneration policy.
Calculated on a projected value basis assuming 10% pa share price growth at ‘target’ performance and 15% pa share price growth at ‘stretch’.
Base salary
The base salary for each executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual 
and having regard to practice in FTSE 350 companies of comparable sector, size and complexity. Salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis.
In line with the approach being taken across the organisation, executive Directors’ salaries will be increased in 2012. In considering the level of 
increase, the Committee has been mindful of the general level of increase across the Group of 3%, as well as the positioning of roles against the 
market. The table below shows the salaries in 201 1 and with effect from 1 January 2012.
2011
Salary
2012
Mark Robertshaw £465,000 £480,000
Kevin Dangerfield £275,000 £285,000
Andrew Hosty £305,000 £312,500
Base salary is the only element of the remuneration package that is pensionable.
Annual bonus
The targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the short- and long-term requirements of the Group. 
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid. This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return 
by rewarding the achievement of ‘stretch’ targets.
The bonus scheme provides the opportunity for executive Directors to earn a bonus of up to 100% of basic salary if stretching performance targets 
are achieved.
For 201 1, the bonus for the CEO and CFO was based on Group profit before taxation and amortisation. The targets were set to incentivise the 
executive Directors to manage much more of the income statement to improve the earnings per share of the Group. For 201 1, the bonus for the 
CEO Morgan Ceramics was balanced between the performance of the Morgan Ceramics Division and the Group as a whole, comprising Group 
profit before tax and amortisation (30%), Morgan Ceramics EBITA (50%) and Morgan Ceramics third-party working capital to sales % (20%). 
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the 
overall performance of the Company.
The bonuses awarded to executive Directors in respect of 201 1 were as follows:
 > Mark Robertshaw  – 100% of salary (2010: 100%).
 > Kevin Dangerfield  – 100% of salary (2010: 100%).
 > Andrew Hosty – 97.5% of salary (2010: 100%).
The awards for the CEO and CFO were made on the basis that in 201 1 the maximum Group profit before tax and amortisation target was 
achieved resulting in a bonus payment of 100% of salary. The award for the CEO Morgan Ceramics also reflected performance against the  
Group profit before tax and amortisation target together with a Morgan Ceramics Division EBITA target (achieved at the maximum performance 
level) and a Morgan Ceramics Division third-party working capital to sales % target (achieved at 87.5% of the target), resulting in a bonus payment  
of 97.5% of salary.
No changes will be made to the annual bonus opportunity or performance measures for executive Directors in 2012.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
20%
50%
20%
25%
60%
25%
Stretch
Target
Salary Bonus Long-term incentives Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 69
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Committee believes that share ownership by the executive Directors and senior executives helps align their interests with those of shareholders. 
Accordingly the Company operates a number of share schemes for the executive Directors and other senior employees, details of which are set 
out below.
Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan (BDSMP)
The BDSMP was introduced following shareholder approval in 2008.
This plan operates alongside the other long-term incentive arrangements. Under the plan rules, participants may be offered the opportunity to 
defer up to 75% of their annual bonus on a pre- or post-tax basis into Company shares. Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years 
to be eligible for a matching award based on the pre-tax value of their deferred shares. Matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in 
the event that stretching EPS targets have been met.
For the bonus earned for the 2010 performance year (ie payable in early 201 1), participants were given the opportunity to defer up to 50% of their 
bonus under the Plan. This was a lower deferral level compared with the 75% deferral opportunity in respect of the bonus earned for the 2009 
performance year (ie payable in early 2010), as explained in the 2010 Report. The performance criteria attaching to awards under this plan are 
disclosed in notes 4, 5 and 6 to the ‘Awards to Directors under the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan’ table on page 75.
For the bonus earned in respect of the 201 1 performance year (payable in early 2012), participants will be given the opportunity to defer up to  
50% of their bonus under the BDSMP .
Targets for the 201 1 matching awards were as follows:
EPS performance Matching shares
20% pa 3x match
16% pa 2x match
12% pa 1x match
< 8% pa 0x match
There is straight-line vesting between each of the points above.
EPS growth is considered the best measure of performance for the BDSMP , as it provides alignment with Group strategy and good line-of-sight  
for management. The reference to RPI was removed for 201 1 awards, following consultation with the Group’s 10 largest shareholders, as  
UK Retail Price Inflation is not considered by the Committee to be a relevant benchmark for Morgan Crucible’s profit growth, given 84% of sales 
are generated outside the UK. The Committee believes that the above targets are appropriately stretching and will continue to review the targets  
at the start of each award cycle.
During the year under review, 2008 BDSMP awards lapsed in full. The Committee expects a 1.8 times match vesting under the 2009 BDSMP 
(shares which would, subject to achievement of performance conditions, be released in 2012), in line with the Group’s strong EPS performance 
over the three-year period to 1 January 2012. Details of the outcome of this award will be disclosed in next year’s Report.
No changes will be made to the BDSMP opportunity, performance measures or targets in 2012.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced following shareholder approval in 2004. It offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity  
to receive shares as a reward for outstanding performance. The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional 
circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary. The vesting of the awards is subject to the achievement  
of performance targets measured over the three-year period from the start of the year in which the award is made.
During 201 1, an award over 171,068 shares (equivalent to 1 1 1% of 2010 salary) was made to Mark Robertshaw, 97,147 shares (equivalent to  
100% of 2010 salary) were awarded to Kevin Dangerfield, and 102,641 shares (equivalent to 100% of 2010 salary) were awarded to Andrew Hosty. 
For the CEO and CFO, performance for these awards will be based 50% on EPS growth and 50% on TSR relative to the constituents of the  
FTSE All-Share Industrials Index, as follows:
TSR performance against FTSE All-Share Industrials Index % of the award that vests EPS growth % of the award that vests 
Upper-quartile-ranked performance 50% 15% pa 50%
Median-ranked performance 15% 8% pa 15%
Below-median-ranked performance 0% < 8% pa 0%
Straight-line vesting applies between each point for both vesting schedules.  70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Long Term Incentive Plan continued
The Committee must also be satisfied that the Group’s underlying financial performance justifies the level of vesting.
To support the Group’s Divisional structure, the Committee approved long-term incentive plans for senior Divisional executives tailored to the 
value creation of each Division. The LTIP within each Division is therefore based on performance against stretching EBITA growth and ROCE 
targets. For the Divisional CEOs, Andrew Hosty and Don Klas, half of their 201 1 incentive is linked to Group TSR (as for the CEO and CFO) and 
half is based on the relevant Divisional EBITA and ROCE measures. This combination of measures is considered most appropriate for the Divisional 
CEOs, reflecting their roles as senior executives within the Group, as well as their roles as heads of Divisions. The stretching targets reflect the 
strategic plans within each of these Divisions.
For Andrew Hosty, CEO Morgan Ceramics, the Divisional portion of the 201 1 LTIP will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no 
vesting occurring unless EBITA growth in Morgan Ceramics is at least 12% pa and ROCE is 35.7% in 2013; full vesting will occur for EBITA growth 
of 18% pa and ROCE of 40.7%.
During the year under review, the 2008 LTIP awards lapsed in full. The Committee expects full vesting of shares under the 2009 LTIP (shares which 
would be released in 2012), in line with the Group’s strong EPS and TSR performance over the three-year period to 1 January 2012. Details of the 
outcome of this award will be disclosed in next year’s Report.
For the awards to be granted in 2012, the Committee considered its desire to have the most relevant balance of measures that reflected feedback 
from shareholders and directly related to the stretching objectives in the Group’s business plan. The Committee therefore decided on the introduction 
of a ROCE measure for the 2012-14 performance period. For the CEO and CFO, TSR, EPS and ROCE performance will be rewarded on an equal 
(one-third) basis as follows:
TSR performance against FTSE All-Share Industrials Index
% of the 
award
that vests EPS growth
% of the
 award 
that vests ROCE
% of the
 award 
that vests
Upper-quartile-ranked performance 33% 15% pa 33% 37% 33%
Median-ranked performance 10% 8% pa 10% 33% 10%
Below-median-ranked performance 0% < 8% pa 0% < 33% 0%
For the Divisional CEOs, Andrew Hosty and Don Klas, a third of their 2012-14 LTIP will continue to be linked to Group TSR and two thirds will be 
based on the relevant Divisional EBITA and ROCE performance.
For Andrew Hosty, the Divisional portion of the LTIP will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless EBITA 
growth in Morgan Ceramics is at least 6% pa and the average ROCE for the three years ended 2012, 2013 and 2014 (Average ROCE) is 41%;  
full vesting will occur for EBITA growth of 15% per annum and Average ROCE of 43.5%.
The details of outstanding awards held by all Directors are shown on page 74.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
The ESOS was approved by shareholders in 2004 and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to receive options 
granted at the market price of the Company’s shares at the time of the grant. The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in 
exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary.
No awards were made under the ESOS in 201 1. There is one outstanding award to Mark Robertshaw, who has a vested option from 2004 that  
he has not exercised (see Directors’ share options table on page 73). There is currently no intention to make awards under the ESOS in 2012.
Savings-related Share Option Scheme (SAYE)
As UK employees, the executive Directors may also participate in the Savings-related Share Option Scheme on the same basis as other eligible 
employees and subject to UK legislation. Scheme members save a fixed amount per month over three years and options have been granted with 
an exercise price at 80% of the market price at the date of grant. Those Directors who received options under this scheme are shown in the table 
on page 76. No performance conditions apply to these options as they are a tax-efficient mechanism for all employees to acquire shares in the 
Company at their own cost.
Other benefits
Executive Directors are eligible to receive certain benefits including either a company car or a car allowance, health insurance and, where 
appropriate, relocation and other expenses.
Shareholding guidelines
In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors and senior executives. 
Under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 
100% of basic salary. This policy is supported by the BDSMP under which participants are encouraged to invest their bonus in Company shares. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 71
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
At the market price on 15 February 2012, Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty respectively held shares worth 372%,  
246% and 165% of their basic salaries. More detail on Directors’ interest in shares are shown on page 72.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Annual fees paid to the Chairman are reviewed on a biennial basis. Tim Stevenson was appointed as Chairman on 1 December 2006 and the fee 
was first reviewed in December 2008. However, in view of the economic conditions at the time, the recommended increase was deferred for  
12 months to 1 January 2010 when his fee was increased from £125,000 to £140,000. The Chairman’s fee was next reviewed in December 201 1. 
A fee increase to £150,000 was recommended with effect from 1 January 2012.
Non-executive Director fees are also reviewed biennially. 
Following the biennial review in 2010, the annual fee for non-executive Directors was set at £42,000 pa. Additional payments of £8,000 are made 
to the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. No changes 
were made to non-executive fees during the year.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are also entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board, strategy and other meetings.
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company although they do have letters of appointment which contain no 
obligations relating to any notice period. There are no obligations on the Company to make any payments in lieu of notice to any non-executive 
Director. The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans. 
Service contracts
Executive Directors are employed on contracts subject to 12 months’ notice at any time. Contracts may be terminated on 12 months’ notice given 
by the Company or on six months’ notice given by the Director concerned. Contracts end on each Director’s anticipated normal retirement date. 
The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year.
Executive Director
Date of
appointment
Date of 
service agreement 
Kevin Dangerfield 3 August 2006 15 August 2008
Mark Robertshaw 4 August 2006 15 August 2008
Andrew Hosty 28 July 2010 17 August 2010
The service agreements for Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty do not contain specific termination provisions.
In the event of early termination, the Company may be liable to pay an amount in damages having regard to salary, bonus and other benefits that 
would have been received had they served out their notice period. The value of any termination payment made will be at the judgment of the 
Committee having regard to all relevant factors including ensuring that the full benefit of mitigation is obtained. There is no automatic entitlement  
to bonus as part of the termination arrangements.
Company pensions policy
The three executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a contributory,  
HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme. With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme changed from  
final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years. Its main features are now:
 > A normal pension age of 65.
 > Pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds career average pensionable salary, subject to completion of at least 20 years’ employment 
(26 years and eight months for joiners since 2006).
 > Life assurance of four times basic salary.
 > Dependants’ pension on death.
Pensionable salary is the member’s basic salary restricted to a scheme earnings cap of £129,600 for the 201 1-12 tax year.
In addition, executive Directors received a pension allowance derived from employer contributions based notionally on the registered scheme 
pensionable salary in excess of the earnings cap. The value of the pension allowance for each executive Director is set out in the Directors’ 
emoluments table on page 73.
The Committee has also reviewed the impact of the Government’s new Annual Allowance limits on pension contributions. A small number of 
senior managers are impacted by these changes and Mark Robertshaw is the only Executive Director similarly affected at this time. The Company  
is currently involved in a consultation process over consequent changes to the scheme as a result of the new measures. The Committee decided it 
wished to provide allowances for those involved, though needs to wait for the outcome of the consultation process with Scheme members before 
its proposals can be confirmed. Overall, these allowances will be cost-neutral, and consistent with market practice. The allowance, if the proposals 
are confirmed, would be paid from April 2012 and will be reported in next year’s Remuneration report.  72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
External directorships
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external 
appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
The total amount of fees received by Mark Robertshaw in respect of his non-executive Directorship was £53,000.
The total amount of fees received by Kevin Dangerfield in respect of his non-executive Directorship was £32,300.
The total amount of fees received by Andrew Hosty in respect of his non-executive Directorship was £6,750.
Performance graph
The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return (TSR) for the Company for the five-year period to 1 January 2012 against  
the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index. Both are rebased to 100 as at 5 January 2006. The FTSE All-Share Industrials Index is considered to be 
appropriate for comparison as it is a broad market index and the Company forms part of that index.
The auditors are required to report on the following information:
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are as follows:
As at
2 January
2011
As at
1 January
2012
As at 
15 February
2012*
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 348,525 502,057 504,614
Kevin Dangerfield 138,914 197,589 197,790
Andrew Hosty  98,213 144,778 145,727
Non-executive Directors
Tim Stevenson 29,000 29,000 29,000
Martin Flower 15,000 15,000 15,000
Simon Heale 18,000 18,000 18,000
Andrew Given 10,000 10,000 10,000
* The date of report. As at 28 February 2012, there was no change to the details listed in the above table.
T otal shareholder return for the five-year period 
January 2007 to January 2012
0
50
100
150
200
January 07 Data source: Bloomberg
FTSE All-Share Industrials Index
Morgan Crucible
January 08 January 09 January 10 January 11 January 12
Value of £100 since January 2007 Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 73
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Directors’ emoluments
Fees/salary
£000
Annual bonus
£000
1
Other benefits
£000
2
Total emoluments
£000
Pension allowance
£000
Other payments
£000
Total remuneration
£000
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Executive Directors
Mark Robertshaw 465 450 465 450 14 13 944 913 114 114 –  – 1,058 1027
Kevin Dangerfield 275 265 275 265 14 13 564 543 66 66 –  – 630 609
Andrew Hosty
3
 305 270 297 300 12 11 614 581 72 63 –  – 686 644 
Non-executive Directors
Tim Stevenson (Chairman) 140 140 – – – – 140 140 – – – – 140 140
Martin Flower 50 45 – – – – 50 45 – – – – 50 45
Andrew Given 50 48 –  –  –  – 50 48 –  –  –  – 50 48
Simon Heale 50 45 – – – – 50 45 – – – – 50 45
1.  Annual bonus shows the total bonus payable in respect of the relevant year. Mark Robertshaw voluntarily deferred 50% of his 2010 bonus award into the Bonus Deferral Share 
Matching Plan as set out in the table on page 75. Kevin Dangerfield deferred 25% and Andrew Hosty deferred 40% of their 2010 bonuses, also shown in the same table.
2. Other benefits include private medical insurance and a company car/car allowance. 
3. Andrew Hosty’s salary received reflects an increase in his annual salary from £240,000 to £300,000 on his appointment to the Board on 28 July 2010.
Directors’ share options
At
2 January
201 1
Granted
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
At
1 January
2012
Exercise
price
Earliest
date of
exercise
Expiry
date
Mark Robertshaw 200,000 – – – 200,000 145.275p 01.1 1.07 01.1 1.14
Kevin Dangerfield 10,520 – – 10,520 – 180.08p 23.1 1.04 23.1 1.1 1
The performance measure for the Executive Share Option Scheme awards above was based on the Company’s TSR performance against  
the FTSE 350. 30% of the awards vest for achieved median-ranked performance with full vesting for upper-quartile-ranked performance.  
For performance between median and upper quartile, awards vest on a straight-line pro-rata basis.
The share price at the year end was 263.0 pence and the high and low during the year were 357.1 pence and 224.0 pence respectively.  74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Awards to Directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan
As at
2 January
201 1
Allocations
during
the year
Shares
released
during
the year
Shares
lapsed
during
the year
As at
1 January
2012
Market
price at
date of
allocation
Market
price at
date of
release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2008 LTIP 220,000 –  – 220,000 – 203p –  05.01.08 – 04.01.11
2009 LTIP 489,705 –  –  – 489,705 89.85p –  05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2010 LTIP 214,529 –  –  – 214,529 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP – 171,068 –  – 171,068 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 29.12.13
Kevin Dangerfield
2008 LTIP 120,000 –  – 120,000 – 203p –  05.01.08 – 04.01.11
2009 LTIP 283,806 –  –  – 283,806 89.85p –  05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2010 LTIP 118,939 –  –  – 118,939 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – CSOP 5,390 –  –  – 5,390 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – Funding 5,390 –  –  – 5,390 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP – 84,185 –  – 84,185 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 29.12.13
201 1 LTIP – CSOP – 6,481 –  – 6,481 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 29.12.13
201 1 LTIP – Funding – 6,481 –  – 6,481 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 29.12.13
Andrew Hosty
2008 LTIP 120,000 – – 120,000 – 203p –  05.01.08 – 04.01.11
2009 LTIP 267,111 – – – 267,111 89.85p – 05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2010 LTIP 102,389 – – – 102,389 205.10p – 04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – CSOP 14,627 – – – 14,627 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2010 LTIP – Funding 14,627 –  – – 14,627 205.10p –  04.01.10 – 31.12.12
2011 LTIP – 102,641 – – 102,641 292.28p –  03.01.11 – 29.12.13
Notes:
1.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 2008 were subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa  
for 30% of that element to vest rising to full vesting for EPS growth of RPI+10% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s 
three-year TSR performance to rank at median against 17 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks  
at or above the upper quartile against these peers. The performance conditions attached to the 2008 LTIP awards were not met and therefore awards lapsed in full.
2.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 2009 were subject to relative TSR. The TSR target required Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against  
17 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against these peers.  
At the end of the performance period, Morgan Crucible’s TSR performance resulted in 100% vesting. Vested awards will not be released until the third anniversary of grant  
(27 February 2012).
3.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 2010 are subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa  
for 30% of that element to vest rising to full vesting for EPS growth of RPI+10% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s 
three-year TSR performance to rank at median against 23 industrial and engineering comparators for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks  
at or above the upper quartile against these peers.
4.  Awards granted to executive Directors in 201 1 are subject to relative TSR and EPS. The EPS target (applying to 50% of each award) requires three-year EPS growth year EPS growth 
above a threshold of 8% pa of that element to vest, commencing at 30% vesting for that element, rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 15% pa or higher. The TSR target (applying to 
the other 50% of each award) requires Morgan Crucible’s three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, 
rising to full vesting if Morgan Crucible’s TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this index.
5.  LTIP awards made in 2010 to Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty are structured as an Approved Performance Share Plan (APSP) and comprise three elements: (i) HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) approved options (CSOP) over shares to the value of up to £30,000 with an exercise price of 205.1 pence per share; (ii) an LTIP award in the form of a conditional 
award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this limit; and (iii) a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers  
of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals £30,000. The provisions of these CSOP options, funding awards and LTIP awards are linked so that the maximum 
aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of LTIP and CSOP awards (the funding award being used to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP)  
is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfield’s 2009 base salary and £240,000 for Andrew Hosty  
(‘the limit’). Vested funding awards are not transferred to the participant. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 75
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Awards to Directors under the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan
As at
2 January
201 1
Allocations
during
the year
Shares
released
during
the year
Shares
lapsed
during
the year
As at
1 January
2012
Market
price at
date of
allocation
Market
price at
date of
release Performance periods
Mark Robertshaw
2008 Award
Matching shares
2
314,229 –  – 314,229 – 197.625p – 05.01.08 – 04.01.1 1
2009 Award
Investment shares
1
48,222 –  –  – 48,222 80.75p – –
Matching shares
2
245,201 –  –  – 245,201 80.75p – 05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2010 Award
Investment shares
1
20,635 – –  – 20,635 188.70p – –
Matching shares
2
104,928 – –  – 104,928 188.70p – 04.01.10 – 30.12.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
 – 74,875 –  – 74,875 300.50p –  – 
Matching shares
2
 – 224,625 – – 224,625 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 29.12.13
2008 Replacement  
Deferred Award 68,675 – 68,675 – – 188p – –
Kevin Dangerfield
2008 Award
Matching shares
2
174,798 – – 174,798 – 197.625p – 05.01.08 – 04.01.1 1
2009 Award 
Investment shares
1
13,973 –  –  – 13,973 80.75p – –
Matching shares
2
71,052 – – – 71,052 80.75p – 05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
– 22,046 –  – 22,046 300.50p –  – 
Matching shares
2
– 66,138 – – 66,138 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 29.12.13
2008 Replacement 
Deferred Award 38,202 – 38,202 – – 188p – –
Andrew Hosty   
2008 Award 
Matching shares
2
160,956 –  – 160,956 – 197.625p – 05.01.08 – 04.01.1 1
2009 Award 
Investment shares
1
71,042 – – – 71,042 80.75p – –
Matching shares 361,233 –  –  – 361,233 80.75p – 05.01.09 – 04.01.12
2011 Award
Investment shares
1
 – 39,933 –  – 39,933 300.50p – – 
Matching shares
2
 – 1 19,799 – – 1 19,799 300.50p – 03.01.1 1 – 29.12.13
2008 Replacement 
Deferred Award 35,175 – 35,175 – – 188p – –
1. Investment shares represent those shares acquired with a portion of the bonus set out in the emoluments table on page 73 voluntarily deferred into the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan. 
2.  This is the maximum number of shares based on the pre-tax value of the deferred shares that could be earned at the end of the performance period if the performance condition set out  
on page 69 is met in full. 
3.  In 2008 the executive Directors deferred their bonus payment on a gross basis and in 2009 and 2010 deferral was on a net basis. In 201 1 deferral was on a gross basis, as it will be for 2012. 
The flexibility to defer on either basis is within the Plan rules. 
4.  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2008 and 2010 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth of RPI+4% pa for a 0.25x match, 
RPI+5% pa for a 0.5x match, RPI+ 7.5% pa for a 1x match, RPI+ 10% pa for a 1.75x match and RPI+ 15% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points.  
The performance conditions attached to the 2008 BDSMP awards were not met and therefore matching awards lapsed in full. 
5.  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2009 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth of 4% pa for a 0.25x match, 5% pa for a  
0.5x match, 7.5% pa for a 1x match, 10% pa for a 1.75x match and 15% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points. The performance targets for awards 
made in 2009 did not reference growth above RPI. Given the difficult economic climate at that time the Committee considered the targets to be stretching.
6.  Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 201 1 are subject to three-year EPS growth. The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching, 
12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match. There is straight-line vesting between these points.
Note: Prior to 6 April 2010, the Committee amended the terms of the 2008 Investment shares, in line with the plan rules, to allow individuals to crystallise the tax due on their earned deferred 
bonus awards. This decision has not resulted in any additional costs to the Company. The net value of these awards will continue to be held until the normal vesting date. No amendment has 
been made to the terms of the matching shares.  76 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Options under the Sharesave scheme
As at
2 January
201 1
Granted
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
As at
1 January
2012
Exercise
price Exercise periods
Mark Robertshaw 
2010 scheme 5,454 –  –  – 5,454 165p 01.12.13 – 31.05.14
Kevin Dangerfield        
2008 scheme 5,680 – 5,680 –  – 169p 01.12.1 1 – 31.05.12
201 1 scheme – 4,225 –  – 4,225 213p 01.12.14 – 31.05.15
Andrew Hosty       
2008 scheme 4,544 – 4,544 –  – 169p 01.12.1 1 – 31.05.12
2009 scheme 1,417 –  –  – 1,417 128p 01.12.12 – 31.05.13
201 1 scheme – 3,380 –  – 3,380 213p 01.12.14 – 31.05.15
Pension benefits earned by the Directors
The three executive Directors participate in The Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme. This is a contributory,  
HMRC-registered, defined benefit, UK occupational pension scheme. As noted above, the scheme was amended on 6 April 2006.
Executive Directors
Accrued
benefits at
1 January
2012
£000
Increase
in accrued
benefits
excluding
inflation (A)
£000
Increase
in accrued
benefits
including
inflation
£000
Transfer 
value of (A)
less Director’s
contributions
£000
Transfer value
of accrued
benefits at
2 January
2011
£000
Transfer value
of accrued
benefits at
1 January
2012
£000
Increase/
(decrease)
in transfer
value less
Director’s
contributions
£000
Mark Robertshaw 25 3 4 24 210 340 111
Kevin Dangerfield 34 2 4 21 366 532 155
Andrew Hosty 46 2 4 19 578 803 214
Notes re pension benefits:
1.  The accrued benefit entitlement for Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of  
the year. 
2.  The transfer values for the pension benefits have been calculated on the basis set by the Trustee of the pension scheme. The Trustee of the pension scheme is an independent body  
that is separate from the Company and they must calculate transfer values in accordance with legislation, having taken actuarial advice from an independent adviser. The assumptions 
used in the calculation of transfer values depend on market conditions. Over the year, Government bond yields fell. This movement increases the assessed transfer values and was  
much more significant than the increase in accrued benefits over the year.
3. Members of the pension scheme had the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table. 
Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty also received a pension allowance, details of which are set out in the Directors’ 
emoluments table on page 73.
The Directors’ Remuneration report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by:
Simon Heale
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
15 February 2012
REMUNERATION REPORT
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 77
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC
We have audited the financial statements of The Morgan Crucible Company plc for the year ended 1 January 2012 set out on pages 78 to 139.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone  
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 65, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on,  
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us  
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 > The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 1 January 2012  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 > The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
 > The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
 > The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the  
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 > The part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 > The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
 > Information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 58 to 64 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
 > The parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 > We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 > Certain disclosures of the Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > A Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > The Directors’ statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern; 
 > The part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 58 to 64 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 > Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Stephen Cooper (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL
15 February 2012  78 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COns Olidated in COme statement
for the year ended 1 January 2012
n ote
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 2 1,101.0 1,017.1 
Operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 4 (957.6) (907.6)
Profit from operations before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation  
of intangible assets 143.4 109.5 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items: 8
 Restructuring costs (5.6) (8.5)
 Gain on disposal of properties 2.4 0.6 
 n et pension credit 1.3 – 
Profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets 2 141.5 101.6 
a mortisation of intangible assets 4 (8.3) (8.0)
Operating profit 2 133.2 93.6 
Finance income 27.7 29.0 
Finance expense (49.5) (54.9)
Net financing costs 6 (21.8) (25.9)
Profit before taxation 111.4 67.7 
income tax expense 7 (32.6) (19.7)
Profit for the period 78.8 48.0 
Profit for period attributable to:
 Owners of the parent 73.0 42.5 
 n on-controlling interests 5.8 5.5 
78.8 48.0 
Earnings per share 9
Basic 26.9p 15.8p
d iluted 25.7p 15.0p
Dividends
Proposed interim dividend – pence 3.25p 2.70p
  – £m 8.9 7.3 
Proposed final dividend – pence 6.00p 5.00p
  – £m 16.4 13.6 
t he proposed interim and final dividends (2010: actual) are based upon the number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 79
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COns Olidated statement OF CO mPReHensi Ve in COme
for the year ended 1 January 2012
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Fair value
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
t otal parent
comprehensive
income
£m
n on-controlling
interests
£m
total
comprehensive
income
£m
2010
Profit for the year – – – 42.5 42.5 5.5 48.0 
Foreign exchange translation differences 3.5 – – – 3.5 2.7 6.2 
a ctuarial loss on defined benefit plans – – – (6.1) (6.1) – (6.1)
n et loss on hedge of net investment  
in foreign subsidiary (0.6) – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Cash flow hedges:
 effective portion of changes in  
 fair value – 0.6 – – 0.6 – 0.6 
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.5) – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Change in fair value of equity securities 
available-for-sale – – 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2 
t ax effect on components of other  
comprehensive income – – – 2.6 2.6 – 2.6 
Total comprehensive income, 
net of tax 2.9 0.1 0.2 39.0 42.2 8.2 50.4 
2011
Profit for the year – – – 73.0 73.0 5.8 78.8 
Foreign exchange translation differences (5.4) – – – (5.4) 0.2 (5.2)
a ctuarial loss on defined benefit plans – – – (45.5) (45.5) – (45.5)
n et gain on hedge of net investment  
in foreign subsidiary 1.0 – – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Cash flow hedges:
 effective portion of changes  
 in fair value – 0.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3 
 t ransferred to profit or loss – (0.2) – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Change in fair value of equity securities 
available-for-sale – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
t ax effect on components of other  
comprehensive income – – – 5.9 5.9 – 5.9 
Total comprehensive income, 
net of tax (4.4) 0.1 0.1 33.4 29.2 6.0 35.2   80 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COns Olidated B alan Ce sHeet
as at 1 January 2012
n ote
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 259.8 269.2 
intangible assets 11 283.3 285.0 
investments 12 6.1 7.1 
Other receivables 4.2 2.0 
d eferred tax assets 13 41.1 38.5 
Total non-current assets 594.5 601.8 
inventories 14 166.6 161.0 
d erivative financial assets 19 1.6 0.7 
t rade and other receivables 15 195.3 184.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 83.4 85.0 
Total current assets 446.9 431.4 
Total assets 1,041.4 1,033.2 
Liabilities
interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 287.3 310.4 
employee benefits 20 135.1 103.9 
Provisions 21 7.0 7.6 
n on-trade payables 22 10.5 13.6 
d eferred tax liabilities 13 44.5 45.2 
Total non-current liabilities 484.4 480.7 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts 18 11.5 10.8 
t rade and other payables 22 251.3 265.4 
Current tax payable 10.8 5.8 
Provisions 21 12.0 12.8 
d erivative financial liabilities 19 1.2 5.6 
Total current liabilities 286.8 300.4 
Total liabilities 771.2 781.1 
Total net assets 270.2 252.1 
Equity
share capital 17 68.7 68.5 
share premium 90.6 88.3 
Reserves 60.4 64.6 
Retained earnings 9.7 (6.4)
Total equity attributable to equity owners of parent Company 229.4 215.0 
Non-controlling interests 40.8 37.1 
Total equity 270.2 252.1 
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of d irectors on 15 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 81
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COns Olidated statement OF CH an Ges in e QUit Y
for the year ended 1 January 2012
share
capital
£m
share
premium
£m
t ranslation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Fair
value
reserve
£m
special
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
total
parent
equity
£m
n on-
controlling
interests
£m
total
equity
£m
Balance at 4 January 2010 67.9 85.3 10.1 0.2 (1.7) 6.0 35.7 1 1.1 (30.0) 184.6 30.0 214.6 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 42.5 42.5 5.5 48.0 
Other comprehensive income – – 2.9 0.1 0.2 – – – (3.5) (0.3) 2.7 2.4 
Transactions with owners:
d ividends 0.5 2.9 – – – – – – (18.9) (15.5) (1.1) (16.6)
equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – – – – – 3.5 3.5 – 3.5 
issue of shares 0.1 0.1 – – – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Balance at 2 January 2011 68.5 88.3 13.0 0.3 (1.5) 6.0 35.7 1 1.1 (6.4) 215.0 37.1 252.1 
Balance at 3 January 2011 68.5 88.3 13.0 0.3 (1.5) 6.0 35.7 11.1 (6.4) 215.0 37.1 252.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 73.0 73.0 5.8 78.8 
Other comprehensive income – – (4.4) 0.1 0.1 – – – (39.6) (43.8) 0.2 (43.6)
Transactions with owners:
d ividends 0.2 2.3 – – – – – – (20.9) (18.4) (2.3) (20.7)
equity-settled share-based  
payment transactions – – – – – – – – 6.8 6.8 – 6.8 
Own shares acquired for  
share incentive schemes – – – – – – – – (3.2) (3.2) – (3.2)
Balance at 1 January 2012 68.7 90.6 8.6 0.4 (1.4) 6.0 35.7 11.1 9.7 229.4 40.8 270.2 
d etails of the reserves are provided in note 17.  82 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COns Olidated statement OF C as H Fl OWs
for the year ended 1 January 2012
n ote
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating activities
Profit for the period 78.8 48.0 
a djustments for:
 depreciation 4 31.1 32.3 
 amortisation 4 8.3 8.0 
 n et financing costs 21.8 25.9 
 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (2.6) (0.5)
 income tax expense 7 32.6 19.7 
 equity-settled share-based payment expenses 5.9 3.1 
Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital and provisions 175.9 136.5 
increase in trade and other receivables (12.9) (13.7)
increase in inventories (7.7) (11.6)
(d ecrease)/increase in trade and other payables (8.5) 35.8 
d ecrease in provisions and employee benefits (17.5) (6.7)
Cash generated from operations 129.3 140.3 
interest paid (22.0) (25.7)
income tax paid (25.6) (24.1)
Net cash from operating activities 81.7 90.5 
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (28.7) (19.1)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.2 2.1 
sale of investments 0.7 0.3 
interest received 1.6 3.0 
a cquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (10.4) (32.9)
Forward contracts used in net investment hedging (4.8) (6.0)
Net cash from investing activities (38.4) (52.6)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares for share incentive schemes (3.2) – 
increase in borrowings 16 – 54.3 
Repayment of borrowings 16 (24.4) (102.1)
Payment of finance lease liabilities 16 (0.4) (0.5)
d ividends paid (18.4) (15.4)
Net cash from financing activities (46.4) (63.7)
n et decrease in cash and cash equivalents (3.1) (25.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 85.0 107.6 
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 1.5 3.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at period end 16 83.4 85.0 
a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings is shown in note 16. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 83
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments
Accounting policies
t he morgan Crucible Company plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in the UK.
t he Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’), and include the  
Group’s interest in associates. t he parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not  
about its Group. t hese consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to s unday 1 January 2012. t he Group maintains a 52- or 53-week 
fiscal year ending on the s unday nearest to the a ccounting Reference d ate of the Company, 1 January.
t he Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the d irectors in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards 
as adopted by the eU (adopted iFRss). t he Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with  
UK Generally a ccepted a ccounting Practice; these are presented on pages 129 to 138.
t he accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group  
financial statements.
d uring the period, the Group has applied amendments to the following adopted iFRss: iFRs 3 (Revised 2008) Business Combinations –  
Unreplaced and Voluntarily Replaced Share-Based Payment Awards, iFRs 3 (Revised 2008) Business Combinations – Transitional Requirements  
for Contingent Consideration From a Business Combination That Occurred Before the Effective Date of the Revised IFRS, ias 24 Related Party Disclosures , 
ias 32 Classification of Rights Issues , iFRiC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement and iFRiC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities.  
t he above amendments have not had any significant impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
(a) Measurement convention
t he financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value:  
derivative financial instruments and financial instruments available-for-sale.
(b) Functional and presentation currency
t he Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency.
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. in assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable 
or convertible are taken into account. t he financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Associates
a ssociates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. s ignificant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. a ssociates are accounted  
for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent  
of the Group’s interest in the associate. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment. 
(d) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
t ransactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.  
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. n on-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured  
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. n on-monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the  
dates the fair value was determined.
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
t he assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds sterling 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. t he revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at an 
average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on retranslation since the adoption of iFRs are recognised directly in Other Comprehensive income (OCi).  84 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(e) Derivative financial instruments
t he Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing 
and investment activities. in accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
d erivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. t he gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item 
being hedged.
t he fair value of forward exchange contracts is the present value of their quoted forward price on the balance sheet date.
(f) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecasted transaction,  
the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in OCi. t he associated gain or loss is removed  
from equity and recognised in the income statement in the period in which the transaction to which it relates occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged 
forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. if the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or 
loss recognised in the hedging reserve is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(ii) Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities 
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
t he portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge  
is recognised directly in the translation reserve. t he ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. When the hedged net investment 
is disposed of the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss on disposal.
(iv) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised  
firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. t he carrying value of the 
hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised cost) 
and any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised immediately in the income statement.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses. 
t he cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.  
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property,  
plant and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying 
amount of the asset. Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in ‘Other one-off items’ in the income statement. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in ‘Operating costs’ in the income statement.
(ii) Leased assets
l eases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. l eased 
assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
(iii) Depreciation
d epreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and 
equipment. l and is not depreciated. d epreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date. t he estimated 
useful lives are as follows:
– Buildings 50 years
– Plant and equipment and fixtures 3-20 years Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 85
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(h) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
a ll business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the 
acquisition and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
(ii) Research and development
expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient 
resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes. t he expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct  
labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation  
(see below) and impairment losses. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses.
(iv) Amortisation
a mortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are 
indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other 
intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. t he estimated useful lives are as follows:
  
– Capitalised development costs 3 years
– Computer software 3-6 years
– Customer relationships 15-20 years
– t echnology 15-20 years
– Order book a mortised over the period in which the associated orders are fulfilled
(i) Trade and other receivables
t rade and other receivables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less impairment losses  
(see accounting policy ‘l’).
(j) Inventories
inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. n et realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
t he cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to 
their existing location and condition. in the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads 
based on normal operating capacity.
  
(k) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.  86 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(l) Impairment
t he carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. if any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated (see (i) below).
a n impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
cash-generating units (group of units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. 
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in OCi and there is objective evidence that the 
asset is permanently impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in OCi is recognised in profit or loss. a significant or prolonged 
decline in an available-for-sale financial asset’s fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. t he amount of the cumulative loss that  
is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously recognised in profit or loss.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
t he recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets). 
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted. t he recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairment
a n impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related 
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
a n impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss. i f the  
fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss. 
a n impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. in respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change  
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount and when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist.
a n impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(m) Share capital
(i) Ordinary share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(ii) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the 
Company’s option. d ividends on Preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
(iii) Repurchase of share capital and own shares (treasury shares) held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust)
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net  
of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the t rust are presented  
as a deduction from total equity.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 87
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(n) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future 
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on aa credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. t he calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs 
and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the 
plan. a n economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. a ctuarial gains 
and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in OCi in 
the year in which they arise.
(iii) Long-term service benefits
t he Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. t he obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, or similar 
approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. t he discount rate is the yield at the balance 
sheet date on aa -credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations.
(iv) Share-based payment transactions
t he grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in 
equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted  
to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are met, such that the amount 
ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions  
at the vesting date.
(o) Provisions
a provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.  
t he best estimate of the expenditure required to settled the present obligation is the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the 
obligation at the end of the reporting period or to transfer it to a third party at that time. if the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(i) Restructuring
a provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has  
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(ii) Onerous contracts
a provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
(iii) Environmental
in accordance with the Group’s environmental Policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify  
over the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.   88 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(p) Trade and other payables
t rade and other payables are initially stated at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
(q) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods in the course of ordinary activities is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable,  
net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that the significant risks and rewards  
of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods 
can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.  
if it is probable that discounts will be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue  
as the sales are recognised.
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. l ease incentives 
received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
(ii) Finance lease payments
l eases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been 
purchased outright. a ssets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital elements of the leasing commitments 
are shown as obligations in creditors. d epreciation is charged on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter. 
minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. t he finance charge 
is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
(iii) Net financing costs
n et financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds 
invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement, expected return on ias 19 pension assets and 
interest on ias 19 obligations. i nterest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs (interest and other costs) are capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project which 
will be a significant productive asset, or to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining a qualifying asset.
(s) Income tax
income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in OCi, in which case it is recognised in OCi.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
d eferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. t he following temporary differences are not provided for:  
the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating 
to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. t he amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. d eferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 89
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
(t) Segment reporting
t he Group has identified four reportable operating segments. t hese have been identified on the basis of internal management reporting 
information that is regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating d ecision maker in order to allocate resources and assess performance.
segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets (primarily the 
Company’s headquarters) and head office expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
(u) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (ie forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the 
following two conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities 
with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation  
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed 
amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes  
the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium 
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
(v) Investments in debt and equity securities
investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant 
gain or loss being recognised directly in OCi (in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt 
securities, foreign exchange gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly  
in equity is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is 
recognised in profit or loss.
(w) Interest-bearing borrowings
interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. s ubsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over  
the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(x) Dividends
d ividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared and approved.
(y) Step acquisitions 
step acquisitions arise when the Group acquires control of an entity through successive share purchases. t he identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at fair value on the date that control is acquired. For step acquisitions occurring before 3 January 2010  
the amount recognised as goodwill or negative goodwill is determined separately for each tranche acquired, calculated as the difference between 
the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, in accordance with  
iFRs 3 Business Combinations (2004). a ny changes in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired between the acquisition date  
and the date that control is obtained are recorded in other reserves in equity to the extent that they have not previously been recognised in the 
income statement. a ny future step acquisitions would be accounted for in accordance with iFRs 3 Business Combinations (2008).
(z) New Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted
t here were no new standards or amendments to standards and interpretations not yet effective but available for early application that would have 
had any significant impact on the financial statements for the year ended 1 January 2012.  90 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued
Accounting estimates and judgments
Judgments made by the d irectors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates 
with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
management discussed with the a udit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. t he following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty:
Provisions
n ote 21 contains information about provisions. Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of litigation  
are judgmental by their nature. a mounts provided are the Group’s best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Recognition of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill
n ote 3 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition. t hese primarily relate to existing contracts, order books and 
customer relationships, which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers. t he Group has estimated that the customer 
relationships have an economic life of 15-20 years.
Remeasurement of deferred contingent consideration
n ote 3 contains information on deferred contingent consideration, arising as an element of the fair value of consideration on acquisition.  
d eferred contingent consideration is remeasured based upon the Group’s best estimate of its future liability, calculated in accordance with  
the acquisition agreement.
Impairment of goodwill
n ote 1 1 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests, including a sensitivity analysis.
Credit risk
n ote 19 contains information about the Group’s exposure to credit risk, including a sensitivity analysis. t he Group establishes both specific and 
general allowances for impairment losses against receivables. t he general loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics 
for similar financial assets.
Foreign currency exposure 
n ote 19 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements, including a 
sensitivity analysis.
Pension assumptions
t he principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 20, including a sensitivity analysis. t he actuarial evaluation of pension 
assets and liabilities is based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates. 
Relatively small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net pension 
liability included in the balance sheet.
Taxation
t he level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective judgements 
as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates. 
d eferred tax assets are recognised based on management’s assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable.
Going concern
t he Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business 
review on pages 22 to 51. t he financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business 
Review. in addition, note 19 includes the Group’s policies and processes for managing financial risk; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
in a pril 201 1 the Group completed the refinancing of its bank facility with a £150 million unsecured five-year multicurrency revolving credit facility. 
t he bank facility headroom at 1 January 2012 was £150 million. t he Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through local banking 
arrangements that are supported by the flexibility provided by the facility.
t he Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance and exchange rates, show the Group 
operating comfortably within its debt financial covenants for the next 12 months. t he current economic climate continues to have an impact on  
the Group, its customers and suppliers. t he Board fully recognises the challenges that lie ahead but, after making enquiries, the d irectors have  
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. a ccordingly,  
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the a nnual Report and a ccounts.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 91
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
2. Segment reporting
t he Group comprises the following four reportable operating segments:
 > morgan am &t – the m organ am &t Business delivers highly engineered solutions built from a portfolio of advanced material technologies  
that includes carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced polymeric composite materials.
 > molten metal systems – the molten metal systems Business produces crucibles and foundry consumables.
 > t echnical Ceramics – the t echnical Ceramics Business is a leading supplier of customer-specific, applications-engineered, industrial products 
with core products manufactured from advanced materials including structural ceramic, electro-ceramic and precious metals.
 > t hermal Ceramics – the t hermal Ceramics Business provides thermal management solutions for high-temperature applications which benefit 
technically, financially and environmentally from optimised thermal and energy efficiency management.
t he information presented below represents the operating segments of the Group.
morgan engineered materials morgan Ceramics
morgan am &t molten metal systems t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue from external customers 369.1 367.7 46.7 40.3 285.1 250.1 400.1 359.0  1,101.0 1,017.1 
Divisional EBITA
1
48.0 39.2 7.7 6.3 43.1 34.0 49.6 34.8 148.4 114.3 
Unallocated costs (5.0) (4.8)
Group EBITA
2
143.4 109.5 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items – (1.6) – 0.1 1.1 (1.7) (3.0) (4.7)
(1.9) (7.9)
Underlying operating profit
3
141.5 101.6 
a mortisation of intangible assets (4.5) (4.2) (0.1) (0.1) (2.5) (2.5) (1.2) (1.2) (8.3) (8.0)
Operating profit 133.2 93.6 
Finance income 27.7 29.0 
Finance expense
(49.5) (54.9)
Profit before taxation 111.4 67.7 
1. s egment profit is defined as d ivisional eBita , which is segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
2. Group eBita is defined as operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
3. Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
t he above measures of profit are shown because the d irectors use them to measure the underlying performance of the business, as referred to  
in the Business review section of the a nnual Report.
t he Group did not have any significant inter-segment revenue between reportable operating segments in 201 1 and 2010.
morgan engineered materials morgan Ceramics
morgan am &t molten metal systems t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
segment assets 372.0 378.9 31.4 31.3 225.7 224.8 277.7 273.1 906.8 908.1 
Unallocated assets 134.6 125.1 
t otal assets 1,041.4 1,033.2 
segment liabilities 77.4 81.6 8.5 7.6 50.8 43.2 81.6 85.4 218.3 217.8 
Unallocated liabilities 552.9 563.3 
t otal liabilities 771.2 781.1 
segment capital expenditure 11.5 6.8 1.8 1.0 6.2 4.9 8.2 6.3 27.7 19.0 
Unallocated capital expenditure 1.0 0.1 
t otal capital expenditure 28.7 19.1   92 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
2. Segment reporting continued
morgan engineered materials morgan Ceramics
morgan am &t molten metal systems t echnical Ceramics t hermal Ceramics Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
segment depreciation 10.1 10.1 1.3 1.4 8.6 9.0 11.1 11.8 31.1 32.3 
europe n orth a merica s outh a merica
a sia and 
Rest of the World Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue from external customers (based on 
geographical location of selling company) 429.3 422.7 382.5 346.6 45.4 41.9 243.8 205.9  1,101.0 1,017.1 
n on-current assets (excluding deferred tax  
and financial instruments) 254.4 260.0 196.0 201.6 10.6 11.3 92.4 90.4 553.4 563.3 
segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue from external customers attributed to the UK (the Group’s country of domicile) was £178.7 million (2010: £197.6 million) and non-current 
assets (excluding deferred tax and financial instruments) attributed to the UK was £176.4 million (2010: £175.0 million).
Major customer
Revenue from a range of different products to one customer of the Group’s morgan am &t Business represents £81.0 million of the Group’s total 
revenue (2010: £106.5 million).
3. Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2011 
Clearpower Limited
in 2007 the Group acquired 49% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower l imited, a company that, via two intermediary holding companies, 
owns 100% of n P a erospace l imited. On 5 January 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower 
l imited for a total of £56.8 million, an amount contingent on the future performance of Clearpower l imited. t his comprised £12.2 million in  
cash for 1 1% of the Ordinary share capital and £44.6 million in discounted deferred contingent consideration for 40% of the Ordinary share capital.  
t he discounted deferred contingent consideration takes the form of four synthetic forwards each to acquire 10% of the Ordinary share capital of 
Clearpower l imited at future dates from 2010 onwards, the amount of which are based on a fixed eBitda multiple of Clearpower l imited. 
On 1 a pril 2010 the Group agreed to pay £24.9 million. Of this amount £17.2 million relates to the first of the four synthetic forwards noted above. 
t he remaining payment of £7.7 million relates to deferred contingent consideration on the acquisition of 1 1% of Clearpower l imited in 2009.  
£12.4 million of the total was deferred for payment until 6 July 2010. in addition to these payments the Group paid £2.3 million to the employee 
Benefit t rust in accordance with the terms of the original acquisition agreement.
On 31 march 201 1 the Group agreed to pay £9.1 million. t his amount relates to the second of the four synthetic forwards noted above. in addition 
to this payment the Group paid £0.8 million to the employee Benefit t rust in accordance with the terms of the original acquisition agreement. 
in accordance with ias 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation , the Group has also recognised a liability, representing the estimated present value  
of the redemption amount in respect of its obligation to acquire the remaining 20% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower l imited. it has 
treated these shares as if they were acquired by the Group on 5 January 2009. since this consideration is contingent on the future performance  
of Clearpower l imited this liability is remeasured at each reporting date with any adjustments recorded through goodwill, in accordance with  
iFRs 3 Business Combinations (2004). it is possible that the carrying amount of this liability will increase or decrease if the future performance  
of Clearpower l imited varies from current expectations.
a t 1 January 2012 the Group carries a total liability of £1 1.3 million in respect of deferred consideration. t his is included within current and 
non-current non-trade payables. t he unwinding of the discount on this liability of £0.5 million is recorded as a finance expense (see note 6).  
t he adjustment through goodwill since the date of acquisition as a result of the remeasurement is £4.1 million.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 93
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
3. Acquisitions continued
Other acquisitions in 2011
t here were no other business combinations in 201 1.
Acquisitions in 2010
Clearpower Limited
a s disclosed above, in 2007 the Group acquired 49% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower l imited, a company that, via two intermediary 
holding companies, owns 100% of n P a erospace l imited. On 5 January 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the Ordinary share capital  
of Clearpower l imited for a total of £56.8 million, an amount contingent on the future performance of Clearpower l imited. t his comprised  
£12.2 million in cash for 1 1% of the Ordinary share capital and £44.6 million in discounted deferred contingent consideration for 40% of the 
Ordinary share capital.
On 1 a pril 2010 the Group agreed to pay £24.9 million. Of this amount £17.2 million related to the first of the four synthetic forwards noted above. 
t he remaining payment of £7.7 million related to additional deferred contingent consideration on the acquisition of 1 1% of Clearpower l imited  
in 2009. £12.4 million of the total was deferred for payment until 6 July 2010. in addition to these payments the Group paid £2.3 million to the 
employee Benefit t rust in accordance with the terms of the original acquisition agreement.
a t 2 January 201 1 this liability was remeasured and reduced to £17 .3 million and represents the total liability held in respect of deferred consideration  
in relation to the acquisition of Clearpower l imited. t his was included within current and non-current non-trade payables. t he unwinding of the 
discount on this liability of £1.2 million was recorded as a finance expense. t he adjustment through goodwill since the date of acquisition as a result 
of the remeasurement was £6.8 million.
Changsha Hairong New Materials Co., Ltd
On 3 d ecember 2010 shanghai morgan Carbon Co., l td, a 70% owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 100% of the Ordinary share capital  
of Changsha Hairong n ew materials Co., l td. t his comprised of £5.4 million in cash for 86.3% of the Ordinary share capital and £0.8 million  
in deferred consideration for the remaining 13.7% of the Ordinary share capital. t he deferred consideration took the form of a synthetic forward  
to acquire 13.7% of the Ordinary share capital of Changsha Hairong n ew materials Co., l td in January 201 1 for a fixed amount of £0.8 million 
consideration. Of the £0.8 million consideration £0.6 million was paid in advance in 2010, leaving £0.2 million of cash paid in January 201 1. 
a t 2 January 201 1, a £0.2 million liability was included within current non-trade payables, representing the present value of the remaining redemption 
amount in respect of the Group’s obligation to acquire the remaining 13.7% of the Ordinary share capital of Changsha n ew materials Co., l td. 
t he principal activity of Changsha Hairong n ew materials Co., l td is the production of graphite materials for anodes used in lithium ion batteries  
for portable electronics and electric vehicles.
t he carrying value of assets and liabilities acquired was £2.0 million. Fair value adjustments were made to reflect the fair value of the assets  
and liabilities acquired, comprising: £3.3 million of assets in respect of technology (£2.9 million) and customer relationships (£0.4 million);  
working capital assets of £0.2 million; goodwill of £1.2 million; and a deferred tax liability of £0.5 million on the temporary difference created  
by the fair value adjustments.
Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being identified individually or recognised as separate 
assets. t his includes acquirer-specific synergies such as cross-selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies and processes between 
existing and acquired sites.
in the period since acquisition Changsha Hairong n ew materials Co., l td contributed revenue of £0.6 million and profit after taxation of £nil million 
to the consolidated net profit for the period. t he Group revenue and profit after taxation, had the acquisition taken place at the beginning of the 
period, would be £1,019.8 million and £48.3 million respectively.
Other acquisitions in 2010
t here were no other business combinations in 2010.  94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
4. Operating costs
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (2.3) 1.6 
Raw materials and consumables 320.2 301.8 
Other external charges 176.1 168.6 
t otal 494.0 472.0 
employee costs:
– wages and salaries 254.1 239.5 
– equity-settled share-based payments 5.6 3.1 
– social security costs 48.5 45.0 
– other pension costs 10.1 10.6 
t otal 318.3 298.2 
d epreciation:
– owned assets 30.9 32.1 
– assets held under finance leases 0.2 0.2 
t otal 31.1 32.3 
Rentals under operating leases:
– hire of plant and machinery 3.1 3.1 
– other operating leases 5.3 5.1 
t otal 8.4 8.2 
Other operating charges and income:
– n et foreign exchange gains (1.3) (2.3)
– other operating income and charges 107.1 99.2 
t otal 105.8 96.9 
t otal operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 957.6 907.6 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
– employment termination costs 5.1 5.9 
– Other site rationalisation and closure costs 0.5 2.6 
– Profit on disposal of properties (2.4) (0.6)
– n et pension credit (1.3) – 
t otal 1.9 7.9 
a mortisation of intangible assets 8.3 8.0 
t otal operating costs 967.8 923.5 
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 95
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
4. Operating costs continued
t he Group recognised £14.3 million in expense in respect of research and development (2010: £15.9 million).
a summary of the audit and non-audit fees in respect of services provided by KP mG a udit plc charged to operating profit in the year ended  
1 January 2012 is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– t he audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation and other services 1.7 1.5 
– Other non-audit services 0.3 0.1 
2.4 2.0 
5. Staff numbers
t he average number of persons employed by the Group (including d irectors) during the year, analysed by geographical area and reporting segment, 
was as follows:
n umber of employees
2011 2010
United Kingdom 1,552 1,459
Rest of europe 1,668 1,637
n orth a merica 3,356 3,246
south a merica 417 385
a sia and Rest of the World 3,035 2,884
10,028 9,611
morgan am &t 3,625 3,463
molten metal systems 480 432
t echnical Ceramics 2,724 2,590
t hermal Ceramics 3,189 3,117
Corporate 10 9
10,028 9,611  96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
6. Net finance income and expense
2011
£m
2010
£m
Recognised in profit or loss
interest income on bank deposits measured at amortised cost 1.3 1.0 
expected return on ias 19 scheme assets 26.4 26.0 
Gain on foreign exchange derivatives in respect of financial indebtedness – 2.0 
Finance income 27.7 29.0 
interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (21.7) (25.7)
interest on ias 19 obligations (27.3) (28.0)
interest expense on unwinding of discount on deferred consideration (0.5) (1.2)
Finance expense (49.5) (54.9)
n et financing costs recognised in profit or loss (21.8) (25.9)
Recognised directly in equity
n et change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 0.2 
Cash flow hedges:
– effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.3 0.6 
– transferred to profit or loss (0.2) (0.5)
effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge 1.0 (0.6)
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (5.4) 3.5 
(4.2) 3.2 
7. Taxation – income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 30.4 23.3 
a djustments for prior years (0.5) (2.5)
29.9 20.8 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.7 (1.1)
t otal income tax expense in income statement 32.6 19.7 
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 97
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
7. Taxation – income tax expense continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2011
£m
2011
%
2010
£m
2010
%
Profit before tax 111.4 67.7 
income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 29.5 26.5 18.9 28.0 
n on-deductible expenses 3.3 3.0 0.6 0.8 
t emporary differences not equalised in deferred tax (2.8) (2.5) 2.8 4.1 
Over-provided in prior years (0.4) (0.4) (2.5) (3.7)
Other (including the impact of overseas tax rates) 3.0 2.7 (0.1) (0.1)
32.6 29.3 19.7 29.1 
Income tax recognised directly in equity
t ax effect on components of other comprehensive income:
– d eferred tax associated with defined benefit schemes 5.9 2.6 
– Other 0.1 – 
t otal income tax recognised directly in equity 6.0 2.6 
8. Restructuring costs and other one-off items
Costs of restructuring were £5.6 million (2010: £8.5 million).
included within restructuring costs and other one-off items is a net pension credit of £1.3 million (2010: nil) arising from the following:
 > For the United Kingdom defined benefit pension schemes, future indexation of current employees’ accrued benefits will be set by reference  
to the Consumer Prices index (CPi) rather than the Retail Prices index (RPi). t his change has resulted in a one-off pension credit (negative past 
service cost) of £3.1 million.
 > in n orth a merica, a total charge of £1.8 million arose as a result of a charge of £1.6 million in respect of a provision relating to a Usa pension plan 
and a charge of £0.2 million in respect of the curtailment and settlement loss as a result of closure of three Canadian defined benefit schemes.  98 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
t he calculation of basic earnings per share at 1 January 2012 was based on the following:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 73.0 42.5 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares
issued Ordinary shares at the beginning of the period 272,166,025 270,206,256 
effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company (479,322) (378,040)
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 271,686,703 269,828,216 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 26.9p 15.8p
Diluted earnings per share
t he calculation of diluted earnings per share at 1 January 2012 was based on the following:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 73.0 42.5 
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 271,686,703 269,828,216 
effect of share options/incentive schemes 12,724,153 13,993,035 
d iluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 284,410,856 283,821,251 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 25.7p 15.0p
Underlying earnings per share
t he calculation of underlying earnings per share at 1 January 2012 was based on the following:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating profit before amortisation, less net financing costs, income tax expense  
and non-controlling interests 81.3 50.5 
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period (calculated as above) 271,686,703 269,828,216 
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets (pence) 29.9p 18.7p
Diluted underlying earnings per share
t he calculation of diluted underlying earnings per share at 1 January 2012 was based on the following:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating profit before amortisation, less net financing costs, income tax expense  
and non-controlling interests
81.3 50.5 
d iluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period (calculated as above) 284,410,856 283,821,251 
Diluted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets (pence) 28.6p 17.8p
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 99
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
10. Property, plant and equipment
l and and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
and fixtures
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 4 January 2010 162.7 495.6 658.3 
a dditions and acquisitions through business combinations 2.7 17.8 20.5 
d isposals (0.2) (4.0) (4.2)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 2.0 12.2 14.2 
Balance at 2 January 201 1 167.2 521.6 688.8 
Balance at 3 January 201 1 167.2 521.6 688.8 
a dditions 1.3 25.5 26.8 
d isposals (12.5) (8.1) (20.6)
effect of movement in foreign exchange (1.4) (4.8) (6.2)
Balance at 1 January 2012 154.6 534.2 688.8 
Depreciation and impairment losses
Balance at 4 January 2010 53.0 329.1 382.1 
d epreciation charge for the year 4.8 27.5 32.3 
d isposals – (3.1) (3.1)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.6 7.7 8.3 
Balance at 2 January 201 1 58.4 361.2 419.6 
Balance at 3 January 201 1 58.4 361.2 419.6 
d epreciation charge for the year 4.8 26.3 31.1 
impairment loss – 0.3 0.3 
d isposals (11.0) (7.7) (18.7)
effect of movement in foreign exchange – (3.3) (3.3)
Balance at 1 January 2012 52.2 376.8 429.0 
Carrying amounts
a t 3 January 2010 109.7 166.5 276.2 
a t 2 January 201 1 108.8 160.4 269.2 
At 1 January 2012 102.4 157.4 259.8 
Assets pledged as security for liabilities
a t 1 January 2012 assets with a carrying amount of £3.3 million (2 January 201 1: £5.7 million) are subject to registered debentures to secure  
bank loans and other liabilities (see note 18).  100 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
11. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Order
book
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
t echnology
and
trademarks
£m
Capitalised
development
£m
Computer
software
£m
total
£m
Cost
Balance at 4 January 2010 206.8 9.3 75.0 19.5 2.2 11.7 324.5 
a dditions (externally purchased) and acquisitions through business 
combinations 1.2 – 0.4 2.9 – 0.6 5.1 
d isposals – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Remeasurement of goodwill (13.8) – – – – – (13.8)
effect of movement in foreign exchange 3.1 – 1.9 0.1 – 0.1 5.2 
Balance at 2 January 201 1 197.3 9.3 77.3 22.5 2.2 12.3 320.9 
Balance at 3 January 201 1 197.3 9.3 77.3 22.5 2.2 12.3 320.9 
a dditions (externally purchased) 0.3 – – – – 3.5 3.8 
d isposals – – – – – (2.7) (2.7)
Remeasurement of goodwill 2.7 – – – – – 2.7 
effect of movement in foreign exchange (0.5) – 0.1 0.2 – 0.7 0.5 
Balance at 1 January 2012 199.8 9.3 77.4 22.7 2.2 13.8 325.2 
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance as at 4 January 2010 – 9.2 7.8 1.9 0.4 8.3 27.6 
a mortisation charge for the year – 0.1 4.3 1.5 0.7 1.4 8.0 
d isposals – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
effect of movement in foreign exchange – – 0.3 – – 0.1 0.4 
Balance at 2 January 201 1 – 9.3 12.4 3.4 1.1 9.7 35.9 
Balance at 3 January 201 1 – 9.3 12.4 3.4 1.1 9.7 35.9 
a mortisation charge for the year – – 4.4 1.8 0.7 1.4 8.3 
d isposals – – – – – (2.7) (2.7)
effects of movement in foreign exchange – – – 0.1 – 0.3 0.4 
Balance at 1 January 2012 – 9.3 16.8 5.3 1.8 8.7 41.9 
Carrying amounts
a t 3 January 2010 206.8 0.1 67.2 17.6 1.8 3.4 296.9 
a t 2 January 201 1 197.3 – 64.9 19.1 1.1 2.6 285.0 
At 1 January 2012 199.8 – 60.6 17.4 0.4 5.1 283.3 
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 101
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
11. Intangible assets continued
Impairment test for cash-generating units containing goodwill
in accordance with the requirements of ias 36 Impairment of Assets , goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill.
Goodwill is attributed to each cash-generating unit as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
morgan am &t 107.5 104.8 
molten metal systems 1.9 2.2 
t echnical Ceramics 69.4 69.3 
t hermal Ceramics 21.0 21.0 
199.8 197.3 
each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment.     
a s part of the annual impairment test review the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed with reference to its value in use reflecting the 
projected discounted cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
t he key assumptions used in determining value in use relate to growth rates and discount rates.
t he cash flow projections in year one are based on budgeted operating results for the forthcoming year.
Growth rates for the period not covered by budgets are specific to each operating segment, ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% (2010: 4.0% to 6.0%). 
t hese growth rates reflect the products, industries and countries in which the operating segments operate. t hese medium- to long-term growth 
rates have been reviewed by management during 201 1 and are considered to be appropriate.
Given the similar risk profiles of each of the operating segments, together with common funding from the central Group t reasury function,  
a standard pre-tax discount rate of 13.9% (2010: 12.2%), based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, has been used in discounting  
the projected cash flows and calculating the terminal value at the end of year five. t his discount rate has been used as the Group believes it suitably 
approximates the rate used by end-market participants.
t he d irectors have considered the following individual sensitivities and are confident that no impairment would arise in any of the following  
three circumstances:
 > if the pre-tax discount rate was increased by 550bps to 19.4% (2010: 650bps to 18.7%);
 > if no growth was assumed for years two to five and in the calculation of terminal value; and
 > if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 35% (2010: 40%).  102 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
12. Investments
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current investments
investment in associate 1.5 1.5 
equity securities available-for-sale 4.6 5.6 
6.1 7.1
Investment in associates
Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited
d uring 2009 the Group acquired a 50% stake in integrated survivability t echnologies l imited. t he principal activity of integrated survivability 
t echnologies l imited is acting as prime contractor for delivery of military vehicles and provision of related support services. t otal consideration  
paid including fees was £1.5 million.
t he Group’s share of profit after tax in integrated survivability t echnologies l imited was £nil (2010: £nil).
summary financial information for the Group’s investment in integrated survivability t echnologies l imited, not adjusted for the 50% ownership 
held by the Group:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current assets 13.9 10.5 
n on-current assets – 0.1 
t otal assets 13.9 10.6 
Current liabilities 11.1 7.5 
t otal liabilities 11.1 7.5 
Revenue 44.0 73.2 
Profit – –
Equity securities available-for-sale
t he equity securities available-for-sale represent an investment in a mutual fund. a 10% increase in the unit price would increase the fair value of 
the investments by £0.3 million.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 103
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
13. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
d eferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets
2011
£m
a ssets
2010
£m
Liabilities
2011
£m
l iabilities
2010
£m
Net
2011
£m
n et
2010
£m
Property, plant and equipment – – 23.1 22.3 23.1 22.3 
intangible assets – – 21.4 22.9 21.4 22.9 
employee benefits (28.4) (22.8) – – (28.4) (22.8)
Provisions (7.0) (7.1) – – (7.0) (7.1)
t ax value of loss carried forward recognised (5.5) (6.4) – – (5.5) (6.4)
Other items (0.2) (2.2) – – (0.2) (2.2)
(41.1) (38.5) 44.5 45.2 3.4 6.7 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
d eferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2011
£m
2010
£m
d eductible temporary differences (47.4) (46.2)
t ax losses (71.0) (62.0)
(118.4) (108.2)
Movements in temporary differences during the year
Balance
3 January
2010
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
directly
in equity
£m
Balance
2 January
2011
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
directly
in equity
£m
Balance
1 January
2012
£m
Property, plant and equipment 23.3 (1.0) – 22.3 0.8 – 23.1 
intangible assets 24.2 (1.3) – 22.9 (1.5) – 21.4 
employee benefits (19.8) (0.4) (2.6) (22.8) 0.3 (5.9) (28.4)
Provisions (5.4) (1.7) – (7.1) 0.1 – (7.0)
t ax value of loss carried forward recognised (7.5) 1.1 – (6.4) 0.9 – (5.5)
Others (4.5) 2.3 – (2.2) 2.1 (0.1) (0.2)
10.3 (1.0) (2.6) 6.7 2.7 (6.0) 3.4 
d eferred income tax of £2.0 million is provided on the potential unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings.  104 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
14. Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials and consumables 61.1 65.6 
Work in progress 41.5 35.8 
Finished goods 64.0 59.6 
166.6 161.0 
t he Group holds consignment inventory amounting to £20.6 million (2010: £17.9 million) which is not reflected in the balance sheet. t he majority 
of this balance is for precious metals which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when the material is required. 
d uring the year provisions of £1.8 million were made against inventories and recognised in operating expenses (2010: £4.4 million).
15. Trade and other receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
t rade receivables due from associate 10.4 4.8 
Other trade receivables 159.4 155.9 
l oans and receivables 169.8 160.7 
Other non-trade receivables and prepayments 25.5 24.0 
195.3 184.7 
t he Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 19.
16. Cash and cash equivalents
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank balances 71.7 68.0 
Cash deposits 11.7 17.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 83.4 85.0 
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net debt*
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening borrowings (321.2) (360.3)
n et decrease in borrowings 24.4 47.8 
Payment of finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.5 
effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings (2.4) (9.2)
Closing borrowings (298.8) (321.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 83.4 85.0 
Closing net debt (215.4) (236.2)
*n et debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
17. Capital and reserves
Translation reserve
t he translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations,  
as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary and forward contracts used for net 
investment hedging.
Hedging reserve
t he hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to 
hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 105
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
17. Capital and reserves continued 
Fair value reserve
t he fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment is derecognised.
Special reserve
a s pecial Resolution to cancel the share Premium a ccount was passed at the a nnual General meeting of the Company held on 1 1 June 1993.  
t his cancellation was confirmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery d ivision, on 14 July 1993. t he amount of £88.9 million 
standing to the credit of the share Premium a ccount on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the special reserve against which goodwill on consolidation 
could be written off. t his reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the share Premium a ccount on 12 October 1990 of  
£71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of £38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of £12.3 million which were transferred following previous Orders of the  
High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and share premium account.
Capital redemption reserve
t he capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable profits.
Other reserves
t he other reserves includes the £10.8 million increase in the year ended 3 January 2010 in the fair value of the Group’s original 49% interest in 
Clearpower l imited from the date of its original acquisition to 5 January 2009 excluding goodwill and to the extent not previously recognised as the 
Group’s share of the results of Clearpower l imited.
Retained earnings
t he Company has acquired own shares to satisfy the requirements of the various share option incentive schemes. t he number of treasury  
shares held at the year end was 2,044,458 (2010: 1,007,003); 2,044,458 shares were held by t he morgan General employee Benefit t rust  
(2010: 1,007,003) and nil shares were held by the Company (2010: nil). a ll rights conferred by those shares are suspended until they are reissued. 
Dividends
t he following Ordinary dividends were declared and paid by the Company:
Per share total
2011
Pence
2010
Pence
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009 interim – 2.50 – 6.8 
2009 final – 4.50 – 12.1 
2010 interim 2.70 – 7.3 –
2010 final 5.00 – 13.6 –
t otal 7.70 7.00 20.9 18.9
t he Company also declared the following Ordinary dividend:
Per share
2011
Pence
Total
2011
£m
201 1 interim 3.25 8.9
3.25 8.9
t his Ordinary dividend had not been paid by the Company as at 1 January 2012 and has not been provided for at the year end. 
in addition to the above, the Company also declared and paid dividends on the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares and 5.0% Cumulative 
second Preference shares.
a fter 1 January 2012 the following dividends were proposed by the d irectors for 201 1. t hese dividends have not been provided for and there are 
no income tax consequences.
£m
6.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary share 16.4 
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares (see note 30) –
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares (see note 30) –
16.4   106 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
17. Capital and reserves continued 
a uthorised issued
Called-up share capital
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Equity share capital
434,650,876 (2010: 434,650,876) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 108.7 108.7 
Fully paid: 273,139,791 (2010: 272,166,025) Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 68.3 68.1 
108.7 108.7 68.3 68.1 
Preference share capital
125,327 authorised and issued 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares  
of £1 each, fully paid
0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
31 1,954 authorised and issued 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares  
of £1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 
t otal Preference share capital 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 
Total share capital 109.1 109.1 68.7 68.5 
Ordinary shares Preference shares
Number of shares in issue 2011 2010 2011 2010
in issue at beginning of period 272,166,025 270,206,256 437,281 437,281
Partial consideration relating to deferred consideration  
on purchase of Clearpower l imited – 47,175 – – 
scrip dividend 973,766 1,912,594 – – 
in issue at end of period 273,139,791 272,166,025 437,281 437,281
a s at the date of this report 274,802,078 Ordinary shares have been issued (2010: 272,91 1,009).
t he holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of 
the Company.
d etails of options outstanding in respect of Ordinary shares are given in note 20.
t he 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders 
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 d ecember 
respectively in every year. t he First and second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to attend or vote at any general 
meeting unless either:
(i)  the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock,  
or increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the a rticles of a ssociation of the Company, or winding up, or sanctioning a sale of the 
undertaking, or altering the a rticles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering their respective 
rights and privileges; or
(ii)  at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment date of 
any half-yearly instalment.
On a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied:    
First, in payment to the holders of the First Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.5% pa. 
second, in payment to the holders of the second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate  
of 5.0% pa.
t hird, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary shares.
Fourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid up on their 
respective holdings of shares in the Company.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 107
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
18. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
t his note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at amortised 
cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current liabilities
senior n otes 281.7 287.0 
multicurrency revolving facility – 15.9 
Bank and other loans 5.3 6.9 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.6 
287.3 310.4 
Current liabilities
senior n otes 5.9 5.8 
Bank and other loans 5.3 4.5 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.5 
11.5 10.8 
Terms and debt repayment schedule
t he terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
Carrying amount
n ominal
interest rate
Year of
maturity
2011
£m
2010
£m
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 6.84% 2013 12.0 17.8 
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 5.70% 2014 64.3 63.8 
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 3.65% 2015 33.7 34.5 
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 4.32% 2017 16.9 17.3 
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 6.12% 2017 112.5 111.6 
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 6.26% 2019 48.2 47.8 
Bank and other loans 1.70%-8.00% up to 2012 10.6 27.3 
Obligations under finance leases 6.00% up to 2014 0.6 1.1 
t otal interest-bearing loans and borrowings 298.8 321.2 
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Minimum
lease
payments
2011
£m
Interest
2011
£m
Principal
2011
£m
minimum
lease
payments
2010
£m
interest
2010
£m
Principal
2010
£m
l ess than one year 0.3 – 0.3 0.6 – 0.6 
Between one and five years 0.3 – 0.3 0.6 0.1 0.5 
more than five years – – – – – – 
0.6 – 0.6 1.2 0.1 1.1 
Bank and other loans include £0.7 million (2010: £0.4 million) of loans secured on the assets of the Group. 
a s at 1 January 2012 the Group had available headroom under the bank syndication of £150.0 million (2010: £162.9 million).  108 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management
Overview
Net liabilities
t he Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
 > credit risk
 > liquidity risk
 > market risk.
t his note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative 
disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.       
t he Board delegates the establishment and implementation of the systems for internal control and risk management to the operating d ivisions 
which are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their area of business together with the design and 
operation of suitable internal controls. t he Board delegates the monitoring and review of the internal control and risk management systems to the 
a udit Committee assisted by the Risk management Committee. t he Risk management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, 
reviews the full range of risks faced by morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness. 
Where necessary, the Risk management Committee will initiate action to improve the systems and ensure compliance.   
 > Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations,  
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.       
t he Group has set up notional cash pooling agreements with a number of banks. Under the notional cash pooling agreement the Group has the 
legal right to offset liabilities on undrawn bank accounts against surplus balances.        
Trade and other receivables
t he Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. t he demographics of the Group’s 
customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.  
management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed  
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. t he Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.   
t he Group serves thousands of customers. many of these have purchased the same product for several years and in some cases decades.  
Others have modified and enhanced designs or adopted the same components into new products, extending the lifecycle of the components  
that the Group supplies. t he Group’s level of customer retention is very high, particularly with its major accounts, and, although the top 20 ranking 
will alter from year to year, many of the names remain consistent over time.
t he Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and 
investments. t he main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a general 
loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. t he general loss allowance 
is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.       
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 109
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Investments
t he Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a sound credit rating.  
Given these high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Exposure to credit risk
t he carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. t he maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 4.6 5.6 
l oans and receivables 169.8 160.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 83.4 85.0 
257.8 251.3 
t he maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by Business was:
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
morgan am &t 58.1 54.5 
molten metal systems 6.2 5.9 
t echnical Ceramics 33.4 31.1 
t hermal Ceramics 72.1 69.2 
169.8 160.7 
t he maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
europe 63.4 66.0 
n orth a merica 49.7 42.8 
south a merica 6.5 8.0 
a sia and Rest of the World 50.2 43.9 
169.8 160.7   110 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Impairment losses
t he ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2011
£m
Impairment
2011
£m
Gross
2010
£m
impairment
2010
£m
n ot past due 136.3 (1.6) 123.5 (1.5)
Past due 0-30 days 21.9 (0.5) 24.3 (0.6)
Past due 31-60 days 5.4 (0.2) 5.7 (0.2)
Past due 61-90 days 6.3 (0.4) 7.6 (0.5)
Past due more than 90 days 9.3 (4.6) 8.8 (3.9)
179.2 (7.3) 169.9 (6.7)
General impairment allowance (2.1) (2.5)
(9.4) (9.2)
t he movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Balance at beginning of period 9.2 10.2 
increase/(decrease) in allowance for impairment 0.2 (1.0)
Balance at end of period 9.4 9.2 
a specific impairment allowance may be created in respect of an individual trade receivable for which full recovery is doubtful. a s at 1 January 2012 
and 2 January 201 1 there were no specific impairment allowances that were significant to the Group. i n addition, local management may create an 
impairment allowance to reflect their experience of the historical recoverability of trade receivables past due in the respective markets in which their 
businesses operate.
t he allowances in the accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery  
of the amount owing is possible; at the point the amount is considered irrecoverable it is written off against the financial asset directly.
Concentrations of credit risk
t rade receivables from one customer of the Group’s morgan am &t operating segment represent £12.2 million of the Group’s total trade 
receivables (2010: £8.8 million). 
 > Liquidity risk
l iquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by cash. 
t he Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions.
t he Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective borrowing structure. t he policy is to ensure that the Group 
has sufficient liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 111
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
t he following are the undiscounted contracted maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments:
Effective
interest
rate
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Less than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
2011
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 6.84% 12.0 12.6 6.5 6.1 – – 
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 5.70% 64.3 75.4 3.7 3.7 68.0 – 
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 3.65% 33.7 37.9 1.2 1.2 35.5 – 
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 4.32% 16.9 20.8 0.7 0.7 2.2 17.2 
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 6.12% 112.5 154.0 6.9 6.9 20.7 119.5 
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 6.26% 48.2 72.4 3.0 3.0 9.1 57.3 
Bank and other loans 1.70%-8.00% 10.6 10.6 5.3 5.3 – – 
Obligations under finance leases 6.00% 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.2 – 
t rade and other payables 121.3 121.3 116.0 5.3 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges 0.8 0.8 0.8 – – –
Forward exchange contracts as fair value hedges 0.4 0.4 0.4 – – –
421.3 506.8 144.8 32.3 135.7 194.0 
effective
interest
rate
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
l ess than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
2010
more than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 6.84% 17.8 19.2 6.8 6.4 6.0 – 
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 5.70% 63.8 78.4 3.6 3.6 71.2 – 
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 3.65% 34.5 40.3 1.3 1.3 37.7 – 
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 4.32% 17.3 22.0 0.7 0.7 2.2 18.4 
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 6.12% 111.6 159.6 6.8 6.8 20.5 125.5 
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 6.26% 47.8 74.9 3.0 3.0 9.0 59.9 
multicurrency revolving facility 3.69% 15.9 17.3 0.2 17.1 – – 
Bank and other loans 3.50%-8.00% 11.4 11.4 4.5 6.9 – – 
Obligations under finance leases 6.00% 1.1 1.2 0.6 0.2 0.4 – 
t rade and other payables 139.4 139.4 130.0 9.4 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – 
Forward exchange contracts as fair value hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – 
Forward exchange contracts as net investment hedges 5.4 5.4 5.4 – – – 
interest rate swaps not designated – – – – – – 
466.2 569.3 163.1 55.4 147.0 203.8   112 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
included in Bank and other loans are loans drawn under the £150 million (2010: £180 million) multicurrency revolving facility of £nil (2010: £17 .1 million). 
such loans are repayable within 12 months, but are classified as maturing one month prior to the facility termination date. t he present facility is 
available until 5 a pril 2016.
t he following table indicates the periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur. t his is matched with the 
periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to impact profit or loss.
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
Less than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
2011
More than
5 years
£m
Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges:
Forward exchange contracts – a ssets 1.1 54.9 44.7 10.2 – – 
Forward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.8) (54.2) (44.3) (9.9) – – 
0.3 0.7 0.4 0.3 – – 
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
l ess than
1 year
£m
1-2
years
£m
2-5
years
£m
2010
more than
5 years
£m
Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges:
Forward exchange contracts – a ssets 0.4 34.8 24.1 10.7 – – 
Forward exchange contracts – l iabilities (0.1) (34.4) (23.7) (10.7) – –
0.3 0.4 0.4 – – – 
 > Market risk
market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Group’s income  
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. t he objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within 
acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
t he Group buys and sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business for hedging purposes, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage 
market risks. a ll such transactions are carried out in accordance with the t reasury Policy, which has been approved by the a udit Committee. 
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit or loss.
Interest rate risk
Profile
a t the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets 11.6 –
Financial liabilities (292.7) (298.5)
(281.1) (298.5)
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 83.4 85.0 
Financial liabilities (19.1) (22.7)
64.3 62.3 
t he average cost of the Group’s fixed rate debt is 5.7% (2010: 5.7%).
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 113
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
t he Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
a change of 100 basis points in interest rates on the Group’s net debt at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. t his analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. t he analysis is performed 
on the same basis for 2010.
100 bp
increase
£m
Profit or loss
100 bp
decrease
£m
1 January 2012
Variable rate instruments 0.7 (0.5)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) 0.7 (0.5)
2 January 201 1
Variable rate instruments 0.6 (0.3)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) 0.6 (0.3)
Foreign currency risk
t he table below shows the Group’s currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains and losses 
recognised in the income statement. such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in  
the functional currency of the operating company involved, other than certain non-sterling borrowings treated as hedges of net investments  
in overseas entities.
Functional currency of Group operations
GBP
£m
USD
£m
2011
€
£m
GBP
£m
Usd
£m
2010
€
£m
t rade receivables 6.4 0.1 1.9 5.4 0.7 2.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 5.3 0.2 1.6 0.9 0.2 3.0 
t rade payables (15.6) (0.2) (1.1) (2.2) (1.0) (2.8)
n et balance sheet exposure (3.9) 0.1 2.4 4.1 (0.1) 2.5 
t he amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures.
2011
£m
a verage rate
2010
£m
2011
£m
Year end rate
2010
£m
Usd 1.6043 1.5447 1.5541 1.5657 
€ 1.1529 1.1659 1.1972 1.1671 
t he Group aims to hedge all material trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency. a t any point in time the Group  
also hedges up to 75% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases over the following twelve months.  
t he Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less  
than one year after the balance sheet date.
in respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the currency of the reporting unit, the Group ensures that the net 
exposure is kept to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances. 
Forecasted transactions
t he Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. t he fair value 
of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 1 January 2012 was an asset of £0.3 million (2010: asset of £0.3 million).   114 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Cash flow hedges
t he contractual cash flows associated with the forward exchange contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges are shown in the section on 
liquidity risk. t he impact on profit or loss is expected to occur at the same time as the associated cash flows.
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
t he Group maintains in-country local currency borrowings, and has designated certain forward foreign exchange contracts and other borrowings 
as hedges of the foreign exchange risk associated with investments in foreign operations. in this way, the Group seeks to manage the translation 
exposure of overseas net assets, but only to the extent that its gearing covenant under the terms of its loan documents, as well as its facility headroom, 
are likely to remain comfortably within limits, and provided the associated costs are not prohibitive.
t he Group’s currency split of t otal Borrowings after the impact of net investment hedges was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
sterling (8.9) (18.8)
Usd 221.0 241.0 
€ 70.6 72.8 
Japanese Yen 11.8 5.4 
Other 0.6 19.9 
295.1 320.3 
Sensitivity analysis
t he Group’s sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities as at 1 January 2012 is set out in the table below.  
t he impact of a weakening in sterling on the Group’s financial assets and liabilities would be more than offset in equity and income by its impact  
on the Group’s overseas net assets and earnings respectively.
t he amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are forward-looking estimates of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. 
a ctual results in the future may differ materially from those projected results due to developments.
t he estimated changes for foreign exchange rates are based on an instantaneous 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other 
currencies from the levels applicable at 1 January 2012, with all other variables remaining constant. such analysis is for illustrative purposes only –  
in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
10% weakening in sterling
1 January 2012
Equity
£m
Profit
before tax
£m
Usd (25.1) (1.3)
€ (4.7) (0.3)
Other 6.6 0.2 
10% weakening in sterling
2 January 201 1
equity
£m
Profit
before tax
£m
Usd (19.7) (1.4)
€ (6.5) (0.3)
Other 4.4 0.2 
t he impact of a one-cent movement in the Usd exchange rate on results that are reported in U sd would be a movement of circa £2.1 million  
in revenue and £0.2 million in profit.
Other market price risk
equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities held for meeting partially the unfunded portion of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension obligations. t he primary goal of the Group’s investment strategy is to maximise returns in order to meet partially the Group’s unfunded 
defined benefit obligations.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 115
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Capital management
t he Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base (total equity) so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. t he Board uses a number of measures, identified as key performance indicators (KPis), to ensure the continued 
success of the Group. t he main KPi for the Group is the underlying operating profit margin. t he aim is to achieve mid-teen margins in good times 
and double-digit margins when the environment is more challenging.
t he Board encourages employees of the Group to hold the Company’s Ordinary shares. t he Group operates a number of employee share and 
share option schemes. From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market 
prices. Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group’s various share option incentive schemes. t he Company may 
also acquire its own shares under a share buy-back programme.
t he Board seeks to maintain a balance between the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position, and the higher returns that might 
be possible with higher levels of borrowings.
t he Group’s debt to adjusted capital ratio at the end of the reporting period was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
t otal interest-bearing loans and borrowings 295.1 320.2 
l ess: cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts (79.7) (84.0)
n et debt 215.4 236.2 
t otal equity 270.2 252.1 
l ess: amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges (0.4) (0.3)
a djusted capital 269.8 251.8 
d ebt to adjusted capital ratio 0.8 0.9
t here were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
n either the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Fair values
t he fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
Carrying
 amount
2011
£m
Fair value
2011
£m
Carrying
amount
2010
£m
Fair value
2010
£m
Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost
6.84% Us d ollar senior n otes 2013 (12.0) (12.1) (17.8) (18.7)
5.70% Us d ollar senior n otes 2014 (64.3) (70.3) (63.8) (68.0)
3.65% euro senior n otes 2015 (33.7) (35.1) (34.5) (34.4)
4.32% euro senior n otes 2017 (16.9) (18.0) (17.3) (17.2)
6.12% Us d ollar senior n otes 2017 (112.5) (130.5) (111.6) (121.4)
6.26% Us d ollar senior n otes 2019 (48.2) (55.7) (47.8) (51.1)
Bank and other loans (10.6) (10.6) (27.3) (27.3)
Obligations under finance leases (0.6) (0.6) (1.1) (1.1)
t rade and other payables (121.3) (121.3) (139.4) (139.4)
l oans and receivables 169.8 169.8 160.7 160.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 83.4 83.4 85.0 85.0 
(166.9) (201.0) (214.9) (232.9)
Available-for-sale financial instruments
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 4.6 4.6 5.6 5.6 
Derivatives and other items at fair value
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: 0.4 0.4 (4.9) (4.9)
(161.9) (196.0) (214.2) (232.2)  116 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19. Financial risk management continued
Estimation of fair values
t he following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the preceding table.
Equity securities
Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market either using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting 
the current spot rate.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities
t he fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.  
t he estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. a ll other receivables/
payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value
t he interest rates used to determine the fair value of loans and borrowings and finance leases are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
l oans and borrowings 2.4-5.2% 2.5-5.3%
Finance leases 6.0% 6.0%
Fair value hierarchy
t he table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. t he different levels have been defined as follows: 
l evel 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
l evel 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within l evel 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as prices) or indirectly 
(ie derived from prices)
l evel 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
1 January 2012
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 4.6 – 4.6 
d erivative financial assets – 1.6 1.6 
4.6 1.6 6.2 
d erivative financial liabilities – (1.2) (1.2) 
4.6 0.4 5.0
2 January 201 1
l evel 1
£m
l evel 2
£m
total
£m
a vailable-for-sale financial assets 5.6 – 5.6 
d erivative financial assets – 0.7 0.7 
5.6 0.7 6.3 
d erivative financial liabilities – (5.6) (5.6)
5.6 (4.9) 0.7 
t here have been no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during 201 1 and 2010 and there were no level 3 financial instruments in either 201 1  
and 2010.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 117
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits
morgan Crucible operates a number of defined benefit arrangements as well as defined contribution plans. t he defined benefit plans are primarily in 
the UK, Usa and e urope and predominately provide pensions based on service and career-average pay. in addition post-retirement medical plans 
are operated in the Usa .
2011
UK
£m
2011
USA
£m
2011
Europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
Total
£m
Pension plans and employee benefits
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (8.9) (23.7) (2.7) (35.3)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (378.1) (138.9) (1.5) (13.6) (532.1)
Fair value of plan assets 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
Deficit (47.4) (58.5) (24.6) (4.8) (135.3)
Unrecognised past service costs – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Net obligations (47.4) (58.5) (24.4) (4.8) (135.1)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 3 January 201 1 (347.2) (135.7) (23.4) (15.5) (521.8)
Current service cost (2.5) (0.1) (0.5) (1.7) (4.8)
interest cost (18.7) (7.0) (1.1) (0.5) (27.3)
a ctuarial losses (26.2) (10.8) (2.5) (0.5) (40.0)
Benefits paid 14.7 7.2 1.5 2.0 25.4 
Contributions by members (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Past service credits 3.2 – – – 3.2 
Curtailments and settlements – – – (0.2) (0.2)
exchange adjustments – (1.4) 0.8 0.1 (0.5)
At 1 January 2012 (378.1) (147.8) (25.2) (16.3) (567.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 3 January 201 1 320.6 85.4 0.5 11.2 417.7 
expected return on plan assets 20.0 5.8 – 0.6 26.4 
a ctuarial (losses)/gains (3.5) (1.8) 0.1 (0.3) (5.5)
Contributions by employer 6.9 6.4 1.5 2.2 17.0 
Contributions by members 1.4 – – – 1.4 
Benefits paid (14.7) (7.2) (1.5) (2.0) (25.4)
exchange adjustments – 0.7 – (0.2) 0.5 
At 1 January 2012 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
a ctual return on assets 16.5 4.0 0.1 0.3 20.9 
2011
UK
£m
2011
USA
£m
2011
Europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
Total
£m
Pension plans and employee benefits
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost 0.7 (0.1) (0.5) (1.7) (1.6)
interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (18.7) (7.0) (1.1) (0.5) (27.3)
expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 20.0 5.8 – 0.6 26.4 
Gain on curtailment and settlements – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Total expense 2.0 (1.3) (1.6) (1.8) (2.7)  118 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
t he ias 19 expense in relation to the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated  
income statement:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating costs (4.8) (5.1)
Finance income 26.4 26.0 
Finance expense (27.3) (28.0)
Restructuring and other one-off items 3.0 0.1 
(2.7) (7.0)
in the UK, there has been a change in the future increases to be provided to active members of the two schemes before retirement from being 
linked to the Retail Prices index (RPi) to the Consumer Prices index (CPi). t his has resulted in a past service credit of £3.2 million.
in the Usa benefit accrual has been frozen in the m organ Us employees Pension Plan which has caused a reduction in the charge to the income 
statement of £0.2 million in 201 1 and £0.1 million in 2010. in europe the £0.2 million unrecognised past service cost has been recognised as a result 
of a change in future benefit accrual in France and is being amortised over 13 years. in Canada a £0.2 million curtailment and settlement loss has been 
recognised in respect of the closure of three defined benefit schemes.
t he Group has adopted the policy of recognising actuarial gains and losses immediately in the balance sheet through other comprehensive income. 
Cumulative actuarial gains/losses reported in other comprehensive income since 5 January 2004, the date of transition to a dopted iFRss, are  
£147.3 million.
Statement of financial position reconciliation
2011
£m
2010
£m
a t 3 January 201 1 (103.9) (105.9)
Pension expense (2.7) (7.0)
Contributions 17.0 16.1 
Other comprehensive income (45.5) (6.1)
Currency adjustments – (1.0)
At 1 January 2012 (135.1) (103.9)
t he Group expects to contribute £18.0 million to these arrangements in 2012.
t he fair values of the plan assets were as follows:
2011
UK
£m
2011
USA
£m
2011
Europe
£m
2011
Rest of the
World
£m
2011
Total
£m
equities 125.9 44.9 – – 170.8 
Bonds 27.0 44.4 – – 71.4 
matching insurance policies 176.4 – 0.5 2.2 179.1 
Other 1.4 – 0.1 9.3 10.8 
Total 330.7 89.3 0.6 11.5 432.1 
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 119
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
2011
UK
%
2011
USA
%
2011
Europe
%
d iscount rate 4.90 5.00 4.30
expected rate of return on plan assets – equities 7.50 7.40 n/a
  – Bonds 4.60 4.60 n/a
  – matching insurance 4.90 n/a 4.30
salary increase n/a 2.70 2.50
inflation (RPi & CPi) 3.00/1.80 2.20 2.00
Pensions increase 2.90/3.20 n/a 2.00
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 201 1 25.9 years 23.3 years 23.0 years
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2031 27.2 years 24.1 years 25.9 years
expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. t he overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting 
the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Balance sheet
Present value of defined benefit obligation (567.4) (521.8) (489.1) (446.3) (450.7)
Fair value of plan assets 432.1 417.7 383.0 344.5 403.0 
d eficit (135.3) (104.1) (106.1) (101.8) (47.7)
Unrecognised past service costs 0.2 0.2 0.2 – –
n et obligations (135.1) (103.9) (105.9) (101.8) (47.7)
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Experience (losses)/gains
experience (losses)/gains on defined benefit obligation (14.2) 0.8 (2.2) 1.7 (0.2)
experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (5.5) 15.0 34.3 (104.7) (17.5)
t he sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are:
Change in assumption
2011
Increase
effect
£m
2010
increase
effect
£m
d iscount rate d ecrease by 0.1% 6.1 6.1 
Rate of increase in salaries increase by 0.1% – 0.1 
inflation increase by 0.1% 3.7 3.5 
mortality – post-retirement Pensioners live 1 year longer 11.2 9.9   120 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
2010
UK
£m
2010
Usa
£m
2010
europe
£m
2010
Rest of the
World
£m
2010
total
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations – (9.0) (22.5) (2.7) (34.2)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (347.2) (126.7) (0.9) (12.8) (487.6)
Fair value of plan assets 320.6 85.4 0.5 11.2 417.7 
Deficit (26.6) (50.3) (22.9) (4.3) (104.1)
Unrecognised past service costs – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Net obligations (26.6) (50.3) (22.7) (4.3) (103.9)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
a t 3 January 2010 (333.4) (120.1) (23.5) (12.1) (489.1)
Current service cost (2.2) (0.8) (0.5) (1.6) (5.1)
interest cost (19.0) (7.4) (1.1) (0.5) (28.0)
a ctuarial losses (6.7) (11.4) (0.5) (2.5) (21.1)
Benefits paid 15.4 7.5 1.5 1.7 26.1 
Contributions by members (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Curtailments and settlements – 0.1 – – 0.1 
exchange adjustments – (3.6) 0.7 (0.5) (3.4)
At 2 January 2011 (347.2) (135.7) (23.4) (15.5) (521.8)
Movements in fair value of plan assets
a t 3 January 2010 298.9 73.9 0.5 9.7 383.0 
expected return on plan assets 19.8 5.8 – 0.4 26.0 
a ctuarial gains 9.7 4.2 – 1.1 15.0 
Contributions by employer 6.3 6.8 1.5 1.5 16.1 
Contributions by members 1.3 – – – 1.3 
Benefits paid (15.4) (7.5) (1.5) (1.7) (26.1)
exchange adjustments – 2.2 – 0.2 2.4 
At 2 January 2011 320.6 85.4 0.5 11.2 417.7 
a ctual return on assets 29.5 10.0 – 1.5 41.0 
2010
UK
£m
2010
Usa
£m
2010
europe
£m
2010
Rest of the
World
£m
2010
total
£m
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Current service cost and past service cost (2.2) (0.8) (0.5) (1.6) (5.1)
interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (19.0) (7.4) (1.1) (0.5) (28.0)
expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 19.8 5.8 – 0.4 26.0 
Gain on curtailment of Us and French employee benefit schemes – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Total expense (1.4) (2.3) (1.6) (1.7) (7.0)
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 121
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
t he fair values of the plan assets were as follows:
2010
UK
£m
2010
Usa
£m
2010
europe
£m
2010
Rest of the
World
£m
2010
total
£m
equities 131.7 48.4 – – 180.1 
Bonds 17.7 36.5 – – 54.2 
matching insurance policies
169.9 – 0.5 1.9 172.3 
Other 1.3 0.5 – 9.3 1 1.1 
Total 320.6 85.4 0.5 11.2 417.7 
Principal actuarial assumptions were:
2010
UK
%
2010
Usa
%
2010
europe
%
d iscount rate 5.50 5.50 5.00
expected rate of return on plan assets – equities 7.80 8.40 n/a
  – Bonds 5.20 5.30 n/a
  – matching insurance 5.50 n/a 5.00
salary increase n/a 2.70 2.50
inflation (RPi & CPi) 3.40/2.70 2.20 2.00
Pensions increase 3.30/3.40 n/a 2.00
mortality – post-retirement:
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2010 25.9 years 22.1 years 22.5 years
l ife expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2030 27.2 years 22.1 years 25.4 years
t he actual liability in respect of global employee benefits will not be known until the last payments have been made. in placing a current estimate  
on the Group’s past service benefit obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required. For defined benefit schemes, the d irectors 
make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life expectancy.  
in making these estimates and assumptions, the d irectors consider advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Defined contribution plans
t he Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. t he total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £7.0 million 
(2010: £6.0 million). t he Group expects to contribute £7.3 million to these arrangements in 2012.
Share-based payments
t he Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Under the l ong t erm 
incentive Plan (lti P) and t he morgan Crucible Bonus d eferral share matching Plan (Bdsm P) awards of shares are made to various key executives 
and under the executive share Option scheme 2004 (2004 esOs) and the executive share Option scheme 1995 (1995 esOs) share options  
are granted by the Company. t he Company also maintains an all-employee sharesave scheme available to employees in the UK and Germany.  
t he grant date fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity,  
over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. t he amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect  
the actual number of share options for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
t he fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models:
lti P 2004, Bdsm P , 2004 esOs monte Carlo model
1995 esOs Binominal l attice option pricing model
employee sharesave scheme 2004 and employee sharesave scheme 2004 (Germany) Black-scholes merton mode  122 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued
20. Employee benefits continued
t he terms and conditions of all awards and grants made that were outstanding on or after 4 January 2010:
Grant date/employees entitled
number of
instruments
 granted Vesting conditions
Contractual
life of option
a wards granted to senior employees in 201 1 under the Bdsm P 1,484,633 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 201 1 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 471,732 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 201 1 under the lti P 2004 1,500,775 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2010 under the Bdsm P 827,31 1 
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2010 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 484,069 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2010 under the lti P 2004 2,331,758 
t hree years of service plus
of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2009 under the Bdsm P 3,426,473
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2009 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 1,937,568 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2009 under the lti P 2004 5,085,721
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2008 under the Bdsm P 2,888,005
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2008 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 1,089,783 t hree years of service 3 years
Options granted to German employees in 2008 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 (Germany) 278,451 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2008 under the lti P 2004 2,691,123
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to UK employees in 2007 under the
employee sharesave scheme 2004 856,885 t hree years of service 3 years
a wards granted to senior employees in 2007 under the lti P 2004 1,540,000
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2005 under the esOs 2004 2,097,000
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 under the esOs 2004 3,157,500
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
Options granted to senior employees in 2004 under the esOs 1995 263,000
t hree years of service plus
satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years
t he following options were outstanding at 1 January 2012 in respect of Ordinary shares:
exercise price(s)
n umber of shares
 outstanding from to
employee sharesave scheme 2004 128.00p-213.00p 2,698,147 1 d ecember 201 1 31 may 2014
employee sharesave scheme 2004 (Germany) €1.64 41,592 1 d ecember 201 1 31 may 2012
2004 esOs 129.05p-171.90p 1,006,807 22 June 2007 23 may 2015
BdsmP 0.00p-300.50p 5,642,423 6 march 2012 23 march 2014
lti P 2004 0.00p 8,610,634 27 February 2012 23 march 2014
n ormal exercise dates ranging Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 123
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
Performance criteria for LTIP 2004, Directors’ Share Option Plan 2006 and 2004 ESOS
For awards under the lti P 2004 the extent to which 50% of the awards vested depended on the Company’s t otal shareholder Return (ts R) 
ranking against ts R of the other companies in the Ftse 350 measured over the performance period. t he extent to which the other 50% of these 
awards vested depended on the Company’s earnings per share (ePs) compared with the Retail Price index (RPi). t he full 50% vested if, over the 
three-year performance period, the Company’s ePs increased by at least the sum of the annual RPi increase and 10% per annum. if the Company’s 
ePs increased by the sum of the annual RPi increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards vesting would be 
interpolated between 15% and 50%. if the Company’s ePs increased by the sum of the annual RPi increase and 4% per annum then 15% of the 
awards would vest. if the Company’s ePs increased by less than the sum of the RPi increase and 4% per annum then 0% of the awards would vest.
in 2008 changes were made to the performance criteria attached to the lti P 2004 for awards made in 2008 and onwards. For all participants 
excluding executive d irectors the ts R performance criteria referred to above now only related to 33.3% of awards made. t he extent to which  
the other 66.7% of these awards vested now depended on the Company’s ePs compared with the RPi. t he full 66.7% would vest if, over the 
three-year performance period, the Company’s ePs increased by at least the sum of the annual RPi increase and 10% per annum. if the Company’s 
ePs increased by the sum of the annual RPi increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards vesting would be 
interpolated between 15% and 50%. if the Company’s ePs increased by the sum of the annual RPi increase and 4% per annum then 15% of the 
awards will vest. if the Company’s ePs increased by less than the sum of the RPi increase and 4% per annum then 0% of the awards would vest. 
For executive d irector participants the conditions remained unchanged from 2007.
in 2009 further changes were made to the performance criteria attached to the lti P 2004. For all participants the ts R performance criteria 
referred to above now relate to 100% of awards made.
in 2010 the performance criteria attached to the awards granted pursuant to the lti P 2004 reverted to a ts R/ePs split. t he ts R performance 
criteria relate to 50% of awards made. t he extent to which the other 50% of these awards vest will depend on the Company’s ePs compared  
with the RPi. t he full 50% will vest if, over the three-year performance period, the Company’s ePs increases by at least the sum of the annual  
RPi increase and 10% per annum. if the Company’s ePs increases by the sum of the annual RPi increase and between 4% and 10% per annum 
then the proportion of awards vesting will be interpolated between 15% and 50%. if the Company’s ePs increases by the sum of the annual  
RPi increase and 4% per annum then 15% of the awards will vest. if the Company’s ePs increases by less than the sum of the RPi increase and  
4% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest. in addition, the 2010 lti P awards were restructured to include an HmRC approved element  
as part of the overall lti P award.
in 201 1 the performance criteria attached to the awards granted pursuant to the lti P 2004 for the Chief executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer continued to be based on ePs growth and on relative ts R performance. t he ts R performance criteria relates to 50% of awards made. 
t he extent to which the other 50% of these awards vest will depend on the Company’s ePs. t he full 50% will vest if, over the three-year 
performance period, the Company’s ePs increases by at least 15% per annum. i f the Company’s ePs increases by between 8% and 15% per 
annum then the proportion of awards vesting will be interpolated between 15% and 50%. if the Company’s ePs increases by 8% per annum  
then 15% of the awards will vest. if the Company’s ePs increases by less than 8% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest. t o support the  
new two-d ivisional structure in 201 1 long-term incentive plans for senior d ivisional executives were tailored to the value creation of each d ivision. 
For the Chief executive Officer of morgan Ceramics 50% of the award is based on ts R and 50% on d ivisional performance. t here must be an 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of morgan Ceramics and the Company over the performance period. t he d ivisional portion 
of the lti P will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless morgan Ceramics d ivisional eBita growth is  
at least 12% per annum and return on capital employed (ROCe) is 35.7% in 2013; full vesting will occur for morgan Ceramics d ivisional eBita 
growth of 18% per annum and ROCe of 40.7%. For other morgan Ceramics executives 100% of awards are based on morgan Ceramics d ivisional 
performance, ROCe and d ivisional eBita . t here must be an improvement in the underlying financial performance of morgan Ceramics over the 
performance period. t he lti P will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting occurring unless morgan Ceramics d ivisional 
eBita growth is at least 12% per annum and ROC e is 35.7% in 2013; full vesting will occur for morgan Ceramics d ivisional eBita growth of  
18% per annum and ROCe of 40.7%. For the Chief executive Officer of morgan engineered materials 50% of the award is based on ts R and  
50% on d ivisional performance. t here must be an improvement in the underlying financial performance of morgan engineered materials and  
the Company over the performance period. t he d ivisional portion of the lti P will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no vesting 
occurring unless morgan engineered materials d ivisional eBita growth is at least 10% per annum and ROC e is 33.7% in 2013; full vesting will 
occur for eBita growth of 15% per annum and ROC e of 36.1%. For other morgan engineered materials executives 100% of awards are based  
on morgan engineered materials d ivisional performance, ROCe and d ivisional eBita . t here must be an improvement in the underlying financial 
performance of morgan engineered materials over the performance period. t he lti P will only vest if stretching performance is achieved, with no 
vesting occurring unless eBita growth in m organ engineered materials is at least 10% per annum and ROCe is 33.7% in 2013; full vesting will occur 
for eBita growth of 15% per annum and ROC e of 36.1%.
in addition, an improvement must be shown in the Group’s underlying financial performance.  124 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
Performance criteria for the BDSMP
Participants are able to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus into Company shares, subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee. 
Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award. matching shares may be earned at the end of  
three years in the event that a stretching ePs target has been met.
Under the 2008 grant the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares.  
if the Company’s ePs increases by RPi+4% pa there is a 0.25x match, by RPi+5% pa there is a 0.5x match, by RPi+ 7.5% pa there is a 1x match,  
by RPi+ 10% pa there is a 1.75x match and by RPi+ 15% pa or higher there is a 3x match. t here is straight-line vesting between these points.  
if the Company’s RPi increases by less than RPi+4% pa, 0% of the matching award will vest.
Under the 2009 grant the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares.  
if the Company’s ePs increases by 4% pa there is a 0.25x match, by 5% pa there is a 0.5x match, by 7.5% pa there is a 1x match, by 10% pa there 
is a 1.75x match and by 15% pa or higher there is a 3x match. t here is straight-line vesting between these points. if the Company’s ePs increases  
by less than 4% pa, 0% of the matching award will vest.
Under the 2010 grant the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus into Company shares.  
if the Company’s ePs increases by RPi+4% pa there is a 0.25x match, by RPi+5% pa there is a 0.5x match, by RPi+ 7.5% pa there is a 1x match,  
by RPi+ 10% pa there is a 1.75x match and RPi+ 15% pa or higher there is a 3x match. t here is straight-line vesting between these points. if the 
Company’s RPi increases by less than RPi+4% pa, 0% of the matching award will vest.
Under the 201 1 grant the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares.  
t he ePs target requires three-year ePs growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching; if the Company’s e Ps increases by 12% pa  
there is a 1x match, by 16% pa there is a 2x match and by 20% pa or higher there is a 3x match. t here is straight-line vesting between these points.  
if the Company’s ePs increases by less than 8% pa, 0% of the matching award will vest.
Performance criteria for the ESOS 1995
t he diluted earnings per share for the Company must grow by at least 2% per annum in excess of RPi over the period of date of grant to date  
of vesting.
t he fair values of services received are in return for awards made and share options granted. t he estimate of the fair value of the services received 
is measured based on an appropriate model. in the case of the Binomial l attice model and monte Carlo model the contractual life of the options 
and awards are used as an input. expectations of early exercise are incorporated into both of these models.
LTIP 2004 2011 awards
Fair value at measurement date 228.33p-278.14p
share price 300.50p
exercise price n/a
expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model) 45%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the model) 3 years
expected dividends 2.6%
Risk-free interest rate 1.8%
BDSMP 2011 awards
Fair value at measurement date 300.50p
share price 300.50p
exercise price n/a
expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model) n/a
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the model) 3 years
expected dividends n/a
Risk-free interest rate n/a
ESOS 2004
t here were no awards during 201 1.
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 125
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
20. Employee benefits continued
Employee Sharesave Schemes 2004 2011 awards
Fair value at measurement date 62.82p
share price 224.00p
exercise price 213.00p
expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model) 45%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the model) 3 years
expected dividends 2.5%
Risk-free interest rate 0.9%
Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 (Germany)
t here were no awards during 201 1.
ESOS 1995
t here were no awards during 201 1.
t he expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) adjusted for 
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
t he number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted
 average
exercise price
1 January
2012
Number
of options
1 January
2012
Weighted
 average
exercise price
2 January
2011
number
of options
2 January
2011
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 37.86p 20,795,850 45.53p 20,1 19,192 
Granted during the period 59.88p 3,457,140 40.41p 4,005,075 
Forfeited during the period 114.49p (364,934) 79.43p (716,976)
exercised during the period 172.06p (1,265,605) 165.26p (200,440)
l apsed during the period 0.82p (4,622,848) 83.13p (2,411,001)
Outstanding at the end of the period 40.61p 17,999,603 37.86p 20,795,850 
exercisable at the end of the period 154.42p 1,123,641 162.69p 1,373,554 
t he weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was 283.42 pence (2010: 233.20 pence).
t he options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range nil to 300.50 pence and a weighted average contractual life of 0.5 years.
t he fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
t he weighted average fair value of options issued in the period was 124.55 pence (2010: 145.92 pence).
t he iFRs 2 fair value charge expensed to the income statement was £5.9 million (2010: £3.0 million).  126 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued
21. Provisions
Closure and
 restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Environmental
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 2 January 201 1 7.7 5.9 6.8 20.4 
Provisions made during the year 4.8 5.2 0.5 10.5 
Provisions used during the year (6.5) (3.2) (0.8) (10.5)
Provisions reversed during the year (0.1) (0.8) (0.4) (1.3)
effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.1) – – (0.1)
Balance at 1 January 2012 5.8 7.1 6.1 19.0 
Current 3.1 6.0 2.9 12.0 
n on-current 2.7 1.1 3.2 7.0 
5.8 7.1 6.1 19.0 
Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Group’s restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the balance 
sheet date. t he amounts provided are based on the costs of terminating relevant contracts, under the contract terms, and management’s best 
estimate of other associated restructuring costs including professional fees, most of which are expected to be incurred over the next year.  
t he amounts provided also include the obligation for discounted future payments under a non-cancellable lease for the Company’s former 
headquarters, net of expected rental income under sub-leases. t he lease expires in 2016.
Other provisions include the settlement of european class actions, together with the associated legal costs. t he estimated costs are based on  
the Group’s assessment of the probable future costs of these activities. t he Group expects to incur most of the liability in more than one year.
environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years. in a number of jurisdictions 
companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems. t he estimated costs are based on management’s  
best estimate of the costs required to remedy these problems. t he Group expects to incur most of the liability over the next five years.
22. Trade and other payables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current
t rade payables 0.2 0.4 
n on-trade payables 10.3 13.2 
10.5 13.6 
Current
t rade payables 109.8 121.7 
n on-trade payables and accrued expenses 141.5 143.7 
251.3 265.4 
included in current non-trade payables and accrued expenses and non-current non-trade payables is £6.2 million (2010: £8.3 million) and  
£5.1 million (2010: £9.0 million) respectively of deferred contingent consideration on purchase of 51% of the Ordinary share capital of  
Clearpower l imited. For further details see note 3. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 127
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
23. Operating leases
Leases as lessee
n on-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
l ess than one year 6.6 8.0 
Between one and five years 20.4 19.7 
more than five years 34.9 29.2 
61.9 56.9 
t he Group leases a number of properties under operating leases of varying duration. in some cases, during the life of the lease, the rental payable  
is reviewed after a fixed period to reflect market rentals.
Leases as lessor
t he total of future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases is £2.8 million (2010: £3.4 million).
24. Capital commitments
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these accounts 
amount to £2.4 million (2010: £1.3 million) for the Group.
25. Contingencies
subsidiary undertakings within the Group have given unsecured guarantees of £9.5 million (2010: £1 1.0 million) in the ordinary course of business. 
in an international group of companies a variety of claims arise from time to time. Provision has been made in these accounts against those claims 
which the d irectors consider meet the requirements of ias 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely to result in 
significant liabilities.
t he Group has been subject to legal claims in the Usa , Canada and europe. settlements for the majority of these have been agreed. t here remain 
provisions in respect of these claims of £1.4 million (2010: £1.4 million). in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts 
are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases. t he Board, 
having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position.  128 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O tH e COns Olidated Finan Cial statements
continued
26. Related parties
Identification of related parties
t he Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (a list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 42), with its associates  
(see note 12) and with its d irectors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
t he Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its d irectors, under which the d irectors receive a salary or  
a fee and other emoluments.
t he key management of the Group and parent Company consists of the Board of d irectors (including non-executive d irectors) and members  
of the executive Committee.
t heir compensation charged in the year was:
2011
£m
2010
£m
short-term employee benefits 3.2 3.4 
employer n ational insurance Contributions 0.5 0.4 
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.3 0.4 
share-based payments 1.0 0.7 
t ermination payments 0.2 0.4 
n on-executive d irectors’ fees and benefits 0.3 0.3 
t otal compensation of key management personnel 5.5 5.6 
information on executive d irectors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 76.
Other related party transactions
2011
£m
2010
£m
sales to associate 28.3 54.5 
t he balances with the Group’s associate are shown in note 15.
27. Subsequent events
t here have been no material events since the year end. Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 129
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
as at 1 January 2012
n ote
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fixed assets
t angible assets 31 3.1 1.2 
investment in subsidiary undertakings 32 692.5 740.2 
695.6 741.4 
Current assets
d ebtors – due within one year 33 36.7 30.4 
Cash at bank and in hand 24.6 27.5 
61.3 57.9 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 34 82.1 128.9 
Net current liabilities (20.8) (71.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 674.8 670.4 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
a mounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 111.5 108.4 
Other creditors, including deferred consideration 34 5.1 9.0 
Borrowings 35 49.3 67.7 
165.9 185.1 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 36 3.8 3.6 
169.7 188.7 
Net assets 505.1 481.7 
Capital and reserves
equity shareholders' funds
 Called-up share capital 17 68.3 68.1 
 share premium account 37 90.6 88.3 
 merger reserve 37 17.0 17.0 
 Capital redemption reserve 37 35.7 35.7 
 Profit and loss account 37 293.1 272.2 
504.7 481.3 
n on-equity shareholders’ funds
 Called-up share capital 0.4 0.4 
Shareholders' funds 505.1 481.7 
t he financial statements were approved by the Board of d irectors on 15 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Robertshaw, Chief executive Officer
Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer  130 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
28. Accounting policies
t he following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the  
financial statements.
Basis of preparation
t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under section 408(4) of the Companies a ct 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRs 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the  
cash flows of the Company are included within the published consolidated financial statement.
t he Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRs 8 Related Parties and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances 
with wholly owned subsidiaries.
Fixed assets and depreciation
d epreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated 
useful economic lives as follows:
Plant, equipment and fixtures – 3-20 years 
Investments
investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less amounts written off unless they are designated as a 
hedged item in a fair value hedge of foreign currency risk under FRs 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. in this case they are 
accounted for at historical cost plus a hedging adjustment recognised in profit or loss for the changes in their fair value attributable to the foreign 
currency exposure from the date the hedge is designated.
Interest-bearing borrowings
immediately after issue debt is stated at the fair value of the consideration received on the issue of the capital instrument after deduction of issue 
costs. t he finance cost of the debt is allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Foreign currency
t ransactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of 
exchange under the related forward contract. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted 
rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Post-retirement benefits
t he Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on career-average pensionable pay. t he assets of the scheme 
are held separately from those of the Company. t he Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme  
on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRs 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined 
contribution scheme. a s a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect 
of the accounting period. Refer to note 39 for the additional disclosures required by FRs 17.
Taxation
t he charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
d eferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRs 19 Deferred Tax.
n Otes t O t He COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 131
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
28. Accounting policies continued
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRs 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated  
as equity (ie forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a)   they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation  
to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a  
fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
t o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes the 
legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium account 
exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments associated with 
financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds (see dividend policy) are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of 
movements in shareholders’ funds.
Hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for separately in the balance sheet. in fair value hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring 
the hedging instrument at fair value (for a derivative instrument) or the foreign currency component (for a non-derivative financial liability in a foreign 
currency hedge) are included in profit for the year when they arise. in cash flow hedges, gains and losses from remeasuring the hedging derivative 
instrument at fair value are initially recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent effective, and are later reclassified to profit or loss when 
the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Certain financial assets and liabilities have been designated as fair value through profit or loss and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Own shares held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust
t ransactions of the Group-sponsored morgan General employee Benefit t rust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected 
in the Company’s financial statements. in particular, the t rust’s purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited to equity.
Share-based payments
t he share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. t he fair value of options granted after 7 n ovember 2002 and 
those not yet vested as at 4 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. t he fair value is measured 
at grant date and spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the options. t he fair value of the options 
granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. t he amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. For details of share-based payments made and the assumptions used in measuring the fair value see note 20.
share-based payments recharged to subsidiary undertakings are recorded via the inter-company loan account.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
d ividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are 
no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the n otes to the financial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.  132 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
29. Staff numbers and costs
t he average number of persons employed by the Company (including d irectors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
n umber of employees
2011 2010
d irectors and head office staff 28 26
d ivisional staff 15 16
43 42
t he majority of the d irectors and head office staff devote a proportion of their time to d ivisional duties. Of the 28 d irectors and head office staff, 
the average number who spent all or a proportion of their time on corporate duties was ten (2010: nine) as shown in note 5.
t he aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 8.3 8.9 
equity-settled share-based payments (see note 20) 5.6 3.0 
social security costs 0.9 0.9 
Other pension costs 0.7 0.4 
15.5 13.2
30. Dividends
d ividends payable for the First and second Preference shares were £22,491 (2010: £22,491) of which £1 1,245 (2010: £1 1,245) was outstanding at 
the balance sheet date.
t he 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each confer on the holders 
thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 d ecember 
respectively in every year. 
For proposed Ordinary dividends see the consolidated income statement on page 78.
31. Tangible assets
Plant, equipment
and fixtures
£m
Cost
a t 3 January 201 1 4.4
a dditions 3.0
d isposals (2.7)
At 1 January 2012 4.7
Accumulated depreciation
a t 3 January 201 1 3.2
a mount provided for in the year 1.1
d isposals (2.7)
At 1 January 2012 1.6
Net book amounts at 1 January 2012 3.1
n et book amounts at 2 January 201 1 1.2
n Otes t O t He COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 133
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
32. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
shares
£m
loans
£m
total
£m
Cost
a t 3 January 201 1 646.0 146.8 792.8 
a dditions 2.6 11.7 14.3 
Fair value hedge of investments' exposure to foreign currency risk (0.6) – (0.6)
l ess: disposals/loan repayments/liquidations (30.6) (29.3) (59.9)
At 1 January 2012 617.4 129.2 746.6 
Amounts provided
a t 3 January 201 1 48.9 3.7 52.6 
Provided in the year 1.5 – 1.5 
At 1 January 2012 50.4 3.7 54.1 
Net book amounts at 1 January 2012 567.0 125.5 692.5 
n et book amounts at 2 January 201 1 597.1 143.1 740.2 
a list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 42.
33. Debtors
2011
£m
2010
£m
Due within one year:
Other debtors 3.1 2.9 
d erivative financial assets 2.3 0.1 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.3 0.4 
a mounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings 31.0 27.0 
36.7 30.4 
34. Creditors
2011
£m
2010
£m
Due within one year:
Bank overdrafts 51.9 83.9 
t rade creditors 1.9 1.8 
a mounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 8.0 18.2 
Other creditors, including deferred consideration 9.9 10.2 
a ccruals and deferred income 8.1 9.6 
d erivative financial liabilities 2.3 5.2 
82.1 128.9 
Due after one year:
Other creditors, including deferred consideration 5.1 9.0 
5.1 9.0  134 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O t He COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued
35. Borrowings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank and other loans 49.3 67.7 
Bank overdrafts 51.9 83.9 
101.2 151.6 
l ess: amount repayable within one year included within current liabilities (51.9) (83.9)
t otal repayable after more than one year 49.3 67.7 
36. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Closure and
restructuring
 provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Total
£m
a t 3 January 201 1 1.8 1.8 3.6 
Provided in the year 0.9 – 0.9 
Utilised in the year (0.3) (0.4) (0.7)
At 1 January 2012 2.4 1.4 3.8 
Closure and restructuring provisions relate mainly to an onerous lease provision for morgan House, the Company’s previous registered address.
Other provisions include the settlement of european class actions, together with the associated legal costs.
37. Share premium and reserves
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
 redemption
reserve
£m
Profit and loss
account
£m
a t 3 January 201 1 88.3 17.0 35.7 272.2 
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based payments for the year – – – 6.6 
d ividends 2.3 – – (20.9)
Own shares acquired for share incentive schemes – – – (3.2)
Retained profit for the year – – – 38.4 
At 1 January 2012 90.6 17.0 35.7 293.1 
Capita t rustees l imited administer a t rust in which shares are held to satisfy awards granted under the Company’s share plans. t he shares are 
distributed via discretionary settlement governed by the rules of the t rust deed dated 1 march 1996 (as amended).
t he total number of own shares held by the t rust at 1 January 2012 is 2,044,458 (2010: 1,007,003) and at that date had a market value of  
£5.4 million (2010: £2.5 million).
t he amount of reserves of t he morgan Crucible Company plc that may not be distributed under section 831(4) of the Companies a ct 2006 is 
£145.1 million (2010: £142.7 million).
38. Leasing commitments
Operating lease commitments falling due during the next year, for which no provision has been made in these accounts, are:
l and and buildings
2011
£m
2010
£m
l ess than one year – –
Between one and five years 0.2 0.4 
more than five years – 0.3 
0.2 0.7  Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 135
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
39. Pension costs
The Morgan Pension Scheme and The Morgan Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
t he Company participates in two defined benefit schemes in the UK. t he assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds, 
t he morgan Pension scheme (mPs) and t he morgan Group senior staff Pension and l ife a ssurance scheme (sss ). Given that the Company is unable 
to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRs 17 Retirement Benefits, the schemes 
have been accounted for in these financial statements as if they were defined contribution schemes.
t he latest actuarial valuations of the mPs and the sss were carried out as at 6 a pril 2009 and 1 a pril 2009 respectively, and updated for FRs 17 
purposes to 1 January 2012 by a qualified independent actuary. t he results for these schemes in respect of the Group are shown below:
2011
%
2010
%
Assumptions:
 inflation (RPi & CPi) 3.00/1.80 3.40/2.70
 d iscount rate 4.90 5.50
 Pension increases in payment 2.90/3.20 3.30/3.40
 General salary increases n/a n/a
t he assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
2011
Expected
 return
%
2011
£m
2010
expected
return
%
2010
£m
Asset distribution and balance sheet reconciliation:
 equities 7.5 125.9 7.8 131.7 
 Bonds 4.6 27.0 5.2 17.7 
 Property 5.0 – 6.2 – 
 Other 4.9 177.8 5.5 171.2 
t otal market value of assets 330.7 320.6 
Present value of liability (378.1) (347.2)
d eficit in the scheme (47.4) (26.6)
employer contributions due within one year (0.2) (0.2)
Other assets include an insurance policy as described in note 20.
t he contribution for the year was £6.9 million (2010: £6.3 million).
40. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. in this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
t here are no other contingent liabilities in the Company as at 1 January 2012.
t he Group has been subject to legal claims in the Usa , Canada and europe. settlements for the majority of these have been agreed. t here remain 
provisions in respect of these claims of £1.4 million (2010: £1.4 million). in some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts 
are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such cases. t he Board, 
having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial position.  136 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
41. Related parties
t he Company’s transactions with non-wholly owned subsidiaries are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
a mounts invoiced to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 1.4 0.5
a mounts receivable from non-wholly owned subsidiaries 0.8 0.7
a mounts payable to non-wholly owned subsidiaries 6.6 7.0
t he d irectors have reviewed transactions with related parties (as defined in FRs 8 Related Party Disclosures) and have concluded that there are  
no other material transactions which require disclosure which have not been acknowledged elsewhere in the a nnual Report and a ccounts.
42. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Business
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of business
Morgan Ceramics companies
* Carbo san l uis s.a . t hermal Ceramics a rgentina
* morgan t echnical Ceramics a ustralia Pty. l td. t echnical Ceramics a ustralia
d alian morgan Refractories l imited t hermal Ceramics China
morgan Kailong (Jingmen) t hermal Ceramics Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
morgan t hermal Ceramics international t rading (shanghai) Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
morgan t hermal Ceramics shanghai l td. t hermal Ceramics China
* Yixing Haldenwanger Fine Ceramic Co. l td. t echnical Ceramics China
Yixing morgan t hermal Ceramics Co. l td. t hermal Ceramics China
Certech international l imited t echnical Ceramics england
morgan t echnical Ceramics l imited t echnical Ceramics england
morgan electro Ceramics l imited t echnical Ceramics england
t hermal Ceramics UK l imited t hermal Ceramics england
* t hermal Ceramics de France s.a .s. t hermal Ceramics France
* t hermal Ceramics d eutschland GmbH & Co. K.G. t hermal Ceramics Germany
* W. Haldenwanger t echnische Keramik GmbH & Co. K.G. t echnical Ceramics Germany
Wesgo Ceramics GmbH t echnical Ceramics Germany
* Ciria india l td. t hermal Ceramics india
murugappa morgan t hermal Ceramics l imited t hermal Ceramics india
* t hermal Ceramics italiana s.r.l. t hermal Ceramics italy
shin-n ippon t hermal Ceramics Corporation t hermal Ceramics Japan
* morgan t echnical Ceramics s.a . de C.V. t echnical Ceramics mexico
* t hermal Ceramics Benelux B.V. t hermal Ceramics n etherlands
* l imited l iability Company morgan t hermal Ceramics sukhoy l og t hermal Ceramics Russia
t hermal Ceramics a sia Pte. l td. t hermal Ceramics singapore
* t hermal Ceramics south a frica Pty. l imited t hermal Ceramics south a frica
* t hermal Ceramics espana s.l . t hermal Ceramics spain
* Certech inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* morgan a dvanced Ceramics inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* morgan t echnical Ceramics a uburn inc. t echnical Ceramics Usa
* t hermal Ceramics inc. t hermal Ceramics Usa
n Otes t O t He COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 137
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
42. Principal subsidiary undertakings continued
Business
Country of incorporation and 
principal place of business
Morgan Engineered Materials companies 
* morgan molten metal systems (suzhou) Co. l td. molten metal systems China
morgan am &t ( shanghai) Co., l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology China
shanghai morgan a dvanced material & t echnology Co. l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology China
shanghai morganite electrical Carbon Co. l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology China
morganite electrical Carbon l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology england
* n P a erospace l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology england
* morgan molten metal systems GmbH molten metal systems Germany
* morgan Rekofa GmbH a dvanced materials & t echnology Germany
* morgan materials Hungary Kft. a dvanced materials & t echnology Hungary
* a ssam Carbon Products l td. a dvanced materials & t echnology india
* morganite Crucible (india) l imited molten metal systems india
* morgan Carbon italia s.r.l. a dvanced materials & t echnology italy
* morganite Carbon Kabushiki Kaisha a dvanced materials & t echnology Japan
* morganite l uxembourg s.a . a dvanced materials & t echnology l uxembourg
* n ational electrical Carbon B.V. a dvanced materials & t echnology n etherlands
* morganite south a frica Pty. l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology south a frica
* morganite t aiwan l imited a dvanced materials & t echnology t aiwan
* morgan Karbon Grafit s anayi a .s. a dvanced materials & t echnology t urkey
* morgan a dvanced materials and t echnology inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* n ational electrical Carbon Products inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* Graphite d ie mold inc. a dvanced materials & t echnology Usa
* morganite Crucible inc. molten metal systems Usa
Other subsidiary undertakings
* morganite a ustralia Pty l imited Group a ustralia
* morganite Brasil l imitada Group Brazil
* morganite Canada Corporation Group Canada
Grupo industrial morgan s.a . de C.V. Group mexico
morgan Korea Company l imited Group south Korea
morganite industries inc. Group Usa
*d enotes companies some or all of whose shares are owned by a subsidiary.
in 201 1 and 2010 the following German subsidiaries, which are included in the Group consolidated accounts, utilised article 264b of the German 
Commercial Code to be liberated from preparing and disclosing audited statutory accounts:
 > W Haldenwanger t echnische Keramik GmbH & Co K.G.
 > t echnische Keramik & Co K.G.
 > t hermal Ceramics d eutschland GmbH & Co K.G.  138 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
n Otes t O t He COmPan Y Balan Ce sHeet
continued
43. Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 1 January 2012
2011
£m
2010
£m
Retained profit for the financial year 38.4 37.9 
d ividends (18.4) (15.5)
issue of shares – 0.2 
Own shares acquired for share incentive schemes (3.2) – 
Charges and transfers in relation to share-based payments for the year 6.6 3.3 
Net increase in shareholders' funds 23.4 25.9 
Opening shareholders' funds 481.7 455.8 
Closing shareholders' funds 505.1 481.7  Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 139
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 693.2 835.0 942.6 1,017.1 1,101.0 
Profit from operations before restructuring costs,  
other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 88.1 108.8 89.0 109.5 143.4 
Restructuring costs and other one-off items:
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of prior period 
anti-trust litigation (9.0) (11.4) (14.0) (8.5) (5.6)
(l oss)/profit on disposal of properties (0.2) 0.8 2.0 0.6 2.4 
n et pension credit – – – – 1.3 
Profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets 78.9 98.2 77.0 101.6 141.5 
a mortisation of intangible assets (1.6) (3.2) (16.3) (8.0) (8.3)
Operating profit 77.3 95.0 60.7 93.6 133.2 
n et financing costs (5.5) (12.7) (29.3) (25.9) (21.8)
l oss on disposal of businesses (0.3) (0.7) – – – 
share of profit of associate (net of income tax) 0.2 1.2 – – – 
Profit before taxation 71.7 82.8 31.4 67.7 111.4 
income tax expense (15.2) (20.1) (8.7) (19.7) (32.6)
Profit for the period 56.5 62.7 22.7 48.0 78.8 
Assets employed
Property, plant and equipment 246.6 319.6 276.2 269.2 259.8 
intangible assets 69.8 177.0 296.9 285.0 283.3 
investments and other receivables 49.5 50.6 9.3 9.1 10.3 
d eferred tax assets 25.8 36.6 37.2 38.5 41.1 
n et current assets 74.4 189.9 136.5 131.0 160.1 
Total assets less current liabilities 466.1 773.7 756.1 732.8 754.6 
employee benefits 47.7 101.8 105.9 103.9 135.1 
Provisions and other items 202.9 423.1 388.1 331.6 304.8 
d eferred tax liabilities 19.2 40.8 47.5 45.2 44.5 
196.3 208.0 214.6 252.1 270.2
Equity
t otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Company 176.2 177.8 184.6 215.0 229.4 
n on-controlling interests 20.1 30.2 30.0 37.1 40.8 
t otal equity 196.3 208.0 214.6 252.1 270.2 
Ordinary dividends per share (paid) 6.75p 7.0p 4.5p 7.0p 7.7p 
Earnings per share
Basic 19.1p 22.2p 7.1p 15.8p 26.9p
d iluted 18.5p 21.6p 6.8p 15.0p 25.7p
Basic before amortisation of intangible assets 19.7p 23.4p 13.2p 18.7p 29.9p
d iluted before amortisation of intangible assets 19.1p 22.8p 12.6p 17.8p 28.6p
GROUP statisti Cal in FORmati On
Under adopted iFRss  140 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
sHa ReHOlde R in FORmati On
Analysis of shareholdings as at 1 January 2012
number of 
holdings
% of
total holdings 
number of 
shares 
% of 
share capital 
size of holding 1 – 2,000 6,075 75.0927 3,251,940 1.1906
2,001 – 5,000 1,1 17 13.8072 3,543,580 1.2974
5,001 – 10,000 338 4.1780 2,394,280 0.8766
10,001 – 50,000 297 3.6712 6,353,764 2.3262 
50,001 – 100,000 75 0.9271 5,543,561 2.0296
100,001 and above 188 2.3239 252,052,666 92.2797 
8,090 100.00 273,139,791 100.00 
Holding classification individuals 7,070 87.39 15,407,605 5.64 
n ominee companies 913 11.29 251,582,425 92.11 
t rusts (pension funds etc) 9 0.11 104,734 0.04 
Others 98 1.21 6,045,027 2.21 
8,090 100.00 273,139,791 100.00
Key dates
d ividends subject to members’ approval at the a nnual General meeting and to any scrip alternative,  
a final cash dividend of 6 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence shall be paid in respect  
of the financial year ended 1 January 2012.
6 July 2012
t he dividend shall be paid on 6 July 2012 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register  
of members at the close of business on 25 may 2012.
Preference dividends subject to the relevant detailed terms and approvals of the Board of d irectors where applicable
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each and 30 march 2012 and
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each 1 October 2012
a nnual General meeting t he 2012 a nnual General meeting will take place on 8 may 2012
Financial results t he half year results are announced in July with the Report and a ccounts for the year  
normally posted in march
Other information 
Capital gains tax t he market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 march 1982 were: 
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence 
5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of £1 each 30.5 pence 
5.0% Cumulative second Preference shares of £1 each 28.5 pence 
For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of Ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of rights 
issues. a ny capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account of indexation 
allowances. since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are 
recommended to consult their professional advisers.
share price t he price can be obtained on the Company’s website: www.morgancrucible.com 
Company details 
Registered office Quadrant, 55-57 High street, Windsor, Berkshire sl 4 1l P Registered in england n o. 286773
t elephone: 01753 837000   Fax: 01753 850872
Website: www.morgancrucible.com 
Company registrars Capita Registrars, t he Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4t U
t elephone (in UK): 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 
monday-Friday, 8.30am-5.30pm)
t elephone (from overseas): +44 (0) 20 8639 3399
email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
share portal t he Capita share portal (www.capitashareportal.com) is an online service enabling you to quickly 
and easily access and maintain your shareholding online, reducing the need for paperwork and 
providing 24-hour access for your convenience. t hrough the share portal you may, for example, 
view your holding balance, view the dividend payments you have received and register and  
change bank mandate instructions so that dividends can be paid directly to your bank account.
Scrip Dividend Scheme t he Company’s scrip d ividend scheme enables shareholders to receive new, fully paid,  
Ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends whenever a scrip alternative is offered. 
scrip elections can be made or revoked either online at www.capitashareportal.com or by 
contacting the Company’s registrars to request a paper copy of the mandate form and the  
scrip d ividend scheme terms and conditions. Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Overview
01  Operational and financial 
highlights
02 Morgan Crucible at a glance
04  Chief Executive Officer’s 
strategic review 
06 Market sector reviews
20 Chairman’s statement
Business review
22  Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
24 Group business review
25 Key performance indicators 
26 Review of operations 
34 Corporate responsibility
44 Financial review
48 Risk management 
50  Key resources and  
contractual relationships
51 Cautionary statement
Governance
52  Board of Directors and  
Executive Committee
54  Directors’ report
58  Corporate governance
65  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
66 Remuneration report
77 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
78  C o n s ol i d a t ed i n c o m e 
statement
79  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of comprehensive income
80 Consolidated balance sheet
81  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of changes in equity
82  C o n s ol i d a t ed s t a t em en t  
of cash flows
83 Notes to the consolidated 
 financial statements
129 Company balance sheet
130  Notes to the Company  
balance sheet
139 Group statistical information
140 Shareholder information
This Report has been printed in the UK. Our printers are environmental management 
system ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of 
custody-certified. All inks used are vegetable-based. This paper is environmentally  
friendly ECF (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-free with a high content of selected 
pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully FSC-certified. The paper is also 
completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on  
to other interested readers, return it to Morgan Crucible or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.morgancrucible.com
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
MORGAN CRUCIBLE  
IS A WORLD-LEADER  
IN ADVANCED MATERIALS
We produce a wide range of specialist,  
high-specification materials that have  
extraordinary attributes and properties.
Engineered into products, they deliver  
enhanced performance, often under  
extreme conditions.
Our dynamic, highly skilled people  
are continuously engaged in finding  
solutions for complex and technologically  
demanding applications, which are  
used all over the world.
In short, we supply innovative,  
differentiated products made from highly  
technical advanced materials which enable  
our customers’ products and processes  
to perform more efficiently, more reliably  
and for longer.
 T r ans por t a t i on
page 08
 P etrochemical
page 14
 Healthcare
page 18
Security & Defence
page 10
Energy
page 16
 Electronics
page 12
 Industrial
page 06 Morgan Crucible
Annual Report 201 1
ADVANCED MATERIALS
RECORD RESULTS
CONTINUING AMBITION
The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 201 1
The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP
Tel: +44 (0)1753 837000 
Fax: +44 (0)1753 850872
www.morgancrucible.com
