 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
>
A personal 
to travel…
invitation
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC
       Investing in businesses 
with opportunities 
for growth
1 Who We Are and Operational Highlights
2 Principal Brands & Services
3 Financial Highlights
4 Operations by Geography
6 How We Operate
7 Highlights of the Year
8 Chairman’s Statement
10 Chief Executive’s Report
13 COACHES
14 BUSES
15 TRAINS
16 NORTH AMERICA
17 ALSA
18 Financial Review
22 Corporate Responsibility
24 Board of Directors and Company Secretary
26 Directors’ Report
28 Corporate Governance
33 Report on Directors’ Remuneration
40 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders 
of National Express Group PLC
41 Group Income Statement
42 Group Balance Sheet
43 Group Statement of Cash Flows
44 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
45 Notes to the Accounts
110 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders 
of the Company, National Express Group PLC
111 Company Balance Sheet
112 Notes to the Accounts
123 Five Year Summary
124 Shareholder Information
125 Dividends and Financial Calendar
Corporate Information
              Who W e Are…
National Express Group is a leading public transport provider 
delivering quality public transport services to the general
public in the UK, North America and Spain.
We are an international group but believe in local businesses
operated at a local level. This means our local management
teams understand and meet the needs of their customers
and communities.
Operational Highlights…
• Alsa, Spain’s largest private coach and bus operator, acquired in December
and integration progressing well
• Disposal of North American Public Transit division enabling strategic
focus on school bus operations
• Record bid season in United States and completion of key
strategic acquisition in Canada 
• 2% passenger growth in UK Coaches despite effects of
terrorist attacks
• Strong operational performance in Trains division
above Government targets, with focus for 2006
on incumbent franchises
• Continued growth in London bus market
• Substantial ongoing investment in fleet and
customer facilities 2
Principal Brands & Services…
UK
COACHES
National Express A network of scheduled
coach services to over 1,000 destinations
within the UK www.nationalexpress.com
Airlinks Provides contract bus/coach
services for airlines and the wider airport
community at London airports
www.airlinks.co.uk
Eurolines Scheduled coach services from
the UK to 500 European destinations
www.eurolines.co.uk
BUSES
T ravel West Midlands The leading bus
operator in the West Midlands covering over
500 routes www.travelwm.co.uk
Travel Coventry Provides 80 bus routes in
and around Coventry
www.travelcoventry.co.uk
Travel Dundee Operates a comprehensive
network of bus services in Dundee
www.traveldundee.co.uk
T ravel London The Group’s London and
Surrey bus operations
www.travellondonbus.co.uk
The Metro Provides a light-rail link between
Wolverhampton and Birmingham City
Centre www.midlandmetro.co.uk
TRAINS
National Express Group operates the
following train franchises in the UK:
c2c Links South Essex towns with 
London Fenchurch Street Station 
www.c2c-online.co.uk
Central T rains Provides high-frequency local
train services in the East and West Midlands
and long-distance services between the
Midlands, East Anglia, North West and the
East Coast www.centraltrains.co.uk
Gatwick Express Provides services between
Central London and Gatwick Airport
www.gatwickexpress.com
Midland Mainline Operates inter-city
services between Y orkshire, the East
Midlands and London
www.midlandmainline.com
‘one’ Provides a comprehensive rail network
of services in East Anglia including commuter
services to London and the region’s cities,
inter-city, cross country, rural lines and
Stansted Express services
www.onerailway.com
Silverlink Silverlink County operates
between London and Northampton.
Silverlink Metro operates through North,
East and West London 
www.silverlink-trains.com
Wagn Operates the Great Northern
services from Kings Cross and Moorgate to
Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Norfolk
www.wagn.co.uk
Wessex Trains Operates local and long-
distance rail services throughout Cornwall,
Devon, Somerset, Dorset,Wiltshire,
Hampshire, Gloucestershire and into South
Wales www.wessextrains.co.uk
North America
Durham School Services Provides student
transportation throughout 
the United States of America
www.durhamschoolservices.com
Stock T ransportation Provides student
transportation in two provinces of Canada
www.stocktransportation.com
Stewart International Airport Located in
New Windsor, New Y ork 
www.stewartintlairport.com
Spain
Alsa Operates coach and bus services
throughout Spain with operations also in
Portugal and Morocco www.alsa.es 3
• Revenue of £2.2 billion (2004
*
: £2.4 billion)
• Group operating profit up 9.6% to £109.5 million (2004*: £99.9 million)
• Normalised
**
operating profit up 8.5% to £155.5 million (2004*: £143.3 million)
• Normalised
**
Group operating margin increased to 7% (2004*: 6.1%)
• Profit before tax up 14.6% to £89.3 million (2004*: £77.9 million)
• Normalised
**
profit before tax up 10.7% to £135.3 million (2004*: £122.2 million)
• Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations up 11.5% to 44.5 pence (2004*: 39.9 pence)
• Normalised
**
diluted earnings per share up from continuing operations 10.1% to 76.3 pence
(2004*: 69.3 pence)
• Final dividend increased by 7.7% to 22.25 pence per share (2004: 20.65 pence per share), making 
a total dividend for the year of 32.25 pence per share up 7.5% (2004: 30.0 pence per share)
• £29.3 million of shares were purchased by the company in 2005 and share buy-back 
programme set to recommence
• Net debt of £563.4 million (2004: £136.6 million)
Financial Highlights…
Revenue from continuing operations (£m)
2001
02
03
04*
05
2,057.6
2,166.2
2,328.9
2,354.5
2,216.0
Normalised operating profit from continuing operations** (£m)
2001
02
03
04*
05
132.7
120.9
120.6
143.3
155.5
Normalised diluted earnings per share (p)**
2001
02
03
04*
05
55.2
52.3
50.1
69.3
76.3
Full year dividend per share (p)
2001
02
03
04
05
22.0
24.5
26.0
30.0
32.25
Cash flow from operations (£m)
2001
02
03
04
05
185.5
175.5
182.8
254.1
181.1
Total number of employees at 31 December from continuing operations
2001
02
03
04
05
33,166
34,277
33,966
33,514
40,117
2005 was a strong year for the group
* as restated for the transition to IFRS 
** Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible
amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
The financial highlights above refer to the results of continuing businesses in compliance with IFRS. 4 4
DUNDEE
WEST MIDLANDS
LONDON
Birmingham
Coventry
Dudley
Sandwell
Solihull
Walsall
Wolverhampton
Walworth 
Hayes
Byfleet (Surrey)
Battersea
Twickenham
Beddington
West Midland Depots
Yardley 
Wood
Lea Hall
Bordesley
Perry 
Barr
Pensnett
Birmingham
Central
West 
Bromwich
Acocks 
Green
Walsall
Wolver-
hampton
Coventry
London Depots
Battersea
Beddington  
Walworth
Twickenham
Byfleet 
(Surrey)
Hayes
Connections
to Europe via
Eurolines
Connections
to Ireland via
Eurolines
Connections
to Ireland via
Eurolines
NX Coaches
NX Airports
Eurolines
High-frequency urban bus services operating in the West
Midlands, London and Dundee. We also operate Midland
Metro, the light-rail service in Birmingham.
> TRAVEL WEST MIDLANDS
> TRAVEL COVENTRY 
> TRAVEL DUNDEE
> TRAVEL LONDON
> THE METRO
Revenue
(£m)
200
100
0
03 04*
300
239.8
211.9
05
268.6
Normalised
operating profit**
(£m)
20
10
0
40
30
03 04*
50
41.6
05
41.5
47.5
0
2
03 04
8
6
6,263
5,539
Total number
of employees
(’000)
05
7,089
4
A national integrated network of scheduled and contracted
coach services in three business segments – National Express,
Airlinks and Eurolines.
> NATIONAL EXPRESS
> AIRLINKS
> EUROLINES
Revenue
(£m)
150
100
50
0
200
03 04*
250
195.6
183.7
05
200.5
Normalised 
operating profit**
(£m)
30
20
10
0
40
03 04*
50
19.3
15.5
05
21.5
Total number
of employees
(’000)
2
1
0
03 04
3
1,867
1,943
05
1,803
* as restated for the transition to IFRS 
** Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible
amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
Operations by Geography…
Buses Coaches 5 5
Clapham Junction
VICTORIA
Waterloo
Charing Cross
London Bridge
Blackfriars Cannon St
LIVERPOOL ST
KINGS CROSS
ST PANCRAS
EUSTON
Marylebone
Paddington
FENCHURCH ST
LEEDS
Cleethorpes
Grimsby
Lincoln
Grantham
Woodhouse
Mansfield
Wakefield
Doncaster
MANCHESTER
LIVERPOOL
Warrington
Crewe
Shrewsbury
Stafford
STOKE-ON-TRENT
Matlock
DERBY
SHEFFIELD
NOTTINGHAM
Loughborough
LEICESTER Peterborough
Skegness
Kings Lynn
Telford
Kidderminster
BIRMINGHAM
Lichfield
Nuneaton
COVENTRY
Leamington
Stratford-upon-Avon
Worcester
Hereford
Gloucester Cheltenham
Newport
Rugby
Northampton
Kettering
Luton
St. Albans
Watford
Milton Keynes
Ely
Norwich
Great
Yarmouth
Lowestoft
Cambridge
Stansted
Airport
North Woolwich
Gatwick Airport
Ipswich
Felixstowe
Harwich
Colchester
Chelmsford
Southend
Harlow
Burton
on Trent
Richmond
Stockport
Walsall
Barnsley
CARDIFF
Barking
Bedford
Brighton
Worthing
Portsmouth
Southampton
Salisbury
Swindon
Bristol
Bath
Weymouth
Taunton
Torquay
Paignton
Plymouth
Truro
Penzance
St. Ives
Falmouth
Newquay
Looe
Gunislake
Westbury
Avonmouth
Exmouth
Weston-super-Mare
Yeovil
Exeter
Barnstaple
c2c
Central Trains
Gatwick Express
Midland Mainline
‘one’
Stansted Express
Silverlink
Wagn
Wessex Trains
A range of inter-city, commuter and rural passenger train services.
> C2C
> CENTRAL TRAINS
> GATWICK EXPRESS
> MIDLAND MAINLINE
> ‘ONE’
> SILVERLINK
> WAGN
> WESSEX TRAINS
Revenue
(£m)
1,200
600
0
03 04*
1,800 1,712.1
1,702.2
05
1,497.2
1,500
900
300
Normalised
operating profit**
(£m)
30
10
0
60
40
03 04*
70
61.3
05
64.2
33.2
50
20
Total number 
of employees 
(’000)
10,500
3,500
0
03 04
14,000
11,536
12,854
05
11,565
7,000
WA
OR
CA
AZ NM
TX
OK
MS
KS
CO
NE IA
MO
IL
WI
NY
PA
NS
ON
STOCK LOCATIONS
 Etobicoke, ON
 Gormley, ON
 Kingston, ON
 Kitchener, ON
 London, ON
 Metcalfe, ON
 Oakville, ON
 Gloucester, ON
 Richmond Hill, ON
 Scarborough, ON
 Sunderland, ON
Northeast Region
Midwest Region
Central Region
Northwest Region
North Texas Region
Southwest Region
Pacific S/W Region
DURHAM SCHOOL 
SERVICES REGIONS
Halifax, NS
> STUDENT TRANSPORTATION: DURHAM SCHOOL SERVICES,
STOCK TRANSPORTATION
> STEWART INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
The third largest operator of private school bus services in the
United States and the second largest private student bus operator
in Canada.
Revenue
(£m)
200
100
0
03 04*
300
213.2
231.1
05
241.8
Normalised
operating profit**
(£m)
20
0
03 04*
40
29.6
05
35.0
32.5
30
10
Total number 
of employees
(’000)
12,000
4,000
0
03 04
16,000
13,776
13,559
05
15,880
8,000
North America Trains 6
How W e Operate…
Our markets
In the UK, we provide bus and train services for key stakeholders such as the Department for Transport,
Transport for London and passenger transport executives. Most of our UK Bus and Coach operations are
unregulated, allowing us the freedom to develop our own operations.
Our Trains division is regulated and we receive government funding to run these valued public services.
However, we believe we can generate further passenger growth by investing in these operations.
In North America, our main customers are school boards for whom we provide school bus services.
In Spain, our customers are local and regional transport agencies.We provide national and regional bus
and coach services.
Our values
Our Vision is “Joining up people and places”.
We do this by creating the best possible connections – thinking of the whole journey from the
moment our customers decide to travel and book their ticket to when they arrive at their ultimate
destination.
We have four values:
Easy and simple to do business with…
We form partnerships to help us deliver joined-up and stress-free travel.We make our fares simpler
and easier to purchase by promoting a wide choice of booking channels.
Taking the lead…
We have invested in new trains and our services to make our customers’ journeys safer, more
comfortable and enjoyable.We have also invested in state-of-the-art accessible coaches and in buses
which are fitted with the latest CCTV technology in order to improve security.
Open and honest…
We aim to be straightforward in our communications and encourage our employees to be
approachable at all times.We welcome feedback from our customers and stakeholders and regularly
conduct customer and employee surveys.
Working together…
Ours is a people business. People talk to us – and we listen.We recognise that new ideas are best
produced by working together as partners.
Our principles
• Delivering quality, accessible, value for money services to high safety standards
• Continuously improving standards of punctuality and reliability
• Establishing Quality Partnerships with local authorities
• Integrating different modes of transport
• Reinvesting profits for long-term growth 7
Highlights of the Y ear…
Quarter 1
In January, Midland Mainline achieved its best ever punctuality, with 94.3% of trains reaching
their destinations on time.Throughout 2005, MML was the most punctual long-distance train
operator.
On entering the London bus market in 2004,Travel London worked in partnership
with Transport for London to develop a new bus depot in South London. In February,
Ken Livingstone, Mayor of London, opened the National Express Group Walworth bus garage
in South London.
In March, the Group sponsored a one-day ‘Delivering better bus transport’
conference in Birmingham.This provided a platform for key stakeholders, including the
transport industry, politicians and the media, to discuss how the role of the bus should
contribute to integrated transport and economic prosperity in the West Midlands and other
major UK conurbations.
Quarter 2
In June, the Group acquired the London bus division of Tellings Golden Miller.These
operations in South West London and Surrey have been integrated into Travel London, which
now has a fleet of 400 vehicles and operates from six depots.
The Group acquired Northstar Passenger Services, one of Canada’s largest operators
in the student bus market. Its 800 buses and 850 employees have now been fully integrated
into the Group’s Canadian operation, Stock Transportation.
Midland Mainline launched its schools education programme – Momentum –
in four cities across its Sheffield to London route.Through Momentum, MML works with
students as part of the Citizenship and Personal, Social and Health Education national
curriculum module.
Quarter 3
After extensive research, and having worked closely with the Mobility and Inclusion Unit
of the Department for Transport, the Coach division launched its innovative, DDA compliant,
fully integrated, easy-access vehicle, the Levante coach, enabling wheelchair users, people with
mobility impairments and the elderly to travel in comfort.
To support and raise awareness of local issues around its operations in their
respective regions, the Group sponsored the regional West Midlands and South East
receptions at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton.
Wessex Trains, in conjunction with its partners, achieved great success at the inaugural
National Community Rail Awards, organised by the Association of Community Rail Partnerships.
Wessex Trains’ Devon and Cornwall Community Rail Partnership was named the overall winner
and Community Operator of the Y ear for its innovative Tamar Valley Carnet Ticket scheme.
Quarter 4
In recognition of its work with local partners to improve the quality of local bus services,
Travel Dundee signed the UK’s first Statutory Quality Bus Partnership alongside Dundee City
Council and the Scottish Executive. In November Travel Dundee was the winner of the
Scottish Public Transport Operator of the Year award at the Scottish Transport Awards.
In December, the Group completed the acquisition of Alsa, Spain’s leading private
coach and bus operator, gaining an immediate presence in an attractive growth market.
Alsa’s President, Jorge Cosmen, joined the Group Board as a Non Executive Director.
With a growing presence in the Greater London area, a Group initiative supported
the Greater London Authority’s Labour Group’s annual event at City Hall, attended by a
number of Labour MPs, councillors and trades union representatives.This gave the Group the
opportunity to promote its London operations.
Here are a selection of events and initiatives which 
took place across our operations during the year.
Walworth bus depot opening
with Ken Livingstone, Mayor
of London and Val Shawcross,
Greater London Assembly
Member, joined by Paul
McGowan, Managing Director
Travel London
The MML Momentum project
Labour Party Conference with
T ony Blair, Prime Minister
Alsa acquired in December 8
Chairman’s Statement
AS WELL AS ACHIEVING ORGANIC GROWTH ACROSS MOST OF OUR OPERATIONS,WE EXTENDED OUR PRESENCE
IN THE PUBLIC TRANSPORT MARKET THROUGH BOTH NEW CONTRACT WINS AND ACQUISITIONS IN EXISTING
AND NEW MARKETS.
I am pleased to report the Group’s results for the
year ended 31 December 2005.
This year will be remembered for the tragic events
of the London bus and tube bombings.The Group
has many operations in and around London and
many of our colleagues were close to, or involved
in, the aftermath of the events.Whilst our
operations were not directly affected, we are proud
that many of our employees played an active role in
assisting Londoners during this difficult period. I
would like to take this opportunity to thank them
for their commitment and their tremendous efforts
in reassuring the public, getting services back to
normal and working alongside the teams from the
emergency services during this difficult time.
In December Alsa, Spain’s largest private coach and
bus operator, owned by the Cosmen family, joined
the Group. In one transaction we achieved critical
mass in a major European country which has good
growth prospects, gaining sustainable earnings at
above average margins.
Alsa is a long established business with an
experienced management team who are keen to
drive the business forward.The quality of its
product delivery has earned Alsa a first class
reputation as both an operator and employer in the
Spanish public transport market. Operating in the
Spanish regulated coach and bus markets, Alsa has
extensive contracts, with an average life of nine
years, which provides stable earnings.These features
provide stability to the Group’s earnings.
Recognising the opportunities that exist in the
enlarged company, the Cosmen family acquired a
substantial shareholding in the Group and we are
delighted that Jorge Cosmen has joined the Group
Board as a Non Executive Director.
This development gives the Group a significant
combined coaching operation, enabling the transfer 
of best practice between two major businesses.
Our initial focus has been the integration of Alsa’s
financial and reporting systems, which is currently
on schedule. Our management teams are already
working well together to identify cost synergies,
particularly in procurement, risk management and
IT.We believe there are many opportunities to
grow this business by the use of better yield
management and improved marketing. In addition,
we will be drawing on our experience in the UK
coach market to reduce Alsa’s cost of sales.The
respective cultures of National Express and Alsa
have significant similarities which should enable the
integration plan to be fully delivered by the end of
this year.We are pleased with the progress we have
made to date and are confident that we can
achieve the benefits identified when we announced
this strategic move.
This year we revised our North American strategy
to focus on our highly successful school bus
operations where our strong reputation with our
customers delivers a high quality and reliable
earnings stream. Consequently, we sold ATC, our
Public Transit business, during the year.
As part of the rail remapping, we have agreed with
the Department for Transport (“DfT”) to align our
Central Trains, Silverlink and Midland Mainline
franchises to run until the end of 2007.We are
currently in discussions with the DfT to agree the
financial arrangements around the new extensions.
On the next round of bidding during 2006 we will
focus on franchises where we are incumbent and,
as a consequence, we have withdrawn from the
competition for the South Western franchise.
David Ross
Chairman
“We remain confident that the
foundations are in place to
enhance shareholder value
through organic and acquisitive
growth whilst maintaining
dividend and share buy-backs.” 9
Following the announcement relating to the GN/Thameslink
and Greater Western rail franchises, the employees of Wagn
and Wessex Trains will leave the Group on 31 March this
year. I would like to thank them for their contribution whilst
part of the Group and wish them all the best for the future.
As part of our succession planning process and following a
thorough selection process, I am delighted that following the
retirement of Brian Jackson, Denis Wormwell was appointed
Chief Executive of our UK Bus division in February.
Consequently, Paul Bunting moved from Midland Mainline to
replace Denis as Chief Executive of our UK Coach division.
THE BOARD 
After what will be ten years as Chief Executive, Phil White
has decided he will be retiring from the Group by the end of
this year. Phil started his career with the Group in 1994 as
Finance Director of Travel West Midlands and was appointed
Chief Executive of the Group in January 1997. He guided the
Group’s entry into North America and subsequently into
continental Europe with the Alsa transaction.The Board is
unanimous in thanking Phil for his contribution over the years
and wishes him well for what the next stage in his life will
bring. On a personal level I would like to thank Phil most
sincerely for his help and support since commencing my
tenure as Chairman in May 2004.The process to find a
successor is now underway.
I am also pleased to report that this year Phil White has
taken on the role as President of the Confederation of
Passenger Transport, the national trade association
representing the UK bus, coach and light-rail operators.
Furthermore, with the Group’s interests in rail, Ray O’Toole
joined the British Transport Police Authority as an Authority
member.
On 21 September 2005, Barry Gibson was appointed senior
independent director following Tim Stevenson’s resignation
from the Board. I would like to thank Tim for his valuable
contribution.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND
Turnover was £2.2 billion (2004*: £2.4 billion) and normalised
Group operating profit increased by 8.5% to £155.5 million
(2004*: £143.3 million). After interest and the Group’s share
of losses from associated undertakings, normalised profit
before tax was £135.3 million (2004*: £122.2 million).
Normalised diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations were 76.3 pence (2004: 69.3 pence).
We are recommending a final dividend of 22.25 pence per
ordinary share (2004: 20.65 pence), an increase of 7.7%, to 
be paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at
28 April 2006. Including the interim dividend, the proposed
total dividend for the year is 32.25 pence per ordinary share
(2004: 30.0 pence).We shall also be recommencing our
£100 million share buy-back programme, subject to market
conditions.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
The current year has started well.We have experienced good
operational performance across all our divisions and achieved
early successes in the current US school bid season.We are
making good progress with the integration of Alsa and believe
this division will play a key role in the Group’s future growth
prospects. 10
Chief Executive’s Report
Phil White
Chief Executive
THIS YEAR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT TAKES ON A NEW QUESTION AND ANSWER FORMAT. THIS BRINGS
TOGETHER THE QUESTIONS MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE, PHIL WHITE, AND COVERS AREAS SUCH
AS HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR AND THE STRATEGIC FOCUS OF THE GROUP .
Q WHAT HAVE BEEN THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 
PAST YEAR?
A This has been an excellent year as our results
clearly show and, at the same time, there have also
been some significant moves for the Group.
The most impressive was undoubtedly the deal
which saw us join up with Alsa in the Spanish
transport market. Alsa is not only Spain’s leading
private coach and bus operator – it is also 
a quality business that I have admired for 
many years.
I’m pleased to welcome the Alsa management
team into the National Express Group.We’ve
wanted to enter a major continental European
market for some time, but we needed to find the
right way with the right purchase. I believe that
Alsa is that ‘right purchase’ and I’m confident that it
brings tremendous opportunities for growth, both
organically and through acquisition. Alsa is a long
established family business with a very strong,
professional, management team that was keen
to join the National Express family.
I’m delighted that the Cosmen family has taken a
large shareholding in the Group, with Jorge Cosmen
joining the Board as a Non Executive Director.
It is our aim to move Alsa from a family owned
business to an international organisation while
retaining its core values. It is helpful that Alsa, like
National Express, believes in local autonomy for
management, quality services and supporting its
employees through training and development.
There is a great willingness on the part of the Alsa
management team to be fully integrated into the
Group, demonstrated by the tremendous energy
that is being put into our integration project.
Another milestone which occurred this year is 
the Government’s proposal to introduce demand
management of traffic congestion in our cities as
this will have a positive impact on the use of public
transport. I would like to congratulate Alistair
Darling, Secretary of State for Transport, for 
having the courage to take this important but
tough decision.
Our team has turned in an excellent performance
during the year and it has been a privilege to lead
them. Our coach, bus, rail and North American
student transportation activities have all made
great strides in terms of quality performance,
customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
Q AND WHAT HAVE BEEN THE LOW POINTS?
A The tragic events of 7 July in London were
undoubtedly one of the worst events of 2005,
particularly as they followed on the back of the
excitement of the 2012 Olympics award to
London.This was a devastating event for
everybody, especially those connected with our
capital city, and I want to put on record my
appreciation of the emergency services and our
staff who coped so admirably in very challenging
circumstances. Of course, our difficulties pale into
insignificance compared to those who suffered loss
or injury and my greatest sympathies are with
those families affected.The follow-up alerts on 
21 July which were thankfully thwarted, and
subsequent alarms in major cities such as
Birmingham further damaged confidence in 
public transport and it has taken many months 
to regain our customers’ trust.
“I genuinely believe that
we have achieved much
this year, positioning the
Group well for the future.” 11
Like everybody in our industry, I am shocked by the level of
crime that takes place on our services and around our
facilities. Our depots, terminals and stations are part of the
fabric of the community and the safety of our customers and
employees is of paramount concern.We are actively working
with British Transport Police, the Department for Transport
and other stakeholders to identify ways to cut crime and
improve security.
Q WHAT HAS BEEN THE MAIN MANAGEMENT FOCUS
THIS YEAR?
A In our day-to-day business, we focus on our customers as
they are our top priority. And that’s true regardless of
whether they’re travelling by train to a meeting in London or
on a yellow school bus in Toronto. Punctuality, reliability and
safety are the keys to our business.We’ve taken an industry
lead in managing the switch from an operations led business
to a customer focused business.We look at the journey as a
whole experience, from the moment a customer thinks
about buying a ticket. It’s not just about when they’re on
board one of our services.
And one key element of ensuring we understand our
customers’ expectations is being able to get the views of 
our employees who are in the front-line of our operations.
They have first hand experience of what our customers 
think about the quality of our services.We regularly seek our
employees’ views to identify those areas where we feel we
could do better.
Q HOW DOES THE GROUP DIFFER FROM ITS PEERS?
A At National Express Group we have strong local management
teams running our businesses. Local decisions are taken by
local managers to ensure local delivery. Operational
performance is a priority and during this year we made great
progress, particularly in our Trains division, as is shown by the
industry performance and customer satisfaction figures.We
constantly think of ways to work smarter. Our re-engineering
process in North America is an illustration of this.We always
look at new initiatives to drive our business forward –
whether it’s looking at new ways to do things such as new
pools of recruitment eg Polish drivers, or new technology
such as mobile ticketing.There is always a better way to
operate – and we are always looking for new ideas.
Q HOW HAVE YOU GROWN THE BUSINESS?
A We have seen a steady increase in patronage throughout the
year.We are seeing more and more customers wanting niche
products, such as our Premier commuter bus service in
Birmingham. At the same time, we have introduced a number
of fares initiatives – such as airline-type fares on Midland
Mainline – that are designed to appeal to a broader range of
customer and encourage off-peak travel.We always aim to
provide our customers with the best value for money fares,
although we have been hit by the increased cost of fuel
during the year.
Q HOW HAVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS
DEVELOPED DURING THE YEAR?
A Good relationships with stakeholders are absolutely key if we
want to develop the quality of services that our customers
expect.We can only provide this if we have the right rail and
road infrastructure and this is where we need the help of
government. Airlines can’t operate without airports, trains
need tracks and buses and coaches depend on an effective
road network.
During the year, we were pleased to sign a Statutory Quality
Partnership with Dundee City Council and the Scottish
Executive to further improve bus services around Dundee.
We also worked closely with Centro and the West Midlands
Passenger Transport Authority which are both key partners
to the successful operation of our Birmingham bus business.
We hosted a major bus conference in Birmingham looking at
the positive initiatives that are taking place in the bus market.
2005 also saw us working closely with central Government
on the rail remapping and helping with the establishment of
the DfT as the new body responsible for rail refranchising.
Q WHAT DOES THE GROUP WANT TO BE KNOWN FOR?
WHAT DOES IT STAND FOR?
A Our business values are all about; being easy and simple;
being open and honest; taking the lead and working together.
These are the foundations for our reputation as a quality
business – and that’s something we’re committed to
maintaining and improving.
We aim to deliver for all our stakeholders, especially our
passengers.We want to be open and honest and not let
people down.We want to be ahead of the game in terms 
of innovation – introducing new concepts such as the easy-
access Levante coach and implementing new technology
such as mobile ticketing machines plus a variety of other
initiatives that help our customers when they travel with us.
We want to earn the reputation for being good to do
business with, whether as a partner, supplier or customer.
For shareholders, we want to be known for providing value,
for running a dynamic business efficiently and for achieving
solid and sustainable growth.
We aim to be an employer of choice and we need to ensure
that we do our best to attract and retain top quality people.
Q HOW DOES THE GROUP INTEND TO GET FROM WHERE
IT IS TO WHERE IT WANTS TO BE?
A We will continue to focus on giving customers more and
better reasons to travel with us more often.We will also
continue to test new markets where we can add value to
existing businesses and grow them.
As always, our employees will play a vital – in fact THE most
vital – role in this process.This is a people business and our
front-line employees such as bus and coach drivers and
the on-train teams are the face, the eyes and the ears
of our business. 12
We greatly value the information that our annual employee
survey brings to the business and we use it to make sure that
we meet customer and employee needs. In our experience,
when our employees are happy, our customers are happy.
Training and development remain central to our business.We
have a good track record of investing in our people and this
will continue in 2006, making full use of our new customer
service academies in Birmingham, Derby and London which
provide centres of excellence where skills can be transferred
across our people.We are also introducing new training
initiatives including a new leadership development programme.
Q WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS FOR THE GROUP?
A We aim to be transparent with all our stakeholders.
Our Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report
highlight the key issues for the Group.
In common with all companies in the transport sector, we
face the risk of disruption to our business through
circumstances beyond our control.
Of those risks that are directly related to our business,
the greatest is that we cease to offer the products that 
our customers want. No customers means no revenue,
profit or, ultimately, no business.We regularly carry out
customer satisfaction surveys to make sure we understand
their changing expectations.
We also need to ensure that we have the right people in
place to build our business, therefore we are investing in
recruiting and retaining high quality people.
Q WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD?
A I believe the key challenges for 2006 are:
– Developing the customer base across our businesses and
having a better understanding of our customers’ needs.
– Seeking to grow the business, particularly in the off-peak
leisure market.
– Ensuring that Alsa is effectively integrated into the business.
– Transferring best practice between both our coach
operations.
– Aiming to keep ahead of our rivals and to anticipate
changes in customer demand.
– And finally, continuing to manage our cost base.
From a strategic point of view, we will continue to focus on
growing the business, both organically and also by acquisition.
We remain open to opportunities, wherever and whenever
they are presented.We have to seize opportunities when they
arise, as we did with Alsa. I believe we are well placed to
achieve these goals.
Q WHERE WILL THE GROUP BE IN FIVE YEARS’ TIME?
A On a personal level, I have announced my intention to retire
this year, after twelve years with the Group, with ten years as
Chief Executive. It has been both a challenging and rewarding
experience and I am indebted to my colleagues for their
support over the years.
In five years’ time I think we will have a bigger and better
National Express Group.We will continue to grow in UK
buses and coaches, with a larger presence in London. Our UK
train portfolio will be balanced and deliver quality earnings.
We are aiming to be a leading market player in North
America and to have a growing business in Spain. In addition
we will seek other opportunities in new markets where our
core skills can be exploited.
I genuinely believe that we have achieved much this year,
positioning the Group well for the future.
Chief Executive’s Report (continued) 13
The division experienced an encouraging
year as we focused on our core scheduled
coaching business.The first half saw good
growth on our London bound and airport
routes. However, the terrorist incidents in
July and the subsequent reduction of
inbound leisure journeys into London saw a
softening of this growth in the second half.
Nevertheless, in the full year passenger
growth of 2% was achieved.
Following a detailed market segmentation
analysis undertaken early in the year, we are
working on strategies to increase further
the appeal of coach travel. Our promotion
of dynamic pricing continues to play a key
role enabling customers to buy value for
money tickets.We repeated our successful
£9 “Go Anywhere” fares as well as the
“Million Seat Sale”.These, along with our
continued roll-out of funfares, from as little
as £1 each way, backed up by national
advertising campaigns, have heightened an
awareness of coach travel amongst existing
and potential customers.We have further
extended our sales channels through the
increased promotion of the internet which
now accounts for 21% of total sales. E-ticket
and m-ticket sales increased. Up to nine
out of ten purchases on the web are now
e-tickets with up to two thirds of all tickets
sold via our customer contact centre
distributed by either e or m-tickets.
Our investment in coach stations continues.
Working in partnership with BAA, we
invested £2m to improve Heathrow Central
Bus station.The new customer facilities
include improved waiting and refreshment
areas and a new ticket office and
information desk. Further investment is
taking place at key locations at Cardiff,
Cheltenham, Manchester airport and
Southampton with plans for further
improvements at Bournemouth, Leicester,
Milton Keynes and Wolverhampton.
We have drawn up plans for the total
redevelopment of Digbeth coach station 
in Birmingham, our major hub for
connecting services and we anticipate
construction starting later this year.
We are improving the quality of our
product and services.We have been 
rolling out our state-of-the-art “WOW”
coaches, used currently on the London to
Birmingham route, onto other key corridors
such as Bristol, Cheltenham and Gloucester.
NXTV has been fitted on over 40 vehicles
and will be rolled-out further by the end of
2006.This year we were proud to launch
our first fully accessible coach, the Caetano
Levante, enabling wheelchair users and
people with mobility impairments to travel
by coach.The bespoke vehicle, which has
been developed in consultation with the
Mobility and Inclusion Unit of the DfT,
complies with the new DDA legislation
which was introduced at the start of this
year.We aim to have a fully wheelchair
accessible fleet on the network by the
London 2012 Olympic Games.
Last year we were pleased to be awarded
contracts for the provision of coaching
services for the G8 summit and the EU
summit.This year we have extended 
our provision of transport services to 
other events including music and sporting
events at venues such as the Millennium
Stadium, Cardiff.
We are investing in new technology, such as
Coachcom, which provides satellite tracking
and improved information for customers,
drivers and operational control.The new
system will also improve seat utilisation by
‘checking in’ all tickets at the departure
point, enabling all coach tickets to be
checked in. Coachcom will be rolled-out
across the whole fleet from summer 2006.
REVENUE FOR THE YEAR WAS £200.5 MILLION (2004*: £195.6 MILLION) WITH A
NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT OF £21.5 MILLION (2004*: £19.3 MILLION).
>
Paul Bunting
Chief Executive,
NX Coach division
In February 2006,
Paul Bunting, previously
Managing Director
of Midland Mainline,
was appointed Chief
Executive of the
Coach division
COACHES 14
We welcomed the early introduction of
Centro’s concessionary fares scheme
providing free travel for men and women
over 60 in July 2005.This move helped to
reverse the decline in concessionary fare
passenger numbers we have experienced
over the past two years.
We are pleased with our improved
operational performance during the period.
This has been achieved by the recruitment 
of over 400 Polish drivers within our Travel
West Midlands “TWM” business. Over 10% of
these drivers have already achieved their
NVQ qualifications and we are starting to 
see the first Polish recruits being promoted
to traffic controllers.Three out of every five
drivers in the West Midlands have NVQ Level
2 qualifications and over four out of five Travel
London drivers have been awarded the 
BTEC accreditation.
Following its launch in January 2005, strong
passenger growth of over 20% continues to
be experienced on our Premier 997 service
linking Walsall and Birmingham. Recent
research has confirmed that half of all users
actively choose this service over alternatives
due to its quality offering, highlighting the
opportunities that product segmentation
presents.We continue to look for other
opportunities where similar growth
possibilities exist.
With central Government’s renewed focus
on reducing urban congestion, we believe the
introduction of road pricing in London
illustrates the benefits and increased bus
patronage that can be achieved on the back
of such initiatives.We welcome the launch of
the Government’s Transport Innovation Fund
(“TIF”), focusing on demand management,
which highlights the West Midlands as one 
of the TIF feasibility areas.
Our investment in technology continues 
with the roll-out of automatic vehicle location
(“AVL”) equipment and mobile phone based
real time information for over 350 vehicles.
During 2006, we will roll-out AVL on key
routes including the main Outer Circle 11
route in Birmingham.To improve the
attractiveness of travelling by bus we have
simplified further our ticketing and extended
some concessionary ticket offers such 
as the Early Bird travelcard to non
concessionary passengers.
In September 2005,Travel Dundee signed the
UK’s first statutory quality partnership.This
will be launched in April 2006 in partnership
with Dundee City Council and the Scottish
Executive and will focus on improving bus
services within the Dundee area.This has
resulted in the introduction of a new cross
city link to a major hospital in the city
providing a valuable new community service
under the Government’s Kick Start initiative.
In the last quarter of the year Travel Dundee
achieved Investors in People status and in
November was awarded “Bus Operator of
the Year” at the Scottish Transport Awards.
This year we achieved further growth in 
our Travel London operation through new
contract wins and the acquisition of Tellings
Golden Miller’s London bus operations which
have been integrated into our London
business.This has resulted in a much greater
presence in the London market, a regulated
market where further contract opportunities
exist.We operate a fleet of over 400 vehicles
operating from six depots at which there
remains additional capacity to accommodate
future growth.
The Midland Metro continued to perform
well with passenger growth of 2%.We are
continuing to discuss with Centro the long
term development of this system including
line extensions and new services.
BUSES
REVENUE FOR THE PERIOD WAS £268.6 MILLION (2004*: £239.8 MILLION) AND
NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS £41.5 MILLION (2004*: £41.6 MILLION).
>
Denis W ormwell
Chief Executive,
NX Bus division
Denis Wormwell was
appointed Chief Executive
of the Group’s Bus division
in February 2006.
Denis was previously
Chief Executive of the
Coach division 15
2005 saw the launch of a major internal
initiative focused on improving punctuality
and reliability within the Trains division.This
resulted in significant improvements in
performance across all our franchises
including Central Trains, a highly complex
regional train operating company (“TOC”),
where considerable progress was made. Five
of our TOCs are in the top seven positions 
in the latest industry public performance
measure (“PPM”) figures released in 
January 2006.
The division also made encouraging progress
in its customer satisfaction ratings. Gatwick
Express consolidated its position at the top 
of the league tables for customer satisfaction
recording an overall satisfaction rating of 
93% in the DfT’s December 2005 National
Passenger Survey, marking the fifth
consecutive period when Gatwick has 
been rated first in the survey. In addition 
c2c improved its results from 83% to 90%
and Midland Mainline showed the greatest
increase year-on-year, rising 10 points to 89%
this year. Overall the Trains division improved
its customer satisfaction scores by three
points from 79% last year to 82%.
During the first half of the year, we
experienced substantial patronage growth.
However, following the terrorist attacks in July,
demand for discretionary travel in and out of
London was badly affected.We are pleased
that passenger numbers returned to pre-July
levels towards the end of the year.
Midland Mainline made good progress in the
year with passenger growth of 3% and was
the most punctual long distance operator for
2005 in the January 2006 PPM figures.This
performance was assisted by the introduction
of the new Meridian nine car trains. Growth
was also achieved through new marketing
initiatives, including a summer promotion
offering 200,000 seats to London for £15 per
person and a new pricing structure launched
in October offering travel from Sheffield to
London for £6.With Sheffield station being a
key hub for our MML services, we have
worked in partnership with key stakeholders
in Sheffield to improve the ambience and
quality of the station. In June a new DDA
compliant travel centre was opened including
extra ticket windows and a new electronic
queuing process.
Gatwick Express performed well despite the
impact of 7 July. Strong revenue and cost
control ensured the solid performance of the
business.We will be discussing the future of
this franchise with the DfT following
publication of the Brighton Main Line Route
Utilisation Strategy.
In December,‘one’ introduced its new
timetable on the West Anglia route.The
changes, the biggest on this route for fifty
years, seek to optimise route utilisation to
meet the growth at Stansted airport, whilst
also catering for growth on the domestic
commuting traffic to the City, Stratford and
on to Canary Wharf. Due to the complex
nature of the changes, stakeholder
consultation has been extensive and the
majority of users have benefited from the
improved scheduling.
TRAINS
REVENUE FOR THE PERIOD WAS £1,497.2 MILLION (2004*: £1,712.1 MILLION)
WITH NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT OF £64.2 MILLION (2004*: £61.3 MILLION).
>
David Franks
Chief Executive,
NX T rains division 16
2005 was a watershed year for our North
American business. As well as selling our
Public Transit business we experienced our
best ever bidding season and won contracts
in Connecticut, Missouri and Rhode Island.
We achieved a retention rate of contracts
of approximately 95%, highlighting strong
levels of customer satisfaction. All
operations experienced a smooth school
startup, a significant feat given the amount
of new business won during the year.
We are pleased to report that we
increased our margins despite the cost
pressures that we face.
In September we completed the sale of 
our Public Transit operations for cash
consideration of US$93 million (before
working capital adjustments), enabling the
division to focus on the provision of and
growth in school bus transportation. In
August we strengthened our presence in
the school bus market in Canada through
the acquisition of Northstar, which services
school boards. Northstar operates 800
school buses and has 850 employees. It
serves 12 school boards and provides entry
into new areas such as Simcoe County,
north of Toronto. In October we completed
the acquisition of Jones Bus Service, which
has 650 buses in Wisconsin and Illinois.
During the year we relocated the
headquarters of our US operation from
Texas to Chicago, providing a better
location to manage and grow the division.
Our re-engineering project focusing on
improving the cost effectiveness of our
operations has been launched across the
whole North American division.The key
objectives are to improve the cost
effectiveness of our operations by reviewing
the efficiency of employee rotas, the use 
of technology and better management of
our assets such as fleet.
We believe we are well positioned to
capitalise on further growth opportunities
at the bid table and through acquisition.
REVENUE IN THE DIVISION FOR THE YEAR WAS £241.8 MILLION (2004*: £213.2
MILLION) AND NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS £35.0 MILLION (2004*:
£29.6 MILLION). IN LOCAL CURRENCY, REVENUE WAS US$440.5 MILLION
(2004*: US$391.0 MILLION) AND NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS
US$63.7 MILLION (2004*: US$54.3 MILLION).
>
Brian Stock
Chief Executive Officer,
NX North America
division
NORTH
AMERICA 17
ALSA IS SPAIN’S LEADING PRIVATE OPERATOR OF COACH AND BUS SERVICES
OPERATING 90 COACH AND 19 BUS CONCESSIONS WITHIN THE SPANISH
MARKET.
>
Javier Carbajo
Chief Executive,
Alsa Group
Alsa joined the Group on 1 December,
providing immediate scale in an attractive
European growth market.We have
consolidated revenue of £18.2 million and
operating profit of £2.6 million into the
Group’s 2005 results.
Alsa is Spain’s leading coach and bus operator
with annualised turnover of £218 million.
It operates exclusive national and regional
coach concessions and urban and suburban
bus services with 75% of its revenue
generated by its coach operations. It also
operates 65 international coach routes 
in Europe.
Spain is Europe’s fifth largest passenger
transport market and the third biggest coach
market. Approximately double the number of
passengers travel by coach on long distance
concessions in Spain than by rail, with coach
representing 11% of the total public transport
market. Alsa is the clear leader in coaching
with nearly 10% of the market. Alsa’s long
distance concessions are granted on an
exclusive basis by the national government for
each route with durations varying between 
8 – 20 years.The regional coach network
concessions are awarded by regional
government.
As Spain’s second largest private bus
operator, Alsa operates 19 urban bus
concessions primarily in Oviedo and Leon,
northern Spain. It also operates buses in
Porto, Portugal and Marrakech, Morocco.
Alsa is a quality business run by an
experienced and long standing management
team, known to the Group through the
Eurolines partnership.We believe that through
close working between Alsa and our National
Express sales, marketing and operations teams
we can bring further value to both
businesses.This acquisition gives the Group
critical mass in the Spanish transport market
where we believe further opportunities for
public transport growth exist.
ALSA
Valencia
MADRID
Benidorm
Valencia
Alicante
Murcia
Granada
Jaen
Barcelona
Zaragoza
Vitoria
Burgos
Sevilla
Cordoba
Algerciras
Malaga
Marbella
Cadiz
Lagos
Faro
Lisbon
Badajoz
Caceres
Oporto
Vigo
Santiago
Tordesillas
Salamanca
Zamora
Ponferrada
La Coruna
Orense
Gijon
Lugo
Santander
Bilbao
San Sebastian
Irun
Valladolid
Narbonne
Toulouse
Biarritz
Bordeaux
Nimes
Marseille
Nice
ROME
Genoa
Florence
Valence
Clermont Ferand
Poitiers
Tours
PARIS
Lyon
Chambery
Geneva
Lausanne
Berne
Basle Besancon
Monaco
Metz
Mons
Liege Gante
BRUSSLES
Ostende
Calais
Frankfurt
Eisenach
Cologne
Besancon
Dover London
Turin
Milan
Venice
Lubjliana
Nuremberg
PRAGUE
Brno
VIENNA Bratislava
BUDAPEST
Zgorzelec
ZURICH
BERLIN
Wroclaw
Poznan
Bydgosc
WASRSAW
Czestochowa
Katowice
Krakow
Rzeszow
Przemysl
Bialystok
Brest
Braniewo
Gdansk
Szczcecin
BELGRADE
ISTANBUL
Tangiers
Fez
RABAT
Casablanca
Marrakech 18
Financial Review
YEAR AT A GLANCE
We have achieved another strong set of results,
increasing profit before tax by 14.6% to £89.3m
(2004*: £77.9m), driven by a 9.6% increase in
operating profit to £109.5m (2004*: £99.9m).
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations
improved to 45.2p (2004*: 40.5p).
For the remainder of this report we will refer to
normalised results, which we feel reflect the
performance of the business more appropriately.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory 
results before the following as appropriate: profit or
loss on the sale of businesses and charges for goodwill
impairment, intangible amortisation, plant, property and
equipment impairments, profit or loss on the disposal
of non-current assets, exceptional items and tax relief
on qualifying exceptional items.
Normalised group operating profit was up by 8.5% 
to £155.5m (2004*: £143.3m), on revenue of
£2,216.0m (2004*: £2,354.5m) resulting in an
increased operating margin of 7.0% (2004*: 6.1%).
Normalised profit before tax increased by 10.7% to
£135.3m (2004*: £122.2m) driving up normalised
diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
to 76.3p (2004*: 69.3p), an increase of 10.1%. Net
debt increased by £426.8m to £563.4m, principally 
as a result of the acquisition of Alsa.The proposed 
full year dividend per share will be increased by 7.5%
to 32.25p (2004: 30.0p).
DIVISIONAL REVIEW
Coaches
Our UK Coach operations delivered another year of
strong performance, increasing normalised operating
profit by 11.4% to £21.5m (2004*: £19.3m). A 2%
increase in passenger numbers was driven by
promotions such as our ‘Million Seat’ campaign and
improved customer service initiatives increasing
revenue by £4.9m to £200.5m (2004*: £195.6m).
The terrorist events in July caused passenger decline
on key routes going into London during our busy
summer months. Nevertheless, the normalised
operating margin improved to 10.7% (2004*: 9.9%)
reflecting continuing controls over costs, including
working with our contractors to mitigate the rising
cost of fuel, and the disposal of our low margin
Heathrow Airport airside operation.
During the year we started a rail replacement division
and a special events division to broaden the reach 
of our coaching product.
Buses
Revenue increased by 12.0% to £268.6m (2004*:
£239.8m) and we generated normalised operating
profit of £41.5m (2004*: £41.6m). Divisional operating
margins are being diluted by a greater presence in 
the regulated London market. Revenue, excluding
Travel London, increased by £5.0m, however this 
was offset by increased driver costs and the final 
share based payment charge of £2.1m in 2005 for 
the appropriation of shares from the TWM Share
Incentive Plan.
The acquisition of the London bus operations of
Tellings Golden Miller contributed normalised
operating profit of £0.8m and revenue of £12.4m.
This brings our share of the London bus market 
to 5%.
The early introduction of the national concessionary
fares scheme in Birmingham by Centro has helped to
reverse the recent decline in patronage from this key
part of our passenger group.The Group’s fuel hedging
policy has mitigated the impact of rising prices in 2005,
however, 2006 will see an increase in fuel costs as new
hedges have been put in place. Fuel costs will increase
by £7m this year and are the principal reason why we
introduced an above inflationary fares increase this
year.
Trains
Normalised operating profit increased to £64.2m
(2004*: £61.3m) on reduced revenue of £1,497.2m
(2004*: £1,712.1m), as a result of changes in our
portfolio of TOCs.This resulted in improved margins
of 4.3% (2004*: 3.6%).
Adam W alker
Finance Director
“We have achieved another
strong set of results,
increasing profit before tax
by 14.6% to £89.3m.”
* As restated for the transition to IFRS 19
The terrorist activities in July had an impact on discretionary
rail travel over the summer months, however this loss in revenue
was partly mitigated by existing revenue and profit share
arrangements with DfT Rail. As a result, rail passenger revenue
was up 3.3% on a like-for-like basis, having been 5.4% ahead at
June. Our franchises continue to appear at the top of the TOC
league tables for performance and customer satisfaction, which
has contributed to our ability to stimulate customer demand.
On 31 March 2006, our Wessex and Great Northern franchises
will leave the Group. As part of the DfT current re-mapping
exercise, Central Trains, Silverlink and Midland Mainline will run
until November 2007.We are currently negotiating new financial
arrangements for these franchises.
North America
In local currency, North America increased normalised operating
profit to US$63.7m (2004*: US$54.3m). Revenue has increased
by US$49.5m to US$440.5m (2004*: US$391.0m), improving 
our margins to 14.5% (2004*: 13.9%).The strengthening dollar
increased revenue by £4.9m year on year and operating profit 
by £0.8m.
Revenue in our Student Transportation business increased by
12.7% through the benefit of new routes operated and
acquisitions during the year.The 2005 US bid environment
remains competitive but we were delighted with our best 
ever bid season, winning new business with annualised revenue 
of US$29m.We achieved high retention of existing contracts
showing our mix of value for money and customer service is
proving successful with the School Boards. Our Canadian
operations continued to perform well boosted by the acquisitive
growth in the Ontario and Ottawa regions. Existing fuel hedges
continue to the end of 2006.
The acquisitions of Aboutown, Northstar and Jones consolidates
the Group’s position as the third largest student transportation
operator in North America. Annualised turnover for these
acquisitions is £26.2m.
We relocated our US head office from Austin to Chicago 
during the summer and are pleased that such a move was 
well controlled, given the large number of recruitment, systems
and timing issues it presented.
In accordance with IFRS 5,‘Non-current assets held for sale and
discontinued operations’, the trading results for Public Transit have
been reclassified into one line in the income statement.
Alsa
Alsa’s results were consolidated from 1 December. In local
currency it contributed €3.8m (£2.6m) to normalised operating
profit.The government have announced a tariff increase of 
3.3% on concessions from 1 December 2005 to cover the 
above inflation impact of fuel costs which have been fully 
hedged in 2006.
Our integration programme has commenced and is proceeding
in line with expectations. Initial focus has been on financial and
reporting systems and we are pleased with the efforts being
made to ensure a seamless transition.Valuation work on
intangibles and key assets is underway and we will complete 
the work for inclusion in our next financial statements.
JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
The total charge for associates was £8.8m (2004: £3.4m).
At the year end we held a 33% investment in Altram LRT
Limited (“Altram”). Altram has operated the Midland Metro since
June 1999. Our share of the operating loss for 2005 was £0.2m
(2004: £0.2m). On 2 March 2006, we received clearance from
the Office of Fair Trading regarding our acquisition of the
outstanding 67% shareholding. Completion is expected to occur
by the end of March. Altram’s results will be disclosed within the
Bus Division in 2006.
We hold a 40% investment in Inter-Capital and Regional Rail
Limited (“ICRRL”). ICRRL is contracted to manage the operations
of Eurostar UK to 2010. Our share of the operating loss for the
year was £8.6m (2004: £3.2m).The cash outflow of £1.7m in
2005 comprises the Group’s share of funding for the 2004 losses.
On 1 March 2006, the Secretary of State made a statement
requesting expressions of interest for London and Continental
Railways (“LCR”), which owns Eurostar UK. If a sale is concluded
we would expect to recover the book value for our preference
shares in the LCR Group.
The results of the joint ventures and associates acquired 
with Alsa were immaterial for the period from acquisition 
to 31 December 2005.
FINANCE COST 
Net interest payable decreased to £11.4m (2004*: £17.7m),
principally reflecting a lower level of net debt in the first half of
the year when compared to 2004 and the termination of a
US$200m interest rate swap as reported in our Annual Report
and Accounts 2004.This was offset by the strengthening of the
US dollar which increased the cost of servicing our US dollar
denominated financing.
After excluding £5.1m (2004*: £15.9m) for discontinued
operations, continuing normalised operating profit before
depreciation and other non-cash items (“EBITDA”) was 
£212.5m (2004*: £194.7m) and continuing EBITDA finance 
cover improved to 20.2 times (2004*: 11.5 times).
Divisional review
Normalised
Revenue operating profit
2005 2004* 2005 2004*
£m £m £m £m
UK Coach 200.5 195.6 21.5 19.3
UK Bus 268.6 239.8 41.5 41.6
UK T rain 1,497.2 1,712.1 64.2 61.3
Inter-segment sales (10.3) (6.2) – –
North American Bus 241.8 213.2 35.0 29.6
Alsa 18.2 – 2.6 –
Central functions – – (9.3) (8.5)
2,216.0 2,354.5 155.5 143.3 20
Financial Review (continued)
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES
The impairment charge for the year on the goodwill arising from
the acquisition of Prism Rail PLC in September 2000 was £33.3m
(2004*: £33.3m). Although IFRS 3,‘Business Combinations’,
prohibits the amortisation of goodwill, the train franchises
acquired with Prism have finite lives, and therefore the goodwill
will be impaired in line with the remaining cash flows.
Amortisation of £4.9m (2004*: £2.4m) was charged on the
intangible asset that arises from the Group’s right to operate 
its rail franchises £2.4m (2004*: £1.9m) and on contracts
acquired in UK Bus £0.9m (2004*:£nil) and North America
£1.6m (2004*: £0.5m).
The goodwill and intangible assets, of £421.4m, arising on the
Alsa acquisition are provisionally classified as goodwill at 31
December 2005 and these will be allocated during 2006 after
the valuation work is complete.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items totalled £7.8m (2004*: £7.7m), of which 
£3.5m was incurred in relation to restructuring and redundancies
in the UK Trains division following a review of our rail franchise
portfolio.
In North America £2.8m was incurred in respect of the
relocation of the divisional head office from Texas to Chicago in
the year.The balance comprises £1.5m of costs incurred in a
reorganisation of our Birmingham operations.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
As disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004, the
Group’s remaining bus operations in Australia are now in
administration and are no longer controlled by the Group.
The Group received proceeds of £25.4m from the administrator
in December and it is possible that further amounts will be
received but it is not practicable to forecast the amount or 
timing of any receipt.
As anticipated in our Interim report, our Public Transit business
was sold on 1 September 2005, for net proceeds of £49.6m.
TAXATION
The total tax charge of £27.5m (2004*: £22.8m) on profit before
tax of £89.3m (2004*: £77.9m) represents an effective rate of
30.8% (2004*: 29.3%).The tax charge on normalised profit of
£135.3m (2004*: £122.2m) was £29.5m (2004*: £26.4m), which
represents an effective rate of 21.8% (2004*: 21.6%).
We expect our normalised tax rate to increase over the medium
term to reflect the higher tax rates in overseas jurisdictions.
CASH FLOW
The Group continues to generate strong cash flow with a cash
inflow from operations of £188.8m (2004: £247.9m).The fall
reflects the working capital timing reversals highlighted last year 
in connection with performance and profit share payments.This
cash flow was used to maintain high levels of investment across
the Group, particularly in North America where most of the
capital expenditure relates to new bidding work.
OPERATING CASH FLOW
Operating cash flow represents “Cash generated from
operations” plus “Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment” less “Finance lease additions” and “Purchase of
property, plant and equipment” as set out in note 39 and the
cash flow statement.
Operating Cash Flow
North
UK UK UK American Central
Bus Coaches Trains Bus Alsa functions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Normalised operating profit 41.5 21.5 64.2 35.0 2.6 (9.3) 155.5
Normalised operating profit 
of discontinued operations – – – 3.8 – – 3.8
Depreciation 12.2 5.3 15.4 22.5 0.9 0.5 56.8
Amortisation of leasehold 
property prepayment 0.1 – – 0.7 – – 0.8
Amortisation of fixed asset grants – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Profit on disposal (1.2) (0.5) – (0.3) – – (2.0)
Share based payments 2.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 – 0.8 3.6
EBITDA 54.8 26.4 79.0 61.9 3.5 (8.0) 217.6
Working capital movement 2.8 (0.1) (20.2) (2.0) (4.1) (3.5) (27.1)
Eurostar –––––(1.7)(1.7)
Net cash inflow from 
operations 57.6 26.3 58.8 59.9 (0.6) (13.2) 188.8
Net capital expenditure (44.5) (8.2) (24.8) (33.3) (0.6) 0.8 (110.6)
Operating cash flow 
before one-offs 13.1 18.1 34.0 26.6 (1.2) (12.4) 78.2
Exceptional items (7.7)
Operating cash flow 70.5 21
Net capital expenditure was £110.6m (2004: £66.5m) including
£57.0m (2004: £16.2m) of additions purchased under finance
leases offset by £8.1m of proceeds from disposals.The finance
lease expenditure included £37.8m (2004: £0.2m) in UK Buses
that arose from the conversion of operating lease arrangements
to finance leases in the year.
Net interest paid of £22.0m (comprising the cash outflow of
£21.8m adjusted for loan fee amortisation of £0.2m) increased 
in the year following the termination of a US$200m interest rate
swap during the year.
The receipt of tax rebates in respect of prior years in 2004
resulted in reduced tax payments last year.
Acquisitions and disposals includes the acquisition of the Alsa
Group of £367.4m, other acquisitions of £65.5m, net proceeds 
of £49.6m from the sale of ATC, £25.4m from the disposal 
of Bosnjak Group and other items, including cash disposed,
of £1.2m.The 2004 inflow includes £26.4m from the disposal 
of three Australian Bus subsidiaries in October 2004.
DIVIDEND
An interim dividend of 10.0p per share was paid in October
2005 and a final dividend of 22.25p per share will be paid in May
2006, bringing the total dividend for the year to 32.25p.This is a
7.5% increase in total dividends declared compared to 2004.This
dividend is covered 2.5 times (2004*: 2.3 times) by normalised
profits after tax.
PENSIONS
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension schemes are all 
in the UK.The most recent triennial actuarial valuations were
carried out at 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2002 for the two
Bus schemes, 5 April 2004 for Coaches and 31 December 2004
for the Train schemes.These valuations showed funding levels of
88% to 107% on the Bus schemes, 65% on the Coach scheme
and 86% to 95% on the Train schemes. Approximately 1,400
(20%) Bus division employees are members of the two schemes,
which have been closed for some years, and some 450 members
of staff are members of the Coach division scheme which was
closed in June 2002. New employees in the Bus and Coach
division are offered membership of defined contribution pension
schemes. In the Trains division approximately 11,000 employees
are members of the Train schemes.
The balance sheet includes provision for the deficits of the
defined benefit schemes in the group which includes the Railways
Pension Scheme (“RPS”), where our main obligation is to pay 
the contributions agreed with the scheme actuary over the life 
of our franchise.
Overall, the IAS 19,‘Employee Benefits’, deficits have increased as
the increased values of the financial assets, reflecting the
improvements in global equities, have been offset by increased
liabilities arising from decreases in the discount rate and in the
case of the RPS, an increase in the longevity assumptions. In the
coach scheme the deficit increased to £14.9m (2004: £11.0m). In
the Bus schemes, the deficit has increased slightly to £37.8m
(2004: £36.2m).The RPS deficit increased by £16.3m to £34.2m,
mainly due to the change in the longevity assumptions and the
reduction in the discount rate.
FACILITIES
One of the Group’s banking facilities expires in October 2006.
We are working with the Group’s banks to put in place a new
banking arrangement over the next two to three months.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
IFRS
The Group’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2005 has been prepared using accounting policies
that comply with International Accounting Standards (“IAS”) and
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).
We released our restated 2004 results under IFRS on 27 June 2005
and issued our first set of interim results under IFRS on 28 July
2005. It has been a significant additional workload for the Group
Finance team and shareholders will note a number of changes in
presentation of our primary statements and significant additional
disclosure. Due to the length of the disclosures required under
the new financial standards, the Group will prepare a summary
report and accounts for the 2006 year end. Shareholders will
have the option whether to receive the full annual report and
accounts or the summary version.
We believe that one of the principal benefits of IFRS is to
provide consistency in accounting standards across geographic
areas and industries.With this in mind, we have worked with our
peers to produce a consistent approach to the unique difficulties
generated by the RPS to the requirements of IAS 19.
Adam Walker
Finance Director
Reconciliation of net debt
2005 2004
£m£m
Operating cash flow 70.5 187.5
Net interest (22.0) (20.3)
Taxation (26.7) (3.2)
Share buy back (29.3) –
Financial investments & shares 8.4 2.6
Acquisitions and disposals (359.1) 22.8
Dividends (41.6) (36.4)
Net funds flow (399.8) 153.0
Foreign exchange (27.0) 18.2
Funds flow post exchange (426.8) 171.2
Opening effective net debt (136.6) (307.8)
Closing effective net debt (563.4) (136.6) 22
Corporate responsibility is at the heart 
of the National Express Group; it’s about
what we do and how we do it. During
2005, we continued to make a positive
contribution to the quality and accessibility
of public transport in the communities
where we operated.
Transport is fundamental to the success
of communities. It affects productivity,
stability and growth, and by influencing the
movement of people and goods it has a
wide social impact on the economy.
At National Express Group, we provide a
socially inclusive service with environmental
benefits.We believe we provide a solution
to many of the sustainability issues that
concern key stakeholders. By the very
nature of what we do, we contribute to
communities.
We recognise that we need to legitimately
influence the views of policy makers by
promoting policies that benefit public
transport. In February we held our first bus
conference which focused on ways in which
we can stimulate further growth in the bus
market.Well attended by a range of key
stakeholders with interests in the growth of
public transport, the conference provided
an excellent platform for the sharing of best
practice across the industry.This year, we
have worked with the Department for
Transport to develop the UK rail system for
the future through its “Making the Case for
Rail” initiative. Operationally, we believe that
improving service performance, which was
a key focus in 2005, will encourage more
customers onto the rail network. Overseas,
our North American and Spanish divisions
pride themselves on the provision of first
class services.
SAFETY
In 2005 we continued to reduce the risk 
of passenger and employee injuries across
our operations. Following the launch of the
Group’s first combined Health, Safety and
Environment Plan in 2004, the 2005/06 
plan seeks to encourage continuous
improvement. During 2005, the Group’s
safety philosophy, policy and resources were
reviewed by an independent third party,
Arthur D Little.This report concluded that
there were many positive aspects to the
Group’s approach.
The London bombings in July 2005
illustrated that public transport remains a
target for terrorist attack. However,
supported by many selfless contributions 
to passenger safety by our employees, and
backed by the determination of customers,
travel patterns have on the whole returned
to normal.
OPERATIONS
We operate a devolved business with all
our operations managed locally.We are
committed to constant improvement in our
services and track our performance
through both independent and industry
monitoring. A wide range of key
performance indicators are used to manage
the business.The major issues are:
punctuality, reliability, safety, value for money,
accessibility and comfort of our customers.
We also continue to focus on how
technology and innovation can make public
transport more accessible.Through the
development of our new ‘Levante’ vehicle,
coach travel is for the first time easy for
customers with mobility issues.
Corporate Responsibility
Reliable, resourceful 
and responsible…
“Corporate responsibility is at the heart of the Group;
it’s about what we do and how we do it.” 23
ENVIRONMENT
On a per passenger kilometre basis, the 
train, coach and bus services operated by 
our Group are significantly more
environmentally friendly than journeys
undertaken using a car. Using public
transport instead of the car is the single
best way in which to reduce our individual
environmental footprint.
New technology can play a key role in
helping us to improve our environmental
performance. However, bus and coach
prioritisation on roads and the efficient
running of the rail network can also have a
dramatic impact on emissions performance.
In addition, if we can reduce journey times
then more people will be attracted to our
services – which will further improve our
performance on a per passenger kilometre
basis.The significant environmental issues
which impact our business are: emission of
greenhouse gases; emission of local
atmospheric pollutants; incidents and
prosecutions; and depot infrastructure &
land contamination.
PEOPLE
During 2005, our primary objective was 
to engage more actively with employees 
at all levels. Understanding our employees
in greater depth will enable managers to
develop the business.We believe there is 
a strong correlation between employee
satisfaction and customer satisfaction and
during the year we placed greater focus on
analysing the results from these two areas.
Although contact with employees is
generally undertaken at a local level, we
have developed initiatives which we believe
benefit all our subsidiaries. Our Human
Resources Forum shares best practice across
the Group. Our key people challenges are:
employee satisfaction; succession planning;
training and development; recruitment and
retention, industrial relations, diversity and
equal opportunities.
PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE
In developing transport for the future, we
must consider the requirements of users,
whether business, commuter or leisure
travellers.Transport planning requires long-
term strategy, as demonstrated by the way
in which a quality transport network was
instrumental in winning the 2012 Olympics.
As a major service provider and employer
in the area, we look forward to playing an
important part in this.
We constantly look for ways to improve
our products. However, we believe there
are still further opportunities to improve
the utilisation of the existing infrastructure
such as through the use of ‘smart’
technology; and through the increased 
roll-out of priority schemes for public
transport and better use of road space.
We also believe that as national and
regional transport infrastructure is
developed, the planning system needs to
show greater linkage between the provision
of housing and the location of jobs.
For a full account of our progress on the
social, ethical, environmental, employee 
and community challenges that face 
our business please see our 2005
Corporate Responsibility Report.
It is available for download at
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
“There are considerable economic,
social and environmental benefits of
using public transport.We believe
encouraging customers to use these
services is good for society as a whole.”
T op
The new easy-access Levante coach
Middle
Winners of the Express Awards,
the Group’s reward and
recognition scheme
Bottom
Crystaleye technology providing
onboard monitoring 24
Board of Directors and company secretary
Clockwise, from top left:
David Ross
Phil White CBE
Ray O’Toole
Sir Andrew Foster
T ony McDonald
Tim Score
Barry Gibson
Sue Lyons OBE
Adam Walker
Jorge Cosmen 25
David Ross Chairman David Ross joined the Board in February 2001
as a Non Executive Director and became Chairman in May 2004.
He is Non Executive Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse
Group PLC, Chairman of Gondola Holdings PLC and a Non Executive
Director of Trinity Mirror PLC, Big Y ellow Group PLC and Cosalt PLC.
David is a chartered accountant. Aged 40.
Phil White CBE Chief Executive Phil White has extensive experience
of the transport business gained over many years. He is a chartered
accountant and worked for South and West Yorkshire Passenger
Transport Executive and Y orkshire Rider in various senior finance roles.
In July 1994 he was appointed Group Finance Director of West
Midlands Travel Limited becoming Managing Director in November
1995. He was appointed to the Board of National Express Group in
January 1996 and became the Group’s Chief Executive in January 1997.
He is the 2006 President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
Aged 56.
Ray O’T oole Chief Operating Officer Ray O’Toole joined the Board
in November 1999 as Chief Operating Officer. He has 30 years’
operational experience in transport. He spent the early part of his
career in various engineering management positions at Greater
Manchester Passenger Transport Executive. He joined National Express
from FirstGroup plc, where he was responsible for its operations in
Yorkshire and the North West as both Divisional Director and Group
Engineering Director. He has been elected a member of the British
Transport Police Authority this year. Aged 50.
Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director Sir Andrew was appointed
to the Board in August 2004. He has had an extensive career in the
public sector having served as Chief Executive of the Audit Commission
for England and Wales between 1992 and 2003. Before this he was
Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS and is currently Deputy Chairman
of the Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited and a Non Executive
Director of the Sports Council, Nestor Health Care, PruHealth and
Liberata IT Outsourcing. Aged 61.
Tony McDonald Company Secretary Tony McDonald was appointed
Company Secretary in May 2000. Prior to joining the Group he held
senior legal positions with the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal
Exchange and BP and in private practice with Slaughter and May.
He is a qualified solicitor. Aged 45.
Tim Score Non Executive Director Tim Score was appointed to the
Board in February 2005. He is Chief Financial Officer at ARM Holdings
plc. Before joining ARM he worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group
Limited which he joined in 1999. Between 1997 and 1999, he was
Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, which he joined from
LucasVarity plc. He is a chartered accountant. Aged 45.
Barry Gibson Non Executive Director Barry Gibson joined the Board
in November 1999 and became the Senior Independent Director
in September 2005. He served on the Board at BAA plc as Group
Retailing Director. Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief
Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc. He is also a Non Executive
Director of William Hill PLC and Homeserve plc. Aged 54.
Sue Lyons OBE Non Executive Director Sue Lyons joined the Board
in May 2001. Her career has been principally with Rolls Royce which
she joined in 1975 and where she held the position of Managing
Director, Defence (Europe). In 1998 she received an OBE for services
to the engineering industry and in 1999 she was awarded the European
Woman of Achievement Award – Business Category. Sue is also a
Non Executive Director of Wagon plc and AWG plc. Aged 53.
Adam Walker Finance Director Adam Walker joined the Board in
March 2003, as Finance Director. He joined the Group in October 2001
as Corporate Development Director working closely with the Group’s
operational subsidiaries on developing their financial strategies. Prior to
joining the Group he was Director of Corporate Finance at Arthur
Andersen and an Associate Director at NatWest Markets. He is a
chartered accountant. Aged 38.
Jorge Cosmen Non Executive Director Jorge Cosmen was appointed
to the Board on 1 December 2005 at the time of the Alsa transaction.
He was Corporate Manager for the Alsa Group from 1995, becoming
Chairman in 1999. Between 1986 and 1995 he worked in sales,
distribution and banking. He is a Business Administration graduate and
has an International MBA from the Instituto de Impresa in Madrid.
Aged 37.
Divisional Heads
Paul Bunting Chief Executive, Coach Division Paul Bunting joined
the Group in 2004 as Managing Director at Midland Mainline from
Stagecoach, where he was Business Development Director for the
UK Bus Division. Prior to that Paul has held a number of senior
positions within the rail industry, principally in planning and marketing
roles in both InterCity and Regional Railway businesses. Aged 46.
Javier Carbajo Chief Executive,Alsa Group Javier Carbajo joined the
Group in December 2005 when National Express acquired Alsa.
A graduate in economics and with an MBA, Javier has been with Alsa
for 27 years during which time he has held management positions in
most areas of the business. In 1999 he was appointed Chief Executive
of Enatcar following its acquisition by Alsa. In 2003 he was appointed
CEO of Alsa Group. Aged 53.
David Franks Chief Executive,Trains Division David Franks joined the
Group in January 2003 as Trains Divisional Director (North). He was
appointed as Chief Executive of the Trains Division in February 2004.
David has over 30 years’ experience in the rail industry and immediately
prior to joining National Express he was Managing Director of South
Central at the GoAhead Group. Aged 48.
Brian Stock Chief Executive Officer North America Brian joined
the Group in 2002 through the acquisition of Stock Transportation.
He has overseen the North American student bus operations since
March 2003 and was appointed as Chief Executive of the Group’s
North American operations in October 2004. Brian has had over 25
years in the bus industry. Prior to joining the Group, Brian was President
of Stock Transportation and responsible for guiding the business to
become the fifth largest school bus company in North America.
Aged 46.
Denis W ormwell Chief Executive, Bus Division Denis Wormwell joined
the Group as Chief Executive, Coach Division in January 2002. In
February 2006 he was appointed as successor to Brian Jackson as Chief
Executive of the Group’s Bus Division. Prior to joining the Group, Denis
spent many years within the holiday industry both overseas and in the
UK building successful leisure brands such as Club 18-30 and JMC. He
joined the company from Thomas Cook Group where he was Sales
and UK Service Delivery Director.Aged 44.
  26
The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and the audited
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of mass passenger
transport services.
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
A review of the Group’s activities, the principal events during the year and
the future development of the Group is given in the Chairman’s statement,
the Chief Executive’s Report and the Operating and Financial Reviews set
out on pages 8 to 21.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 was £89.3m.
(2004: £77.9m restated) and a loss/profit attributable to equity shareholders
of £2.8m (loss) (2004: £62.2m restated) was transferred to reserves.
The Directors recommend a final net dividend of 22.25p per share which,
together with the interim net dividend of 10.0p per share paid on 
7 October 2005, gives a total net dividend for the year of 32.25p per
share (2004: 30.0p). If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be
paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at 28 April 2006.
DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were:
David Ross 
Phil White
Jorge Cosmen (appointed 1 December 2005)
Sir Andrew Foster
Barry Gibson
Sue Lyons
Ray O’Toole
Tim Score (appointed 21 February 2005)
Tim Stevenson (resigned 21 September 2005)
Adam Walker 
Ray O’Toole and Adam Walker will retire by rotation at the Annual
General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Jorge Cosmen will stand for election at the Annual General Meeting
following his appointment to the Board on 1 December 2005. Tim
Stevenson resigned as a Director of the Company on 21 September 2005.
The names and brief biographies of the current Directors appear on pages
24 and 25. Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in
shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Report
on Directors’ remuneration on pages 33 to 39.
DIRECTORS’ LIABILITY INSURANCE
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in
respect of legal action that might be brought against its Directors. The
Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004
came into force on 6 April 2005. This Act extends the indemnities
allowable by a company to its directors. At this years’ AGM the Company
is asking shareholders to approve an amendment to the Company’s
articles of association to allow the granting of indemnities in line with the
new statutory provisions.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and
encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers
and continually improve operational performance. The Group is
committed to providing equality of opportunity to employees and
potential employees. This applies to appropriate training, career
development and promotion for all employees, regardless of physical
ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin. All UK
businesses report diversity data and are responsible for benchmarking
against their local population.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment
received from disabled persons, according to their skills and capabilities.
The services of any existing employee disabled during their period of
employment are retained wherever possible.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs. Subsidiary
companies produce a range of internal newsletters and circulars which
keep employees abreast of developments. In addition, the Group-wide
express magazine is aimed at keeping employees in touch with the
worldwide activities of the Group. Senior management within the Group
meets regularly to review strategic developments. In December 2005 a
management conference entitled ‘The Way We Work Together’ was held
to listen to feedback given from employee focus groups. Dialogue takes
place regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives 
on a wide range of issues.
Employee satisfaction is tracked through an annual employee survey.
Results from the 2005 survey have been fed back to employees and action
plans at local level rolled-out. A number of Group initiatives were launched
in 2005 for frontline staff. For example, the ‘Express Awards’ reward
outstanding employee activities in and out of the workplace and the
‘Express benefits’ package gives UK employees competitive discounts 
with leading retailers.
Directors’ Report 27
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
Details of the Group’s environment policy and environmental initiatives are
to be found in the separate Corporate Responsibility Report issued with
the Annual Report and Accounts.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Charitable donations made during the year totalled £286,000. (2004:
£328,000) which included a donation of £40,000 to the Asian Tsunami
appeal. It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations and
accordingly none were made in the year.
CREDITORS’ PAYMENT POLICY AND PRACTICE
It is the Company’s policy to agree terms of payment prior to
commencing trade with any supplier and to abide by those terms based
on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005
were 24 days (2004: 26 days) based on the ratio of Company trade
creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year
by trade creditors.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
The Company has been notified of the following holders of 3% or more
of its issued share capital for the purpose of Section 198 of the
Companies Act 1985, as at 7 March 2006:
Barclays Bank PLC 20,358,394 14.92%*
European Express Enterprises Ltd 16,580,175 11.02%*
Standard Life Group 13,752,075 10.08%*
AVIVA Plc 5,573,333 4.07%*
Legal & General Group plc 4,528,145 3.00%*
* Percentages as at date of notification
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 24 May 2006. Shareholders
will be asked to approve five items of special business, details of which are
given in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this report.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting in
2005 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the
issued nominal capital. This authority expires at this year’s Annual General
Meeting and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
A limited share buy back programme was implemented in 2005 and
during the period 28 February 2005 to 17 May 2005 the Company made
the following purchases of its ordinary 5p shares:
% age
of
Number issued Average
of share Nominal purchase 
shares capital value price
Shares purchased 3,300,000 2.39% £165,000 £8.80
Shares cancelled 2,900,000 2.10% £145,000 –
Shares put into 
Treasury 400,000 0.29% £20,000 –
GOING CONCERN
It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future
involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future
events which are inherently uncertain. Nevertheless, at the time of
preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue operating for the foreseeable future. For this reason they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
T ony McDonald
Secretary
9 March 2006
Directors’ Report 28
THE BOARD AND ITS PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES
Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
Attendance at meetings by individual directors during 2005 is shown next
to the Director’s name. All of the Committees are authorised to obtain
legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance
of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from
any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties. The full
terms of reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s
website at www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
The Board of Directors
Fifteen meetings were held during the year.
David Ross Chairman (15)
Jorge Cosmen Non Executive Director (1)+
Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director (13)
Barry Gibson Senior Independent Director (from 21 Sept 2005) (15)
Sue Lyons Non Executive Director (15)
Tim Score Non Executive Director (13)+
Tim Stevenson Senior Independent Director (to 21 Sept 2005) (10)*
Phil White Chief Executive (15)
Ray O’Toole Chief Operating Officer (15)
Adam Walker Finance Director (15)
Company Secretary: Tony McDonald (also acts as Secretary to the Board
Committees)
+ Tim Score and Jorge Cosmen were appointed to the Board on 21 February 2005
and 1 December 2005 respectively
* Tim Stevenson resigned from the Board on 21 September 2005
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s attention
which includes the review and approval of Group strategy and policies,
major business acquisitions or disposals, major capital projects, Group
budgets, significant changes to accounting policies, capital structure and
dividend policy.
Audit Committee
Five meetings were held during the year.
Tim Score Chairman (appointed Chairman April 2005) (4)
Tim Stevenson Chairman (resigned as Chairman April 2005) (2)
Sir Andrew Foster (5)
Barry Gibson (5)
The Committee oversees the process for selecting the external auditor,
assesses the continuing independence of the external auditor and
recommends approval of the audit fee to the Board. It will ensure that
provision of non audit services does not impair the external auditors’
independence or objectivity. It will discuss with the external auditor the
nature and scope of the audit and any issues or concerns arising from the
audit process. The Committee reviews the internal audit programme,
considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews
management’s financial reporting and risk management. The Committee
reviews the half-year and annual financial statements and the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control and risk management systems.
Remuneration Committee
Eight meetings were held during the year.
Barry Gibson Chairman (8)
Sue Lyons (8)
Tim Score (appointed to committee 14 Dec 2005) (0)
Tim Stevenson (resigned Sept 2005) (6)
The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the
remuneration of the Executive Directors (including the Chief Executive),
the divisional Chief Executives, the Chairman of the Company and the
Company Secretary.Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee
will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive
Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments,
pension arrangements and share options. The Committee will select,
appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants
who advise the Committee. The Committee will ensure that contractual
terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual
and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and the duty to mitigate
loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
Nomination Committee
Two meetings were held during the year.
David Ross Chairman (2)
Sir Andrew Foster (2)
Sue Lyons (2)
The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the
approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they
arise. It will give full consideration to succession planning, and keep under
review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non
executive. The Committee will review the time required from a Non
Executive Director and use performance evaluation to assess whether the
Non Executive is spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Safety and Environment Committee
Four meetings were held during the year.
Sue Lyons Chairman (4)
Jorge Cosmen (appointed to committee 1 Dec 2005) (1)
Sir Andrew Foster (3)
Barry Gibson (4)
David Ross (3)
Tim Score (appointed to committee Feb 2005) (4)
Tim Stevenson (resigned from committee Sept 2005) (3)
The Committee reviews the Group’s safety and environment practices,
procedures and record.
Corporate Governance 29
The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and
ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its
policies on an ongoing basis. The Board has endorsed a set of principles
which establish the framework for how its businesses operate. Key to
these is working in an open and honest manner. The Company supports
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003
(the ‘Combined Code’).
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
In the opinion of the Directors the Group has complied with the
Combined Code throughout the year apart from:
• the Audit Committee did not have a member with recent and
relevant financial experience from 5 May 2004, when David Ross
resigned from the Committee, until the appointment of Tim Score
to the Committee in February 2005.
• The Board has not completed a performance evaluation process
during the current year. It has however, undertaken preliminary work
in preparation for an evaluation exercise involving external consultants
in 2006 and led by the Senior Independent Director.
APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive
The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled
by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a
framework of sound controls. The Board is responsible for setting the
Group’s strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary
financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board consists of the Chairman, three Executive and five Non
Executive Directors. The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held
separately and the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and
Chief Executive is shown below.
Main responsibilities of the Chairman include:
• chairing and managing the business of the Board;
• together with the Chief Executive, leading the Board in developing the
strategy of the business and ensuring this is effectively implemented by
the Executive management team;
• ensuring that there is effective dialogue with investors concerning
mutual understanding of objectives;
• in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility
for the composition and replenishment of the Board;
• periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and
performance; and
• ensuring there is effective contribution from the Non Executive
Directors and a constructive relationship between the Executive and
Non Executive Directors.
Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive include:
• the development and implementation of management strategy;
• the day to day management of the Group;
• managing the executive management team; and 
• fostering relationships with key stakeholders.
Barry Gibson is the Senior Independent Director. The Board considers
all of the Non Executive Directors to be independent other than Jorge
Cosmen, and considered David Ross to be independent prior to his
appointment as Chairman. Mr Cosmen is not considered to be
independent by the Board due to his close links with the Alsa business
and significant interests in the shares of the Company. The Non Executives
bring a variety of different experiences and considerable knowledge to
assist with Board decisions. Non Executive Directors do not participate in
any of the Company’s share option or bonus schemes and their service is
non-pensionable. Short biographies of the Directors are to be found on
page 25.
The Board meets at least eight times during the year. In 2005 the Board
held an off site strategy meeting and visited businesses in Canada. There is
a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision, the main
terms of which are shown on page 28 together with the attendance
record of the Directors. During the year the Chairman met on several
occasions with the Non Executives without the Executive Directors
present to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management
of the Group’s businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and
budgets and its financial performance. Executive management meetings,
involving the Executive Directors and senior management from the
divisions are held regularly to discuss current issues.
The Company purchases liability insurance to cover the Directors and
officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The Board has established a number of committees with defined terms 
of reference and receives reports of their proceedings. The principal
committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety and Environment
Committee. The members of each committee, attendance and main 
duties are shown on page 28. In addition there is an Executive Committee
with authority to approve routine matters of business and a Treasury
Committee which reviews the Group’s banking facilities, treasury reports
and tax matters.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments
and makes recommendations to the Board. The Committee will prepare
a description of the role and requirements for any particular appointment
based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors
are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during
normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company. The Non Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other
significant commitments.
External advisers are normally appointed when recruiting Board members;
they use as a basis for their search a description of the role and
capabilities required for a particular appointment proposed by the
Nomination Committee.
Corporate Governance 30
THE WORK OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Before making a recommendation for an appointment to the Board the
Nomination Committee will:
• prepare a job specification and a description of the capabilities
required for a particular post;
• consider the current composition of the Board and mix of skills and
experience; and
• where appropriate, and in particular where a vacancy for a Non
Executive Director arises, use an external search consultancy and/or
open advertising.
Tim Score was appointed as a new Non Executive Director in February
2005 following the recognition by the Committee that there was a need
for a Non Executive with recent and relevant financial experience. External
consultants were used for this appointment.
On completion of the Spanish Alsa transaction in December 2005 Jorge
Cosmen was appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Director. The
Board considers his appointment to this position as key in facilitating the
successful integration of Alsa within the Group, in providing an interface
between the two businesses and in providing input to the Board on the
Spanish market. It was therefore not appropriate to use an external search
agency for this appointment.
During the year the committee has undertaken work in relation to 
both succession planning and skills assessment of senior management
throughout the Group for which purpose external consultants were
retained.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial
information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board
meeting. Senior management and advisers give presentations to the Board
on significant matters during the year.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is
responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable
rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on
governance matters. All Directors have access to the advice and services
of the Company Secretary and the appointment or removal of the
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. There is a
procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional
advice where considered necessary.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course
and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their
duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
A formal induction process is in place for new Directors the aims of which
are to:
• build an understanding of the nature of the Company, its business and
the markets in which it operates;
• establish a link with the Group’s employees;
• build an understanding of the Group’s main relationships including
stakeholders and customers.
The induction process includes:
• a series of meetings with Directors and senior management tailored
to the individual’s needs, including site visits and meetings with
divisional Chief Executives;
• provision of key information on Group policies and procedures;
• an appropriate Director’s training course;
• an opportunity, if requested by the individual or shareholders, for the
Director to meet with major shareholders/fund managers.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Board undertook preliminary interviews during 2005 with the
Directors in preparation for an external evaluation process which is
scheduled to take place in the first half of 2006. This exercise covers the
performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board and its committees.
RE-ELECTION
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association all Directors
submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following
their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three
years. Non Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject 
to re-election. Non Executive Directors will only be put forward for 
re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the
Director’s performance continues to be effective and demonstrates
commitment to the role.
REMUNERATION AND SERVICE CONTRACTS
The report on Directors’ remuneration including details of remuneration
policy and service contracts is set out on pages 33 to 39.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors
are set out on pages 32 and 40.
Internal Control 
The Board’s responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Board maintains full control
and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and
compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with
formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear
operating processes. The systems that the Board has established are
designed to safeguard both the shareholders’ investment and the assets
of the Group, and are described below.
Corporate Governance 31
Key elements of the control framework
Strategic and financial planning – an annual budgeting and strategic planning
process has been established whereby each division and constituent
operating companies assesses its competitive position and goals, taking
account of the strategic risks faced. This strategy is translated into a
financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
Performance management – the performance of each division and
operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal
monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the Executive
Directors at monthly divisional board meetings.
Annual fitness check process – a self assessment review takes place at
each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance sheet and
to challenge the effective operation of key financial and information
systems controls within each material accounting cycle. This process is led
by divisional finance directors and is closely monitored by group finance
and validated by the internal audit department.
Capital investment – a clear process is in place for the approval of capital
expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of the
proposed investment and any associated key risks. Material capital
expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and Safety – Health and safety standards and benchmarks have
been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating
companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process – each division and operating
company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and the
results are cascaded through management levels and the Audit Committee
before being presented to the Board. This process is reviewed on a regular
basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks reported and
presented to the Board on a quarterly basis, unless exceptional issues
arise. The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk
management controls. These procedures are mandated and designed to
manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their
business objectives.
Internal audit – the internal control system is independently monitored
and supported by an outsourced internal audit function. The internal audit
function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the
Group’s financial and operational controls, and reviews the extent to which
its recommendations have been implemented.
Board-level reporting on internal control – during the year the Audit
Committee has reviewed regular reports from the internal audit
department, the external auditors, and executive management on matters
relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management. The
Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment
of the Group’s financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that
are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
Review of internal control effectiveness
The system of internal control and risk management, described above, has
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval
of this Annual Report and Accounts. Such a system is designed to manage,
rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Group’s
business objectives, and can therefore provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The effectiveness
of this system has been regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with
the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the
Financial Reporting Council (Turnbull guidance).
Audit Committee and Auditors
The members of the Audit Committee, attendance and main duties are
shown on page 28.
THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives papers for
consideration in advance of the meeting. The papers reflect the agenda
prepared by the Secretary in conjunction with the Committee Chairman.
There are a number of standing items considered during the year such as
consideration of the internal and external audit reports, review of the
preliminary and interim announcements and review of the Annual Report
and Accounts.
Other items that were considered and discussed during the year included
a review of progress on implementation of the new International Financial
Reporting Standards and the resulting restatement of the accounts, annual
fitness checks within the subsidiaries, the external auditor plan for 2005
and the external auditor’s fees.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters
under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors
and internal and external auditors. Full minutes are kept by the Secretary
of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee. Outside
of the meeting process the Committee Chairman has regular contact with
the Executive Directors, other committee members and the auditors on a
variety of topics.
Corporate Governance 32
The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the
independence of the external auditors. As part of their determination the
Audit Committee considers a report by the external auditor on the firm’s
independence which is required in order to carry out their professional
duties and responsibilities as auditors. The majority of non audit work
undertaken by the external auditors during the year relates to three items.
These were tax advisory services, advice on the implementation of
International Financial Reporting Standards and financial due diligence work
on the Alsa transaction. All of these items the Committee believes would
be impractical and costly to provide through another party. The Committee
has an approved policy on the provision of non-audit services. The policy
sets the approvals policy for the following types of service:
• services that are considered to have ‘general pre-approval’ by the
Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy;
• services that require ‘specific pre-approval’, on a case-by-case basis,
before any work can commence; and
• services that cannot be supplied by the external auditors (‘prohibited
services’).
In deciding whether or not to grant approval for the provision of specific
services by the external auditors, the Audit Committee includes in its
consideration the following factors:
i) whether the external auditing firm is best placed to provide an
effective and efficient service, given its familiarity with the Company’s
processes, systems and people; and
ii) the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors in the year
as a proportion of the annual external audit.
WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY
A Group ‘whistle blowing’ policy has been issued to all Group companies
to ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
The Company maintains regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders
and fund managers through a variety of meetings and presentations
throughout the year. Presentations are given by the Executive Directors
following the full year and half year results to institutional investors, analysts
and brokers which the Non Executive Directors may attend. In addition,
the Company’s brokers provide confidential feedback to the Company on
the views of the major institutions following the interim and final results.
A biennial independent review of the Company’s major investors is
undertaken which asks for feedback on financial performance and
management. The next review will be in 2006.
During the year written responses are given to correspondence received
from shareholders and all shareholders receive copies of the Annual
Report and Accounts and Interim Report. The Company has introduced
an electronic communications facility to enable shareholders to receive
documentation such as the Annual Report and Accounts electronically and
also to cast their votes by proxy electronically. The Company has also
introduced an electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
The Company’s website, www.nationalexpressgroup.com, houses wide
ranging information about the Group, including the final and interim
announcements, Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, share price
data and links to subsidiary company websites.
The Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders
to question the Chairman and Directors on a variety of topics, and
information is provided at the meeting on different aspects of the Group’s
activities. All of the Company’s Directors are present at the meeting. Proxy
votes, including the number of abstentions, are displayed on the resolutions
following the result on a display of hands. Notice of the Annual General
Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working
days before the meeting.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Annual Report contains the accounts and Directors’ remuneration
report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European
Union. The Directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial
year that present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the
Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that
period. In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• present information and accounting policies in a manner that provides
relevant, reliable and comparable information; and
• state that the Company has complied with applicable accounting
standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the accounts.
The Directors confirm that these accounts comply with the above
requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with
the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance 33
This report has been approved by the Board and the Remuneration
Committee. The report will be put to shareholders at the 2006 Annual
General Meeting for consideration and approval.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The members of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee)
throughout the year, all of whom were independent, and their attendance
at meetings are shown on page 28. The terms of reference of the
Committee are available on the Company’s website at
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
The Committee is responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman
and the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Executive
Directors. It also approves the remuneration and conditions of
employment of the Divisional Chief Executives and Company Secretary
and reviews the remuneration of the senior management team.
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants,
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC), to advise on all aspects of
senior executive remuneration. NBSC has no other connection with the
Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee
remuneration. In addition, the Committee has appointed an independent
consultant, Graham Abbey of 7days Limited, to assist the Committee
particularly with the development of strategy on remuneration policy.
The Chief Executive provides guidance to the Committee on remuneration
packages for senior executives employed by the Group (but not in respect
of his own remuneration).
The Committee’s recommendations in 2005 were all accepted and
implemented by the Board.
REMUNERATION OF NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The fees of the Non Executive Directors are set by the Board as a whole
following an annual review. The review takes account of fees paid for
similar positions in the market, the time commitment required from the
Director (estimated as 20 days per year for Non Executive Directors
other than the Chairman) and any additional responsibilities undertaken,
such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board committees or Senior
Independent Director. Non Executive Directors are not eligible to receive
pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in share option
schemes. For 2005 the basic fee for acting as a Non Executive Director
was £35,000 a year. An additional fee of £5,000 was paid for chairing one
of the Board Committees. An extra fee of £5,000 is paid to the Senior
Independent Director. The Chairman, David Ross, has elected to take all
of his fees as National Express shares.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Committee’s remuneration policy is based on the following broad
principles:
• to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and retain
quality individuals;
• to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of the business;
• to align the interests of management with the interests of
shareholders; and
• to provide the foundation for overall reward and remuneration
beyond the specific roles governed by the Remuneration Committee
The objective of this policy is aligned with the recommendation of the
Combined Code on Directors’ Remuneration. That is to provide a level
of remuneration “to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality
required to run the company successfully, but avoid paying more than is
necessary for this purpose. A significant proportion of Executive Directors’
remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and
individual performance.”
The policy in relation to subsequent years will be kept under review to
ensure that it reflects changing circumstances. In implementing its policy,
the Committee has given full consideration to the Principles of Good
Governance of the Combined Code with regard to Directors’
remuneration.
A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors’ pay is performance
related. The table below shows the balance between fixed and
performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels.
Maximum performance assumes achievement of maximum bonus and full
vesting of shares under the LTIP .
Report on Directors’ Remuneration
Target Maximum
Value of shares vesting
Performance related
bonus
Basic salary (excluding
pension contributions
and benefits)
0
20
40
60
80
100
% 34
(i) Basic salary
The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed at 1 January
each year. Account is taken of the performance of the individual
concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that may have
occurred and the rates for similar roles in a comparator group of
companies. The comparator group for the 2005 financial year was
made up of three distinct groups of companies. These were a group
of transport sector companies drawn from the FTSE 250 with a
median market capitalisation of £900m, a group of companies drawn
from the FTSE 250 generally with a market capitalisation range from
£530m to £1,500m and a sub-sector of the transport sector
containing companies more directly comparable to the Company in
terms of turnover, staff numbers and/or scope of operations. For 2006
the comparator groups will be based on a similar group of transport
sector companies drawn from the FTSE 250.
(ii) Performance-related bonus
Bonus payments for 2005 were based on the Group’s normalised
profit* with the maximum bonus payable at 60% of basic salary for
achieving 112% of budget. Between 100% of budget and 112% the
amount of bonus payable was on a straight-line basis with a 25%
bonus payable for achieving budget. No bonus was payable if budget
was not achieved. An additional bonus of up to 15% of basic salary
was payable dependent upon the Group meeting certain customer
service objectives.
Following a benchmarking exercise undertaken by New Bridge Street
Consultants the maximum bonus payable to Executive Directors has
been increased from 75% to 100% of basic salary for 2006. 70% of
the bonus payable is based on financial targets and 30% on non-
financial targets. No bonus is payable unless the Group’s normalised
profit* before tax budget is achieved.
(iii) Pensions
Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are
entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes
or, if preferred, to receive payment of a fixed percentage of salary.
The Committee reviewed the pension arrangements of the Executive
Directors during the year in light of the new pension regime coming
into force from April 2006 and the introduction of an overall
£1.5 million (indexed) life time allowance.
Phil White is a member of an approved defined contribution pension
scheme. The pension received on retirement will depend on the total
contributions paid, the investment return and the cost of buying an
annuity. Ray O’T oole and Adam Walker are members of the National
Express Group Staff Pension Plan which is a defined benefit scheme. The
benefits from approved pension plans are subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Benefits agreed with the Directors which exceed these limits are provided
through unfunded unapproved arrangements for Ray O’T oole and Adam
Walker and a funded unapproved arrangement for Phil White. Life
assurance of four time’s basic annual salary is provided. Spouse’s pensions
are provided in accordance with the terms of the appropriate scheme.
(iv) Incentive scheme and share options
(a) Long term incentive arrangements
The Committee reviews the incentive arrangements offered to
Directors on an annual basis to ensure they remain in line with
emerging best practice in corporate governance and are appropriate
to the needs of the business. As a result of the review in 2004 the
Committee recommended the implementation of a new long term
incentive plan (LTIP) to replace the previous annual award of share
options which the Committee considered no longer met the goals of
retention and incentivisation. The LTIP was approved by shareholders
at the 2005 Annual General Meeting. The LTIP consists of annual
awards of performance and matching shares. Details of the plan are
provided below.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration
ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
Summary of the components of the Executive Directors’ remuneration.
Performance 
Objective Period Policy 
Basic salary To position at a competitive level for similar Annually Individual pay levels (using comparable mid-market
roles within comparable markets data for guidance) are determined by reference 
to the individual’s performance, experience in post
and potential.
Performance related bonus Incentivise delivery of performance objectives 1 year A discretionary bonus scheme is in operation with
payments based on the Group’s normalised profit*
with the extent to which budget is exceeded
determining the level of bonus payable.
Pension To provide competitive benefits inline with Ongoing The policy is to provide market competitive
with market practice and to act as a retention retirement benefits. Only basic salary is pensionable.
mechanism and reward long service
Long Term Incentive Plan To drive performance, aid retention and 3 years Half of any award is subject to EPS growth. The 
align the interests of Executive Directors remaining half is subject to the relative shareholder
with shareholders return of the Company (TSR) compared against a
bespoke peer group.
Other benefits T o provide competitive benefits in line Ongoing Executive Directors receive a fully expensed car,
with market practice private health and long term sickness insurance.
A cash alternative may be provided according to
individual circumstances.
* Normalised profit is profit before tax, goodwill, intangible amortisation and exceptional items 35
Performance Shares
Executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional award of shares up
to an equivalent of 1 x their annual basic salary. The vesting of the award is
conditional on meeting the performance conditions set out below.
Matching Shares
Executive Directors are also eligible to receive awards of matching
shares that are based on a personal investment in National Express
Group shares funded either through a personal investment (for
example using an annual bonus award) or through pledging of shares
already held. The maximum “investment/pledge” is 30% of gross salary
per annum. Matching awards are based on the ratio of 100 shares for
every 30 shares purchased. This is a two for one ratio on a gross of
income tax basis. Matching share awards are also conditional on the
performance conditions set out below.
If a participant ceases employment before vesting for a “compassionate”
reason (eg redundancy, retirement, sale of business out of the company’s
group) his awards will ordinarily vest. The extent of vesting will be
determined by the pro-rata application of the performance conditions
up to the date of cessation unless the Committee determines that it
would be inappropriate to apply a pro-rata reduction. Awards lapse on
cessation of employment for any other reason.
Performance Conditions
There are two distinct performance conditions applying to each
award. First, the performance condition attached to one-half of an
award (Part ‘A’) is based on the Company’s normalised diluted
earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth performance in excess of inflation
over a fixed three year period (three financial years commencing with
the financial year in which the award is made). The performance
condition attached to the other half of an award (Part ‘B’) is based on
the Company’s total shareholder return performance over the same
fixed three year period relative to the total shareholder return of a
comparator group of over 20 transport companies taken
predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE
Travel & Leisure sectors. The companies comprising the comparator
group have been chosen on the basis of their comparability to
National Express Group (based on their size and scope of business
operations). There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
For the awards made in 2005 Parts A and B will vest in accordance
with the tables below:
Average annual growth in the 
Company’s normalised diluted
EPS in excess of inflation (‘CPI’) Percentage of Part A that vests
Less than 3% 0%
3% 30%
6% 100%
Between 3% and 6% 30% – 100% pro-rata
Note: CPI is a weighted measure of inflation calculated to reflect the scope of the
Group’s international operations and is currently based two-thirds on UK CPI and
one-third on US CPI.
Rank of the Company’s Total Shareholder 
Return against a Comparator Group Percentage of Part B that vests
Below median 0%
Median 30%
20th percentile 100%
Between median and 20th percentile 30% and 100% – pro-rata
EPS and TSR were chosen for the LTIP as the most appropriate
measures of National Express’s long term performance since EPS
remains an important growth measure and driver and TSR improves
shareholder alignment and is consistent with Company objectives of
providing long term returns to shareholders.
(b) Executive share options – plan discontinued
The Executive Share Option Plan has been used on an annual basis
to grant options to Executive Directors and senior executives in the
Group. Following a review in 2004 of incentives provided to senior
management the Remuneration Committee recommended that the
executive share option grant should be replaced by an annual award
made under the long term incentive plan described above. The last
grant of executive share options was made in 2004. Executive share
options are normally exercisable between three and ten years
following its grant, but only if the specified performance condition has
been satisfied. There are a limited set of circumstances, such as leaving
employment due to injury, disability or redundancy, when performance
conditions will not apply to the exercise of an option.
The performance conditions that apply to existing executive share
option grants are shown below.
Performance conditions attaching to the grant of executive
share options to Executive Directors made in 2004
Value of option grant Compound normalised 
as a percentage diluted EPS growth
Tier of option grant of salary target per annum
1 Up to 50% RPI plus 4%
2 51-100% RPI plus 5%
3 101-150% RPI plus 6%
4 151-200% RPI plus 10%
Straight-line vesting of options will occur if normalised EPS growth falls between the
above targets. To the extent that the performance condition is not met in full over
years 0-3 the option will lapse and there will be no re-testing.
Performance conditions attaching to the grant of executive
share options to Executive Directors in 2002 and 2003
Value of option grant Compound normalised 
as a percentage diluted EPS growth
Tier of option grant of salary target per annum
1 Up to 50% RPI plus 4%
2 51-100% RPI plus 6%
3 101-150% RPI plus 8%
4 151-200% RPI plus 10%
Straight-line vesting of options will occur if normalised EPS growth falls between the 
above targets. In relation to Tier 1 and 2 awards, if the performance condition is not
met in full over years 0-3, performance can be retested annually over years 0-4 and
0-5 (but measured from a fixed base of the financial year immediately prior to grant).
To the extent that the performance condition is not met in full by then, the option
will lapse. There will be no opportunity to retest Tier 3 and Tier 4 grants.
No variations were made to the terms and conditions or performance
targets of any existing awards of share options during the year.
(c) Savings Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave Scheme) 
The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave
Scheme which is open to all UK employees, including the Executive
Directors, who have completed at least six months’ service at the date
of grant. The options are exercisable after three years at a discount of
10% of the market value of the shares at the time of grant.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration 36
Performance criteria
The Committee believes that budgeted profit and/or earnings per share
(EPS) growth as performance measures for the discretionary bonus
scheme and long term incentives provide a transparent and accessible
method of gauging the performance of the Company. The Company
calculates performance against these performance measures by reference
to the profit or earnings per share figures appearing in the Company’s
audited accounts, which the Company believes to be the most transparent
and objective measure of the Company’s profit or earnings per share. The
Committee also monitors the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
against both the Transport All-Share Index as a measure against its peer
group and the FTSE Mid 250 Index, representing a broad equity market
index of which the Company is a constituent member. For 2005 the
Company has used TSR as a second performance measure for the long
term incentives of Executive Directors as outlined above.
The following graphs show a comparison of National Express Group PLC
total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the Transport
All-Share Index and the FTSE Mid 250 Index. These graphs have been
selected because the Company is a constituent of each index and the
Committee, therefore, feels that these are the most appropriate indices
to represent the Company’s relative performance.
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
Executive Directors
The service contract of Phil White is dated 21 May 2003 and the service
contracts of Ray O’Toole and Adam Walker are dated 11 September
2003. These contracts are terminable on 12 months’ notice from the
Company and six months’ notice from the Director, thereby reflecting
market practice and the balance that should be struck between providing
contractual protection to the Directors that is fair and the interests of
shareholders. The service contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the
option of the Company, to pay an amount on early termination of
employment equal, in the case of Ray O’Toole and Adam Walker, to one
year’s salary and in the case of Phil White, one year’s salary and benefits.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the
speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such
clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the
circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant director justify
their use. The service contracts of Ray O’Toole and Adam Walker have a
further provision that, where the Company initiates a termination, other
than for cause, within six months of a change of control taking place, the
Company will exercise its option to make a payment in lieu of notice of
an amount equal to the salary and benefits that the Director would have
received during the notice period. In any event the Committee’s policy
is that payments to Directors on termination should reflect the
circumstances that prevail at the time, also taking account of the Director’s
duty to mitigate if appropriate.
Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required
before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive
Director.
Non Executive Directors
The Non Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the
Company but are appointed for fixed three-year terms. All Directors are
required to stand at least once every three years for re-appointment by
shareholders. The appointment dates of the Non Executive Directors are:
Jorge Cosmen – 1 December 2005
Sir Andrew Foster – 1 August 2004
Barry Gibson – 17 November 1999
Sue Lyons – 23 May 2001
David Ross – 1 February 2001 
Tim Score – 21 February 2005
Senior Executive Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of senior
executives within the group. The salaries of this group of employees by
band are as follows:
Number of Executives
Salary Band 2005
£150,001 – £200,000 4
£100,001 – £150,000 22
£70,000 – £100,000 53
Report on Directors’ Remuneration
National Express Group FTSE All-Share Transport Sector Index
160
120
80
40
0
31-Dec 00 31-Dec 01 31-Dec 02 31-Dec 03 31-Dec 04 31-Dec 05
Value (£)
Total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share Transport Index
Graph 1 looks at the value, by end of 2005, of £100 invested in National Express
Group on 31 December 2000 compared with £100 invested in the FTSE All-Share
Transport Sector Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening
financial year-ends.
National Express Group FTSE Mid 250 Index
160
120
80
40
0
31-Dec 00 31-Dec 01 31-Dec 02 31-Dec 03 31-Dec 04 31-Dec 05
Value (£)
Total shareholder return versus FTSE Mid 250 Index
Graph 2 looks at the value, by the end of 2005, of £100 invested in National 
Express Group on 31 December 2000 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE Mid 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening 
financial year-ends 37
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT: DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ emoluments
Performance
related T otal T otal
Salary/fees bonus Benefits
1
2005
2
2004
2
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Phil White 450 337 223 1,010 991
Ray O’Toole 325 179 24 528 560
Adam Walker 300 166 23 489 468
Non Executive Directors
David Ross (Chairman) 150
3
–– 150 112
Jorge Cosmen 3 3 –
Sir Andrew Foster 35 35 15
Barry Gibson 41 – – 41 40
Sue Lyons 40 40 40
Tim Score (appointed 21 Feb 2005) 34 – – 34 –
Former Non Executive Director
Tim Stevenson (resigned 21 September 2005) 34 – – 34 45
1 Benefits in kind include a company car, fuel and health insurance and pension contributions payable above the earnings cap to Phil White of £182,272.
2 Total remuneration excludes pension contributions which are shown below.
3 David Ross has elected to take his Chairman’s fees as National Express Group shares.
PENSIONS
Pension benefits earned by Directors in the year to 31 December 2005 from both the approved and unapproved plans were:
Movement
in transfer Employer
Accrued Increase Accrued value during contribution to
benefit in period Transfer value benefit Transfer value Transfer value period less defined
at 1 Jan (net of of increase at 31 Dec at 1 Jan at 31 Dec director’s contribution
2005 indexation) in period 2005 2005 2005 contributions plan
Age NRA+ £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Ray O’T oole 50 60 20.9 7.0 86.4 28.5 229.3 351.8 109.6 –
Adam Walker 38 60 15.9 8.4 60.8 24.8 98.7 179.3 65.1 –
Phil White 56 62 – – – – – – – 42.7
+ Normal Retirement Age
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
Directors’ interests and transactions
The beneficial and non beneficial interests of the Directors in office as at 31 December 2005 are shown below:
At
31 December At Change from
2005 1 January 31 December 
or date 2004 or on 2005 to 
of leaving appointment 7 March 2006
Executive Directors
Ray O’T oole 19,236 14,500 –
Adam Walker 9,700 5,300 –
Phil White 165,408 165,408 –
Non Executive Directors
Jorge Cosmen (appointed 1 December 2005) 18,506,130 15,665,329 18,997,483
Sir Andrew Foster –––
Barry Gibson 3,000 3,000 –
Sue Lyons 2,072 2,072 –
David Ross 634,926 603,393 636,666
Tim Score (appointed 21 February 2005) – – –
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has also determined that the Executive
Directors should build up a share fund equal to at least one year’s salary over a period of five years.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration
  38
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION AWARDS
Market
At During year At price Date
1 Jan 31 Dec Option at date of from which Expiry
Note 2005 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2005 price exercise exercisable date
Phil White
(i) 12,870 – 12,870 – – 540.0p 888.0p 27.04.03 27.04.10
(ii) 5,128 – – – 5,128 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 97,436 – – 34,188 63,248 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 169,598 – – – 169,598 398.0p – 18.03.06 18.03.13
(iii) 132,159 – – – 132,159 681.0p – 12.05.07 12.05.14
Ray O’Toole
(i) 8,415 – 8,415 – – 540.0p 888.0p 27.04.03 27.04.10
(ii) 5,128 – – – 5,128 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 62,820 – – 22,649 40,171 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 113,065 ––– 113,065 398.0p – 18.03.06 18.03.13
(iii) 92,511 – – – 92,511 681.0p – 12.05.07 12.05.14
(iv) 453 – 453 – – 417.0p 922.0p 01.12.05 01.06.06
Adam Walker
(ii) 5,128 – – – 5,128 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 14,530 – – – 14,530 585.0p* – 05.07.05 05.07.12
(iii) 75,377 – – – 75,377 398.0p – 18.03.06 18.03.13
(iii) 76,358 – – – 76,358 681.0p – 12.05.07 12.05.14
(iv) 453 – – – 453 417.0p – 01.12.05 01.06.06
Notes
(i) Options granted under the 1996 National Express Group Executive Share Option Scheme
(ii) Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 1 Approved
(iii) Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 2 Unapproved
(iv) Options granted under the National Express Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme
* Performance hurdle not yet passed as at 31 December 2005
Report on Directors’ Remuneration 39
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) AWARDS
In 2005 performance shares of 1 x salary were awarded to Executive Directors as nil cost options under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). In addition
100 matching shares were awarded for every 30 investment shares pledged or invested by the Director under the share matching element of the LTIP .
Further details of the LTIP and the applicable performance conditions are shown on page 35.
Market Market
LTIP At During year At price price Date
Share 1 Jan 31 Dec on date of on date of from which Expiry
Awards 2005 Awarded Exercised Lapsed 2005 award exercise exercisable date
Phil White
Performance Shares – 48,859 – – 48,859 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Matching Shares – 116,580 – – 116,580 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Ray O’Toole
Performance Shares – 35,287 – – 35,287 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Matching Shares – 56,613 – – 56,613 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Adam Walker
Performance Shares – 32,573 – – 32,573 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Matching Shares – 32,333 – – 32,333 921.0p – 27.06.08 27.12.08
Note: For the purposes of the EPS performance conditions, CPI has been calculated to have been 2.5% during the year ending 31 December 2005.
In addition to their individual interests in shares the Executive Directors were, for Companies Act purposes, regarded as interested in the 340,055 shares
held at 7 March 2006 by the National Express Group Employee Benefit Trust in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Register of Directors’ Interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors’ holdings of shares and options over shares in
the Company. The aggregate gain between the option price and market price on date of exercise of share options by the Directors during the year
was £76,359.
The mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 866.25p (2004: 825.5p) and the range during the year ended 
31 December 2005 was 741.27p to 937p.
By Order of the Board
J M B Gibson
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
9 March 2006
Report on Directors’ Remuneration 40
We have audited the group financial statements of National Express
Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the
Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow
Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and
the related notes 1 to 40. These group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements
of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.We also report
to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the
group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.We are not
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control
cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements. The
other information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief
Executive’s Statement, the Financial Review, the Corporate Governance
Statement, the Statement of Director’s Responsibilities, the unaudited part
of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and the Directors’ Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
group financial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion the group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
European Union, of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December
2005 and of its profit for the year then ended; and
• have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
9 March 2006
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders
of National Express Group PLC 41
Total before Total before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
impairment, impairment, impairment, impairment,
intangible intangible intangible intangible
amortisation & amortisation & amortisation & amortisation &
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items T otal items items T otal
2005 2005 2005 2004* 2004* 2004*
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing Operations
Revenue 4 2,216.0 – 2,216.0 2,354.5 – 2,354.5
Operating costs before goodwill impairment,
intangible amortisation & exceptional items (2,060.5) – (2,060.5) (2,211.2) – (2,211.2)
UK Trains goodwill impairment 5 – (33.3) (33.3) – (33.3) (33.3)
Intangible amortisation 5 – (4.9) (4.9) – (2.4) (2.4)
Exceptional items 5 – (7.8) (7.8) – (7.7) (7.7)
Total operating costs (2,060.5) (46.0) (2,106.5) (2,211.2) (43.4) (2,254.6)
Group operating profit 155.5 (46.0) 109.5 143.3 (43.4) 99.9
Loss on disposal of non-current assets ––– – (0.9) (0.9)
Profit from operations 155.5 (46.0) 109.5 143.3 (44.3) 99.0
Share of post tax results from associates and joint 
ventures accounted for using the equity method (8.8) – (8.8) (3.4) – (3.4)
Finance income 9 10.8 – 10.8 13.2 – 13.2
Finance costs 9 (22.2) – (22.2) (30.9) – (30.9)
Profit before tax 135.3 (46.0) 89.3 122.2 (44.3) 77.9
Tax expense 10 (29.5) 2.0 (27.5) (26.4) 3.6 (22.8)
Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 105.8 (44.0) 61.8 95.8 (40.7) 55.1
(Loss)/profit for the year from 
discontinued operations 11 3.8 (68.3) (64.5) 9.3 (5.8) 3.5
(Loss)/profit for the year 109.6 (112.3) (2.7) 105.1 (46.5) 58.6
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders 109.5 (112.3) (2.8) 106.1 (43.9) 62.2
Profit/(loss) attributable to minority interests 0.1 – 0.1 (1.0) (2.6) (3.6)
109.6 (112.3) (2.7) 105.1 (46.5) 58.6
(Loss)/earnings per share:
– basic (loss)/earnings per share 13 (2.0p) 45.7p
– diluted (loss)/earnings per share 13 (2.0p) 45.0p
Earnings per share from continuing operations:
– basic earnings per share 13 45.2p 40.5p
– diluted earnings per share 13 44.5p 39.9p
* Results are restated for the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards. See note 40.
Dividends of £41.6m were paid during the year (2004: £36.4m). Dividends of £47.0m were proposed for approval during the year (2004: £40.9m).
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005 42
2005 2004*
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 719.4 352.8
Property, plant and equipment 15 507.2 333.5
Investment property 16 – –
Financial assets – Other investments 18 11.4 10.2
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 18 0.6 –
Investments accounted for using the equity method 19 4.8 –
Other receivables 21 26.2 30.5
Deferred tax asset 28 23.0 18.3
1,292.6 745.3
Current assets
Inventories 22 18.7 16.1
Trade and other receivables 23 301.8 301.8
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 18 6.7 –
Current tax assets 11.3 –
Cash and cash equivalents 24 145.5 143.1
484.0 461.0
Disposal group assets classified as held for sale 11 – 33.8
Total assets 1,776.6 1,240.1
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 29 (495.5) (251.8)
– Derivative financial instruments 29 (8.3) –
Deferred tax liability 28 (27.1) (4.5)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (6.1) (3.0)
Defined benefit pension liability 36 (88.8) (65.7)
Provisions 27 (41.3) (36.4)
(667.1) (361.4)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 25 (533.1) (514.5)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 29 (214.4) (30.3)
– Derivative financial instruments 29 (13.4) –
Current tax liabilities (24.0) (36.8)
Provisions 27 (12.3) (23.4)
(797.2) (605.0)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale 11 – (6.9)
Total liabilities (1,464.3) (973.3)
Net assets 312.3 266.8
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 33 7.5 7.0
Share premium account 34 174.2 47.5
Capital redemption reserve 34 0.2 –
Own shares 34 (5.1) (5.1)
Other reserves 35 24.5 13.3
Retained earnings 34 108.1 203.2
Total shareholders’ equity 309.4 265.9
Minority interest in equity 2.9 0.9
Total equity 312.3 266.8
* Results are restated for the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards. See note 40.
P M White Chief Executive
A C Walker Finance Director
9 March 2006
Group Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2005 43
2005 2004*
Note £m £m
Cash generated from operations 39 181.1 254.1
Tax paid (26.7) (3.2)
Net cash from operating activities 154.4 250.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired (218.8) 12.6
Deferred consideration for businesses acquired (0.3) (4.5)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (61.7) (69.2)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.1 18.8
Payments in respect of businesses disposed – (1.5)
Receipts from disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 71.3 24.7
Interest received 10.8 13.1
Receipts from sale of shares for employee schemes 3.5 0.1
Net cash used in investing activities (187.1) (5.9)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 4.9 2.5
Purchase of own shares (3.5) –
Share buy back (25.8) –
Interest paid (32.6) (31.6)
Repayment of maintenance bond at ScotRail – (18.7)
Finance lease principal payments (20.0) (15.8)
Repayment of loan notes (6.7) (0.9)
Loans advanced/(repaid) 148.1 (93.1)
Dividends paid (41.6) (36.4)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 22.8 (194.0)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (9.9) 51.0
Opening cash and cash equivalents 24 147.2 96.8
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (9.9) 51.0
Foreign exchange 2.7 (0.6)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 24 140.0 147.2
* Results are restated for the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards. See note 40.
Group Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2005 44
2005 2004*
Note £m £m
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 50.3 (28.0)
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign currency borrowings (45.5) 29.8
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans 36 (32.0) (2.3)
Gains on cash flow hedges taken to equity 14.5 –
(12.7) (0.5)
Transfers to the income statement
Exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations 1.5 –
On cash flow hedges (9.4) –
(7.9) –
Tax on exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 7.1 (4.1)
Deferred tax on share based payments 1.4 0.8
Deferred tax on actuarial gains/(losses) 9.0 (0.2)
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (1.4) –
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 16.1 (3.5)
Net losses recognised directly in equity (4.5) (4.0)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (2.8) 62.2
Profit/(loss) attributable to minority interests 0.1 (3.6)
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year (7.2) 54.6
(Expense)/income attributable to equity shareholders (7.3) 58.4
Income/(expense) attributable to minority interests 0.1 (3.8)
(7.2) 54.6
Effects of changes in accounting policy:
Equity shareholders:
Net loss on hedges on first-time adoption of IAS 39 (18.4) –
Tax recognised on hedges on first-time adoption of IAS 39 5.6 –
(12.8) –
* Results are restated for the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards. See note 40.
Group Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005 45
1 CORPORATE INFORMATION
The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised for issue in accordance with
a resolution of the directors on 9 March 2006 and the balance sheets were signed on the board’s behalf by PM White and AC Walker. National
Express Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Operating Review and the Financial Review that accompany these accounts.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement of compliance
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee’s (“IFRIC”) interpretations as adopted by the European Union (“EU”), and with those parts of the Companies
Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1
‘Presentation of Financial Information’ except in extremely rare circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading
that it would conflict with the objective to ‘present fairly’ its accounts. On this basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19,
‘Employee Benefits’ and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme (“RPS”) under the terms of its
UK rail franchise agreements. Details of the background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 36, including the impact on the Group’s
reported financial performance and position of adopting this accounting treatment as required by IAS 1. The Company has taken advantage of the
exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation
As a company registered and listed in an EU country, National Express Group PLC has been required to adopt IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2005 represent the Group’s first annual report and accounts prepared in accordance with its accounting
policies under IFRS. Previously the Group reported under UK generally accepted accounting policies (“UK GAAP”). UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations
of equity for 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004, and of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 are summarised in note 40.
As noted above, the Group has taken the extremely rare decision to depart from the requirement of IAS 19 ‘Retirement Benefits’ so as to present
fairly its financial performance, position and cash flows in respect of its obligation for the RPS. The details of this departure and impact on the
Group’s accounts are set out in note 36.
A summary of the Group’s accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out below. The most
significant accounting policy changes arising on the transition to IFRS, along with the policies applied on the transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 are
set out in note 40.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets (including goodwill) and measurement of
defined benefit pension obligations. The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of
future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate. The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired on an
annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated. This requires
estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate (see note 14). Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires
estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount
rate (see note 36).
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand (£0.1m) except where
otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in full.
On acquisition of a business, the acquisition method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and
businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed. Purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair
value at the date of acquisition. On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Notes to the Accounts 46
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Basis of consolidation (continued)
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately from
parent shareholders’ equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures
The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures which take the form of agreements to
share control of other entities.
The Group recognises its interest in the entity’s assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting. The Group balance sheet includes the
appropriate share of these joint ventures’ net assets and the income statement an appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group and where necessary adjustments are made to
bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. Adjustments are also made in the Group’s accounts to eliminate the Group’s share of
unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities. The Group ceases to use the equity method from
the date it no longer has joint control over, or significant influence in, the joint venture.
Interests in associates
Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and
over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates. The Group accounts include the appropriate share of these associates’ results and
reserves based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
Revenue recognition
Rendering of services
Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services, airport operations and related activities in the UK, North
America and Europe.Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customer’s travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a
proportion of total services to be provided.
UK Trains revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies (“TOCs”), based principally on agreed models of route usage, by
Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of passenger receipts. In
addition, franchise agreement receipts from the Strategic Rail Authority (“SRA”), the Department for Transport Rail Division (“DfT Rail”) and local
Passenger Transport Executives (“PTEs”) are treated as revenue. Franchise agreement payments to the SRA/ DfT Rail are recognised in operating
costs. UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales. UK Bus and European Coach & Bus (Alsa) revenue comprises
amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is
recognised as the services are provided. The attributable share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the
income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard. North American Bus revenue from local authorities and similar contracts
is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest income
Revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method.
Government grants
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in non-current liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the
income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned. Other grants are credited to the income statement as the related
expenditure is expensed.
Segmental reporting
Each of the Group’s business and geographical segments provide services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the
other business segments. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations the distinct business segments align directly with distinct geographical
segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Group’s segments comprise: UK Buses; UK Coaches; UK Trains; North American Bus; European Coach & Bus (Alsa); and Central functions. These
segments are described in more detail in the Operating Review and the Financial Review accompanying these accounts. Operations in our North
America – Public Transit segment and our Australia Bus segment were discontinued in 2005 and 2004 respectively. The assets of the operations are
disclosed in ‘disposal group assets classified as held for sale’ and liabilities disclosed in ‘liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified
as held for sale’ reflecting the fact that the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale and not through continuing use.
Notes to the Accounts 47
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are
capitalised in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property
or the present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is
included as a liability in the balance sheet. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases
are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified
as operating leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the term of lease.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred in accordance with the benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23,‘Borrowing
Costs’.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face
of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years. Exceptional items
include, but are not restricted to, reorganisation, redundancy and start-up costs for significant contracts.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other property, plant and equipment
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings – 30 to 50 years
Long leasehold property improvements – 15 to 40 years
Public service vehicles – 8 to 15 years
Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings – 3 to 15 years
The carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
current carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual values are
reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income
statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of
derecognition.
Investment property
Any of the Group’s properties that are surplus to requirements are classified as investment properties, being held for long-term investment to earn
rental income.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, and subsequently remeasured to fair value, reflecting market conditions at the balance sheet
date. Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair values of investment properties are included in the income statement as they arise.
Notes to the Accounts 48
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of
acquisition. Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied to intangible assets.Where amortisation is charged on finite life assets, this
expense is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
Finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Customer contracts – over the life of the contract (between 1 and 5 years)
Right to operate TOC franchises – over the life of the franchise (between 1 and 7 years)
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and the useful lives of finite assets are examined on an annual basis and
adjustments, where applicable, made on a prospective basis. Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Group’s indefinite life intangible assets include customer relationships and goodwill. Customer relationship intangible assets are recognised only
on contracts which are presumed to automatically be renewed, based on historical experience of the market in which the contract operates.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated
impairment in value. If an acquisition gives rise to negative goodwill this is credited directly to the consolidated income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3,‘Business Combinations’, goodwill is not amortised. All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an
impairment charge recognised as required. The net book value of goodwill that was capitalised in the restated balance sheets at both 1 January 2004
(the date of transition to IFRS) and 31 December 2004 has been tested for impairment.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one
year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post
acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed the associated goodwill is included in the carrying
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Impairment of non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, financial assets and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are
reviewed annually. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount
which is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the
lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in
expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
A review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased. If such
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a
change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount
of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the asset’s net book value, had no previous impairment loss been recognised. Such reversal is
recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
Future amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Financial assets
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each year end. When financial
assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value. As explained in note 40 the Group followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to
adopt IAS 32,‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39,‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ from 1 January 2005.
Prior to 1 January 2005 the Group held investments at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
Notes to the Accounts 49
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Financial assets (continued)
Held to maturity investments
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments are classified here when the Group has the intention and ability to hold to
maturity. These financial assets are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income
statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired as well as through amortisation.
Loans and receivables
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have
not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost. Gains and losses are
recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well as through amortisation.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified in any of the other categories.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the
investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included
in the income statement.
Fair values
Where there is no active market for the Group’s financial assets, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial
transactions and discounted cash flow analyses. Otherwise assets are carried at amortised cost.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. Doubtful debts
are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
Pre-contract costs
Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred except where it is virtually certain that a franchise will be
awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the income statement over the life of the franchise. Costs associated
with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term
investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance
sheet cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash
equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities. All are carried on the balance sheet at cost.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received. After initial recognition, interest-bearing
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of
resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is
material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The
amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is
recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group’s policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses. To provide protection above these types of losses the Group
purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers. The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the
year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall stop loss within the Group’s
insurance arrangements. The majority of provisions will be utilised within six years, and the provision has been discounted to take account of the
expected timing of future cash settlements.
Notes to the Accounts 50
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature. Full details are provided in note 36
including the departure from IAS 19 required for the Group’s RPS obligations as outlined in the Statement of Compliance.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the total for each scheme of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the
obligation is updated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for financial reporting purposes. The present value of
the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity
equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the
income statement. Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period. The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities
comprise the finance element of the pension cost and are also included in operating costs. In accordance with the amendment to IAS 19, actuarial
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and amendments to pension plans are charged or credited to
the statement of recognised income or expense in the period in which they arise.
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK Rail industry. This is partitioned into sections and the
Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most
businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. A liability is recognised in
line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit
that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term. This represents a departure from IAS 19 so as to present fairly the Group’s financial
performance, position and cash flow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay
further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service
in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payments
The Group applied the requirements of IFRS 2,‘Share-based Payment’ with effect from 1 January 2004. In accordance with the transitional provisions,
IFRS 2 has been applied to all equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the
date of grant including market based performance conditions. Fair value is determined by an external valuer using the stochastic model. Non-market
based performance related vesting conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value; instead those non-market conditions are
taken into account in calculating the current best estimate of the number of shares that will vest. At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the
cumulative expense is calculated based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, and the movement in cumulative
expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Share capital, share premium and dividends
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.Where the Company purchases the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any
transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders’ equity as Own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.Where employee share trusts
purchase the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders’ equity as
Own shares until they are issued. Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders’ equity.
Dividends are recorded as a liability in the period in which the liability to pay shareholders arises.
Current tax and deferred tax
Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local rates applicable where the profits are earned. Income taxes relating to items
recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, in respect of all material temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, (except on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill
and in respect of investment in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future). Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected
to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.
Notes to the Accounts 51
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Current tax and deferred tax (continued)
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable profits from which
the future reversal of underlying temporary differences can be deducted. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the
same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is recognised directly in equity if the underlying transaction giving rise to the temporary difference is recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currencies
The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling, the presentation currency
of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange
rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange
ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity. On disposal of a foreign currency
denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve (since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of
IFRS 1) relating to that entity are recognised in the income statement. All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, with the
exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to finance or provide a hedge
against Group net investments in foreign enterprises. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they
are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 and the accounting policy after 1 January 2005 is as follows:
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps to
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at
fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet. The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts,
interest rate and fuel price swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement. The gains or losses deferred
in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment
is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency forward currency contracts are used to hedge our net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent
they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that date any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, or
transferred to the income statement if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
The accounting policy applied prior to 1 January 2005 is as follows:
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate exposures and fuel swaps to hedge fuel price exposures. The Group considers that these
derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met. The Group’s criteria for these swaps are that the instrument must
be related to an asset, liability or future obligation and it must change the character of the interest rate or fuel price by converting a variable rate to
a fixed rate or vice versa. These swaps are not revalued to fair value or included in the Group balance sheet at the period end.
New standards adopted early
The Group has implemented the following standards earlier than required and restated the prior year comparatives in line with them:
IAS 19 Amendment (EU adopted) – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
Notes to the Accounts 52
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these accounts:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4) 1 January 2006
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 – Transition and Initial Recognition of 1 January 2006
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Day 1 profits)
IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
Upon adoption of IFRS 7 the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail although
there will be no effect on reported income or net assets. Apart from this the Directors do not anticipate the adoption of these standards and
interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s accounts in the period of initial application.
3 EXCHANGE RATES
The most significant exchange rates to the pound for the Group are as follows:
2005 2005 2004 2004
Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate
US dollar 1.72 1.82 1.92 1.84
Canadian dollar 2.00 2.20 2.31 2.38
Euro 1.45 1.47 n/a n/a
Australian dollar 2.35 2.39 2.45 2.48
The 2005 average rate for Euros reflects the average rate since the Alsa acquisition.
If the results for the year to 31 December 2004 were retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2005, North
America would have achieved normalised operating profit of £29.9m on revenue of £215.5m, compared to normalised operating profit of £29.6m
on revenue of £213.2m as reported (note 5).
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for
goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional
items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
4 REVENUE
2005 2004
£m £m
Rendering of services 2,208.8 2,346.0
Rental income 7.2 8.5
Revenue 2,216.0 2,354.5
Finance income 10.8 13.2
Total revenue 2,226.8 2,367.7
During the year, franchise agreement receipts from the SRA/ DfT Rail and PTEs amounted to £337.0m (2004: £497.0m) in UK Trains.
Notes to the Accounts 53
5 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the geographical market they operate in and the nature of the public
transport services they provide. Due to the nature of the services the Group provides the primary and secondary segments coincide. Commentary
on the segments is included in the Operating Review and the Financial Review.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for
goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional
items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
Analysis by class and geography of business
External Inter-segment Segment External Inter-segment Segment
revenue sales revenue revenue sales revenue
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK Bus 268.6 – 268.6 239.8 – 239.8
UK Trains 1,497.2 – 1,497.2 1,712.1 – 1,712.1
UK Coach 190.2 10.3 200.5 189.4 6.2 195.6
Inter-segment sales elimination – (10.3) (10.3) – (6.2) (6.2)
UK operations 1,956.0 – 1,956.0 2,141.3 – 2,141.3
North American Bus 241.8 – 241.8 213.2 – 213.2
European Coach & Bus (Alsa) 18.2 – 18.2 – ––
Revenue from continuing operations 2,216.0 – 2,216.0 2,354.5 – 2,354.5
Discontinued operations 100.8 – 100.8 214.5 – 214.5
Total revenue 2,316.8 – 2,316.8 2,569.0 – 2,569.0
Inter-segment sales represent rail replacement services provided to UK Trains by UK Bus and UK Coach. Inter-segment trading is undertaken on
standard arm’s length commercial terms. Due to the nature of the Group’s businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
Notes to the Accounts 54
5 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS (continued)
Continuing Discontinuing Continuing Discontinuing
Goodwill Goodwill 
impairment, impairment,
intangible intangible 
Normalised amortisation & Normalised amortisation &
operating exceptional Segment Segment operating exceptional Segment Segment
profit items result result profit items result result
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK Bus 41.5 (2.4) 39.1 41.6 (0.4) 41.2
UK Trains 64.2 (39.2) 25.0 61.3 (42.4) 18.9
UK Coach 21.5 – 21.5 19.3 – 19.3
UK operations 127.2 (41.6) 85.6 122.2 (42.8) 79.4
North American Bus 35.0 (4.4) 30.6 29.6 (0.6) 29.0
European Coach 
& Bus (Alsa) 2.6 – 2.6 –––
Central functions (9.3) – (9.3) (8.5) – (8.5)
Result from continuing 
operations 155.5 (46.0) 109.5 143.3 (43.4) 99.9
Result from discontinued 
operations (56.4) (7.3)
Total result 109.5 (56.4) 99.9 (7.3)
(Loss)/profit on disposal 
of non–current assets –– (0.9) 0.8
Profit from operations 109.5 (56.4) 99.0 (6.5)
Share of post tax results 
from associates (8.8) – (3.4) –
(Loss)/gain on sale of 
discontinued operations (6.6) 8.9
Cumulative exchange 
differences transferred 
from reserves (1.5) –
Net finance costs (11.4) (0.2) (17.7) (0.4)
Profit before tax 89.3 (64.7) 77.9 2.0
Tax (expense)/credit (27.5) 0.2 (22.8) 1.5
Profit/(loss) for the year 61.8 (64.5) 55.1 3.5
Exceptional items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of
the financial performance achieved by the Group and in making projections of future results.
Notes to the Accounts 55
5 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS (continued)
Goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairment and exceptional items can be analysed by class and
geography of business as follows:
Intangible Property, plant & Total 
Goodwill asset equipment Exceptional other 
impairment amortisation impairment items items
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
UK Bus – 0.9 – 1.5 2.4
UK Trains 33.3 2.4 – 3.5 39.2
North American Bus – 1.6 – 2.8 4.4
Total continuing operations 33.3 4.9 – 7.8 46.0
Discontinued operations 60.0 – – 0.2 60.2
T otal 93.3 4.9 – 8.0 106.2
Intangible Property, plant T otal 
Goodwill asset & equipment Exceptional other 
impairment amortisation impairment items items
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
UK Bus – – – 0.4 0.4
UK Trains 33.3 1.9 – 7.2 42.4
North American Bus – 0.5 – 0.1 0.6
Total continuing operations 33.3 2.4 – 7.7 43.4
Discontinued operations 10.6 – 6.1 0.2 16.9
T otal 43.9 2.4 6.1 7.9 60.3
In the year to 31 December 2005 exceptional items were incurred in UK Bus for business reorganisation costs, in UK Trains for staff redundancy
programmes and business reorganisations and in North America in respect of the divisional head office relocation.
In the year to 31 December 2004 UK Trains exceptional items were incurred at ‘one’ (integration of the three legacy TOCs resulted in redundancy
charges and start up costs, together with the cost of the Competition Commission review), Qjump (redundancy, property and pension charges
following the merger with Trainline.com) and Maintrain (redundancy costs incurred as a result of the decision to cease tendering for external work
and focus on improving service to Central Trains and Midland Mainline). The balance of exceptional items comprised the cost of reorganisations at
UK Bus (£0.4m) and North America (£0.1m).
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure can be analysed by class and geography of business as follows:
Capital Capital
Assets Liabilities expenditure Assets Liabilities expenditure
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK Bus 203.0 (174.8) 46.8 150.4 (137.8) 32.2
UK Trains 290.5 (411.6) 28.3 348.6 (441.4) 25.4
UK Coach 48.1 (45.1) 10.1 44.3 (42.4) 4.8
Intercompany elimination (2.5) 2.5 – (0.7) 0.7 –
UK operations 539.1 (629.0) 85.2 542.6 (620.9) 62.4
North American Bus 473.9 (77.0) 34.7 469.3 (65.1) 23.7
European Coach & Bus (Alsa) 559.0 (63.5) 0.6 –––
Central functions 39.6 (55.7) 0.2 42.4 (36.7) 0.2
Unallocated 199.5 (673.6) – 172.6 (264.3) –
Intercompany elimination (34.5) 34.5 – (20.6) 20.6 –
Total continuing operations 1,776.6 (1,464.3) 120.7 1,206.3 (966.4) 86.3
(Liabilities directly associated with)/disposal 
group assets classified as held for sale – – 1.4 33.8 (6.9) 0.4
T otal 1,776.6 (1,464.3) 122.1 1,240.1 (973.3) 86.7
Capital expenditure comprises solely fixed asset additions as disclosed in note 15.
Notes to the Accounts 56
5 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS (continued)
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items:
Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated 
assets liabilities assets liabilities
2005 2005 2004 2004
£m£m £m£m
Cash 145.5 – 143.1 –
Other debt receivables 1.0 – 1.0 –
Current tax 11.3 (24.0) – (36.8)
Available for sale investments (Other investments) 11.4 – 10.2 –
Derivative financial assets/(liabilities) 7.3 (21.7) ––
Non finance lease borrowings – (600.8) – (223.0)
Deferred tax 23.0 (27.1) 18.3 (4.5)
T otal 199.5 (673.6) 172.6 (264.3)
Included within each segment’s result are the following non-cash charges:
Other Other 
Depreciation non-cash items Depreciation non-cash items
2005 2005 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m
UK Bus 12.2 2.0 10.4 0.7
UK Trains 15.4 35.1 21.9 28.5
UK Coach 5.3 (0.4) 5.9 0.2
UK operations 32.9 36.7 38.2 29.4
North American Bus 21.2 3.1 18.2 1.0
European Coach & Bus (Alsa) 0.9 – ––
Central functions 0.5 0.8 0.9 0.3
Total continuing operations 55.5 40.6 57.3 30.7
Discontinued operations 1.3 60.0 6.3 15.9
T otal 56.8 100.6 63.6 46.6
Other non-cash items include the following (credits)/charges:
2005 2004
£m £m
Amortisation of fixed asset grants (0.9) (6.5)
Amortisation of long-leasehold property prepayment 0.8 0.6
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2.0) (0.6)
Share based payments 3.6 0.6
Other non-cash items within normalised operating profit 1.5 (5.9)
Goodwill impairment 93.3 43.9
Property, plant and equipment impairment – 6.1
Intangible asset amortisation 4.9 2.4
Onerous contract provision in exceptional items 0.9 –
Loss on disposal of non-current assets – 0.1
Other non-cash items not in normalised operating profit 99.1 52.5
T otal 100.6 46.6
An operating cash flow by segment is included in the Financial Review.
Notes to the Accounts 57
6 OPERATING COSTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Materials and consumables 83.1 100.8
Staff costs (including exceptional items of £3.0m (2004: £2.5m)) 711.7 719.8
Depreciation – Owned assets 46.8 48.1
– Leased assets 8.7 9.2
Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.8 0.6
Amortisation of fixed asset grants (0.9) (6.5)
Operating lease charges Rolling stock: capital element 175.9 199.2
Rolling stock: non-capital element 76.7 90.1
Public service vehicles 8.9 8.6
Other 6.6 10.1
– Plant and equipment 268.1 308.0
Fixed track access 189.1 296.8
Other 82.4 80.5
– Land and buildings 271.5 377.3
Pre-contract bid costs: UK Trains 6.1 1.5
External charges (including exceptional items of £4.8m (2004: £5.2m)) 672.4 660.1
Operating costs before amortisation and impairment 2,068.3 2,218.9
UK Trains goodwill impairment 33.3 33.3
Intangible amortisation 4.9 2.4
Total operating costs – continuing operations 2,106.5 2,254.6
The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, stations and
depots). The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased. The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based on the
purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications, and the non-capital element of the lease charges includes heavy maintenance
charges, risk and charges based on mileage.
Operating costs include £73.1m (2004: £41.7m) of franchise agreement payments to the SRA/ DfT Rail.
Included within external charges are fees paid to our auditors in respect of audit services of £1.4m (2004: £0.9m). In addition, external charges
include fees paid to our auditors in respect of non-audit services of £0.2m (2004: £0.5m) in the UK and £0.1m (2004: £0.5m) overseas; £0.2m
(2004: £0.5m) of these non-audit fees were in respect of tax services. Fees of £1.2m (2004: £nil) were capitalised with respect to acquisitions.
Total depreciation of £1.3m (2004: £6.3m) not included above was charged as part of discontinued operations.
7 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS
(a) Staff costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 626.0 635.4
Social security costs 54.7 52.2
Pension costs (see note 36) 27.5 31.6
Expense of equity-settled share based payments (see note 8) 3.5 0.6
711.7 719.8
In addition, wages and salaries of £65.3m (2004: £128.0m), social security costs of £4.8m (2004: £8.8m), pension costs of £1.0m (2004: £3.7m) and
share based payments of £0.1m (2004: £nil) were incurred in discontinued operations.
The average number of employees, in continuing and discontinued operations and including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows:
2005 2004
Managerial and administrative 3,701 4,061
Operational 35,807 39,592
39,508 43,653
Included within wages and salaries are exceptional costs of £3.0m (2004: £1.5m), and included within pension costs are exceptional costs of £nil
(2004: £1.0m).
Notes to the Accounts 58
7 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS (continued)
(a) Staff costs (continued)
Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Group’s key management personnel who comprise the directors of the parent
company.
2005 2004
£m £m
Fees 0.3 0.3
Basic salaries 1.1 1.1
Benefits 0.3 0.3
Performance related bonuses 0.7 0.7
Pensions contributions 0.2 0.2
2.6 2.6
Information concerning Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration.
(b) Share schemes
(i) Executive Share Option Plan
The Company operates tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management
positions and executive directors. Options granted by this Plan have a maximum term of between seven and ten years. The options vest after
three years subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share. If the
performance criteria are not met when initially tested, in some instances they may be reassessed during the term of the option. From 2005
executive share option grants have been replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in (iii). There are no cash
settlement alternatives.
(ii) Savings Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave scheme)
The National Express Group approved Sharesave scheme enables eligible UK employees, including executive directors, to acquire shares in the
Company through monthly savings over a three year period, at the end of which they also receive a tax free bonus. The savings and bonus may
be used to purchase shares at the option price set at the beginning of the savings contract. The options mature three years after the grant date
and may be exercised for a period of up to six months after this date. The latest scheme matured on 1 December 2005. There are no cash
settlement alternatives.
(iii) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award of executive share
options to executive directors and the executive committee. Under the LTIP a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of shares for
free may be made to the employee. In addition a Matching Award may be made, as described in (iv). Performance conditions are attached to the
vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on the achievement of target growth in earnings per share and on the relative total
shareholder return (TSR) of the Company against a comparator group of companies. If the performance conditions are met Performance and
Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting
date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
(iv) Share Matching Plan (the Plan)
The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements described in (iii). Under the Plan a
Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares
which are then matched by the Company on either a 1:1 or 2:1 gross basis. The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant
date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
(v) Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan
The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees.
Under the scheme part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest
three years after the award date. The options must be exercised within three months of vesting. There are no cash settlement alternatives
at present.
(vi) West Midlands Travel Ltd (“WMT”) Long Service Option Scheme
The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995
and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years. The options are exercisable between three and ten years
following the grant date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
(vii)TWM Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”)
The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees. At the end of the year all the National Express Group PLC shares held for the benefit
of the Trustee were fully issued (2004: 206,411 unissued). Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived. There are no
cash settlement alternatives at present.
Notes to the Accounts 59
7 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS (continued)
(b) Share schemes (continued)
Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2005 under the share schemes outlined above are as follows:
Number of Number of 
share options share options Future
2005 2004 Exercise price exercise periods
Executive Share Option Plan 4,196,358 5,454,394 398p-1224p 2006-2014
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 120,323 1,580,826 417p 2006
Long Term Incentive Plan 559,485 – nil 2008-2009
Share Matching Plan 75,720 – nil 2008-2009
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme 81,094 11,002 nil 2007-2008
WMT Long Service Option Scheme 491,027 559,081 398p-1224p 2006-2015
5,524,007 7,605,303
8 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS 
The charge in respect of share based payment transactions included in the Group’s income statement for the year is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Expense arising from share and share option plans– continuing operations 3.5 0.6
– discontinued operations 0.1 –
3.6 0.6
During the year ended 31 December 2005, the Group had seven share based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7.
Included in the charge for share based payment transactions is £2.1m (2004: £nil) which relates to share options granted under the TWM SIP which
vested immediately. No charge has been included in respect of options granted in 2004 under the TWM SIP in accordance with the transitional
provisions in IFRS 2 as these options had vested as of 1 January 2005.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise
prices. The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted 
Number average Number average 
of share exercise of share exercise 
options price (p) options price (p)
Options without a nil exercise price:
At 1 January
1
7,594,301 587 8,238,485 568
Granted during the year 49,534 883 1,104,346 682
Lapsed during the year (979,569) 658 (1,111,156) 612
Exercised during the year (1,856,558) 471 (637,374) 470
Outstanding at 31 December
1
4,807,708 620 7,594,301 587
Exercisable at 31 December 1,632,374 786 2,218,870 807
Options without a nil exercise price:
At 1 January 11,002 nil ––
Granted during the year 711,271 nil 11,002 nil
Lapsed during the year (5,974) nil – –
Outstanding at 31 December 716,299 nil 11,002 nil
Exercisable at 31 December – – – –
Total outstanding at 31 December 5,524,007 7,605,303
Total exercisable at 31 December 1,632,374 2,218,870
1
Included within this balance are options over 2,360,125 (2004: 4,786,081) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with the transitional
provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
Notes to the Accounts 60
8 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
The options outstanding at 31 December 2005 had exercise prices that were between 398p and 1224p (2004: between 398p and 1224p) excluding
options with a nil exercise price. The range of exercise prices for options was as follows:
Exercise price (p) 2005 2004
350-650 2,640,007 4,799,146
650-950 1,870,461 2,446,435
950-1250 297,240 348,720
4,807,708 7,594,301
The options have a weighted average contractual life of 6 years (2004: 6 years). Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the
weighted average share price at exercise was 863p (2004: 702p).
The fair value of share options granted during the year under the TWM SIP was measured using the market price at the grant date. The weighted average
fair value of the remaining share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs:
Share options without Share options with 
nil exercise price nil exercise price
2005 2004 2005 2004
Risk free interest rate 4.3%-4.8% 4.7%-5.1% 4.8% 4.8%
Expected volatility 27.6%-28.0% 28.0% 25.0%-27.0% 29.0%
Expected option life in years 8 years 8 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 3.4% 3.7%-3.9% 3.3%-3.7% 3.9%
Weighted average share price 871p-888p 685p-716p 838p-906p 679p
Weighted average exercise price 875p-888p 681p-716p 0p 0p
Weighted average fair value of options granted 175p-183p 139p-149p 561p-821p 606p
Experience to date has shown that approximately 15% (2004: 15%) of options are exercised early, principally due to redundancies. This has been
incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historic volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not
considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward. The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the
12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP , the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 NET FINANCE COSTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Bank interest payable (16.3) (23.0)
Finance lease interest payable (4.7) (6.6)
Other interest payable (0.3) (0.5)
Unwind of insurance provision discounting (0.9) (0.8)
Finance costs (22.2) (30.9)
Finance income: Bank interest receivable 10.8 13.2
Net finance costs (11.4) (17.7)
Notes to the Accounts 61
10 TAXATION
(a) Analysis of taxation charge/(credit) in the year
2005 2004
£m £m
Current taxation:
UK corporation tax – continuing operations 19.5 22.2
Overseas taxation – continuing operations (1.2) 2.7
Overseas taxation – discontinued operations (0.2) (1.5)
Current income tax charge 18.1 23.4
Amounts overprovided in prior years – UK (9.5) (2.2)
Amounts overprovided in prior years – Overseas – (0.1)
Total current income tax 8.6 21.1
Deferred taxation (see note 28):
Origination and reversal of timing differences – continuing operations 18.7 0.2
Total tax charge 27.3 21.3
The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Income tax expense on continuing operations 27.5 22.8
Income tax credit on discontinued operations (0.2) (1.5)
27.3 21.3
The tax expense on continuing operations is disclosed as follows:
Tax charge on profit before goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items 29.5 26.4
Tax credit on goodwill impairment and exceptional items (2.0) (3.6)
27.5 22.8
(b) Tax on items charged to equity
2005 2004
£m £m
Current taxation:
Credit/(charge) on exchange movements offset in reserves 7.1 (4.1)
Deferred taxation:
Deferred tax credit on share based payments 1.4 0.8
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on actuarial losses 9.0 (0.2)
Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges (1.4) –
9.0 0.6
Notes to the Accounts 62
10 TAXATION (continued)
c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 89.3 77.9
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (64.7) 2.0
Accounting profit before income tax 24.6 79.9
Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 30% 7.4 24.0
Non-deductible exceptional expenditure – 0.2
Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation 11.5 10.7
Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses – (1.8)
Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax (12.0) (2.3)
Release of non-taxable grants – (1.7)
Effect of overseas tax rates 2.3 –
Reinvestment relief (2.8) –
Loss/(profit) on sale of businesses 20.4 (2.7)
US financing deduction (0.9) (4.7)
Permanent disallowables 1.4 (0.4)
Total tax charge reported in the income statement 27.3 21.3
(d) Temporary differences associated with group investments
No deferred tax (2004: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates. The Group has determined that
undistributed profits of its overseas subsidiaries will not be distributed in the near future. In any case the temporary difference associated with group
investments is £nil (2004: £nil) as a result of insufficient funds being available.
(e) Unrecognised tax losses
There is no recognition of the deferred tax asset in relation to the excess overseas tax losses on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence 
to determine that they are recoverable. Overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the accounts amount to £37.6m 
(2004: £36.4m), of which £0.8m will expire between 2012 and 2020. In addition, there are capital losses of £30.2m (2004: £2.4m) which have not
been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent on capital gains arising. The majority of the increase to the deferred tax on capital losses in 
the year relates to the disposal of the North American Public Transit operations of £27.9m.
(f) Deferred tax included in the income statement 
2005 2004
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 14.3 2.0
Short term timing differences 5.2 0.9
Utilisation of losses (0.8) (2.7)
18.7 0.2
Details on the balance sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 28.
Notes to the Accounts 63
11 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
The Group decided to exit its non-core markets in North American Public Transit and Australia Bus in 2005 and 2004 respectively.
The Group’s North American Public Transit operation (trading as ATC) was disposed of on 1 September 2005 and has been classified in
discontinued operations.
In the year ended 31 December 2004 the Group sold National Bus Company (Victoria) Pty Limited, National Bus Company (Queensland) Pty
Limited and Transport Management Group Pty Limited on 1 October 2004. The Group also announced the voluntary administration of the Bosnjak
Holdings Group (comprising the Group’s remaining operations in Australia) on 31 January 2005.
The results of the Group’s discontinued operations are presented below. Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following
as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, plant, property and equipment
impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items. The results for the
Australia Bus and Bosnjak Group are immaterial in 2005 other than the proceeds from the administration as disclosed in note 20.
2004
2005
N.American N. American
Public T ransit Public Transit Australia Bus Total
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 100.8 152.1 62.4 214.5
Operating expenses (97.0) (145.0) (59.9) (204.9)
Normalised operating profit 3.8 7.1 2.5 9.6
Finance income – – 0.3 0.3
Finance costs (0.2) (0.4) (0.3) (0.7)
Normalised profit before tax 3.6 6.7 2.5 9.2
Tax on normalised profit 0.2 – 0.1 0.1
Normalised profit 3.8 6.7 2.6 9.3
Goodwill impairment (60.0) – (10.6) (10.6)
Property, plant and equipment impairment – – (6.1) (6.1)
Exceptional items (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
(60.2) (0.2) (16.7) (16.9)
Profit on disposal of non-current assets – – 0.8 0.8
(Loss)/gain on sale of discontinued operations (6.6) – 8.9 8.9
Cumulative exchange differences transferred from reserves (1.5) –––
(68.3) (0.2) (7.0) (7.2)
Tax – related to exceptional and other items – 1.4 – 1.4
(68.3) 1.2 (7.0) (5.8)
(Loss)/ profit for the year from discontinued operations (64.5) 7.9 (4.4) 3.5
Notes to the Accounts 64
11 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (continued)
The major classes of assets and liabilities of discontinued operations measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell as at
31 December are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Assets:
Property, plant and equipment – 25.4
Inventories – 0.2
Trade and other receivables – 4.1
Cash and cash equivalents – 4.1
Disposal group assets classified as held for sale – 33.8
Liabilities:
Trade and other payables – (4.2)
Financial liabilities - Borrowings – (2.7)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale – (6.9)
Net assets attributable to discontinued operations – 26.9
Cash flows and (loss)/earnings per share from discontinued operations are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 3.6 9.1
Net cash inflow from investing activities 47.0 24.7
Net cash outflow from financing activities – (2.5)
(Loss)/earnings per share
Basic from discontinued operations (47.2p) 5.2p
Diluted from discontinued operations (46.5p) 5.1p
12 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED
2005 2004
Declared and paid during the year £m £m
Ordinary final dividend for 2004 paid of 20.65p per share (2003: 17.5p per share) 28.1 23.6
Ordinary interim dividend for 2005 paid of 10.0p per share (2004: 9.35p per share) 13.5 12.8
41.6 36.4
Proposed for approval (not recognised as liability as at 31 December)
Ordinary final dividend for 2005 of 22.25p per share (2004: 20.65p per share) 33.5 28.1
Notes to the Accounts 65
13 EARNINGS PER SHARE
2005 2004
Basic earnings per share – continuing operations 45.2p 40.5p
Basic (loss)/earnings per share – discontinued operations (47.2p) 5.2p
Basic (loss)/earnings per share – total (2.0p) 45.7p
Normalised basic earnings per share – continuing operations 77.4p 70.4p
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 44.5p 39.9p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share – discontinued operations (46.5p) 5.1p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share – total (2.0p) 45.0p
Normalised diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 76.3p 69.3p
Normalised earnings per share are defined as the statutory earnings per share before the following: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and
charges for goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets,
exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to equity shareholders of £2.8m (2004: profit of £62.2m) by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by employees’ share ownership trusts and those held as treasury shares
which are both treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average
number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of weighted average number of ordinary shares is detailed as follows:
2005 2004
Basic weighted average shares 136,591,474 136,166,921
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 2,017,744 2,039,292
Diluted weighted average shares 138,609,218 138,206,213
The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per shares
required by IAS 33, ’Earnings per Share’ since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business’s operations
more appropriately.
Normalised profits for the financial year are:
2005 2005 2004 2004
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
2005 EPS EPS 2004 EPS EPS
£mpp £mpp
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders (2.8) (2.0) (2.0) 62.2 45.7 45.0
Loss/(profit) from discontinued operations 64.5 47.2 46.5 (7.1) (5.2) (5.1)
Profit from continuing operations attributable 
to equity shareholders 61.7 45.2 44.5 55.1 40.5 39.9
Goodwill impairment on continuing operations 33.3 24.4 24.1 33.3 24.4 24.1
Intangible asset amortisation 4.9 3.6 3.5 2.4 1.8 1.7
Exceptional items 7.8 5.7 5.6 7.7 5.7 5.6
Loss on disposal of non-current assets ––– 0.9 0.7 0.6
Tax relief on goodwill and exceptional items (2.0) (1.5) (1.4) (3.6) (2.7) (2.6)
Normalised profit attributable to equity shareholders 105.7 77.4 76.3 95.8 70.4 69.3
Profit/loss from discontinued operations comprises the results as disclosed in note 11 net of minority interests of £3.6m in the year to 31 December 2004.
Notes to the Accounts 66
14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Customer Rail Finite Contractual Indefinite
contracts franchise life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total
£m£m £m £m£m £m£m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2005 0.9 13.0 13.9 2.5 372.0 374.5 388.4
Additions through business combinations 12.9 – 12.9 13.3 442.2 455.5 468.4
Attributable to discontinued operations – – – – (96.6) (96.6) (96.6)
Foreign exchange 0.8 – 0.8 1.1 31.4 32.5 33.3
At 31 December 2005 14.6 13.0 27.6 16.9 749.0 765.9 793.5
Aggregate amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2005 0.4 1.9 2.3 – 33.3 33.3 35.6
Charge for year 2.5 2.4 4.9 –– – 4.9
Annual impairment charge for the year on 
finite life goodwill – – – – 33.3 33.3 33.3
Impairment charge for the year – – – – 60.0 60.0 60.0
Attributable to discontinued operations – – – – (60.0) (60.0) (60.0)
Foreign exchange 0.3 – 0.3 –– – 0.3
At 31 December 2005 3.2 4.3 7.5 – 66.6 66.6 74.1
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 2005 11.4 8.7 20.1 16.9 682.4 699.3 719.4
At 1 January 2005 0.5 11.1 11.6 2.5 338.7 341.2 352.8
Customer Rail Finite Contractual Indefinite
contracts franchise life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2004 – 1.0 1.0 – 404.6 404.6 405.6
Acquisitions through business combinations 0.9 – 0.9 2.5 2.0 4.5 5.4
Franchise entry – 12.0 12.0 –– – 12.0
Disposal of businesses – – – – (6.2) (6.2) (6.2)
Included in assets held by disposal group – – – – (10.6) (10.6) (10.6)
Foreign exchange – – – – (17.8) (17.8) (17.8)
At 31 December 2004 0.9 13.0 13.9 2.5 372.0 374.5 388.4
Aggregate amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2004 – – – – – – –
Charge for year 0.5 1.9 2.4 – – – 2.4
Annual impairment charge for the year 
on finite life goodwill – – – – 33.3 33.3 33.3
Impairment charge for the year – – – – 10.6 10.6 10.6
Included in assets held by disposal group – – – – (10.6) (10.6) (10.6)
Foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.1) –– – (0.1)
At 31 December 2004 0.4 1.9 2.3 – 33.3 33.3 35.6
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 2004 0.5 11.1 11.6 2.5 338.7 341.2 352.8
At 1 January 2004 – 1.0 1.0 – 404.6 404.6 405.6
Due to the nature of the fixed term franchise agreements, we believe the goodwill that arises on the acquisition of Prism Rail PLC has a finite life.
This finite life goodwill is subject to an annual impairment charge to reflect the finite nature of the cash flows related to this goodwill.
With respect to the recoverable amount of the UK Trains goodwill, the discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 10.7% (2004: 10.7%) and
cash flows sourced from management plans through to the end of the franchise.
Notes to the Accounts 67
14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)
Indefinite life intangible assets including goodwill have been allocated to individual cash generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of
the Group’s business operations. The carrying value of indefinite life intangible assets by cash generating unit is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
UK Bus 13.2 –
UK Trains 19.2 52.5
UK Coach 5.6 5.7
North American Bus
US School Bus 161.6 141.2
US Public Transit – 92.9
Canadian School Bus 74.2 48.9
European Coach & Bus (Alsa) 425.5 –
699.3 341.2
The useful economic lives of contractual relationships in Canada are deemed to be indefinite due to the accepted market presumption that these
contracts will be renewed indefinitely whilst the customer contract and rail franchise intangible assets are to be amortised over the finite duration of
the contract or franchise as appropriate. All amortisation charges in the year have been charged to operating costs.
The impairment charge in 2005 of £60.0m relates to our North American Public Transit operations that were sold on 1 September 2005 
(see note 11).
The impairment charge in 2004 of £10.6m relates entirely to Bosnjak Holdings Pty Ltd, and is included in the loss for that year from discontinued
operations in relation to our Australian Bus operations (see note 11).
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based
on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period. Growth has then been extrapolated forward from
the end of the forecasts.
The assumptions used for the other cash generating units are as follows:
Growth rate 
used to extrapolate 
cash flows beyond 
Discount rate applied to three year period of 
cash flow projections management plan
2005 2004 2005 2004
UK Bus 10.7% – 5.0% –
North America
US School Bus 10.8% 10.8% 2.0% 3.0%
Canadian School Bus 12.1% 12.1% 2.0% 3.0%
The discount rates represent the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital appropriate for the cash flow generated.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions over gross margin, discount rates, price inflation, and
growth rate.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in the
light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill arising on the Alsa acquisition, which completed on 1 December 2005, will be tested for impairment for the
first time at 31 December 2006. At 31 December 2005, the acquisition model used to support the acquisition was still appropriate for supporting
the carrying value.
The carrying value of the intangible assets acquired in the Alsa acquisition will be finalised in the year ending 31 December 2006. Any adjustment to
the carrying value of the intangible assets will lead to a corresponding adjustment in goodwill.
Notes to the Accounts 68
15 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Plant and 
Long leasehold Public equipment,
Freehold land property service fixtures
and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2005 28.3 12.4 309.7 144.6 495.0
Additions 3.7 2.2 80.0 36.2 122.1
Acquisition of businesses 16.1 0.4 78.2 7.1 101.8
Disposals (1.8) (0.2) (11.0) (2.8) (15.8)
Attributable to discontinued operations – – (12.9) (6.8) (19.7)
Foreign exchange 0.5 0.6 27.3 0.7 29.1
At 31 December 2005 46.8 15.4 471.3 179.0 712.5
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2005 4.6 1.8 78.3 76.8 161.5
Charge for the year 0.6 0.6 34.6 21.0 56.8
Disposals (0.5) (0.1) (7.0) (2.1) (9.7)
Attributable to discontinued operations – – (9.0) (5.5) (14.5)
Foreign exchange 0.1 0.6 10.2 0.3 11.2
At 31 December 2005 4.8 2.9 107.1 90.5 205.3
Net book value:
At 31 December 2005 42.0 12.5 364.2 88.5 507.2
At 1 January 2005 23.7 10.6 231.4 67.8 333.5
Plant and 
Long leasehold Public equipment,
Freehold land property service fixtures
and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2004 45.3 13.2 335.8 140.2 534.5
Additions 3.2 0.7 52.2 30.6 86.7
Acquisition of businesses – – 7.9 – 7.9
Disposals (4.1) (0.1) (9.9) (19.2) (33.3)
Disposal of businesses (0.6) – (17.2) (8.8) (26.6)
Attributable to discontinued operations (9.4) – (44.3) (3.4) (57.1)
Reclassification (5.3) (1.0) – 6.3 –
Foreign exchange (0.8) (0.4) (14.8) (1.1) (17.1)
At 31 December 2004 28.3 12.4 309.7 144.6 495.0
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2004 5.4 1.4 84.2 70.4 161.4
Charge for the year 1.3 0.7 34.2 27.4 63.6
Impairment 1.2 – 4.9 – 6.1
Disposals (0.7) – (7.2) (14.2) (22.1)
Disposal of businesses – – (3.7) (4.6) (8.3)
Attributable to discontinued operations (1.6) – (27.5) (2.6) (31.7)
Reclassification (0.9) (0.1) – 1.0 –
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.2) (6.6) (0.6) (7.5)
At 31 December 2004 4.6 1.8 78.3 76.8 161.5
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 23.7 10.6 231.4 67.8 333.5
At 1 January 2004 39.9 11.8 251.6 69.8 373.1
The impairment charge in 2004 relates to the Australian Bus Division which was classified as discontinued during the year (see note 11).
Notes to the Accounts 69
15 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
Tangible fixed assets held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Public service vehicles
– cost 178.5 116.8
– accumulated depreciation (61.1) (60.0)
117.4 56.8
Plant and equipment
– cost 3.5 3.0
– accumulated depreciation (2.2) (1.2)
1.3 1.8
Net book value 118.7 58.6
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
16 INVESTMENT PROPERTY
2005 2004
£m £m
Opening balance at 1 January – 9.1
Disposals – (9.1)
Closing balance at 31 December – –
17 SUBSIDIARIES
The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the result and net assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House. The principal country of operation in respect of the companies
below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies, unless
indicated otherwise. The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by the SRA/ DfT Rail, as delegated by
the UK Government.
Incorporated in England and Wales
National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain
Eurolines (UK) Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe
Airlinks Airport Services Limited Operation of coach services
National Express Rail Replacement Services Limited Operation of coach services
West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services
Travel London Limited Operation of bus services
Travel London (West) Limited Operation of bus services
Travel London (Middlesex) Limited Operation of bus services
c2c Rail Limited Operation of train passenger services
Central Trains Limited Operation of train passenger services
Gatwick Express Limited Operation of train passenger services
London Eastern Railway Limited (trading as “one”) Operation of train passenger services
Maintrain Limited Provision of train maintenance services
Midland Main Line Limited Operation of train passenger services
National Express Trains Limited* Holding company for train operating companies
Silverlink Train Services Limited Operation of train passenger services
Wales & West Passenger Trains Ltd (trading as Wessex Trains) Operation of train passenger services
West Anglia Great Northern Railway Ltd (trading as Wagn) Operation of train passenger services
Notes to the Accounts 70
17 SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
Incorporated in Scotland
Tayside Public Transport Co Limited (trading as Travel Dundee) Operation of bus services
Incorporated in the USA
Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services
SWF Airport Acquisition Inc Provision and management of airport facilities
Incorporated in Canada
Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services
Incorporated in Spain
Dabliu Consulting SLU** Holding company for operating companies
Turyexpres SA** Holding company for operating companies
General Tecnica Industrial SL** Holding company for operating companies
* Shares held by the Company. All other shares held by subsidiaries
** The main holding companies of the Alsa Group
18 FINANCIAL ASSETS
Under the exemption available in IFRS 1,‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’ the Group has not restated its results for the year ended 31 December 2004
for the effect of IAS 32,‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, or IAS 39,‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Instead
the Group has followed the requirements of UK GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2004 and included disclosures prepared under FRS 13 in
note 32.
Additional financial instruments have been recognised on the balance sheet from 1 January 2005 as reported in the Group’s IFRS reconciliations
included in note 40. A summary of the effect is included below:
31 December 31 December 1 January 
2005 2004 2005
£m £m £m
Available for sale investments (Unlisted ordinary and preference shares) 11.4 – 10.2
Other investments – 10.2 –
11.4 10.2 10.2
Derivative financial instruments – Fuel swaps 0.6 – 1.4
Financial assets included in non-current assets 12.0 10.2 11.6
Derivative financial instruments – Fuel swaps 6.7 – 4.9
Derivative financial instruments – Foreign exchange forward contracts – – 14.9*
Financial assets included in current assets 6.7 – 19.8
* £14.6m included in foreign exchange forward contracts at 1 January 2005 had previously been included in other receivables at 31 December 2004.
Notes to the Accounts 71
18 FINANCIAL ASSETS (continued)
Available for sale investments
Available 
for sale Other
investments investments
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 16.0 12.8
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 1.2 –
Additions – 3.2
At 31 December 17.2 16.0
Accumulated impairment:
At 1 January and 31 December (5.8) (5.8)
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 11.4 10.2
At 1 January 10.2 7.0
The principal available for sale investments are as follows:
Proportion held
Name County of registration Class of share %
London & Continental Railways (LCR) England and Wales Ordinary shares 21
Prepayment Cards Limited (PCL) England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5
Trainline Holdings (THL) England and Wales Ordinary shares 14
Union Railways (South) Limited (URS) England and Wales Preference shares 21
Various investments within Alsa Spain Ordinary shares 4-16
LCR, PCL, THL, URS and various investments in the Alsa group have been accounted for as available for sale investments. In the opinion of the
Directors, the Group is not in a position to exercise significant influence over the THL, URS and Alsa available for sale investments under the
definitions in IAS 28,‘Investments in associates’. Although the Group holds more than 20% of the ordinary shares of LCR, it does not have a
presence on the board and is not in a position to exert significant influence over this investment. The Group is not in a position to exercise
significant influence over PCL as its funding is entirely provided by the majority shareholder.
At 31 December 2005, the Directors are unable to revalue the unquoted equity instruments that form the investment in THL as a reliable valuation
cannot be prepared due to the wide range of estimates available for the valuation. Therefore the investment is measured at cost.
19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD
Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Joint ventures 2.2 –
Associates 2.6 –
4.8 –
a) Investments in joint ventures
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are as follows:
Total issued
County of share capital Proportion held
Name registration Activity £000 %
Ibero – Eurosur SL Spain Holding company of Deutsche T ouring 4 20
Movelia Tecnologias SL Spain Travel website 870 41
Due to the proximity of the combination of Alsa to the year end the financial information for the Alsa companies is provisional as up to date
information is not available.
Notes to the Accounts 72
19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD (continued)
a) Investments in joint ventures (continued)
The financial information of these joint ventures is summarised below:
Ibero Movelia T otal
2005 2005 2005
Share of joint ventures’ balance sheets £m £m £m
Non-current assets – 0.4 0.4
Current assets 3.7 0.6 4.3
Share of gross assets 3.7 1.0 4.7
Current liabilities (2.1) (0.3) (2.4)
Non-current liabilities – (0.1) (0.1)
Share of gross liabilities (2.1) (0.4) (2.5)
Share of net assets 1.6 0.6 2.2
These joint ventures are both within Alsa and have been provisionally classified at 31 December 2005. The results from 1 December 2005 were
immaterial to the Group.
The carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures matches the Group’s share of the assets.
b) Investments in associates 
The Group’s interests in associates are as follows:
Total issued
County of share capital Proportion held
Name registration £000 %
Altram LRT Limited England and Wales 16,500 33
Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited England and Wales 1 40
Alsa associates Spain 6,673 20-50
Altram LRT Limited (“Altram”) is a provider of light rapid transport systems. Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited (“ICRRL”) is contracted to
manage the operations of Eurostar UK to 2010. The associates of Alsa are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services and 
similar operations.
The associates’ financial information is summarised below:
Share of associate’s balance sheet
Altram ICRRL Alsa T otal
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets – – – – 3.8 3.8 –
Current assets 2.1 2.1 4.0 3.1 3.9 10.0 5.2
Share of gross assets 2.1 2.1 4.0 3.1 7.7 13.8 5.2
Current liabilities (3.0) (2.8) (20.9) (12.0) (3.6) (27.5) (14.8)
Non-current liabilities – – – – (1.5) (1.5) –
Share of gross liabilities (3.0) (2.8) (20.9) (12.0) (5.1) (29.0) (14.8)
Share of net assets/(liabilities) (0.9) (0.7) (16.9) (8.9) 2.6 (15.2) (9.6)
Due to the proximity of the combination of Alsa to the year end the financial information for the Alsa companies is provisional as up to date
information is not available.
Notes to the Accounts 73
19 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD (continued)
b) Investments in associates (continued)
Share of associate’s revenue and loss
Altram ICRRL T otal
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.7 3.8 3.5
Loss (0.2) (0.2) (8.6) (3.2) (8.8) (3.4)
The Group’s share of revenue and profit from the Alsa associates, which have been provisionally classified, from 1 December 2005, were immaterial.
Altram ICRRL Alsa T otal
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Carrying amount of investment – – – – 2.6 2.6 –
20 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS
(a) Acquisition of Alsa
On 1 December 2005 the Group acquired the entire share capital of General Tecnica Industrial S.L., Dabliu Consulting S.L. and Turyexpres S.A.
which together hold the companies that comprise Alsa, a bus and coach operator based in Spain. Consideration of £268.6m was satisfied by the
issue of 13,503,600 ordinary shares of 5p at £9.07 (£122.5m), being the price of National Express Group PLC shares on 1 December 2005, and
cash of £146.1m (net of a provisional £2.6m completion adjustment that is receivable at 31 December 2005). Additionally costs of £4.4m have been
included in total consideration.
Alsa
Alsa fair value Alsa fair
2005 book value adjustments value total
Net assets at date of acquisition: £m £m £m
Intangible assets 178.2 (178.2) –
Property, plant and equipment 59.2 14.4 73.6
Available for sale investments 1.2 – 1.2
Investments accounted for under the equity method 6.0 (1.2) 4.8
Inventories 3.1 – 3.1
Trade and other receivables 52.8 (3.8) 49.0
Current tax 0.8 – 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents 10.0 – 10.0
Trade and other payables (55.4) – (55.4)
Defined benefit pension liability (0.2) (0.9) (1.1)
Provisions (1.0) – (1.0)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (211.8) – (211.8)
Deferred tax liability 0.4 (6.5) (6.1)
Net assets 43.3 (176.2) (132.9)
Less: minority interest (11.4) (4.1) (15.5)
Group’s share of net assets 31.9 (180.3) (148.4)
Goodwill on acquisition 421.4
Total consideration 273.0
Net consideration 268.6
Acquisition costs 4.4
Total consideration 273.0
Less: shares issued (122.5)
Add: provisional completion adjustment receivable 2.6
Less: accrued acquisition costs (0.2)
Less: net cash acquired (10.0)
Net cash outflow 142.9
In accordance with Group accounting policies, provisional fair value adjustments have been made to the assets and liabilities acquired. In particular,
due to the proximity of the combination to the year end the Group has been unable to complete a detailed valuation of the intangible and tangible
assets acquired with the business. Accordingly, the surplus of consideration over fair value of the share of net assets 
Notes to the Accounts 74
20 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS (continued)
(a) Acquisition of Alsa (continued)
acquired has been allocated to goodwill at 31 December 2005. The Group expects to identify intangible assets, including brands, customer
relationships and customer contracts, and will complete a property valuation. Independent valuers have been retained by the Group to complete 
this exercise and the results will be reflected in the Group’s next accounts. The value of goodwill will be adjusted by a corresponding amount for 
the value of intangible assets identified and the difference between the market and book values of the property assets. Management believes that
goodwill remaining after this exercise will comprise value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted 
and will represent future growth opportunities.
On 15 December 2005 the Group paid £12.7m of cash consideration to acquire the 10.2% minority interest of Enatcar, a subsidiary of Alsa. This
payment represented fair value and consequently had no impact on the goodwill recognised above. Due to the date of acquisition, the profit accrued
in 2005 was not material to the Group.
From the date of acquisition, Alsa has contributed £2.6m to the normalised operating profit of the Group. As a privately owned group Alsa did not
prepare consolidated financial information. Using the December 2005 results as being indicative of the profit for the full year, if the combination had
taken place at the beginning of the year, the normalised operating profit for the Group would have been £184.1m and revenue from continuing
operations would have been £2,416.2m.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses and charges for
goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional
items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
(b) Other acquisitions
The Group acquired the entire share capital of TGM Buses Limited and TGM Middlesex Limited, representing the London bus operations of Tellings
Golden Miller PLC (TGM) on 17 June 2005. In Canada the Group acquired the entire share capital of Aboutown School Transit Inc., a school bus
operator on 15 July 2005 and the entire share capital of Northstar Passenger Services LP and Walsh Transportation LP , representing the school bus
operations of Contrans Income Fund (a Canadian freight haulage company) on 1 August 2005. The Group also acquired the entire share capital of
Jones School Bus Service Inc. on 10 November 2005, a school bus operator in the United States.
Book value
Fair value Fair value 
2005 TGM Aboutown Northstar Jones T otal Adjustments T otal
Net assets at date of acquisition: £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets ––– –– 26.2 26.2
Property, plant and equipment 6.3 0.5 13.9 5.9 26.6 1.6 28.2
Inventories 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 2.2 – 0.6 2.7 5.5 – 5.5
Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 – – 0.2 2.0 – 2.0
Trade and other payables (2.0) – (1.2) (3.2) (6.4) (2.1) (8.5)
Current tax payable – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (2.1) – (0.2) – (2.3) – (2.3)
Deferred tax liability (1.0) – (2.2) (1.7) (4.9) – (4.9)
Net assets acquired 5.4 0.5 10.8 3.9 20.6 25.7 46.3
Goodwill on acquisition 20.8
Total consideration 67.1
Net consideration 65.9
Acquisition costs 1.2
Total consideration 67.1
Less: deferred consideration (1.9)
Less: net cash acquired (2.0)
Net cash outflow 63.2
The acquisition balance sheets have been adjusted to reflect provisional fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent:
(a) the recognition of customer contracts acquired with the TGM business (£4.5m), Aboutown (£0.6m), Northstar (£1.5m) and Jones (£6.3m);
(b) customer relationships acquired with Aboutown (£2.8m) and Northstar (£10.5m) which reflects the presumption of indefinite renewal in
relation to school bus contracts in Canada. The customer contracts will be amortised over the life of the contracts, whilst customer
relationships will not be amortised, but will be tested for impairment on an annual basis;
(c) an increase in the value of property, plant and equipment at Jones following a review of the vehicle fleet; and
(d) an increase in payables of £1.6m at TGM, £0.3m at Jones and £0.2m at Northstar.
Notes to the Accounts 75
Notes to the Accounts
20 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS (continued)
(b) Other acquisitions (continued)
Consideration was £21.3m for TGM (including £0.3m acquisition costs), £4.1m for Aboutown, £26.2m for Northstar (including £0.3m deferred
consideration and £0.7m acquisition costs), and £15.5m for Jones (including £1.6m deferred consideration and £0.2m acquisition costs).
From their respective dates of acquisition TGM, Aboutown, Northstar and Jones have contributed £0.8m, £0.2m, £0.7m and £0.2m respectively to
normalised operating profit and a £0.1m loss, £0.1m loss, £0.2m profit and £0.2m loss to the net loss of the Group. If these four combinations had
taken place at the beginning of the year the normalised operating profit for the Group would have been £156.9m, loss for the Group would have
been £1.7m, and revenue from continuing operations would have been £2,245.0m.
Included in the goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our London Bus and Canadian school bus operations. Management believes
that goodwill represents value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted. The majority of the value 
was assessed to comprise of synergy benefits expected to be achieved by merging the businesses acquired into the Group’s UK Bus and North
American operations.
During the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Connex Bus UK Limited (now called Travel London
Limited), a bus operator in the UK, the entire share capital of 1114448 Ontario Limited, the holding company of Student Express Limited, a school
bus operator in Canada, and certain assets of M&O Bus Lines (Handicab) Limited, another school bus operator in Canada.
Book value
Travel Student Express Fair value Fair value 
2004 London and M&O Total Adjustments total
Net assets at date of acquisition: £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 0.3 – 0.3 3.1 3.4
Property, plant and equipment 0.8 3.4 4.2 3.7 7.9
Inventories 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2
Trade and other receivables 2.2 0.2 2.4 1.6 4.0
Cash and cash equivalents 19.1 0.8 19.9 – 19.9
Trade and other payables (3.4) – (3.4) (0.5) (3.9)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings – (1.4) (1.4) (10.1) (11.5)
Provisions (19.3) (0.7) (20.0) 5.3 (14.7)
Net assets acquired (0.1) 2.3 2.2 3.1 5.3
Goodwill on acquisition 2.0
Total consideration 7.3
Net consideration 6.9
Acquisition costs 0.4
Total consideration 7.3
Less: net cash acquired (19.9)
Net cash inflow (12.6) 76
Notes to the Accounts
20 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS (continued)
(c) Disposals
The Group sold its North American Public Transit operations on 1 September 2005 for gross proceeds of £50.0m.
The Group announced the voluntary administration of the Bosnjak Holdings Group (comprising the Group’s remaining operations in Australia) on
31 January 2005, and received proceeds of £25.4m (A$60.0m) when the administrator sold the business on 30 September 2005.
The Group also sold its airside coach business at Heathrow Airport on 21 February 2005.
N. American Heathrow
2005 Public Transit Bosnjak Group airside T otal
Net assets disposed of: £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 5.5 26.0 1.1 32.6
Inventories 1.9 0.2 – 2.1
Trade and other receivables 28.1 2.6 – 30.7
Cash and cash equivalents 2.5 2.1 – 4.6
Trade and other payables (11.9) (2.7) – (14.6)
Provisions (10.0) – – (10.0)
Deferred tax (1.8) (0.1) – (1.9)
Minority interest – (0.9) – (0.9)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings – (2.8) – (2.8)
Net assets disposed 14.3 24.4 1.1 39.8
Goodwill realised 36.0 – 0.1 36.1
Disposal provision created 2.7 – – 2.7
Deferred tax liability on disposal 3.2 – – 3.2
Loss on sale of businesses (6.6) – – (6.6)
Net consideration 49.6 24.4 1.2 75.2
Total consideration 50.0 25.9 1.2 77.1
Less: disposal costs (0.4) (1.5) – (1.9)
Net consideration 49.6 24.4 1.2 75.2
Less: net cash disposed (2.5) (2.1) – (4.6)
Add: completion adjustment to pay purchaser 1.2 – – 1.2
Less: deferred consideration – (0.5) – (0.5)
Net cash inflow 48.3 21.8 1.2 71.3
The results of North American Public Transit in the year are disclosed in note 11. The results of the Australian Bus division in 2004 are also disclosed
in note 11, although the results for the Bosnjak Group in 2005 are immaterial. The revenue, operating result and cash flow of the UK coach business
sold are not disclosed, as the amounts are not material.
The administration process at Bosnjak Group is continuing and it is possible that further amounts will be received in relation to the outstanding loan
balance due to the Group subsidiary NBC Pty Ltd in Australia. The timing and quantum of any future payment is uncertain and therefore has not
been recognised at 31 December 2005.
During the year ended 31 December 2004 the Group sold National Bus Company (Victoria) Pty Limited, National Bus Company (Queensland) Pty
Limited and Transport Management Group Pty Limited, all of which had been part of the Australian Bus division, for net proceeds of £24.7m. The
Group also sold Qjump Limited in exchange for a 14% shareholding in Trainline Holdings Limited and a £1.0m loan note from the same company. 77
Notes to the Accounts
20 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS (continued)
(c) Disposals (continued)
Australia
2004 Buses Qjump T otal
Net assets disposed of: £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 14.2 4.1 18.3
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 2.1 6.5 8.6
Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other payables (5.3) (7.3) (12.6)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (2.0) – (2.0)
Provisions – (0.1) (0.1)
Net assets disposed 9.6 3.2 12.8
Goodwill realised 6.2 – 6.2
Profit on sale of businesses 8.9 – 8.9
Net consideration 24.7 3.2 27.9
Total consideration 25.0 3.2 28.2
Less: disposal costs (0.3) – (0.3)
Net consideration 24.7 3.2 27.9
Less: investment in Trainline Holdings Limited – (3.2) (3.2)
Less: net cash disposed (0.3) – (0.3)
Add: disposal costs accrued 0.3 – 0.3
Net cash inflow 24.7 – 24.7
21 NON-CURRENT ASSETS – OTHER RECEIVABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Other receivables 2.9 1.7
Prepayments and accrued income 23.3 28.8
26.2 30.5
Prepayments and accrued income includes £22.7m (2004: £21.4m) long leasehold property prepayments that have been reclassified from property,
plant and equipment on the transition to IFRS.
22 INVENTORIES
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 18.7 16.1
The provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
23 CURRENT ASSETS – TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade receivables 160.6 171.0
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (2.6) (1.7)
Trade receivables – net 158.0 169.3
Amounts due from associates and joint ventures 7.9 4.6
Amounts owed by related parties 2.9 2.5
Other receivables 62.3 56.6
Prepayments and accrued income 70.7 68.8
301.8 301.8
The charge to the income statement in respect of trade receivables not recovered is immaterial. Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is low
as a large proportion of the Group’s trading is with public or quasi-public organisations. 78
Notes to the Accounts
24 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 53.2 22.7
Overnight deposits 24.5 24.1
Other short term deposits 67.8 96.3
145.5 143.1
Cash at bank and in hand attributable to discontinued operations (note 11) – 4.1
Cash and cash equivalents 145.5 147.2
Bank overdrafts (note 29) (5.5) –
Cash and cash equivalents included in Group Statement of Cash Flows 140.0 147.2
Included in cash and cash equivalents are restricted balances of £79.5m (2004: £73.9m) held by the TOCs and £25.6m (A$ 60.0m; 2004: £nil) held
by NBC Pty Ltd in Australia.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term
deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents matches the carrying value.
25 CURRENT LIABILITIES – TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade payables 175.1 174.9
Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures 8.8 3.0
Amounts owed to related parties 1.7 –
Other tax and social security payable 25.0 17.4
Accruals and deferred income 201.0 214.6
Other payables 121.5 104.6
533.1 514.5
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average
term of two months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from governmental or other public bodies of £2.0m (2004: £0.9m).
26 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
2005 2004
£m £m
Other liabilities 6.1 3.0
6.1 3.0
Other non-current liabilities comprise deferred consideration of £3.5m (2004: £2.1m), deferred fixed asset grants of £1.7m (2004: £0.6m) and other
liabilities of £0.9m (2004: £0.3m). 79
Notes to the Accounts
27 PROVISIONS
Insurance 
claims Other
(a) (b) T otal
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 48.6 11.2 59.8
Charged to income statement 21.1 5.7 26.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 1.0
Utilised in the year (21.4) (5.1) (26.5)
Amortisation of discount 0.9 – 0.9
Attributable to discontinued operations (10.5) – (10.5)
Exchange difference 1.9 0.2 2.1
At 31 December 2005 41.1 12.5 53.6
Current 31 December 2005 8.3 4.0 12.3
Non-current 31 December 2005 32.8 8.5 41.3
41.1 12.5 53.6
Current 31 December 2004 18.4 5.0 23.4
Non-current 31 December 2004 30.2 6.2 36.4
48.6 11.2 59.8
(a) The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next six years, and
principally comprises provisions for existing claims arising in the UK and North America. This provision has been discounted to its present value
since the effect is material.
(b) An onerous contract provision of £15.8m was assumed on the acquisition of Travel London Limited. This was prefunded by the vendor on
acquisition and £8.0m has been utilised up to 31 December 2005 (2004: £4.6m). Other provisions total £4.7m.
28 DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method.
The movement on the net deferred tax account is shown below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Net deferred tax asset brought forward 13.8 9.3
Deferred tax recognised on financial instruments on adoption of IAS 32/39 5.6 –
Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 19.4 9.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries (11.0) 4.1
(Charge)/credit to income statement (18.7) 1.1
Credit to reserves 9.0 0.6
Charge in discontinued operations – (1.3)
Attributable to discontinued operations 1.9 –
Charged in loss on disposal (3.2) –
Exchange differences (1.5) –
Net deferred tax (liability)/asset at 31 December (4.1) 13.8 80
Notes to the Accounts
28 DEFERRED TAX (continued)
Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at 
a similar level to the current year.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below. Deferred tax liabilities and assets within the same
jurisdiction have been off-set.
Accelerated tax Short term
depreciation timing differences Total
Deferred tax assets £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (4.5) 16.5 12.0
Credited to income statement – 1.0 1.0
Credited directly to equity – 0.6 0.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 4.7 4.7
At 31 December 2004 (4.5) 22.8 18.3
Recognised on adoption of IAS 32/39 – 5.6 5.6
At 1 January 2005 (4.5) 28.4 23.9
Charged to income statement (3.9) (5.0) (8.9)
Credited directly to equity – 9.0 9.0
Acquisition of subsidiaries – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 December 2005 (8.4) 31.4 23.0
Accelerated tax Losses carried Short term
depreciation forward timing differences Total
Deferred tax liabilities £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 26.9 (10.5) (13.7) 2.7
Charged/(credited) to income statement 2.0 (2.7) 1.9 1.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 – – 0.6
Attributable to discontinued operations (2.6) 1.9 0.7 –
Exchange difference (0.3) 0.2 0.1 –
At 31 December 2004 26.6 (11.1) (11.0) 4.5
Charged/(credited) to income statement 10.4 (0.8) 0.2 9.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries 10.1 – (0.1) 10.0
Attributable to discontinued operations (9.8) 2.8 5.1 (1.9)
Included in loss on disposal 3.2 – – 3.2
Exchange difference 1.9 (0.4) – 1.5
At 31 December 2005 42.4 (9.5) (5.8) 27.1 81
Notes to the Accounts
29 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 
Under the exemption available in IFRS 1,‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’ the Group has not restated its results for the year ended 31 December 2004
for the effect of IAS 32,‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, or IAS 39,‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Instead
the Group has followed the requirements of UK GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2004 and included disclosures prepared under FRS 13,
‘Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures’, in note 32.
Additional financial instruments have been recognised on the balance sheet from 1 January 2005 as reported in the Group’s IFRS reconciliations
included in note 40. A summary of the effect is included below:
31 December 31 December 1 January 
2005 2004 2005
£m £m£m
Non-current
Bank loans 410.0 207.5 207.5
Finance lease obligations 85.5 44.3 44.3
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 495.5 251.8 251.8
Interest rate swaps 8.3 – 7.6
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 8.3 – 7.6
Non-current financial liabilities 503.8 251.8 259.4
Current
Loan notes 0.8 7.5 7.5
Bank loans 184.5 8.0 8.0
Bank overdrafts 5.5 ––
Finance lease obligations 23.6 14.8 14.8
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 214.4 30.3 30.3
Foreign exchange forward contracts 9.3 ––
Interest rate swaps 4.1 – 19.9*
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 13.4 – 19.9
Current financial liabilities 227.8 30.3 50.2
* £2.5m included in interest rate swaps (in current liabilities) at 1 January 2005 had previously been included in accruals and deferred income at 
31 December 2004. Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest as detailed in note 30. 82
Notes to the Accounts
30 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows. Although not required under FRS 13 for UK GAAP ,
comparative disclosures have been provided for 2004.
2005 Effective 2004 Effective
Maturity £m Interest rate £m Interest rate 
Current
Bank overdraft On demand 5.5 EURIBOR + 0.5% – –
Sterling loan notes On demand 0.8 LIBOR + 1.0% 7.5 LIBOR + 1.0%
Short term 5.2% Sterling bank loans January 2006 12.2 5.2% 8.0 5.6%
Short term 4.8% US Dollar bank loans January 2006 0.3 4.8% – –
Short term 2.9% Euro bank loans January 2006 0.2 2.9% – –
Euro bank loans subject to interest hedge October 2006 137.4 2.8% – –
Euro bank loans unhedged October 2006 34.4 EURIBOR + 0.4% – –
Bank loans 184.5 8.0
Canadian Dollar finance leases 2006 0.2 7.7% 1.0 7.7%
US Dollar 3.6% finance leases 2006 5.4 3.6% 2.8 3.5%
Euro finance leases at floating rates 2006 2.0 3.8% – –
Sterling 5.4% finance leases 2006 8.2 5.4% 3.9 5.2%
Sterling finance leases at floating rate 2006 7.8 LIBOR + 3.0% 7.1 LIBOR + 3.0%
Finance leases 23.6 14.8
214.4 30.3
Non-current
Sterling bank loans November 2009 9.4 LIBOR + 0.4% – –
US Dollar bank loans subject 
to interest hedge November 2009 58.1 7.3% 156.4 7.3%
US Dollar bank loans unhedged November 2009 104.6 LIBOR + 0.4% 51.1 LIBOR + 0.4%
Euro bank loans at floating rate November 2009 202.9 EURIBOR + 0.4% – –
Canadian Dollar bank loans November 2009 35.0 LIBOR + 0.4% – –
Bank loans 410.0 207.5
Canadian Dollar finance leases 2007 0.2 7.7% – –
US Dollar 3.6% finance leases 2009-2012 28.3 3.6% 14.7 3.5%
Euro finance leases at floating rate 2007-2013 5.9 3.8% – –
Sterling 5.4% finance leases 2007-2018 37.5 5.4% 6.9 5.2%
Sterling finance leases at floating rate 2007-2009 13.6 LIBOR + 3.0% 22.7 LIBOR + 3.0%
Finance leases 85.5 44.3
495.5 251.8
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 31 and 32.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming
immediately repayable. These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA, and minimum EBITDA to interest and EBITDA plus fixed charges 
to interest payable and fixed charges ratios. 83
Notes to the Accounts
31 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
Financial risk factors and management
The Group’s multi-national operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most material of which are the effects
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and changes in fuel prices. The Group has in place a risk management program that
seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the group by using foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, fuel price
and interest rate swaps.
The Board of Directors have delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury committee, the responsibility for implementing the risk management
policies laid down by the Board. The policies are implemented by the central Treasury department that receives regular reports from all the
operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken. The Treasury department has a
policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and the use of financial
instruments to manage these. The Group does not hold any financial instruments that would be classified as held for trading under IAS 39.
Foreign currency
The Group has major operations in the US, Canada and Spain. The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily with respect to US dollars,
Canadian dollars and the Euro in translation of net assets and on earnings denominated in foreign currency. The Group finances overseas investments
mainly through the use of foreign currency borrowings to hedge the net asset investment. The Group has also entered into some forward exchange
contracts to hedge the foreign currency exposure of its overseas subsidiaries. These have the effect of increasing dollar or euro denominated debt and
reducing sterling debt. The forward exchange contract terms run for periods up to one year. The Group has a policy of hedging between 50% and
100% foreign currency denominated net assets. At 31 December 2005 61% of the Group’s exposure to US Dollar assets were hedged, 94% of the
exposure to Canadian Dollar assets, 99% of the exposure to Australian Dollar assets and 96% of the exposure to Euro assets.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures, and with the exception of fuel purchases we believe these exposures are immaterial.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities. It is the Group’s policy to maintain an
appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide certainty as to the level of our interest expense in
the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term. Interest on the Group’s debt is based on
LIBOR or EURIBOR and, to achieve the above objectives, we have entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting
floating debt to fixed debt. The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2005 the Group was hedged against interest rate
movements on £287.6m of gross debt for an average of 4.1 years. Based on the year end debt, each 1% increase in interest rates would cost the
Group approximately £2.8m.
Commodity prices
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. It is our policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide certainty as to
the level of costs in the short term and to reduced the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term. This is achieved by entering
into fuel swaps and purchase contracts which are expected to be highly effective. As at 31 December 2005 the Group had hedged approximately
95% of its 2006 expected usage, 18% of its 2007 expected usage and 14% of its 2008 usage.
Credit risk
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets as disclosed in note 32, and trade
receivables as disclosed in note 23. This risk is mitigated by a number of factors. The majority of the Group’s receivables are with public (or quasi-
public) bodies, both national (the SRA/DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK) and local (school boards and city councils in North America, municipal
authorities in Spain, Portugal and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK). The Group does not consider these counterparties to be a
significant credit risk. Outside of this the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group has implemented policies
that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Treasury committee and such approval is limited to financial institutions with
an A rating or better. The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed annually by the Treasury
committee.
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the group has sufficient
available funds to meet current and forecast financial requirements as cost effectively as possible. As at 31 December 2005 the Group had
committed credit facilities of £841m of which £63.7m were undrawn. The Group’s loan facilities expire in October 2006 and November 2009,
and the lease facilities at various times in line with their terms. 84
Notes to the Accounts
32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair values
Set out below is comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities.
2005
Carrying Fair 
value value
£m£m
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 145.5 145.5
Available for sale investments 11.4 11.4
Amounts due from associates and joint ventures 7.9 7.9
Amounts owed by related parties 2.9 2.9
Other receivables (current) 82.1 82.1
Other receivables (non-current) 2.9 2.9
Fuel price swaps 7.3 7.3
260.0 260.0
Liabilities
Bank overdraft (5.5) (5.5)
Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures (8.8) (8.8)
Amounts owed to related parties (1.7) (1.7)
Other payables – current (excludes liabilities not to be settled by cash) (201.5) (201.5)
Other payables – non-current (6.1) (6.1)
Obligations under finance leases (109.1) (109.1)
Loan notes (0.8) (0.8)
Bank loans (594.5) (594.5)
Interest rate swaps (12.4) (12.4)
Foreign exchange forward contracts (9.3) (9.3)
(949.7) (949.7)
Other receivables and other payables in the table above are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts, fuel price and interest rate swaps has been determined by the third party financial institution
with whom the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments.
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk.
< 1 year >1-<2 years >2-<3 years >3-<4 years >4-<5 years > 5 years Total
As at 31 December 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Other debt receivable 1.0 – ––– – 1.0
Bank loans (150.1) – – (58.1) – – (208.2)
Finance leases (13.6) (10.2) (8.3) (8.5) (8.9) (29.9) (79.4)
Interest rate swaps (4.1) – – (8.3) – – (12.4)
Floating rate
Cash assets 145.5 – – – – – 145.5
Bank overdrafts (5.5) – – – – – (5.5)
Loan notes (0.8) – – – – – (0.8)
Bank loans (34.4) – – (351.9) – – (386.3)
Finance leases (10.0) (12.7) (2.5) (2.0) (1.0) (1.5) (29.7) 85
Notes to the Accounts
32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Hedging activities
Interest hedges
The Group has a number of interest rate swaps in place to hedge both the cash flow and fair value risk in relation to interest rate.
a) Cash flow hedges with a total principal of US$200m that were entered into in September 2000 fixed at 6.9% and 6.8545% for US$100m each
until September 2010. Of this amount US$100m meets the criteria for hedge accounting and US$100m does not.
b) Fair value hedges with a principal of US$100m were entered into in March 2004. These had the effect of fixing the accrued loss of US$18.3m
on US$100m cash flow hedges fixed at 6.9% entered into in September 2000, but do not qualify for hedge accounting under the rules of 
IAS 39. The net effect of the two 6.9% hedges is immaterial in the income statement.
c) An interest rate swap with a principal of US$200m fixed at 6.25%, but including an embedded option that means the interest payment will
revert to LIBOR should LIBOR exceed 7% was in place at 1 January 2005. This interest rate swap was settled in January 2005 and did not meet
the definition of a cash flow hedge under IAS 39. This resulted in a £0.1m credit being recognised in the income statement.
d) Cash flow hedges with a principal of €200m that were entered into in December 2005 fixed at 2.84% until December 2007.
The reset dates of all swaps remaining in place at 31 December 2005 coincide with the material conditions of the underlying loans.
The benchmark rate for floating rate financial liabilities is the relevant interbank borrowing rate.
During the year £3.5m has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the income statement in respect of interest rate swaps.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities
Included in bank loans are borrowings of US$280m (£162.7m), CAN$70m (£35.0m) and €545m (£374.9m) which have been designated as a hedge
of net investments in the foreign currency denominated net assets of the Group and is being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
In addition the Group has synthetic debt in the form of foreign currency forward contracts in place split between US$nil, CAN$156.7m (£78.3m),
AUD$80m (£34.1m) and €160m (£110.1m) to complete the post-tax hedge of the net investment in foreign entities. The portion of the gain or
loss on the foreign currency forward contracts that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and, to this extent, offsets
any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
Fuel price hedges
The Group has a number of fuel price swaps in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division. Ultra low sulphur diesel and gasoil as
used in the UK Bus, UK Coach, UK Trains and European Coach & Bus (Alsa) divisions is hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel. Diesel used in the
North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps which have been determined to be effective hedges of the fuel used with a strong
correlation in price movements between the two products.
During the year £12.9m has been transferred from the hedging reserve, of which £4.9m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2005
and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Fuel price swaps can be analysed as follows:
31 December 1 January 
31 December 1 January 2005 2005
2005 2005 Volume Volume
£m £m Million litres Million litres 
Sterling denominated fuel swaps – UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 0.6 3.0 118.5 66.0
US Dollar denominated fuel swaps – North American Bus 5.7 1.9 42.2 41.6
Euro denominated fuel swaps – European Coach & Bus (Alsa) 0.4 – 42.0 –
Fuel price swaps included in current assets 6.7 4.9 202.7 107.6
Sterling denominated fuel swaps – UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 0.6 – 59.0 –
US Dollar denominated fuel swaps – North American Bus – 1.4 – 37.8
Fuel price swaps included in non-current assets 0.6 1.4 59.0 37.8
Total fuel price swaps 7.3 6.3 261.7 145.4 86
Notes to the Accounts
32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Fuel price hedges (continued)
Foreign
currency 
Interest forward 
rate swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total
2005 £m £m £m £m
(Liability)/asset at 1 January (27.5) 14.9 6.3 (6.3)
Closed out during year 11.9 – – 11.9
Cash paid/(received) in relation to hedging instruments taken to income statement 3.5 – (12.9) (9.4)
Revaluation 1.3 (0.1) 13.3 14.5
Exchange differences (1.6) (24.1) 0.6 (25.1)
(Liability)/asset at 31 December (12.4) (9.3) 7.3 (14.4)
2004 Disclosures
The following comparatives are disclosed in compliance with FRS 13,‘Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures’ as applied by the Group
under UK GAAP for 2004. Financial assets and financial liabilities are defined differently under IFRS and UK GAAP and as such the amounts included
in these captions below are not directly comparable to similar captions elsewhere in the these accounts.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the disclosures below, other than 32(e) on currency exposures.
a) Interest rate risk and currency profile of financial liabilities
After taking into account interest rate swaps, the interest rate and currency profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2004 was 
as follows:
Weighted
Financial Weighted Weighted average period
Borrowings Borrowings liabilities on average average until maturity 
at at which no fixed period for for financial
floating fixed Total interest is interest which liabilities on which
rates rates borrowings paid Total rate rate is fixed no interest is paid
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m % Y ears Y ears
Sterling 44.9 11.2 56.1 17.7 73.8 5.1 2.8 1.5
US dollars 51.1 173.9 225.0 2.1 227.1 6.9 4.8 3.5
Australian dollars – 2.7 2.7 0.3 3.0 7.6 1.2 1.5
Canadian dollars 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0 – – –
97.0 187.8 284.8 20.1 304.9 6.8 4.6 1.9
Included within the US dollar fixed rate financial liabilities is an interest rate swap for £104.2m (US$200m), fixed at 6.25% until 8 January 2009, which
will revert to a floating rate should the US dollar six month LIBOR exceed 7%. The benchmark rate for floating rate financial liabilities is the LIBOR
of the relevant currency. This swap was terminated in January 2005.
Financial liabilities on which no interest is paid comprise other creditors of £3.1m falling due after more than one year, provisions falling due after
more than one year of £6.2m, and interests in provisions of associates of £10.8m.
b) Analysis of financial liabilities by type and currency
At 31 December 2004 financial liabilities on which interest is paid comprised:
Loan notes Bank loans Bank overdrafts Finance leases Total 
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 7.5 8.0 – 40.6 56.1
US dollars – 207.5 – 17.5 225.0
Australian dollars – – – 2.7 2.7
Canadian dollars – – – 1.0 1.0
7.5 215.5 – 61.8 284.8 87
Notes to the Accounts
32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
c) Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2004 was as follows:
2004
£m
Expiring within one year 31.8
Expiring within one to two years 24.0
Expiring within two to five years 234.6
Expiring in more than five years 14.5
304.9
d) Financial assets by currency
The Group’s financial assets on which interest is receivable comprise cash at bank and in hand, including deposits, amounting to £147.2m, and a loan
note receivable of £1.0m, which earn interest at floating rates. Cash deposits are placed on the money markets at commercial rates linked to the
LIBOR of the relevant currency. The currency profile as at 31 December 2004 was as follows:
Weighted average 
period until 
maturity for 
Financial assets financial assets 
Deposits and on which on which no
receivables at no interest is interest 
floating rates received Total is received
2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m Y ears
Sterling 99.8 19.3 119.1 2.1
US dollars 9.8 0.3 10.1 1.6
Australian dollars 37.7 – 37.7 –
Canadian dollars 0.9 – 0.9 –
148.2 19.6 167.8 2.1
Financial assets on which no interest is received total £19.6m and comprise investments of £10.5m, and other debtors and prepayments greater than
one year of £9.1m.
e) Currency exposures
As at 31 December 2004 the Group did not have any material net currency transactional exposures.
f) Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
At 31 December 2004 the Group had undrawn and unused committed borrowings as follows:
2004
£m
Expiring within two to five years 302.7
On 26 November 2004 the previous bank facility was refinanced with a new 5 year £552.5m revolving credit facility.
g) Fair values
The book values and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments at 31 December 2004 are set out below:
Book value Fair value 
2004 2004
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 147.2 147.2
Other debt receivable 1.0 1.0
Other financial assets 19.6 19.6
Loans and overdrafts (223.0) (223.0)
Finance lease obligations (61.8) (61.8)
Forward foreign currency contracts – 0.3
Interest rate swaps – (25.0)
Fuel price swaps – 6.3
Other financial liabilities (20.1) (20.1)
The finance leases have been valued by a comparison of the portfolio interest rate against the expected rates at which the Group could borrow
money at the year end over the same period. There was no significant difference in value. The forward foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps
and fuel price swaps have been all been valued externally by comparison with the market foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the
year end. 88
Notes to the Accounts
32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
h) Hedge accounting
The gains and losses on instruments used for hedging interest rate risk, currency risk and commodity price risk are not recognised until the exposure
that is being hedged is itself recognised. Unrecognised losses on instruments used for hedging are set out below:
Net unrecognised losses
2004
£m
Unrecognised losses on hedges at the start of the year 35.0
Losses arising in previous years that were recognised in the year (3.1)
Losses not recognised in the year arising before the start of the year 31.9
Gains arising in the year that were not recognised in the year (13.5)
Unrecognised losses on hedges at the end of the year 18.4
Of which:
Losses expected to be recognised within one year 2.4
Losses expected to be recognised after one year 16.0
18.4
i) Market price risk – commodities
The Group seeks to manage its exposure to fuel prices by entering into both a range of fixed price swaps with banks and also contracts for the
purchase of fuel.
33 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
2005 2004
£m £m
At 31 December
Authorised:
200,000,000 (2004: 146,650,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 7.3
Issued called-up and fully paid:
150,520,310 (2004: 139,153,158) ordinary shares of 5p each 7.5 7.0
Number 
Movement in ordinary shares during the period: £m of shares
At 1 January 2004 6.8 136,850,910
Exercise of share options – 509,656
TWM SIP appropriation 0.2 1,792,592
At 1 January 2005 7.0 139,153,158
Issue of shares in consideration for acquisition of Alsa (note 20) 0.7 13,503,600
Exercise of share options – 957,141
TWM SIP appropriation – 206,411
Shares cancelled (0.2) (2,900,000)
At 31 December 2005 7.5 150,920,310 89
Notes to the Accounts
34 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital Other 
ShareShareredemptionOwnreservesRetained Minority 
capital premium reserve shares (note 35) earnings Total interests Total equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2004 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) 13.3 203.2 265.9 0.9 266.8
Financial instruments recognition – – – – (5.9) (6.9) (12.8) – (12.8)
At 1 January 2005 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) 7.4 196.3 253.1 0.9 254.0
Shares issued 0.7 126.7 – – – – 127.4 – 127.4
Shares purchased (0.2) – 0.2 (3.5) – (25.8) (29.3) – (29.3)
Acquisition of minority interest – – – – – – – 2.8 2.8
Total recognised income/(expense) – – – – 17.1 (24.4) (7.3) 0.1 (7.2)
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes – – – 3.5 – – 3.5 – 3.5
Disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Share based payments – – – – – 3.6 3.6 – 3.6
Dividends – – – – – (41.6) (41.6) – (41.6)
At 31 December 2005 7.5 174.2 0.2 (5.1) 24.5 108.1 309.4 2.9 312.3
Share Other 
ShareSharecapitalOwnreservesRetained Minority 
capital premium to be issued shares (note 35) earnings Total interests T otal equity
£m £m£m£m£m£m£m£m £m
At 1 January 2004 6.8 45.1 0.1 (5.2) 16.2 177.7 240.7 4.7 245.4
Shares issued 0.2 2.4 (0.1) – – – 2.5 – 2.5
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Transfers – – – – (0.8) 0.8 – – –
Total recognised income/(expense) – – – – (2.1) 60.5 58.4 (3.8) 54.6
Share based payments – – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Dividends – – – – – (36.4) (36.4) – (36.4)
At 31 December 2004 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) 13.3 203.2 265.9 0.9 266.8
Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 the Group has repurchased 3,300,000 shares for consideration of £29.3m. 2,900,000 shares have been
cancelled, and the remaining 400,000 shares retained as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Group’s share schemes or
cancellation.
Own shares include 849,456 (2004: 1,743,544) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National Express
Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”). The shares are held to satisfy potential awards or options granted under a number of the Company’s share
schemes. The value of shares within the Trust has been recognised as an investment in treasury shares. The market value of these shares at 
31 December 2005 was £7.3m (2004: £14.4m). The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
35 OTHER RESERVES
Merger Hedging Revaluation Translation
reserve reserve reserve reserve T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2004 15.4 – – (2.1) 13.3
Financial instrument recognition – (5.9) – – (5.9)
At 1 January 2005 15.4 (5.9) – (2.1) 7.4
Hedge movements –3.7–– 3.7
Exchange differences, net of tax – – – 11.9 11.9
Cumulative exchange differences of disposed operations – – – 1.5 1.5
At 31 December 2005 15.4 (2.2) – 11.3 24.5 90
Notes to the Accounts
35 OTHER RESERVES (continued)
Merger Hedging Revaluation Translation
reserve reserve reserve reserve T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 15.4 – 0.8 – 16.2
Transfers ––(0.8)–(0.8)
Exchange differences, net of tax – – – (2.1) (2.1)
At 31 December 2004 15.4 – – (2.1) 13.3
The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows:
• The merger reserve includes premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000. The reserve is not distributable.
• The revaluation reserve records the increases and decreases in the fair value of land and buildings to the extent they offset one another.
The reserve is not distributable.
• The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity on underlying
hedging items.
• The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 
a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions
The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme. The majority of employees 
of the UK Train companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme (“RPS”), a funded defined benefit
scheme. The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group. Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent
professionally qualified actuaries.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans. The Group also provides certain additional post-employment
benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section (iii) in the Other category.
The total pension cost for the year was £27.5m (2004: £31.6m), of which £2.5m (2004: £3.4m) relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The defined benefit pension liability included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
UK Bus (37.8) (36.2)
UK Coach (14.9) (11.0)
UK Train (34.2) (17.9)
Other (1.9) (0.6)
T otal (88.8) (65.7)
The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations. A summary of the latest triennial actuarial
valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows:
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains
Travel West 
T ayside Midlands
31 March 31 March 5 April 31 December
Date of actuarial valuation 2002 2004 2004 2004 
Actuarial method used Projected unit Attained age* Projected unit Projected unit
Rate of investment returns per annum 5.4% 5.6%-6.6% 5.2%-6.0% 4.8%-6.8%
Increase in earnings per annum 4.1% 4.3% 4.7% 4.3%
Scheme assets taken at market value £36.2m £300.7m £25.3m £638.9m
Funding level 107% 88% 65% 86%-95%
* Amounts included in the income statement, statement of recognised income and expense and the balance sheet are calculated using the projected
unit method.
The range of funding levels for UK Trains reflects the range of funding levels in the various sections of the RPS. The plans do not provide medical benefits. 91
Notes to the Accounts
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued)
a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions (continued)
The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in
accordance with IAS 19. The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are:
2005 2004
UK UK UK UK UK UK 
Bus Coach Trains Bus Coach Trains 
Rate of increase in salaries 3.7% 3.7% 4.2% 3.7% 3.7% 4.2%
Rate of increase of pensions 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7%
Discount rate 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% 5.5% 5.5% 5.5%
Inflation assumption 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7% 2.7%
Expected rates of return on scheme assets
Equities 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5%
Bonds 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% 4.9% 4.9% 4.9%
Properties 6.2% 6.2% 6.2% 6.7% 6.7% 6.7%
Other 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0%
Post retirement mortality in years:
Current pensioners at 65 – male 17.8 21.3 17.8 17.8 21.3 16.3
Current pensioners at 65 – female 20.7 24.2 20.1 20.7 24.2 19.2
Future pensioners at 65 – male 19.4 23.1 18.8 19.4 23.1 16.8
Future pensioners at 65 – female 22.4 25.9 21.3 22.4 25.9 20.0
The demographic assumptions reflect those included in the most recent triennial valuation. For the RPS, mortality assumptions are based on the
recent experience of the Scheme with an allowance for future improvements in mortality.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates. The expected rate of return on assets is determined based on
the market prices prevailing on that date.
b) Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme
The majority of employees of the UK Train companies are members of the appropriate section of the Railways Pension Scheme (“RPS”), a funded
defined benefit scheme. The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. To date,
the Group has experienced three changes of UK Train franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise
term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement. However, although the Group’s past
experience has proven otherwise, our legal advice has opined that in certain situations, some of the liability for the deficit on the relevant sections of
the RPS could theoretically crystallise for funding by an individual TOC at the end of the franchise. By entering into the franchise contract, the TOC
becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension liability in
accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries and for which there is no funding cap set out in the
franchise contract.We understand that franchise contracts entered into in the future will clarify that RPS pension deficits and surpluses will not be
the responsibility of the outgoing franchisee following exit.
To comply with IAS 19, the Group is required to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its constructive obligation
that arises under the terms of each franchise agreement.
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Group’s accounts present fairly its financial position, financial
performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Group’s constructive but not its legal
RPS defined benefit obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19. This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent
with that set out in this note for the Group’s other defined benefit schemes, means that the Group’s accounts reflect that element of the deficits
anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new
owner at franchise exit.
In calculating the Group’s constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the RPS
sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above. These deficits are reduced by a “franchise adjustment” which is that portion
of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and for which the Group will not be required to fund. The franchise adjustment, which
has been calculated by the Group’s actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly present the financial performance,
position and cash flows of the Group’s obligations. 92
Notes to the Accounts
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued)
b) Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme (continued)
The franchise adjustment increased from £67.6m at 31 December 2004 to £71.0m at 31 December 2005. The increase is caused by the interest 
on the franchise adjustment (£3.6m) offset by net actuarial movements in scheme liabilities of £0.2m. In the prior year, the franchise adjustment
increased by £5.2m from £62.4m at 1 January 2004 to £67.6m at 31 December 2004. The increase was caused by unwinding the discounting
(£3.3m) and net actuarial movements in scheme liabilities (£28.1m), offset by franchise exits net of franchise wins / extensions (£26.2m).
If the Group had accounted for its legal obligation in respect of the RPS instead of the constructive obligation, the following adjustments would have
been made to the financial information:
2005 2004
£m £m
Balance Sheet
Defined benefit pension deficit (71.0) (67.6)
Deferred tax asset 20.1 19.5
Intangible asset 3.4 2.3
(47.5) (45.8)
Statement of recognised income and expense
Actuarial gains/(losses) 0.2 (28.1)
Tax on actuarial gains and losses 0.3 9.0
0.5 (19.1)
Income Statement
Financing cost – unwind of discount (3.6) (3.3)
Curtailment gain on franchise exit – 28.6
Intangible asset amortisation 1.1 0.8
Deferred tax credit/(charge) 0.3 (8.7)
(2.2) 17.4
c) Financial results for pension benefits
The amounts charged to the Group income statement and Group statement of recognised income and expense for the years ended 31 December
2005 and 2004 are set out in the following tables.
Year ended 31 December 2005
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
Group income statement £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit:
Current service cost (5.3) (1.6) (31.2) (0.2) (38.3)
Past service cost – – – – –
Expected return on pension scheme assets 23.9 2.1 30.1 – 56.1
Interest on pension liabilities (20.2) (2.2) (24.0) – (46.4)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 3.6 – 3.6
Charge to operating profit (1.6) (1.7) (21.5) (0.2) (25.0)
Total charge to income statement (1.6) (1.7) (21.5) (0.2) (25.0)
Actual return on plan assets 59.2 4.6 84.5 – 148.3
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
Group statement of recognised income and expense £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 35.3 2.5 54.4 – 92.2
Other actuarial gains and losses (41.6) (7.3) (75.3) – (124.2)
Actuarial loss (6.3) (4.8) (20.9) – (32.0) 93
Notes to the Accounts
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued)
c) Financial results for pension benefits (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2004
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
Group income statement £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit:
Current service cost (5.3) (1.4) (34.5) – (41.2)
Past service cost – – – – –
Franchise exit – – 0.4 – 0.4
Expected return on pension scheme assets 21.5 1.7 33.1 – 56.3
Interest on pension liabilities (19.1) (1.6) (26.3) – (47.0)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 3.3 – 3.3
Charge to operating profit (2.9) (1.3) (24.0) – (28.2)
Total charge to income statement (2.9) (1.3) (24.0) – (28.2)
Actual return on plan assets 31.3 3.4 44.0 – 78.7
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
Group statement of recognised income and expense £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 9.8 1.7 10.9 – 22.4
Other actuarial gains and losses (4.6) (8.9) (11.2) – (24.7)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 5.2 (7.2) (0.3) – (2.3)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December are:
As at 31 December 2005
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 218.5 17.2 638.1 – 873.8
Bonds 159.7 18.5 88.2 – 266.4
Property 3.6 – 67.3 – 70.9
Other 4.0 – 2.8 – 6.8
Fair value of scheme assets 385.8 35.7 796.4 – 1,217.9
Present fair value of scheme liabilities (423.6) (50.6) (901.6) (1.9) (1,377.7)
Franchise adjustment – – 71.0 – 71.0
Group’s defined benefit obligation (423.6) (50.6) (830.6) (1.9) (1,306.7)
Defined benefit pension deficit (37.8) (14.9) (34.2) (1.9) (88.8)
As at 31 December 2004
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other Total
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Equities 215.7 14.1 485.8 – 715.6
Bonds 113.6 14.6 67.9 – 196.1
Property 3.6 – 50.0 – 53.6
Other 5.1 – 30.7 – 35.8
Fair value of scheme assets 338.0 28.7 634.4 – 1,001.1
Present fair value of scheme liabilities (374.2) (39.7) (719.9) (0.6) (1,134.4)
Franchise adjustment – – 67.6 – 67.6
Group’s defined benefit obligation (374.2) (39.7) (652.3) (0.6) (1,066.8)
Defined benefit pension deficit (36.2) (11.0) (17.9) (0.6) (65.7) 94
Notes to the Accounts
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued)
c) Financial results for pension benefits (continued)
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below. For UK Trains, the RPS is a shared cost scheme,
which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. The defined benefit obligation disclosed below represents only the
Group’s share of the liability.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Group’s defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2005 (374.2) (39.7) (652.3) (0.6) (1,066.8)
Current service cost (5.3) (1.6) (31.2) (0.2) (38.3)
Past service cost – – – – –
Benefits paid 19.2 0.7 19.6 0.1 39.6
Contributions by employees (1.5) (0.5) (14.5) – (16.5)
Finance charge (20.2) (2.2) (24.0) – (46.4)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 3.6 – 3.6
Liability movement for members’ share of assets – – (56.5) – (56.5)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Exchange difference – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense (41.6) (7.3) (75.3) – (124.2)
Group’s defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2005 (423.6) (50.6) (830.6) (1.9) (1,306.7)
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Group’s defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2004 (362.0) (27.5) (633.9) (0.8) (1,024.2)
Current service cost (5.3) (1.4) (34.5) – (41.2)
Franchise entry – – (128.1) – (128.1)
Franchise exit – – 195.4 – 195.4
Benefits paid 18.3 0.3 25.5 0.2 44.3
Contributions by employees (1.5) (0.6) (13.2) – (15.3)
Finance charge (19.1) (1.6) (26.3) – (47.0)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 3.3 – 3.3
Liability movement for members’ share of assets – – (29.3) – (29.3)
Actuarial loss recognised in statement of recognised income and expense (4.6) (8.9) (11.2) – (24.7)
Group’s defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2004 (374.2) (39.7) (652.3) (0.6) (1,066.8)
The Group’s defined benefit obligation comprises £1,304.8m (2004: £1,066.2m) arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and £1.9m 
(2004: £0.6m) from unfunded plans.
The movement in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains T otal
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2005 338.0 28.7 634.4 1,001.1
Expected return 23.9 2.1 30.1 56.1
Cash contributions – Employer 6.3 2.6 26.1 35.0
Cash contributions – Employee 1.5 0.5 14.5 16.5
Benefits paid (19.2) (0.7) (19.6) (39.5)
Members’ share of return on assets – 56.5 56.5
Actuarial gain recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 35.3 2.5 54.4 92.2
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2005 385.8 35.7 796.4 1,217.9 95
Notes to the Accounts
36 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued)
c) Financial results for pension benefits (continued)
UK Bus UK Coach UK Trains Total
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2004 323.3 22.8 625.4 971.5
Expected return 21.5 1.7 33.1 56.3
Franchise entry – – 116.1 116.1
Franchise exit – – (195.0) (195.0)
Cash contributions – Employer 0.2 2.2 26.9 29.3
Cash contributions – Employee 1.5 0.6 13.2 15.3
Benefits paid (18.3) (0.3) (25.5) (44.1)
Members’ share of asset movement – – 29.3 29.3
Actuarial gain recognised in statement of recognised income and expense 9.8 1.7 10.9 22.4
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2004 338.0 28.7 634.4 1,001.1
The Group expects to contribute £38.4m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2006.
History of experience gains and losses:
2005 2004
UK Bus £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 385.8 338.0
Present value of Group’s defined benefit obligation (423.6) (374.2)
Deficit in the scheme (37.8) (36.2)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities (3.3) 24.9
Experience adjustments arising on assets 35.3 9.8
2005 2004
UK Coach £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 35.7 28.7
Present value of Group’s defined benefit obligation (50.6) (39.7)
Deficit in the scheme (14.9) (11.0)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities – (0.4)
Experience adjustments arising on assets 2.5 1.7
2005 2004
UK Train £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 796.4 634.4
Present value of Group’s defined benefit obligation (830.6) (652.3)
Deficit in the scheme (34.2) (17.9)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (53.8) (13.0)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 54.4 10.9
2005 2004
Other £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets – –
Present value of Group’s defined benefit obligation (1.9) (0.6)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1 January 2004 is £34.3m
loss (2004: £2.3m loss). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken
directly to equity of £51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently the directors are
unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
before 1 January 2004. 96
Notes to the Accounts
37 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Operating lease commitments
The TOCs have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, stations and depots). They also
have contracts under which rolling stock is leased. Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below:
Land and buildings Plant and equipment
2005 2004 2005 2004
UK Trains division commitments £m £m £m £m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year: Fixed track access 226.4 198.3 – –
Rolling stock – – 241.0 273.4
Other 66.0 66.8 2.2 0.6
292.4 265.1 243.2 274.0
After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 437.8 398.6 – –
Rolling stock – – 573.0 593.7
Other 147.5 144.5 7.4 2.5
585.3 543.1 580.4 596.2
More than five years: Fixed track access 25.4 111.2 – –
Rolling stock – – 34.8 157.7
Other 9.9 41.1 2.5 2.7
35.3 152.3 37.3 160.4
913.0 960.5 860.9 1,030.6
Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 4.0 years (2004: 4.9 years), other land and buildings have an average duration of 
4.9 years (2004: 6.3 years). Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 4.4 years (2004: 5.2 years) and other plant and equipment 6.2 years
(2004: 9.0 years).
The table above reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed.
The land and buildings commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting on 1 April 2004.
The Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. Commitments
for future minimum rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases for the other divisions are shown below:
Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Other divisions’ commitments £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year: 9.0 8.2 7.7 8.6 2.6 1.3
After one year but not more than five years: 29.3 14.4 15.9 29.4 4.7 0.8
More than five years: 8.4 8.5 0.4 1.5 – –
46.7 31.1 24.0 39.5 7.3 2.1
The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 6.7 years (2004: 7.7 years) for land and buildings, 3.2 years 
(2004: 4.4 years) for public service vehicles and 2.9 years (2004: 2.0 years) for other plant and equipment. 97
Notes to the Accounts
37 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)
Operating lease commitments (continued)
T otal
2005 2004
Total Group: £m £m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year: Land and buildings 301.4 273.3
Plant and equipment 253.5 283.9
554.9 557.2
After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 614.6 557.5
Plant and equipment 601.0 626.4
1,215.6 1,183.9
More than five years: Land and buildings 43.7 160.8
Plant and equipment 37.7 161.9
81.4 322.7
1,851.9 2,063.8
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor
The Group receives rent on properties as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year: 6.3 7.0
After one year but not more than five years: 16.7 16.4
More than five years: 5.0 7.7
28.0 31.1
The leases have an average unexpired duration of 3.9 years (2004: 3.7 years).
Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. These leases have terms of renewal but no
purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2005 2004
Minimum Present value Minimum Present value 
payments of payments payments of payments
£m £m £m £m
Within one year: 28.4 23.6 18.5 14.8
After one year but not more than five years: 65.0 54.1 47.5 40.6
More than five years: 38.8 31.4 4.2 3.7
Total minimum lease payments 132.2 70.2
Less future financing charges (23.1) (11.1)
Present value of minimum lease payments 109.1 109.1 59.1 59.1
Capital commitments
2005 2004
£m £m
Contracted 19.3 5.3
The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land & buildings improvements. 98
Notes to the Accounts
37 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)
Contingent liabilities
Bonds and letters of credit
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations. As at 31 December 2005, there
were UK Train performance bonds of £44.6m (2004: £38.5m) and UK Train season ticket bonds of £100.0m (2004: £90.3m). The £5.6m
performance bond in respect of London Eastern Railway Limited (trading as ‘one’) which was in place at 1 January 2005 was increased to £11.7m on
1 April 2005. The Group has other performance bonds which include the £14.6m (2004: £14.2m) performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and
Regional Rail Limited, performance bonds in respect of businesses in the United States of America of £34.5m (2004: £39.3m) and the rest of Europe
of £9.6m (2004: £nil). Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of £84.7m (2004: £72.7m).
38 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Amount of Amounts due Amounts due 
transactions from related parties to related parties
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Associates
Altram 7.0 7.3 5.3 4.6 – (0.1)
ICRRL – – – – (8.4) (2.9)
Alsa associates – – 2.0 – (0.3) –
Joint ventures
Alsa joint ventures – – 0.6 – (0.1) –
Trade investments
Trainline Holdings Limited – – 2.5 2.5 – –
Alsa trade investments – – 0.2 – (1.7) –
Property transactions
Stock 0.3 0.2 – – – –
Alsa 0.2 – 0.2 – – –
Total associates and joint ventures 7.0 7.3 7.9 4.6 (8.8) (3.0)
Total other related parties 0.5 0.2 2.9 2.5 (1.7) –
T otal 7.5 7.5 10.8 7.1 (10.5) (3.0)
Property transactions
Brian Stock was appointed as Chief Executive of the Group’s North American operations in October 2004. Stock Transportation Limited, a school
bus operator in North America, was acquired in July 2002. As part of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, the Group entered into leases for eight
properties at market rents and on standard terms and conditions. The rental payments of £0.3m (2004: £0.2m) are made to Stock Properties and
Stock Realty Limited, of which Brian Stock is a related party.
A number of Alsa companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family. Jorge Cosmen is a non executive director of the
Group. These leases were in place before the Group’s acquisition of Alsa and are for appropriate market rates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
2005 2004
£m £m
As disclosed in Note 7 2.6 2.6
Share-based payments 0.4 0.2
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 3.0 2.8
Directors’ interests in employee share plans are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration. 99
Notes to the Accounts
39 CASH FLOW STATEMENT
The net cash flows from operating activities include outflows of £7.7m (2004: £5.2m) from continuing operations which related to exceptional costs.
a) Reconciliation of Group operating profit to cash generated from operations
2005 2004
Total Operations £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Group operating profit 109.5 99.9
Operating profit of discontinued operations (56.4) (7.3)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 56.8 63.6
Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.8 0.6
Goodwill impairment 93.3 43.9
Intangible asset amortisation 4.9 2.4
Property, plant and equipment impairment – 6.1
Amortisation of fixed asset grants (0.9) (6.5)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (in normalised operating profit) (2.0) (0.6)
Share-based payments 3.6 0.6
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.7) 0.7
Decrease in receivables 22.4 18.7
(Decrease)/increase in payables (37.2) 34.7
Decrease in provisions (13.0) (2.7)
Cash generated from operations 181.1 254.1
2005 2004
Discontinued Operations £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit (56.4) (7.3)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.3 6.3
Goodwill impairment 60.0 10.6
Property, plant and equipment impairment – 6.1
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (in normalised operating profit) (0.1) –
Share-based payments 0.1 –
Increase in inventories (0.1) –
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (1.1) 1.2
Increase/(decrease) in payables 1.2 (4.9)
Decrease in provisions (1.3) (2.9)
Cash generated from operations 3.6 9.1 100
Notes to the Accounts
39 CASH FLOW STATEMENT (continued)
b) Analysis of changes in net debt
Net debt at 31 December 2005 comprises cash and cash equivalents of £145.5m (2004: £147.2m) as disclosed in note 24, current interest bearing
loans and borrowings of £214.4m (2004: £30.3m) and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings of £495.5m (2004: £251.8m) as disclosed
in note 30 and other debt receivable of £1.0m (2004: £1.0m) as disclosed in note 32.
Additionally, net debt at 31 December 2004 includes £1.5m finance leases due within one year and £1.2m finance leases due within one to two
years attributable to discontinued operations and classified separately on the balance sheet within the “Liabilities directly associated with disposal
group assets classified as held for sale” heading.
At At
1January Acquisitions/ Exchange Other 31 December 
2005 Cash flow Disposals Differences movements 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash 26.8 25.0 – 1.4 – 53.2
Overnight deposits 24.1 0.4 – – – 24.5
Other short term deposits 96.3 (29.8) – 1.3 – 67.8
Bank overdrafts – (5.5) – – – (5.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 147.2 (9.9) – 2.7 – 140.0
Other debt receivable 1.0 – – – – 1.0
Debt due within one year:
Loan notes (7.5) 6.7 – – – (0.8)
Bank loans (8.0) (174.8) – (1.5) (0.2) (184.5)
(15.5) (168.1) – (1.5) (0.2) (185.3)
Debt due after one year:
Bank loans (207.5) 26.7 (204.0) (25.2) – (410.0)
Finance lease obligations (61.8) 20.0 (7.3) (3.0) (57.0) (109.1)
Net debt (136.6) (131.3) (211.3) (27.0) (57.2) (563.4)
Short term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months. Changes in net debt arising from
acquisitions and disposals in the year are disclosed separately in note 20.
Other non cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of £57.0m (2004: £16.2m) and £0.2m (2004: £1.8m) amortisation of loan
arrangement fees.
c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2005 2004
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period (9.9) 51.0
Cash (inflow)/outflow from movement in debt and lease financing (121.4) 109.8
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (131.3) 160.8
Change in net debt resulting from acquisitions and disposals (211.3) (8.5)
Change in net debt resulting from non cash flows (84.2) 0.2
Movement in net debt in the period (426.8) 152.5
Opening net debt (136.6) (289.1)
Net debt (563.4) (136.6) 101
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS
a) First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group has applied IFRS 1,‘First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, to provide a starting point for reporting under
IFRS. The Group’s date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004 and all comparative information in the accounts is restated to reflect the Group’s
adoption of IFRS, except where otherwise required or permitted under IFRS 1.
IFRS 1 requires an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first IFRS accounts. As a general principle, IFRS 1 requires
the standards effective at the reporting date to be applied retrospectively. However, retrospective application is prohibited in some areas, particularly
where retrospective application would require judgements by management about past conditions after the outcome of the particular transaction is
already known. A number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRSs are granted where the cost of compliance is deemed to
exceed the benefits to users of the accounts. The Group has taken the following exemptions:
• IAS 32,‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, and IAS 39,‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, have been adopted
from 1 January 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
• Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3,‘Business Combinations’.
• Cumulative translation differences on foreign currency denominated operations are deemed to be £nil at 1 January 2004. Any gains and losses
recognised in the income statement on subsequent disposals of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to
the transition date.
• Share-based payment charges will only be recognised for those awards granted after 7 November 2002 which have not vested as of 1 January 2005.
Where applicable, the options selected by management are set out in more detail in the explanatory notes below.
IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’
IFRS 2 requires the Group to recognise an expense for employees’ and directors’ share options and other share based incentives by using an option-
pricing model.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in respect of equity settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards
granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 1 January 2005.
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’
IFRS 3 has been applied to the accounting for business combinations from 1 January 2004, as permitted by IFRS 1.
The adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 36 has resulted in the cessation of annual goodwill amortisation and the adoption of annual impairment reviews at
the cash generating unit level from 1 January 2004.
Intangible assets are now recognised upon acquisition at the individual asset category level. They have either a finite or indefinite life, and therefore
are amortised or reviewed annually for impairment as appropriate.
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’
The Group previously presented the operating results of operations discontinued during the year separately from the exceptional profit or loss on
disposal. The adoption of IFRS 5 means that the Group’s interest in discontinued operations is presented after continuing operations and represents
the post-tax results of operations after interest and the post-tax gain or loss on disposal.
Any assets or liabilities remaining in the balance sheet at the period end relating to discontinued operations will be presented separately from the
assets and liabilities of continuing operations.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’
The Group previously recognised pension costs on a systematic basis so that the costs of providing retirement benefits to employees were evenly
matched, so far as was possible, to the service lives of the employees concerned. Any surplus or deficit of the actuarial value of assets over the
actuarial value of liabilities of the pension scheme was spread over the average remaining service lives of employees. In addition disclosures were
made in accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 17,‘Retirement Benefits’.
The effect of adopting IAS 19 has been to recognise a pension liability to reflect the Group’s obligations to fund its defined benefit pension plans.
Additionally the adoption of the standard has resulted in various changes in the income statement and the creation of offsetting intangible assets for
some of the deficits existing in certain of the Group’s TOCs that existed when those contracts were commenced. Details of the accounting for the
Railways Pension Scheme are given in section (ii) of note 36. 40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
a) First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 and has not restated its results for the year ended 31 December 2004 for the effect 
of IAS 32 or IAS 39. The main adjustments that would be required to make the prior period results comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 would involve
including the Group’s derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet, and accounting for changes in fair value in accordance with the hedging
rules of IAS 39 through the income statement.
The adoption of IAS 39 has resulted in additional financial instruments being recognised on the Group’s balance sheet from 1 January 2005,
principally derivative instruments used by the Group to hedge financial risks. Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, and the hedging
rules of the standard have been applied so that movements have been taken directly to the income statement or to equity depending on the nature
of the hedging relationship and its effectiveness. The stricter designation documentation requirements and effectiveness testing needed to qualify for
hedge accounting under IFRS compared to UK GAAP means that, in certain circumstances, transactions undertaken as hedges under UK GAAP do
not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS. However, the Group’s strategy is unchanged in respect of the hedging of the net investment position of
foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, certain fuel usage and interest rate variances that the Group has previously hedged.
The Group has adopted the full version of IAS 39 as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). For the Group, compliance
with the full version of IAS 39 will also achieve compliance with the European Commission endorsed version of IAS 39.
IAS 10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’ 
Under IAS 10 the liability in respect of dividend payments is recognised when the dividend is approved. On this basis dividends approved after the
balance sheet date are not recorded as a liability at that balance sheet date.
IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ 
In previous years certain land and buildings were carried at fair value, based on valuations by external independent valuers, less subsequent
depreciation for buildings. The last valuation was at 31 December 1995. The Group will not revalue properties in the future and will use the
depreciated cost method under IAS 16. Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 the Group has elected to deem the fair value of these
revalued assets to be equivalent to cost and will adopt the cost model for depreciation in the future.
IAS 17 ‘Leases’ 
Since June 2005 the Group has identified a number of long-leasehold properties that require reclassification to non-current prepayments under 
IAS 17. This reclassification has no impact on net assets and no impact on the income statement.
IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
The Group will continue to translate the results of foreign currency denominated operations at average exchange rates and the balance sheets 
at period end exchange rates. Under IAS 21 the Group will be required to separately identify translation differences for each foreign currency
denominated operation. Any translation differences arising under IFRS will be separately recorded in equity, net of any foreign exchange movements 
on related hedging instruments. On disposal of a foreign currency denominated operation, the cumulative translation differences for that operation are
transferred to the consolidated income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal. This was not the case under previous accounting policies.
The Group will take advantage of the election under IFRS 1 not to record cumulative translation differences arising before the transition date and all
subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences prior to 1 January 2004.
102
Notes to the Accounts 103
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
b) Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004
Effect of
Under transition
Consolidated income statement UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
For the year ended 31 December 2004 Note £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue a 2,569.0 (214.5) 2,354.5
Operating costs before goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items b (2,417.0) 205.8 (2,211.2)
Goodwill amortisation and impairment c (62.2) 28.9 (33.3)
Property, plant & equipment impairment d (6.1) 6.1 –
Intangible amortisation e – (2.4) (2.4)
Exceptional items d (7.9) 0.2 (7.7)
Total operating costs (2,493.2) 238.6 (2,254.6)
Group operating profit 75.8 24.1 99.9
Loss on disposal of non-current assets d (0.1) (0.8) (0.9)
Profit from operations 75.7 23.3 99.0
Share of post tax results from associates (3.4) – (3.4)
Profit on sale of discontinued operations d 8.9 (8.9) –
Net finance costs d (18.1) 0.4 (17.7)
Profit before tax 63.1 14.8 77.9
Taxation f (22.3) (0.5) (22.8)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 40.8 14.3 55.1
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued operations d – (5.4) (5.4)
Profit on sale of discontinued operations d – 8.9 8.9
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 3.5 3.5
Profit for the period 40.8 17.8 58.6
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 44.4 17.8 62.2
Loss attributable to minority interests (3.6) – (3.6)
40.8 17.8 58.6
a) Revenue has been adjusted to reclassify the £214.5m of revenue generated by discontinued operations to a specific line of the income statement
for discontinued operations, in accordance with IFRS 5. See note 11 for additional disclosures of the results from discontinued operations.
b) Operating costs have been reduced by £205.8m comprising £204.9m of costs from discontinued operations reclassified in the income statement
(see note 11 for details) and a £1.5m credit following the adoption of IAS 19 in respect of defined benefit pension schemes. Off-setting these
reductions is a £0.6m charge recognised in respect of share-based payments.
c) Goodwill amortisation is reduced by £28.9m by the IFRS 3 requirement not to amortise goodwill with a presumed indefinite life (£18.3m) and
by the reallocation of the goodwill impairment on discontinued operations (£10.6m) under IFRS 5 (see note 11).
d) The property, plant and equipment impairment charge of £6.1m, £0.2m of the charge for exceptional items, £0.8m profit on disposal of non-
current assets, £8.9m profit on the sale of discontinued operations and £0.4m of net finance costs are reclassified to results from discontinued
operations in accordance with IFRS 5 (see note 11).
e) Intangible asset amortisation of £2.4m is charged on the intangible asset (£1.9m) created upon the recognition of the UK Trains pension scheme
deficit under IAS 19 (see note 36) and on the customer contract and relationship assets (£0.5m) acquired with certain Canadian school bus
acquisitions in 2004.
f) The change in accounting policies does not alter the current tax charge for 2004. The charge for deferred tax increased by £0.5m. The deferred
tax impact of IFRS 3 has given rise to a £1.3m charge on goodwill on certain US acquisitions which remains deductible for tax purposes.
Additionally the continuing group charge has increased by £1.5m as credits have been reallocated to discontinued operations (see note 11).
Offsetting this, the deferred tax impact of the change in the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 has given rise to a
£2.3m tax credit. 104
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
Effect 
Under UK of transition 
Group operating profit GAAP to IFRS IFRS
For the year ended 31 December 2004 Note £m £m £m
UK Bus a 44.2 (2.6) 41.6
UK Trains b 58.5 2.8 61.3
UK Coach c 18.4 0.9 19.3
North American Bus d 29.8 (0.2) 29.6
Central Functions e (8.5) – (8.5)
Discontinued Operations f 9.6 (9.6) –
Normalised operating profit 152.0 (8.7) 143.3
Goodwill amortisation and impairment g (62.2) 28.9 (33.3)
Property, plant and equipment impairment f (6.1) 6.1 –
Intangible asset amortisation h – (2.4) (2.4)
Other exceptional items f (7.9) 0.2 (7.7)
Group operating profit 75.8 24.1 99.9
a) UK Bus incurred additional charges of £2.5m in respect of defined benefit pensions schemes under IAS 19 and £0.1m in respect of share-based
payments under IFRS 2.
b) UK Trains benefited from a £2.8m reduction in pension charges and a £0.1m reduction in the holiday pay charge, both following the adoption 
of IAS 19. Offsetting this, an additional charge of £0.1m has been recognised for share-based payments under IFRS 2.
c) UK Coach benefited from a £0.9m reduction in pension charges following the adoption of IAS 19.
d) North American Bus incurred additional charges of £0.2m, recognised in respect of holiday pay under IAS 19 (£0.1m) and share-based
payments under IFRS 2 (£0.1m).
e) The result for Central Functions was unchanged as the £0.3m charge recognised in respect of share-based payments was offset by a £0.3m
reduction in pension charges under IAS 19.
f) The £9.6m normalised operating profit for discontinued operations, the £6.1m property, plant and equipment impairment charge and £0.2m 
of the charge for exceptional items are reclassified in the income statement in accordance with IFRS 5.
g) Goodwill amortisation is reduced by £28.9m by the IFRS 3 requirement not to amortise goodwill with a presumed indefinite life (£18.3m) and
by the reallocation of the goodwill impairment on discontinued operations (£10.6m) under IFRS 5 (see note 11).
h) Intangible asset amortisation of £2.4m is charged on the intangible asset (£1.9m) created upon the recognition of the UK Trains pension scheme
deficit under IAS 19 (see note 36) and on the customer contract and relationship assets (£0.5m) acquired with certain Canadian school bus
acquisitions in 2004. 105
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
c) Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004
Effect of
Under transition
Group Balance Sheet UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
At 31 December 2004 Note £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets a 324.4 28.4 352.8
Property, plant and equipment b 380.3 (46.8) 333.5
Financial assets – Other investments c 10.5 (0.3) 10.2
Other receivables d – 30.5 30.5
Deferred tax asset e – 18.3 18.3
715.2 30.1 745.3
Current assets
Inventories f 16.3 (0.2) 16.1
Trade and other receivables g 328.5 (26.7) 301.8
Cash and cash equivalents f 147.2 (4.1) 143.1
492.0 (31.0) 461.0
Disposal group assets classified as held for sale f – 33.8 33.8
Total assets 1,207.2 32.9 1,240.1
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Borrowings f (253.0) 1.2 (251.8)
Deferred tax liability e (3.9) (0.6) (4.5)
Other non-current liabilities (3.0) – (3.0)
Defined benefit pension liability h – (65.7) (65.7)
Provisions i (72.2) 35.8 (36.4)
(332.1) (29.3) (361.4)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables j (542.0) 27.5 (514.5)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings f (31.8) 1.5 (30.3)
Current tax liabilities (36.8) – (36.8)
Provisions k – (23.4) (23.4)
(610.6) 5.6 (605.0)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale f – (6.9) (6.9)
Total liabilities (942.7) (30.6) (973.3)
Net assets 264.5 2.3 266.8
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 7.0 – 7.0
Share premium account 47.5 – 47.5
Own shares (5.1) – (5.1)
Other reserves l 15.4 (2.1) 13.3
Retained earnings m 198.8 4.4 203.2
Total shareholders’ equity 263.6 2.3 265.9
Minority interest in equity 0.9 – 0.9
Total equity 264.5 2.3 266.8
The note references above are explained after the 1 January 2004 balance sheet 106
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
Effect of
Under transition
Group Balance Sheet UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
At 1 January 2004 Note £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets a 404.6 1.0 405.6
Property, plant and equipment b 405.6 (32.5) 373.1
Investment properties b – 9.1 9.1
Financial assets – Other investments c 7.3 (0.3) 7.0
Other receivables d – 26.9 26.9
Deferred tax asset e – 12.0 12.0
817.5 16.2 833.7
Current assets
Inventories 17.3 – 17.3
Trade and other receivables g 343.7 (14.5) 329.2
Cash and cash equivalents 97.0 – 97.0
458.0 (14.5) 443.5
Total assets 1,275.5 1.7 1,277.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (346.0) – (346.0)
Deferred tax liability e (6.8) 4.1 (2.7)
Other non-current liabilities (1.3) – (1.3)
Defined benefit pension liability h – (52.7) (52.7)
Provisions i (52.0) 24.0 (28.0)
(406.1) (24.6) (430.7)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables j (548.4) 18.9 (529.5)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (40.1) – (40.1)
Current tax liabilities (16.7) – (16.7)
Provisions k – (14.8) (14.8)
(605.2) 4.1 (601.1)
Total liabilities (1,011.3) (20.5) (1,031.8)
Net assets 264.2 (18.8) 245.4
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 6.8 – 6.8
Share premium account 45.1 – 45.1
Share capital to be issued 0.1 – 0.1
Own shares (5.2) – (5.2)
Other reserves 16.2 – 16.2
Retained earnings m 196.5 (18.8) 177.7
Total shareholders’ equity 259.5 (18.8) 240.7
Minority interest in equity 4.7 – 4.7
Total equity 264.2 (18.8) 245.4 107
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
a) At 31 December 2004, intangible assets are increased by £28.4m (1 January 2004: £1.0m).
• Goodwill is increased by £14.3m (1 January 2004: £nil) on transition to IFRS. The presumption of indefinite life for goodwill under IFRS 3
reduces the amortisation charge for 2004 and therefore increases the book value at 31 December 2004 by £17.8m. Offsetting this, £3.5m has
been reclassified to intangible assets representing customer contracts and contractual relationships recognised on the acquisition of certain
Canadian school bus operations in 2004.
• Intangible assets increase by £14.1m (1 January 2004: £1.0m) as a number of intangible assets have been created and amortised during 2004.
An £11.1m (1 January 2004: £1.0m) intangible asset related to the recognition of the defined benefit pension scheme deficit under IAS 19 has
been recognised in addition to £3.0m (1 January 2004: £nil), representing customer contracts and contractual relationships acquired in 2004
transferred from goodwill.
b) Property, plant and equipment is reduced by £46.8m at 31 December 2004 (1 January 2004: £32.5m) for three reasons. Long leasehold
property with a net book value of £21.4m (1 January 2004: £23.4m) is reallocated from property, plant and equipment to non-current other
receivables under IAS 17. Property, plant and equipment in the Group’s discontinued operations of £25.4m (1 January 2004: £nil) is transferred
to disposal group assets under IFRS 5. Finally, £9.1m of property is reclassified as investment properties at 1 January 2004 under IAS 40. The
property in question was disposed of during 2004.
c) The investment in associates of £0.3m (1 January 2004: £0.3m) is reclassified from investments to amounts due to associates.
d) Other receivables increase by £30.5m (1 January 2004: £26.9m) because of £14.0m (1 January 2004: £8.7m) reallocated from current assets to
non-current assets under IAS 1 and £21.4m (1 January 2004: £23.4m) reallocated from property, plant and equipment under IAS 17. This is
offset by a £4.9m (1 January 2004: £5.2m) reduction in pension prepayments at UK Bus and UK Coach following the transition to IAS 19.
e) IAS 12 only permits deferred tax balances to be netted off if they occur in the same tax jurisdiction. This has resulted in a deferred tax asset of
£18.3m (1 January 2004: £12.0m) and a deferred tax liability of £4.5m (1 January 2004: £2.7m). The adoption of IAS 19 has created a deferred
tax asset of £18.0m (1 January 2004: £15.9m) in relation to both pensions and holiday pay adjustments. The effect of IFRS 3 on goodwill
amortisation has created a £1.3m deferred tax liability (1 January 2004: £nil) and IFRS 2 has given rise to a £1.0m (1 January 2004: £0.2m) asset.
f) A number of adjustments are required under IFRS 5 to reclassify assets and liabilities to the disposal group categories in the balance sheet. At 
31 December 2004, disposal group assets classified as held for sale of £33.8m were reclassified from property, plant and equipment (£25.4m),
trade and other receivables (£4.1m), inventories (£0.2m) and cash and cash equivalents (£4.1m). Likewise, liabilities directly associated with
disposal group assets held for sale of £6.9m were reclassified from non-current interest bearing loans (£1.2m), current interest bearing loans
(£1.5m) and trade and other payables (£4.2m).
g) Trade and other receivables reduce by £26.7m (1 January 2004: £14.5m) due to reclassification from current assets to non-current assets of
£14.0m (1 January 2004: £8.7m) under IAS 1, reclassification of amounts due from associates to trade payables £7.9m (1 January 2004: £4.9m),
the reallocation of discontinued operations under IFRS 5 of £4.1m (1 January 2004: £nil), and the reduction in pension prepayments following
the adoption of IAS 19 of £0.7m (1 January 2004: £0.9m).
h) Under IAS 19, liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet for the deficits on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes. Further details are
included in note 36.
i) Non-current provisions have been reduced by £35.8m (1 January 2004: £24.0m) following balance sheet reclassifications. Provisions totalling
£25.0m (1 January 2004: £16.4m) have been reclassified from non-current to current liabilities as per IAS 1. Provisions worth £10.8m 
(1 January 2004: £7.6m) have been reclassified to trade and other payables in current liabilities and amounts due from associates in trade
receivables in accordance with IAS 28 since the Group has an obligation to support these losses.
j) Trade and other payables decrease by £27.5m (1 January 2004: £18.9m). Liabilities are reduced by the non-recognition of the final dividend 
of £28.5m (1 January 2004: £23.6m) in accordance with IAS 10, reallocation of balances related to discontinued operations of £4.2m 
(1 January 2004: £nil) under IFRS 5 and a reduction in pension accruals of £0.8m (1 January 2004: £0.9m) under IAS 19. An additional £2.4m
liability (1 January 2004: £2.4m) has been recognised in relation to holiday pay under IAS 19 and £3.6m (1 January 2004: £3.2m) transferred
from provisions in respect of associates.
k) Current provisions of £23.4m (1 January 2004: £14.8m) comprises the reclassification of provisions of £25.0m (1 January 2004: £16.4m) from
non-current to current liabilities offset by £1.0m (1 January 2004: £0.8m) reclassification to trade and other payables in respect of IAS 28 and
£0.6m (1 January 2004: £0.8m) transferred to defined benefit pension liability for the unfunded pension provisions in North America.
l) Cumulative translation reserve of £2.1m relating to the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004.
m) The net impact of the above adjustments increases retained earnings at 31 December 2004 by £4.4m and reduces retained earnings at 
1 January 2004 by £18.8m.
• Cumulative profit and loss reserve adjustments of £41.5m charge (1 January 2004: £40.9m) in relation to defined benefit pension scheme
deficits and £1.7m (1 January 2004: £1.7m) in relation to holiday pay, also recognised under IAS 19.
• Profit and loss reserve credits have been recognised in relation to dividends not charged at period end under IAS 10 of £28.5m 
(1 January 2004: £23.6m).
• Non-amortisation of goodwill under IFRS 3 of £16.0m (1 January 2004: £nil).
• £1.0m (1 January 2004: £0.2m) in respect of deferred tax related to the adoption of IFRS 2.
• Additionally £2.1m has been transferred to the cumulative translation reserve at 31 December 2004 (1 January 2004: £nil). 108
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
d) Group Balance Sheet as at 1 January 2005
The adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 has given rise to further changes in the Group balance sheet:
IFRS at IFRS at 
31 December Adoption of 1 January 
Group Balance Sheet 2004 IAS 32/39 2005
At 1 January 2005 £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 352.8 – 352.8
Property, plant and equipment 333.5 – 333.5
Financial assets – Other investments 10.2 – 10.2
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments – 1.4 1.4
Other receivables 30.5 – 30.5
Deferred tax asset 18.3 5.6 23.9
745.3 7.0 752.3
Current assets
Inventories 16.1 – 16.1
Trade and other receivables 301.8 (14.6) 287.2
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments – 19.8 19.8
Cash and cash equivalents 143.1 – 143.1
461.0 5.2 466.2
Disposal group assets classified as held for sale 33.8 – 33.8
Total assets 1,240.1 12.2 1,252.3
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (251.8) – (251.8)
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments – (7.6) (7.6)
Deferred tax liability (4.5) – (4.5)
Other non-current liabilities (3.0) – (3.0)
Defined benefit pension liability (65.7) – (65.7)
Provisions (36.4) – (36.4)
(361.4) (7.6) (369.0)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (514.5) 2.5 (512.0)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings (30.3) – (30.3)
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments – (19.9) (19.9)
Current tax liabilities (36.8) – (36.8)
Provisions (23.4) – (23.4)
(605.0) (17.4) (622.4)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale (6.9) – (6.9)
Total liabilities (973.3) (25.0) (998.3)
Net assets 266.8 (12.8) 254.0
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 7.0 – 7.0
Share premium account 47.5 – 47.5
Own shares (5.1) – (5.1)
Other reserves 13.3 (5.9) 7.4
Retained earnings 203.2 (6.9) 196.3
Total shareholders’ equity 265.9 (12.8) 253.1
Minority interest in equity 0.9 – 0.9
Total equity 266.8 (12.8) 254.0
Details of the financial assets recognised in the balance sheet are included in note 18, and details of the financial liabilities recognised in the balance
sheet are included in note 29. 109
Notes to the Accounts
40 RECONCILIATION OF NET ASSETS, PROFIT AND CASH FLOW UNDER UK GAAP TO IFRS (continued)
e) Group Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2004
The adoption of IFRS results in the following changes to the reconciliation of net profit to cash generated from operations for the year ended 
31 December 2004:
Effect of 
Under transition
Reconciliation of net profit to cash generated from operations UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
For the year ended 31 December 2004 £m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit 75.8 24.1 99.9
Operating profit of discontinued operations – 9.4 9.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 64.2 (0.6) 63.6
Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment – 0.6 0.6
Property, plant and equipment impairment 6.1 (6.1) –
Goodwill amortisation and impairment 62.2 (28.9) 33.3
Intangible asset amortisation – 2.4 2.4
Amortisation of fixed asset grants (6.5) – (6.5)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (0.6) – (0.6)
Share-based payments – 0.6 0.6
Decrease in inventories 0.7 – 0.7
Decrease in receivables 19.2 (0.5) 18.7
Increase in payables 34.6 0.1 34.7
Decrease in provisions (1.6) (1.1) (2.7)
Cash generated from operations 254.1 – 254.1
As would be expected, the Group statement of cash flows is not changed by the adoption of IFRS:
Effect of 
Under transition
Group statement of cash flows UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
For the year ended 31 December 2004 £m £m £m
Cash generated from operations 254.1 – 254.1
Tax paid (3.2) – (3.2)
Net cash from operating activities 250.9 – 250.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired 12.6 – 12.6
Deferred consideration for businesses acquired (4.5) – (4.5)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (69.2) – (69.2)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 18.8 – 18.8
Payments in respect of businesses disposed (1.5) – (1.5)
Receipts from disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 24.7 – 24.7
Interest received 13.1 – 13.1
Receipts from sale of shares for employee schemes 0.1 – 0.1
Net cash used in investing activities (5.9) – (5.9)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 2.5 – 2.5
Interest paid (31.6) – (31.6)
Repayment of maintenance bond at ScotRail (18.7) – (18.7)
Finance lease principal payments (15.8) – (15.8)
Repayment of loan notes (0.9) – (0.9)
Loans repaid (93.1) – (93.1)
Dividends paid (36.4) – (36.4)
Net cash used in financing activities (194.0) – (194.0)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 51.0 – 51.0
Opening cash and cash equivalents 96.8 – 96.8
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 51.0 – 51.0
Foreign exchange (0.6) – (0.6)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 147.2 – 147.2 110
We have audited the parent company financial statements of National
Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which
comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 20.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been
audited.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of
National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or
for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) as set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the parent company financial
statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial
statements. The other information comprises only the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the Finance Review, the
Corporate Governance Statement, the Director’s responsibilities for the
accounts, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors’ remuneration and
the Directors’ Report.We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December
2005; and
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
9 March 2006
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders
of the Company, National Express Group PLC 111
2005 2004*
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 1.2 1.5
Investments in subsidiaries 5 1,144.4 511.5
Financial assets – Other investments 5 7.0 7.0
1,152.6 520.0
Current assets
Debtors 7 715.3 419.3
Cash at bank and in hand 8 – 3.4
715.3 422.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 (943.2) (351.7)
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 6 (13.4) –
Net current (liabilities)/assets (241.3) 71.0
Total assets less current liabilities 911.3 591.0
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (410.0) (207.5)
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 6 (8.3) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges 11 (0.7) (0.7)
Net assets 492.3 382.8
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 14 7.5 7.0
Share premium account 15 174.2 47.5
Capital redemption reserve 15 0.2 –
Own shares 15 (5.1) (5.1)
Hedging reserve 15 (7.1) –
Profit and loss account 15 322.6 333.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 492.3 382.8
* Restated for change in accounting polices (see note 1)
P M White Chief Executive
A C Walker Finance Director
9 March 2006
Company Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2005 112
Notes to the Accounts
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The separate accounts of the parent company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.The accounts have been prepared under the
historic cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Change in accounting policies
Post balance sheet events
In accordance with FRS 21,‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’, the Company now recognises dividends in the period they are declared. The prior
year comparatives have been restated to comply with FRS 21 resulting in an increase in net assets and reserves of £28.5m at 31 December 2004,
and an increase in retained profit for the year of £4.9m. Net assets and reserves at 1 January 2004 have been increased by £23.6m.
Share-based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions in the standard, FRS 20,‘Share-based Payment’, has been applied to all grants made after 7 November
2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. This has resulted in a reduction in operating profits in the prior year of £0.3m. A related deferred tax
asset of £1.0m has also been recognised at 31 December 2004, and has been credited to reserves. Similarly a deferred tax asset of £0.2m has
increased net assets and reserves at 1 January 2004.
Financial Instruments: Disclosure, Presentation and Measurement
In accordance with the transitional provisions in the standards, FRS 25,‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and FRS 26,‘Financial
Instruments: Measurement’, have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
Under the previous UK GAAP accounting policies, gains and losses from derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes were not
recognised in earnings or as adjustments to carrying value until the underlying hedged transaction matured or occurred. FRS 26 requires all
derivatives to be fair valued in the balance sheet. As a result, net assets and reserves have been restated by £17.3m at 1 January 2005.
Other standards
The Company has adopted FRS 17,‘Retirement Benefits’, in the year, although this has had no impact on the Company which treats both its pension
schemes as defined contribution schemes (see note 16). The Company has also adopted FRS 23,‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’,
which has also had no impact on reported results.
Leases
Leases of tangible fixed assets where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Company, are classified as
finance leases and are capitalised in the balance sheet as plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the fair value of the present value of
the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in
the balance sheet. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represents a
constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the
useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of assets where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals
paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Incentives received under
operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of
lease, or to the first review if shorter.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Plant and equipment – 3 to 10 years
The carrying value of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not
be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit and loss account
during the financial period in which they are incurred. 113
Notes to the Accounts
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
Available for sale investments
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified in any of the other categories.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the
investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included
in the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. Issue costs are amortised over the
expected life of the instrument. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.
From 1 January 2005 hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against
fixed interest rate borrowings. Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the
change in fair value attributable to the interest rate being hedged.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.Where the Company expects a provision
to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement is virtually certain.
Pensions 
The Company is part of a multi-employer scheme that also incorporates other companies within the National Express Group. In line with FRS 17, the
Company treats the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and recognises charges as and when contributions are due to the scheme.
Share-based payments
In accordance with the transition provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at
the date of grant including market based performance conditions. Fair value is determined by an external valuer using the stochastic model. The fair
value is then expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually
vest. The amount charged to the profit and loss account is credited to reserves. Non-market based performance related vesting conditions are not
taken into account when estimating the fair value; instead the vesting period is based on the Company’s estimate of when those performance
features will be achieved and is revised if facts and circumstances change.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax
is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse based on tax
rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered
more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end except where forward cover has
been arranged, in which case the forward rate is used. Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of
exchange ruling on the date of the transaction. Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the profit or loss account, with the
exception of differences arising on the translation of foreign currency equity investments, and on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign
currency contracts which are used to finance or provide a hedge against these investments. These are taken directly to reserves.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company followed the transitional provisions of FRS 26, and has not restated comparative figures in accordance with either FRS 26 or FRS 25.
The accounting policy after 1 January 2005 is as follows:
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured
to fair value for the reported balance sheet. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is calculated by reference to
market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end. 114
Notes to the Accounts
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Derivative financial instruments (continued)
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the profit and loss account. The gains or losses
deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm
commitment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Forward currency contracts are used to hedge our net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are
designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against changes in value of the related assets.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and loss account in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that date any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, or
transferred to the profit and loss account if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
Prior to 1 January 2005 the accounting policy was:
Interest rate and fuel swaps
The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate exposures and fuel swaps to hedge the Group’s fuel price exposures. The Company
considers that these derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met. The Company’s criteria for these swaps are
that the instrument must be related to an asset, liability or future obligation and it must change the character of the interest rate or fuel price by
converting a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa. These swaps are not revalued to fair value or included in the Company balance sheet at the
period end.
Forward exchange contracts
The rates under foreign currency contracts are used to record the hedged item and as such gains and losses on the related financial assets and
liabilities.Where the contract is a hedge against future transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the transaction occurs.
2 EXCHANGE RATES
The most significant exchange rates to the pound for the Company are as follows:
2005 2005 2004 2004
Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate
US dollar 1.72 1.82 1.92 1.84
Canadian dollar 2.00 2.20 2.31 2.38
Euro 1.45 1.47 n/a n/a
Australian dollar 2.35 2.39 2.45 2.48
The 2005 average rate for Euros reflects the average rate since the Alsa acquisition.
3 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
Detailed information concerning Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration. 115
Notes to the Accounts
4 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Plant 
and equipment 
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2005 4.3
Additions 0.2
At 31 December 2005 4.5
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2005 2.8
Charge for the year 0.5
At 31 December 2005 3.3
Net book value:
At 31 December 2005 1.2
At 31 December 2004 1.5
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
2005 2004
Tangible fixed assets held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: £m £m
Plant and equipment
– cost 0.2 0.2
– accumulated depreciation (0.1) (0.1)
0.1 0.1
5 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Investments in subsidiaries
£m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2005 924.9
Additions 632.9
At 31 December 2005 1,557.8
Provisions:
At 1 January 2005 (413.4)
At 31 December 2005 (413.4)
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 2005 1,144.4
At 31 December 2004 511.5
The carrying value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings has been reviewed at 31 December 2005. The carrying value of investments was
first considered at the income generating unit level and as a result a provision of £nil (2004: £63.0m) was made. This particular value in use was
calculated using future expected cash flow projections, discounted at 7% on a pre tax basis, and is not intended to reflect a realisable value on disposal.
The information provided below is given for the Company’s principal subsidiaries. A full list of subsidiaries and investments will be annexed to the
next Annual Return to Companies House. The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are
incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiary undertakings, of the companies,
unless indicated otherwise. The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by the SRA/ DfT Rail, as
awarded by the UK Government. 116
Notes to the Accounts
5 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS (continued)
Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
The following holdings are 100% held directly by the Company:
Incorporated in England and Wales
National Express Holdings Limited Holding company for UK Coach operating companies
National Express Guernsey Limited Insurance captive
National Express Group Holdings Limited Holding company for US operating companies
National Express Overseas Limited Holding company for discontinued Australian business
National Express Trains Limited Holding company for UK Train operating companies
National Express Transport Holdings Limited Holding company for UK Bus and Canadian operating companies
Incorporated in Spain
Dabliu Consulting SLU Holding company for European Coach and Bus (Alsa) operating companies
Turyexpres SA Holding company for European Coach and Bus (Alsa) operating companies
General Tecnica Industrial SL Holding company for European Coach and Bus (Alsa) operating companies
Available for sale investments
£m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2005 12.8
Additions –
At 31 December 2005 12.8
Provisions:
At 1 January 2005 (5.8)
At 31 December 2005 (5.8)
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 2005 7.0
At 31 December 2004 7.0
The available for sale investments are shown at fair value in 2005 in order to comply with FRS 26. Such assets were recognised at book value in
2004. There is no difference in the fair value and book value of such assets.
Other investments include:
County of Class of Proportion held
Name registration share %
Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited England and Wales Ordinary shares 40
London & Continental Railways England and Wales Ordinary shares 21
Prepayment Cards Limited England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5
Union Railways (South) Limited England and Wales Preference shares 21 117
Notes to the Accounts
6 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Under the exemption available in FRS 26, the Company has not restated its results for the year ended 31 December 2004 for the effect of FRS 25
and FRS 26. Additional financial instruments have been recognised on the balance sheet from 1 January 2005 as below:
At 
31 December At 31 Dec At 1 Jan
2005 2004 2005*
£m £m£m
Available for sale investments 7.0 – 7.0
Other investments – 7.0 –
Financial instruments held as fixed assets 7.0 7.0 7.0
Foreign exchange forward contracts – – 14.9
Financial instruments held as current assets – – 14.9
Interest rate swaps (8.3) – (7.6)
Financial instruments held as non-current liabilities (8.3) – (7.6)
Interest rate swaps (4.1) – (19.9)
Foreign exchange forward contracts (9.3) ––
Financial instruments held as current liabilities (13.4) – (19.9)
* £14.6m included in foreign exchange forward contracts at 1 January 2005 had previously been included in other receivables as at 31 December 2004,
and £2.5m included in interest rate swaps (in current liabilities) had been included in accruals and deferred income at 31 December 2004.
7 DEBTORS
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade debtors 0.3 0.3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 694.5 396.2
Corporation tax recoverable 4.6 3.3
Deferred tax asset 6.3 –
Other receivables 3.4 14.9
Prepayments and accrued income 6.2 4.6
715.3 419.3
Credit risk with respect to debtors is low due to the fact a large amount of the Company’s balances are with subsidiary undertakings that it controls.
Included within prepayments is £0.7m (2004: £4.6m) which is recoverable after more than one year.
8 CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND
2005 2004
£m £m
Other short term deposits – 3.4
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term
deposit rates. The fair value of cash matches the carrying value.
9 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2005 2004
£m £m
Loan notes – 0.1
Bank loans 184.5 8.0
Bank overdrafts 49.1 47.3
Trade creditors 2.8 0.2
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 698.1 287.3
Finance lease obligations 0.1 0.1
Accruals and deferred income 7.8 5.5
Other creditors 0.8 3.2
943.2 351.7
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have 
an average term of 6 months. 118
Notes to the Accounts
10 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
2005 2004
£m £m
Bank loans 410.0 207.5
11 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Insurance Deferred 
claims (a) tax (b) Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2005* 0.4 0.3 0.7
Provided in the year 0.6 – 0.6
Utilised in the year (0.3) (0.3) (0.6)
At 31 December 2005 0.7 – 0.7
* Restated for change in accounting policy (see note 1)
(a) The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next six years and
comprise provisions for existing claims arising in the UK.
(b) See note 12 for further details on deferred tax.
12 DEFERRED TAX
The major components of the provision for deferred taxation are as follows:
2005 2004*
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances – –
Other timing differences 6.3 (0.3)
Tax effect of losses carried forward ––
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) at 31 December 6.3 (0.3)
* Restated for change in accounting policy (see note 1)
The reconciliation of deferred tax balances is as follows:
£m
Deferred tax liability at 1 January 2005* (0.3)
Prior year adjustment 2.1
Charged to profit and loss (0.9)
Credited to equity in relation to cash flow hedges and share based payments 5.4
Deferred tax asset at 31 December 2005 6.3
* Restated for change in accounting policy (see note 1)
Temporary differences associated with group investments
No deferred tax (2004: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates. The Group has determined that
undistributed profits of its overseas subsidiaries will not be distributed in the near future. In any case the temporary difference associated with group
investments is £nil (2004: £nil) as a result of insufficient funds being available.
Unrecognised tax losses
There is no recognition of the deferred tax asset in relation to the capital losses since there is insufficient evidence to determine that they are
recoverable. Deferred tax assets that the Company has not recognised in the accounts amount to £0.4m (2004: £0.4m). 119
Notes to the Accounts
13 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2005 Effective 2004 Effective
Maturity £m Interest rate £m Interest rate 
Current
Bank overdraft On demand 49.1 – 47.3 –
Sterling loan notes On demand – – 0.1 LIBOR + 1.0%
Short term 5.2% Sterling bank loans January 2006 12.2 5.2% 8.0 5.6%
Short term 4.8% US Dollar bank loans January 2006 0.3 4.8% – –
Short term 2.9% Euro bank loans January 2006 0.2 2.9% – –
Euro bank loans subject to interest hedge October 2006 137.4 2.8% – –
EURIBOR 
Euro bank unhedged October 2006 34.4 +0.35% – –
Bank loans 184.5 8.0
Sterling 5.4% finance leases 2006 0.1 5.4% 0.1 5.2% 
233.7 55.5
Non-current
LIBOR 
Sterling bank loans November 2009 9.4 + 0.40% ––
US Dollar bank loans subject to interest hedge November 2009 58.1 7.3% 156.4 7.3%
LIBOR LIBOR
US Dollar bank loans unhedged November 2009 104.6 + 0.40% 51.1 + 0.35%
EURIBOR 
Euro bank loans at floating rates November 2009 202.9 +0.40% – –
LIBOR 
Canadian Dollar bank loans November 2009 35.0 + 0.40% – –
Bank loans 410.0 207.5
Details of the Company’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in note 31 of the Group accounts.
For 2005, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 25 for parent company accounts. For 2004 comparatives, the Company
has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 13,“Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosure”, for parent Company accounts.
The disclosures are included in the Group accounts.
14 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
2005 2004
£m £m
At 31 December
Authorised:
200,000,000 (2004: 146,650,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 10.0 7.3
Issued called-up and fully paid:
150,520,310 (2004: 139,153,158) ordinary shares of 5p each 7.5 7.0
Number
Movement in ordinary shares during the year £m of shares
At 1 January 2004 6.8 136,850,910
Exercise of share options – 509,656
TWM SIP appropriation 0.2 1,792,592
At 1 January 2005 7.0 139,153,158
Issue of shares in consideration for acquisition of Alsa 0.7 13,503,600
Exercise of share options – 957,141
TWM SIP appropriation – 206,411
Shares cancelled (0.2) (2,900,000)
At 31 December 2005 7.5 150,920,310 120
Notes to the Accounts
15 SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Capital Profit
Share Share redemption Own Hedging and loss
capital premium reserve shares reserve account T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2004 as previously reported 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) – 303.9 353.3
Prior year adjustment (note 1) – – – – – 29.5 29.5
At 31 December 2004 as restated 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) – 333.4 382.8
Financial instruments recognition – – – – (10.4) (6.9) (17.3)
At 1 January 2005 7.0 47.5 – (5.1) (10.4) 326.5 365.5
Shares issued 0.7 126.7 – – – – 127.4
Shares purchased (0.2) – 0.2 (3.5) – (25.8) (29.3)
Share based payments – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Deferred tax on share based payments 
credited to reserves – – – – – 1.5 1.5
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes – – – 3.5 – – 3.5
Hedge movements – – – – 3.3 – 3.3
Profit for the year – – – – – 19.6 19.6
At 31 December 2005 7.5 174.2 0.2 (5.1) (7.1) 322.6 492.3
Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 the Company has repurchased 3,300,000 shares for consideration of £29.3m. 2,900,000 shares have
been cancelled, and the remaining 400,000 shares retained as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Company’s various share
schemes or cancellation.
Own shares comprise 849,456 (2004: 1,743,544) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National Express
Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”). The shares are held to satisfy potential awards or options granted under a number of the Company’s share
schemes. The value of shares within the Trust has been recognised as an investment in treasury shares. The market value of these shares at 
31 December 2005 was £7.3m (2004: £14.4m). The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
The £17.3m restatement of reserves following the recognition of financial instruments arises from the change in accounting policy on adopting FRS 26.
The profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company was £61.2m (2004: £50.8m). The profit and loss reserve for the Company includes
£12.2m (2004: £5.1m) that is non-distributable on account of own shares held and the hedging reserve.
16 RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company participates in both the National Express Group multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme on a consistent and reasonable
basis, and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the requirements of FRS 17. Contributions to
this scheme are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries. The details of the latest actuarial valuation are detailed in note 36 to
the Group accounts.
The pension charge for the year amounted to £1.1m (2004: £0.9m).
17 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Company’s profit and loss account for the year is as follows:
2005 2004*
£m £m
Expense arising from share and share option plans 0.8 0.3
* Restated for change in accounting policy (see note 1)
During the year ended 31 December 2005, the Company had the following share based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 to
the Group accounts:
• Executive Share Option Plan
• Savings Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave Scheme)
• Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
• Share Matching Plan (SMP)
• Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan  121
Notes to the Accounts
17 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise
prices. The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average Weighted average 
Number of exercise price Number of exercise price 
share options (p) share options (p)
Options without a nil exercise price:
At 1 January
1
1,879,335 573 1,610,625 570
Granted during the year –– 472,837 681
Lapsed during the year (75,352) 583 (202,450) 798
Exercised during the year (44,113) 520 (1,677) 567
Outstanding at 31 December
1
1,759,870 574 1,879,335 573
Exercisable at 31 December 295,632 790 331,926 765
Options with a nil exercise price:
At 1 January 9,352 nil – –
Granted during the year 455,009 nil 9,352 nil
Lapsed during the year (2,024) nil ––
Outstanding at 31 December 462,337 nil 9,352 nil
Exercisable at 31 December – – – –
Total outstanding at 31 December 2,222,207 1,888,687
Total exercisable at 31 December 295,632 331,926
1
Included within this balance are options over 629,339 (2004: 743,625) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with the transitional
provisions of FRS 20 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2005 had exercise prices that were between 398p and 1224p (2004: between 398p and 1224p) excluding
options with a nil exercise price. The range of exercise prices for options was as follows:
Exercise price (p) 2005 2004
350-650 1,072,093 1,186,965
650-950 642,777 647,370
950-1250 45,000 45,000
1,759,870 1,879,335
The options have a weighted average contractual life of 7 years (2004: 8 years). Options were exercised throughout the year and the weighted
average share price at exercise was 875p (2004: 654p).
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions
and inputs:
Share options without Share options with 
nil exercise price nil exercise price
2005 2004 2005 2004
Risk free interest rate – 5.1% 4.8% 4.8%
Expected volatility – 28.0% 25.0%-27.0% 29.0%
Expected option life in years – 8 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield – 3.9% 3.3%-3.4% 3.9%
Weighted average share price – 697p 888p-906p 679p
Weighted average exercise price – 681p 0p 0p
Weighted average fair value of options granted – 149p 561p-821p 606p
Experience to date has shown that approximately 15% (2004: 15%) of options are exercised early, principally due to redundancies. This has been
incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historic volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not
considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward. The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 
12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP , the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above. 122
Notes to the Accounts
18 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Operating lease commitments
The Company has entered into operating leases on certain properties. Commitments for future minimum rental payments are shown below:
Land and buildings
2005 2004
£m £m
Operating leases which expire:
Within 2 to 5 years 0.6 –
Over five years – 0.5
0.6 0.5
Contingent liabilities
a) Guarantees
The Company has guaranteed credit facilities totalling £99.8m (2004: £91.0m) of certain subsidiaries.
b) Bonds and letters of credit
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its subsidiaries’ operations. As at 31 December
2005, there were UK Train performance bonds of £44.6m (2004: £38.5m) and UK Train season ticket bonds of £100.0m (2004: £90.3m). The Company
has other performance bonds which include the £14.6m (2004: £14.2m) performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited 
and performance bonds in respect of businesses in the United States of America of £34.5m (2004: £39.3m). Letters of credit have been issued 
to support insurance retentions of £84.7m (2004: £72.7m).
19 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
Full details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies can be found in note 31 of the Group accounts. As the holding company
for the Group, the Company faces similar risks over foreign currency and interest rate movements.
20 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8,‘Related party disclosures’, and as such disclosures are provided in the 
Group accounts. 123
Five Y ear Summary
2005 2004* 2003 2002 2001
Year ended 31 December £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue (IFRS) 2,216.0 2,354.5
Turnover (UK GAAP) 2,565.7 2,572.3 2,464.2
Normalised** operating profit (IFRS) 155.5 143.3
Normalised** operating profit (UK GAAP) 128.9 125.9 156.8
Group operating profit (IFRS) 109.5 99.9
Group operating profit (UK GAAP) 83.2 67.2 32.1
Profit before tax (IFRS) 89.3 77.9
Profit before tax (UK GAAP) 54.1 (85.6) 115.5
Statistics
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (IFRS) (2.0)p 45.7p
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (UK GAAP) 31.9p (80.0)p 88.4p
Normalised** diluted earnings per share (IFRS) 76.3p 69.3p
Normalised** diluted earnings per share (UK GAAP)
†
50.1p 52.3p 55.2p
Dividends per share 32.25p 30.0p 26.0p 24.5p 22.0p
Net assets (IFRS) 312.3 266.8
Net assets (UK GAAP) 264.2 262.6 402.1
Net (debt)/funds
Cash at bank and in hand 145.5 147.2 97.0 93.7 92.3
Other debt receivable 1.0 1.0 – – –
Loan notes (0.8) (7.5) (8.4) (9.1) (10.0)
Bank and other loans (594.5) (215.5) (324.4) (361.2) (359.7)
Bank overdrafts (5.5) – (0.2) – (0.5)
Finance lease obligations (109.1) (61.8) (53.1) (58.0) (37.1)
(563.4) (136.6) (289.1) (334.6) (315.0)
Net gearing 180% 51% 109% 127% 78%
* Restated for the transition to IFRS
**Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on sale of businesses and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible
amortisation, property, plant and equipment impairments, profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
† Normalised diluted earnings per share figures have been restated to exclude earnings from discontinued operations. 124
REGISTRAR
For information about your shareholding or dividends and to report a change of address, you should contact the Registrar at: Lloyds TSB Registrars,
The Causeway,Worthing,West Sussex BN99 6DA. Shareholder helpline number: 0870 601 5366
DIVIDENDS PAID DIRECT TO YOUR BANK ACCOUNT
Having dividends paid direct to your bank account avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post and saves you time in presenting the cheque for
payment. The dividend is credited to your account on the payment date and the tax voucher is sent to your registered address at the same time.
To set up a new dividend mandate please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars as above.
SHAREHOLDER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
Log on to www.shareview.co.uk if you would like to:
• check the balance of your shareholding
• register your e-mail so that future shareholder information, including the annual report and accounts, are sent to you electronically; or
• submit your vote on-line prior to a general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you should click on “Register now” and follow the simple instructions – you will need your shareholder reference number
from your share certificate or dividend voucher.
COMPANY WEBSITE
The company website at www.nationalexpressgroup.com has information about the Group, press releases, share price data and copies of the interim and
Annual Report and Accounts.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE
A telephone and internet share dealing service, which provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, has been arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For further information log on to www.shareview.co.uk or telephone 0870 850 0852.
SHAREGIFT
ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity number 1052686).
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to ShareGift
who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities. Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at
www.sharegift.org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
UNCLAIMED ASSETS REGISTER
The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register (“UAR”) which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may
have been forgotten. For further information contact UAR, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES Tel: 0870 241 1713 or visit www.uar.co.uk.
ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDINGS AT 7 MARCH 2006
Per cent of Number of Per cent of
Number of total number shares ordinary
accounts of accounts ‘000 capital
By size of holding
1 – 500 8,562 56 1,623 1
501 – 1,000 2,165 14 1,626 1
1,001 – 5,000 3,233 21 7,332 5
5,001 – 50,000 1,271 8 13,420 9
50,001 – 1,000,000 176 1 39,786 26
Over 1,000,000 30 – 87,366 58
15,437 100 151,153 100
Per cent of Number of Per cent of
Number of total number shares ordinary
accounts of accounts ‘000 capital
By investor type
Individuals 14,377 13 19,218 13
Institutional Investors 960 76 115,065 76
Other Corporate Investors 100 11 16,870 11
15,437 100 151,153 100
Shareholder Information 125
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE REGISTRAR CORPORATE SOLICITORS
A J McDonald Lloyds TSB Registrars Ashurst
National Express Group PLC The Causeway Broadwalk House
75 Davies Street Worthing 5 Appold Street
London W1K 5HT West Sussex London
Tel: +44 (0)20 7529 2000 BN99 6DA EC2A 2HA
Fax: +44 (0)20 7529 2100 Shareholder helpline: 0870 601 5366
e-mail: info@natex.co.uk
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
REGISTERED NUMBER PRINCIPAL BANKERS STOCKBROKERS
2590560 HSBC Bank plc Merrill Lynch International Limited
8 Canada Square Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
London 2 King Edward Street
E14 5HQ London
EC1A 1HQ
Royal Bank of Scotland Morgan Stanley
135 Bishopsgate 20 and 25 Cabot Square
London Canary Wharf
EC2M 3UR London
E14 4QW
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London
SE1 2AF
Corporate Information
Final dividend ex dividend date 26 April 2006
Final dividend record date 28 April 2006
Annual General Meeting 24 May 2006
Final dividend payment date 26 May 2006
Interim results announced September 2006
Interim dividend ex dividend date October 2006
Interim dividend record date October 2006
Interim dividend payment date October 2006
Dividends and Financial Calendar
The cover and pages 1-24 are printed on Mega Matt. Mega Matt is a coated paper which has ‘Nordic Swan’ environmental accreditation. It comprises 50% totally chlorine-free pulps from
plantation forests, generally using forest thinnings, offcuts and surplus timber, and 50% recycled and de-inked fibres from pre-consumer and post-consumer waste, without using chlorine in
the de-inking process.
Pages 25-124 are printed on Accent Glacier White. Accent is made in the UK, manufactured from 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine free) pulp managed from sustainable forests, which
avoids the discharge of harmful chlorine emissions into the environment.Accent is fully recyclable and is manufactured without the addition of chemicals or coatings which would present
a hazard to the environment. The paper Mill is accredited with ISO 14001 certificate and complies with *PEFC strict chain customary guidelines. (Pan European Forestry Council).
Designed and produced by MAGEE
Printed by the colourhouse ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
>
A personal 
to travel…
invitation
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC
      
