 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
Safety Reliability
Efficiency Responsibility
  91 Contents to Financial Statements
91 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
92 Independent Auditors’ Report
93 Group Accounting Policies
100 Group Income Statement
101 Group Balance Sheet
102 Group Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
103 Group Cash Flow Statement
104 Notes to the Accounts
166 Company Accounting Policies
168 Company Balance Sheet
169 Notes to the Company Accounts
172 Glossary of Terms
173 Definitions
174 Summary Group Financial Information
175 Shareholder Information
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’ s Statement
04 Group Chief Executive’s Review
06 Business Review
06 What we do
08 Where we are
09 Our history
10 Safety
12 Reliability
14 Efficiency
16 Responsibility
18 Board of Directors
20 Operating and Financial Review
20 About National Grid
30 Key performance indicators
31 Performance during the year
38 UK electricity and gas transmission
43 US electricity transmission
45 UK gas distribution
48 US electricity and gas distribution
51 US stranded cost recoveries
52 Wireless infrastructure
54 Other activities
56 Financial position and 
financial management
62 Accounting policies
68 Corporate Governance
77 Directors’ Report
79 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
90 Independent Verifier’s Report
on Corporate Responsibility
Dear shareholder
We are delighted to report a strong financial performance for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Adjusted operating profit* is up 3%, with adjusted profit before tax* and adjusted earnings per
share* up 11% and 10% respectively. These results reflect our continued commitment to driving 
our strategy forward together with careful investment in both our assets and the development 
of our people. 
The Group’s operational performance has also been strong and we continue to build on our
reputation for world-leading standards of service for reliability in energy delivery. Managing our
networks to the highest standards of safety is at the core of everything we do. We continue to
improve our safety performance while constantly striving to be world class. As a Group, we also
recognise the importance of acting responsibly in all that we do. 
Our core skills lie in the design, development, safe operation and maintenance of large and complex
networks. We will continue to invest and focus on organic growth in our existing networks while
making appropriate acquisitions of network-related businesses that complement our current
portfolio. Indeed, the two acquisitions that we are making in the US embody this strategy.
We also appreciate that our success is due to the talented and diverse individuals whom we
employ. To secure, grow and retain the very best employees available, we are committed to
investing in developing our people’s futures throughout all levels of our organisation.
This is the first year that we are reporting as National Grid plc following shareholder approval of
the Group name change for our principal businesses. Our drive and determination, coupled with our
substantial investment programmes, emphasise our Group-wide commitment to being the world’s
premier network utility by creating value from our existing businesses and identifying new
opportunities both at home and abroad.
Sir John Parker Roger Urwin 
Chairman Group Chief Executive
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Highlights 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Financial highlights
†
Group revenue
£9,193m
2004/05: £7,382m
up 25%
Adjusted operating profit*
£2,527m
2004/05: £2,443m
up 3%
Operating profit
£2,439m
2004/05: £2,142m
up 14%
Cash generated 
from operations
£3,131m
2004/05: £2,911m
up 8%
Ordinary dividends
26.1p
2004/05: 23.7p
up 10%
Adjusted earnings per share*
46.7p
2004/05: 42.3p
up 10%
Earnings per share
42.8p
2004/05: 36.3p
up 18%
Operating highlights
We agreed to acquire KeySpan Corporation, a
northeastern US gas and electricity distribution company,
for $7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) plus assumed debt of
approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion). 
See pages 04 and 21
Grain LNG commenced commercial operations in July
2005 and Phase II expansion is under way.
See pages 04 and 54
Over the last 12 months, a 27% reduction in lost time
injuries has been reported across the Group. See page 11
£200 million London infrastructure tunnel project
connecting Hertfordshire to North London completed 
in September 2005. See page 14
Proposed acquisition announced of Southern Union
Company’s Rhode Island gas distribution business for
cash consideration of $498 million (£286 million) and
assumed debt of $77 million (£44 million). See page 21
£2 billion return of value to shareholders – 65 pence 
per share – made in August 2005. See page 37
Construction of Basslink complete, with commercial
operations having commenced in April 2006. 
See page 55
†
Continuing operations
* Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements
Important Notice
This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor
other historical information. These statements are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For a description of factors that
could affect future results, reference should be made to the full ‘Cautionary Statement’
on the inside back cover. 
Highlights 02 Chairman’s Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Chairman’s Statement
I would like to thank the Executive team for its strong leadership 
and all our employees for their individual contributions to our 
continued success during the past year.
Board
As a Board, we are conscious that we
oversee the activities of the business in the
interests of all our stakeholders. In order to
achieve this, we must ensure that we have
the very best people for the task. To ensure
this, we carry out a rigorous review of
Board performance annually and regularly
examine senior management succession
very carefully.
Roger Urwin, Group Chief Executive,
intends to retire from National Grid at the
end of this calendar year. Roger has led
National Grid through transformational
change and delivered an outstanding track
record of success and value creation. It has
been my privilege to have worked closely
with Roger since the merger of National
Grid Group and Lattice Group in 2002. At
the Board’s request, Roger agreed to defer
his retirement to enable a smooth transition 
to his successor, ensuring that operating
performance momentum is maintained,
together with management continuity through
this year’s Transmission Price Review.
To find a suitable replacement for Roger,
the Non-executive Directors undertook 
an extensive process of evaluating both
internal and external candidates. We are
delighted to report that Steve Holliday will
succeed Roger and was appointed Deputy
Group Chief Executive from the beginning
of National Grid’s 2006/07 financial year.
Since joining National Grid in 2001, Steve
has led the UK transmission and the UK
gas distribution businesses to world-
leading performance. All the Directors 
and I are confident of the future of the
Group under Steve’s leadership and wish
him every success.
This year will also see John Grant stepping
down from his Non-executive Directorship.
John joined National Grid in November 1995.
He has made an outstanding contribution to
the Board and our Committees over the past
10
1
⁄2 years. He has also been a major
contributor to all our key debates and we
shall miss his wisdom and insight.
Governance
The Board of National Grid continues to 
be committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. It also seeks to
ensure that our values and internal processes
lead to the effective management of risk
and the equitable treatment of all our
stakeholders and employees. We recognise
the significant benefit of management
leadership within a robust governance
framework that embodies strong financial
control and sound administration.
In a climate where the governance
arrangements in large companies are
increasingly under scrutiny, the Board has
implemented a transparent approach. This
is driven by our Framework for Responsible
Business, underpinned by a suite of policies,
procedures, public position statements and
well-defined internal control processes.
Employee engagement 
In May 2006, we undertook our second
Group-wide employee opinion survey. The
first survey was undertaken in July 2004.
One initiative that resulted from the previous
survey was the promotion of ‘Managers as
Communicators’ to enhance dialogue and
feedback among the workforce. 
Following the 2004 employee opinion survey,
the Executive identified a number of areas
for improvement. These included improving
opportunities for dialogue across the
Group, ensuring understanding of strategy
amongst employees, managing change
better, managing individual performance
effectively, demonstrating our values in all
26.1p
Ordinary dividends
46.7p
Adjusted earnings 
per share*
* Excludes the impact of exceptional
items and remeasurements Chairman’s Statement 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
that we do and continuing to progress our
inclusion and diversity policy. 
The re-branding programme provided 
a platform this year to demonstrate 
our improvement in a number of these
areas and to introduce new approaches.
Across the Group we have also refined 
our employee briefing processes and our
national employee publications. For the first
time this year, we have introduced a Group-
wide publication, ‘National Grid World’, to
provide employees with a broader view of
Group activities.
Community investment 
National Grid continues to support its
customers and communities through its
community investment activities. The areas
that we support are closely aligned to our
business priorities: Education & Skills,
Environment & Energy and Community
Development. 
Both our US and UK operations have
programmes to support domestic consumers
who have difficulty with energy payments.
In the US, approximately 215,000 National
Grid customers are supported through our
Low Income Discount Rates, which reduce
fuel bills by up to 25%. National Grid also
administers grants in the US to allow
customers to install energy efficiency
measures. Through the Gas Efficiency
Programme, which was initiated at the end
of 2005, low-income customers are able 
to receive support from a fund of $5 million.
In addition, National Grid in the US
sponsors assistance programmes run by
charitable organisations to support those
who are not able to pay their energy bills. 
In the UK, National Grid has supported 
the fuel poor through its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’. Since it was established in
1999, the programme has assisted
377,841 homes. One of its key elements 
is the support for the Warm Zones concept.
National Grid currently supports four Warm
Zones working with Government and social
housing providers and integrating sources
of funding to tackle the issue of fuel poverty
in a concentrated and systematic manner. 
We have also continued to lead on the
‘Young Offender Into Work Programme’.
With the involvement now of over 50 FTSE
companies, we have seen 400 young
people secure a new future with a significant
reduction in the re-offending rate.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 26.1p per ordinary share – an increase of
10%. This increase reflects our confidence
in the Group’s longer-term prospects based
on this year’s good results and our strategic
commitment to invest in the growth of our
businesses.
Going forward, we continue to target annual
increases of 7% to March 2008.
Outlook
Given the opportunities across the Group
for capital investment and revenue growth
with the continuing drive for cost
efficiencies, the Board continues to have 
full confidence in the Group’s ability to
generate future earnings growth. The 
Group will also continue to maintain its
disciplined approach to both organic
growth and strategic investment.
Sir John Parker
Chairman
377,841
The number of homes
that National Grid 
has assisted through
its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’
400
The number of young
people securing new
futures from National
Grid’s ‘Into Work
Programme’
The new name for our
principal businesses 04 Group Chief Executive’s Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Our aim to be the world’s premier network utility, 
and the delivery of our strategy, are both at the heart 
of our day-to-day activities. 
Strategy
As an infrastructure-based network
provider, it is essential that we deliver high
standards of service and reliability as well
as outperforming our benchmarks and
regulatory targets. We need to continue
managing our regulatory relationships
successfully to benefit both our customers
and shareholders. Our disciplined approach
to capital management remains paramount. 
Progress
Delivering our strategy involves the
continued focus on our key strengths of
operational excellence, our ability to exceed
our efficiency targets and our prudent 
use of capital. Investment in our current
businesses and strategic opportunities are
made only where we believe we can create
shareholder value. 
Our regulatory controls provide significant
incentives towards improving operational
efficiency by permitting the sharing of the
benefits of increased efficiencies between
energy users and shareholders. This year
we added to National Grid’s impressive
cost-efficiency track record when UK gas
distribution achieved its cost-efficiency
target one year early.
Investment
†
Investment in our networks remains a
priority for the Group. Total investment
reached £2 billion this year, up by one third
over last year’s £1.5 billion. We project a
further rise to around £2.5 billion per annum
over the next five years. Investment is rising
across the Group with the largest increases
in our UK regulated businesses.
New investment in UK electricity
transmission is being driven largely by 
asset replacement which reflects the age
and condition of the network. UK gas
transmission investment is also increasing,
but here it is primarily due to new
infrastructure required to meet the changing
gas supply pattern as the UK becomes a net
importer of gas. This includes our largest
ever project, connecting the new liquefied
natural gas (LNG) terminals currently being
built at Milford Haven. This will require
investment of more than £750 million over
the next two years. 
Our disciplined approach to capital
management is also reflected in the strategic
moves we made during the year. On 1 June
2005, we completed the sales of four of
our regional gas distribution networks for 
a total cash consideration of £5.8 billion. 
This creates what is in effect a new gas
distribution market in the UK. We have
retained four of the networks, which together
represent the largest of the UK gas
distribution businesses. We look forward to
setting new levels of efficiency for the benefit
of both our customers and shareholders.
The network sales led directly to the
£2 billion return of value to shareholders, 
at 65 pence per share, which we made in
August. This was one of the largest returns
of value ever for a UK company.
This year we also commissioned Phase I 
of our LNG import terminal at the Isle of
Grain in Kent. The facility has the capability
to import and process 3.3 million tonnes 
of LNG per year. Construction of Phase II 
is now under way, which will triple capacity
by the end of 2008. When complete, our
total investment will be around £500 million
and the facility will have the capacity to
import around 13% of the current UK annual
gas demand.
In February 2006, we announced the
agreed acquisition of KeySpan Corporation,
a major US energy delivery company, for
$7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) plus assumed debt
of approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion). 
£2,527m 
Adjusted operating
profit*
Adjusted operating profit* 
by business £m
 844 UK electricity and gas transmission
 127 US electricity transmission
 483 UK gas distribution
 364 US electricity and gas distribution
 489 US stranded cost recoveries
 75 Wireless infrastructure
 145 Other activities
844
127
483
364
489
75
145
†
Continuing operations
* Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements Group Chief Executive’s Review 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
It is the largest distributor of natural gas 
in the northeastern US with approximately
2.6 million customers. In the same month,
we announced the acquisition of gas
distribution assets from the Southern Union
Company for cash consideration of
$498 million (£286 million) and assumed
debt of $77 million (£44 million).
Both acquisitions have an excellent
strategic, operational and geographic fit.
They are a natural extension of our business
and will expand the Group’s growth
platform as well as creating substantial
opportunities for new cost savings. 
Financial performance
†
The Group’s financial performance for
2005/06 has been strong. Adjusted 
profit before tax* and adjusted earnings 
per share* were 11% and 10% higher
respectively than last year while operating
cash flows were more than £3 billion.
The performance of all our individual
businesses has been encouraging. UK
transmission has entered an investment-led
growth phase. During the year, the Group
invested £584 million in new electricity and
gas infrastructure and a further £265 million
replacing assets that were nearing the end
of their useful technical life. The increased
investment, as well as the write-off of certain
assets, led to an increase in depreciation
and amortisation. This increase was
partially offset by successful capacity
auctions resulting in adjusted operating
profit* of £844 million compared with 
£859 million last year. US electricity
transmission had another good year with
adjusted operating profit* of £127 million.
UK gas distribution results were particularly
strong as adjusted operating profit* was 
up 14% at £483 million compared with
£424 million last year. This performance is
primarily due to the reduction in operating
expenditure (excluding shrinkage), which
was down £52 million, as a result of our
‘Way Ahead’ programme. Controllable
costs have been cut by 35% in real terms
since March 2002.
Adjusted operating profit* for US electricity
and gas distribution was down 3% at
£364 million, primarily due to timing
differences related to pension charges and
commodity costs. The majority of these costs
will be recovered in future periods. Adjusting
for these items, profits were broadly flat,
since weather-normalised residential
volume growth of 1.7% was offset by
higher depreciation and amortisation.
The enlarged Wireless infrastructure
business had a strong first full year as a
member of the Group. Adjusted operating
profit* was £75 million and the business
met its £18 million annualised cash 
synergy target. Growth from broadcast
was particularly strong reflecting the
successful launch of three new channels.
We are expecting double-digit organic
operating profit growth over the medium term.
Other activities contributed £145 million to
adjusted operating profit*, a decrease of
£7 million from 2004/05. National Grid
Metering has delivered strong performance,
with adjusted operating profit* up £28 million.
The business made good progress in driving
operational efficiency, which together with
growth in our competitive metering business,
more than offset a decline in regulated
metering revenue. Adjusted operating profit*
from National Grid Property at £88 million
was £14 million less than last year. National
Grid Grain, our new LNG import terminal,
contributed £6 million of adjusted operating
profit* after coming on line in July.
Safety
Safety is at the centre of everything we 
do. Over the past 12 months we have 
maintained an encouraging improvement in
our safety performance across the Group.
Against these very significant improvements
over the past three years, it is all the more
tragic that one of our colleagues was
overcome by gas and died while re-laying
a gas service pipe in our UK gas
distribution business. 
This very sad incident underlines the
fundamental importance of safety in all 
that we do. It serves as a stark reminder 
to ensure that we continue to develop and
implement ever safer ways of working for
the protection of ourselves, our colleagues,
our contractors and members of the public. 
Outlook
The environment in which National Grid
operates is ever more challenging and
complex. However, I am confident that 
we have a strong and clear strategy that
underpins everything we do and that will
benefit all our stakeholders. Our growth is
expected to be driven by new investments,
new efficiencies and selected expansion 
in our current businesses. 
You will have seen from Sir John’s
statement that I intend to retire at the end
of 2006. It has been my privilege to lead
National Grid through a series of major
changes. Our success is built on the talent,
commitment and effort of everyone in
National Grid. With that continuing support
and his outstanding record leading UK
transmission and UK distribution, I am
confident that Steve Holliday will lead 
the Group to new levels of success.
Roger Urwin 
Group Chief Executive 06 Business Review
What we do
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
What we do
National Grid is dedicated to becoming the world’s premier network utility. 
Our core skills are in the management of large and complex networks. 
Our businesses are primarily concerned with energy delivery and other 
infrastructure and related services where we can exploit our core skills 
to create value.
UK electricity 
and gas transmission
Area of operation
We own and operate the electricity
transmission system in England and Wales.
This is the high-voltage network that runs
across both countries. We operate (but do
not own) the electricity transmission system
in Scotland. We also own and operate the
gas transmission network in Great Britain.
This is the high pressure gas pipeline
network that runs across the country.
2005/06 highlights
On 1 April 2005, we became responsible 
for operating the Great Britain electricity
transmission system, setting charges and
maintaining the charging statements for 
all transmission users in Great Britain.
The winter of 2005/06 saw demand from 
the electricity transmission network in
England and Wales hit a peak of 53.73 GW
(gigawatt). This compares with the previous
year’s peak of 53.29 GW.
Size and scope
4,500 miles of overhead line 
415 miles of underground cable
337 electricity substations
4,300 miles of high pressure gas pipeline 
US electricity 
transmission
Area of operation 
We own and operate an electricity
transmission network of approximately 
9,000 miles. We are the largest electricity
transmission service provider in the
northeastern US by reference to the length
of our high-voltage transmission line. We
also own and operate a 139-mile direct
current transmission line that is a key section
of an interconnector between New England
and Canada.
2005/06 highlights
Capital investment in the replacement,
reinforcement and extension of the US
electricity transmission networks in 2005/06
was £91 million, compared with £74 million in
2004/05.
Size and scope
8,900 miles of overhead line
94 miles of underground cable
496 substations
UK gas distribution
Area of operation 
Our UK gas distribution business comprises
almost half of Great Britain’s gas distribution
system. This system comprises the gas
pipelines that service homes and businesses.
Our gas distribution business remains the
largest in the country.
We continue to operate the UK national gas
emergency number for our networks, the
sold networks and other gas transporters.
2005/06 highlights
On 1 June 2005, we successfully completed
the sales of four gas distribution networks 
for £5.8 billion.
We achieved our 35% controllable cost-
reduction target one year early.
Size and scope
Distributes gas to 11 million homes 
and businesses
82,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline Business Review 07
What we do
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
US electricity and 
gas distribution
Area of operation
Our US electricity and gas distribution
business serves approximately 3.4 million
electricity customers in Massachusetts, 
New Hampshire, New York and Rhode
Island, and around 569,000 gas customers
in New York.
2005/06 highlights
We launched the multi-year ‘Reliability
Enhancement Programme’ that utilises 
new information technologies to identify
problem areas together with a combination
of asset replacement, increased maintenance
and inspections, and other actions to
improve reliability cost effectively.
The Nantucket Island cable project was
completed (at a cost of more than $40 million)
to deliver electricity to the island with
enhanced capacity and reliability. 
Size and scope
72,000 circuit miles of electricity
distribution network
8,600 miles of gas pipeline forming the 
gas distribution network
Wireless infrastructure
Area of operation
In the UK, we are the leading independent
provider of network infrastructure, such 
as towers, to mobile telephone operators 
and one of two providers of transmission
networks to television and radio
broadcasters. Our US business provides
communications infrastructure and related
network services to wireless and fixed
network operators in the northeastern US.
2005/06 highlights
During 2005/06, we completed the process
of integrating the UK operations of Crown
Castle International Corp. that we acquired
for £1.1 billion in 2004/05.
In November, we concluded an agreement
with the BBC, the UK-based public service
broadcaster, to extend the provision of
analogue television until 2012, and AM 
and FM radio until 2013. 
Size and scope
5,500 active sites used for mobile
communications
750 purpose-built broadcast towers for
radio and television broadcasting
Other businesses
National Grid Metering provides regulated
gas metering and meter-reading services on
behalf of our UK gas distribution business.
OnStream provides gas and electricity
metering and meter-reading services to the
competitive market.
National Grid Australia provides the 224-mile
interconnector linking the electricity network
on the island of Tasmania to mainland
Australia – the longest such cable in the world.
National Grid Grain is a liquefied natural gas
(LNG) import terminal and storage facility
constructed and operated in the UK. 
National Grid Property is responsible for 
the management of all our major occupied
property in the UK and the management,
clean up and disposal of surplus properties.
Fulcrum Connections provides gas
connections and associated design services
on behalf of gas distribution networks 
in the UK.
Advantica is a consultancy business providing
engineering and software services to enhance
safety and performance in the gas, oil,
electricity and water sectors. 08 Business Review
Where we are
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
National Grid’s main operations are based in the UK 
and the US. The maps below show where we operate 
in each country. 
Where we are
Maine 
Vermont 
New  
Hampshire 
New  
Hampshire 
Pennsylvania 
Connecticut Connecticut 
New  
Jersey
Rhode 
Island
Maine 
Vermont 
Massachusetts 
New York 
Canada 
Massachusetts 
New York 
Canada 
Pennsylvania 
New
Jersey
Rhode Island
Transmission network
US electricity 
transmission
US electricity and 
gas distribution
UK electricity 
transmission
UK gas 
distribution
UK gas 
transmission
Wireless
infrastructure
Theddlethorpe 
Isle of Grain 
Easington 
Bacton 
Barrow 
Burton  
Point 
T o Northern 
Ireland 
T o the Republic  
of Ireland 
T eesside 
St Fergus 
Transmission system (Scotland) 
Transmission system (England & Wales)
Interconnector 
National Grid 
operating area
Reception terminals
Transmission system
Interconnector
Main transmitting
stations
To/from 
Belgium 
To/from 
France  Business Review 09
Our history
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
National Grid’s original UK businesses were
created by the restructuring of the UK gas
industry in 1986 and the UK electricity
industry in 1990. We entered the US energy
delivery market in 2000 and substantially
expanded our UK wireless infrastructure
activities in 2004. This is a history of our
development.
Our history
August 1986 British Gas incorporated as a 
public limited company
March 1990 Electricity transmission network in England
and Wales transferred to National Grid on
electricity privatisation (National Grid owned
by 12 Regional Electricity Companies) 
December 1995 National Grid listed on the 
London Stock Exchange 
February 1997 Centrica demerged from British Gas
which was renamed BG
December 1997 Energis demerged from National Grid 
December 1999 BG became BG Group 
March 2000 New England Electric System acquired by
National Grid 
April 2000 Eastern Utilities Associates acquired by
National Grid 
October 2000 Lattice Group demerged from BG Group
January 2002 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
merged with National Grid’s US operations 
October 2002 Merger of National Grid and Lattice Group
to form National Grid Transco
August 2004 Acquisition of UK wireless infrastructure
network from Crown Castle International
Corp.
June 2005 Sales of four UK gas distribution networks
July 2005 Adoption of National Grid as single name 
for principal businesses
February 2006 Agreements to acquire KeySpan Corporation
and Southern Union Company’s gas
distribution network in Rhode Island
Our brand
promise
Our brand promise defines the way
we approach the delivery of all our
services in all the communities in
which we operate.
Safety
Nothing we do is more important 
than the safety of our employees,
contractors, customers and the
general public. A sustainable business
must operate to the highest safety
standards.
Reliability
Our society depends on the reliable
transmission and distribution of
electricity and gas. National Grid is
focused on the highest levels of
reliability, developing our networks 
and other businesses to meet the
changing patterns of supply and
demand. 
Efficiency
We aim to deliver world-class
operational and financial 
performance, while improving
continuously against demanding
targets for safety, reliability and
customer service.
Responsibility
We are committed to operating our
business in a responsible way, having
due regard for the impacts we have
on society. In all our activities we
operate within our Framework for
Responsible Business.
SAFETY
RELIABILITY
EFFICIENCY
RESPONSIBILITY 10 Business Review
Safety
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Safety
“I believe safety is core to the business. We must all
recognise the responsibility each one of us has to
ensure our own safety, the safety of our colleagues
and those who work with us or who are affected by
our operations.”
STEVE HOLLIDAY, DEPUTY GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
0800 111 999
Retention of the 0800 number
and re-branding
Following the sales of four of 
our gas distribution networks, we
are operating the four remaining
networks as one, now known as
National Grid Gas. Its operating
area is shown on page 8.
We continue to operate the UK
national gas emergency number
(0800 111 999) for our own
network, the sold networks and
other gas transporters. During
2005/06, we handled approximately
2.5 million calls to the national gas
emergency number.
We again exceeded our targets on
safety-related standards of service
for our gas distribution network. 
More than 97% of ‘uncontrolled’
gas escapes (where the gas leak
cannot be stopped by turning the
gas supply off at the meter) were
attended within one hour. More
than 98% of ‘controlled’ gas
escapes (where the gas leak can
be stopped at the meter) were
attended within two hours. Business Review 11
Safety
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Road safety initiative
Our National Grid Property site at Ward
Street, Bilston was one of the first to
incorporate a road safety initiative as part 
of the clean up programme. The site is
situated close to a residential area and
within 500 yards of a primary school. During
the 31-week project, 5,800 lorry movements
were anticipated with up to 290 per week 
at the busiest times. The safety initiative
included a school assembly briefing about
road safety and the dangers of construction
sites. To support this, we produced posters,
wrote to parents and guardians, produced a
driver road safety briefing pack for hauliers,
thoroughly briefed the school crossing patrol
and worked closely with the local authority.
The campaign minimised risk to the public
and educated both the local community and
our contractors. This initiative is now being
replicated at other sites around the UK.
Avoiding overhead electricity cables
in the US
In 2005, National Grid launched
‘DangerZone’, a comprehensive public
safety awareness campaign in the US.
DangerZone consists of multilingual billboard
advertising, videos, brochures and posters
to alert contractors, construction workers
and homeowners to the danger of contacting
overhead electrical lines with ladders,
scaffolding, vehicles, heavy machinery and
equipment. In the first year of DangerZone,
contacts with overhead electricity cables
were reduced significantly. We will be
expanding the campaign this year to include
underground safety and the importance 
of the public calling a freephone number 
to check on the presence of underground
lines and pipes before digging. Additionally,
teachers in elementary and secondary
schools within National Grid’s US service
territory requested and received more than
420,000 student booklets and 4,500 safety
videos designed to increase safety
awareness among children.
Golden Rules for safety – UK gas 
and electricity businesses
National Grid’s Golden Rules are a
framework to help everyone in the UK gas
and electricity businesses to be safe in
everything they do. The Rules apply as
much to working in offices as they do to
working on site.
The Golden Rules are a fundamental
building block for ‘Road to Zero’, our 
five-year programme to reach the target 
of zero injuries.
The Golden Rules do not introduce new
policies and procedures. They reinforce
what we should be doing all the time,
setting the standards for good safety
behaviours and continuing to develop a
culture whereby safety becomes second
nature. They will also be used to identify 
areas in which we can make our working
practices and behaviours even safer.
Sharing best practice between the 
UK and US businesses
There is an ongoing programme of
exchange of best practice between the 
US transmission line services and UK
transmission line construction and
maintenance groups. Phase I was
completed when US staff visited the UK,
which resulted in the implementation within
transmission line services of the double-
lanyard fall protection system.
The double-lanyard system ensures
enhanced fall protection by allowing at 
least one lanyard to be securely clipped 
to the structure at all times while ascending
to and descending from heights. The UK
transmission groups visited the US in 
April 2006 to demonstrate various tools,
equipment and procedures such as the
hook ladder and insulator replacement
techniques for possible implementation in
the US. These tools and techniques enable
workers to perform their transmission
construction tasks better, while reducing 
the potential risk for injury and providing 
for increased work efficiencies.
Metering
National Grid Metering and OnStream 
place great importance upon safety
performance not only internally but within
our service provider network.
During 2005/06, over 6.3 million jobs were
completed by the businesses with only two
employee lost time injuries and three
contractor lost time injuries, both representing
over a 40% improvement on 2004/05. 
Going forward, both companies will 
continue to work closely with service
providers to identify joint initiatives to
improve safety performance further.
27
%
Reduction in 
lost time injuries
Safety will always be at
the centre of everything
we do. During 2005/06,
117 of our employees
received injuries that
resulted in them taking
time off work, a 27%
reduction compared on 
a like-for-like basis with
2004/05. 
The employee lost time
injury frequency rate
provides a more accurate
indicator of year-on-year
performance by taking
into account the changes
in employee numbers
that result from
acquisitions and
disposals. The number 
of employee lost time
injuries per 100,000 hours
worked in 2005/06 fell to
0.28, a 24% improvement
when compared with the
previous year.
There has also been a
significant reduction in
the number of contractor
lost time injuries across
the Group, falling from
146 in 2004/05 to 119 
in 2005/06, an 18.5%
decrease.  12 Business Review
Reliability
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Reliability Enhancement
Programme
The US electricity business has
launched a five-year programme 
to address its ageing system and
strengthen its infrastructure to
reduce the number and duration 
of outages. 
National Grid’s ‘Reliability
Enhancement Programme’ utilises
data gleaned from geographic
information systems and other
technologies in which the Company
has invested that enable better
identification of problem areas and
the steps necessary to fix them. 
The key focus areas for the next
three years include significant
increases in vegetation
management, improving protection
of the system from animal
contacts and lightning, and
‘hardening’ of circuits. Hardening
improves the ability of a circuit 
to withstand exposure to the
elements through targeted 
replacement of deteriorated
components and equipment. 
The Reliability Enhancement
Programme also includes ongoing
condition assessment of the
distribution system as well as
increased inspection and
maintenance programmes and
substation refurbishments,
expansions and rebuilds.
Reliability
“The reliability of our operations is borne out 
by our ability to deliver our services 24 hours 
a day, 365 days a year.”
MIKE JESANIS, GROUP DIRECTOR Business Review 13
Reliability
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Nantucket Island cable project
Located off the Massachusetts coast, 
the island of Nantucket is a popular travel
destination and place to own property that,
over the past few years, has seen growth in
demand for electricity rise dramatically.
As a result, National Grid has installed a
second submarine cable system at a cost of
more than $40 million to deliver electricity to
the island. Nantucket was previously served
by a single 46 kilovolt, 26-mile underground
and submarine distribution cable connected
to the regional transmission grid on Cape
Cod. This cable went into service in late
1996, replacing diesel generating units and
ushering in a new era of reliable electric
service for customers on the island. 
The second cable system consists of a new
connection to the regional transmission 
grid, more than five miles of underground
cable on the mainland and the island, and
roughly 27 miles of submarine cable that
traverse Nantucket Sound at a depth of
approximately eight feet below the seabed. 
Improvements and upgrades
National Grid has undertaken major expansion
projects at its Ward Hill and Wachusett
substations in northeastern and central
Massachusetts respectively. Both projects,
which include the addition of new
transmission equipment and upgrades 
of existing transmission lines, as well as
distribution improvements at Ward Hill, 
will greatly enhance the reliability of New
England’s bulk transmission system. They will
also improve local service for our customers.
Sharing best practice
UK gas distribution uses, where possible,
no-dig pipe-laying techniques to replace old
cast iron pipe with new plastic pipe. One 
of these methods is known as ‘live main
insertion’ which enables the replacement 
of mains under live gas conditions and
avoids the need to dig long trenches.
Instead, construction crews excavate small
sections at two ends of a length of cast iron
pipe and insert the plastic replacement pipe
into the iron pipe. This avoids the need to 
interrupt supply to customers and reduces
construction costs with significantly less
excavation of roads, driveways and 
gardens. Consequently, this reduces
inconvenience to the public and customers
from construction work. 
This process has been shared and adopted
by our colleagues in the US and received
the 2005 Technology Project of the Year
Award from the Technology Alliance of
Central New York.
Last year, UK gas distribution invested
£444 million in the reinforcement, extension
and replacement of the UK gas distribution
network compared with £359 million in
2004/05 (this excludes the investment in the
four regional gas distribution networks that
were sold on 1 June 2005). Replacement
expenditure increased from £239 million in
2004/05 to £295 million in 2005/06 in line
with the planned increase in the long-term
cast iron mains replacement programme
agreed with the Health and Safety Executive.
This enabled us to decommission over
1,710 km (1,063 miles) of old gas pipe 
in 2005/06 compared with 1,458 km 
(906 miles) in 2004/05.
Ensuring the integrity of Great
Britain’s gas transmission network
Operating from a newly established control
facility, the Gas National Control Centre
(GNCC) is responsible for operating Great
Britain’s gas transmission network safely,
reliably and efficiently, managing the flow 
of gas from suppliers to customers. 
We ensure that all gas entering the gas
transmission network meets the appropriate
quality standards. We operate the system 
in accordance with appropriate legislation 
and the Health and Safety Executive 
safety case, while facilitating equitable and
transparent access to all market participants.
GNCC operates 4,300 miles of high
pressure transmission pipeline across 
Great Britain, facilitating the transportation 
of around 100 billion cubic metres of gas
per year to power stations, industrial and
commercial customers and approximately
20 million domestic customers.
National Grid Grain 
owns and operates the
liquefied natural gas
(LNG) import facility
located at the Isle of
Grain, in Kent. 
Commercial operations
commenced on 15 July
2005. As at 31 March
2006, on the instruction
of its customer
BP/Sonatrach, 19 gas
shipments had been
received and around 
16.1 TWh (terawatt hours)
of gas delivered into the
gas network. The facility
currently has the
capacity to import and
process 3.3 million
tonnes of LNG per year. 
The business is
incentivised to maintain
plant availability and
reliability and was
available for 99% of 
the Winter period.
Securing an alternative
energy source 14 Business Review
Efficiency
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
London connection
In September 2005, National Grid
completed its £200 million London
infrastructure tunnel project that
links Elstree in Hertfordshire to 
St John’s Wood, North London.
This 12-mile tunnel houses the
longest 400 kilovolt (kV) cross-
linked polyethylene (XLPE) cable
circuit in Europe. XLPE cable is
insulated and cooled without the
use of oil and hence is more
environmentally friendly than
traditional oil-cooled cables.
This project represents a major
investment by National Grid to
reinforce the transmission system.
The new 400 kV circuit will enable
us to continue to meet London’s
demand for electricity. By
constructing a tunnel, most of the
works carried out underground
were invisible, inaudible at 
ground level and minimised 
traffic disruption.
Since works started in March 2000, 
in addition to the 12-mile tunnel,
seven head house buildings and
two new 400 kV substations have
been constructed at existing
National Grid sites at Elstree and 
St John’s Wood. 
Efficiency
“I believe we can continue to improve our
efficiency and profitability, without compromising
the reliability and integrity of our operations, for
the benefit of all our stakeholders.”
NICK WINSER, GROUP DIRECTOR Business Review 15
Efficiency
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Way Ahead
Following completion of the ‘Way Ahead’
restructuring programme in UK gas
distribution, a series of strategic development
initiatives has been successfully delivered in
support of our aim to be the most efficient
UK gas distribution network. Centralisation
of many key processes has enabled us to
place increased emphasis on safety and
efficiency while sharing best practice across
the organisation and delivering our office 
rationalisation programme. Having
completed the Way Ahead transformation,
we are now concentrating on continuous
improvement techniques to refine our
existing business processes.
Strategic review of estate
management
Throughout the year, we have continued to
derive further value from the procurement 
of property services for the UK businesses.
This has been achieved by aggregating our
business needs which in turn has enabled
us to leverage better value from our supply
chain. In addition, we continue to share best
practice across the whole portfolio thus
enabling us to maximise efficiencies in the
delivery and administration of property
services, while providing optimal service
levels to occupiers.
Work and Asset Management project 
Work and Asset Management (WAM) aims
to reshape the way the Company manages
its electricity transmission system assets in
the UK.
WAM is about finding a smarter way of
doing things. The changes to business
processes supported by WAM and the
implementation of new information systems
will enable us to be smarter in capital
planning, target investment more effectively
and gain procurement efficiencies.
MWork rollout – access to data from
crew cabs
‘MWork’ is National Grid’s new mobile 
work management system in the US that
automates the way work and work-related
information are scheduled, received and
reported in the field. MWork enhances the
process of dispatching and managing work
in the field ultimately to provide better
customer service through cost-efficient and
consistent work practices throughout
National Grid’s US service territory. 
All metering services and certain operations
field workers and supervisors who use
MWork will have computers in their vehicles
that provide real-time information online 
and right at their fingertips to help them
serve customers more efficiently and
effectively. MWork provides optimised
routing assignments and all of the information
necessary to perform and report work,
including allocating work orders from the
Customer Service and Operations systems,
real-time work status and job closeouts – 
all delivered via the wireless computer 
in vehicles. 
National Grid’s UK electricity transmission
business uses a similar version of this
technology called ‘Office in the Hand’, and
our UK gas distribution business uses
another version called ‘Quarterback5’.
Automated meter reading
Available to businesses via their gas
suppliers, our UK National Grid Metering
business is now installing smart meter 
units for monthly and six-monthly read 
gas meters. The new technology logs data
remotely and uses either SMS text message 
or GPRS to send the meter reading data 
to the customer.
Without any disruption to supply, a bolt-on
device is connected to the frequency output
of the meter and counts the number of
pulses as gas passes through it, converts
them into a reading and then transmits 
the data to a digital hub using mobile
communications. This accurate information
is then forwarded to gas suppliers to 
provide consumption profiles at regular
intervals. Benefits to commercial users
include synchronised billing for multiple
sites, identification of energy wastage and
better management of cost.
Supporting the 2012 Olympics
National Grid is working to assist the
successful delivery of the London 2012
Olympic Games and Paralympic Games
through a range of activities. We are working
with the London Development Agency and
the Olympic Delivery Authority, primarily in
the undergrounding of the power lines
crossing the Olympic Park site in the Lower
Lea Valley, to ensure continued security 
of electricity and gas supplies to the 
area. National Grid is also one of the two
infrastructure providers for the UK digital
switchover, due to take place by 2012.
National Grid Wireless 
has a strong position 
in the growing digital
television market. We
hold two of the six 
UK digital terrestrial
television licences and
provide infrastructure
services to all Freeview
channels including the
BBC and BSkyB. 
During the year, the
business successfully
increased capacity on 
its multiplexes (used 
for digital broadcasting)
to launch three new
channels. This was 
made possible by 
taking advantage of
improvements in
infrastructure technology
and maximising the value
of scarce digital capacity.
This has allowed viewers
of the Freeview service to
have a greater variety of
channels to choose from.
Digital television 16 Business Review
Responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
“It is important that we promote and maintain our reputation
as a company that manages its business in a responsible
way and contributes to all the societies in which we operate.”
EDWARD ASTLE, GROUP DIRECTOR
Environmental considerations
As part of National Grid Australia’s
environmental approvals for 
the Basslink Project and our
commitment to the environmental
integrity of the Gippsland region,
Victoria, we took responsibility 
for 280 hectares of run-down
agricultural property to return it 
to its native state. 
In doing this work, National Grid
Australia will provide a minimum 
of 30,000 new large and medium-
sized trees to replace the 1,000
native trees removed to build the 
overhead transmission line. 
The native trees selected for 
the project are being grown 
from seed collected from the
nearby Mullundung Forest and
nearby regions to ensure they are
similar to what would have grown
there originally. In the Spring 
(September to November) of 
2005, 90 hectares of derelict
agricultural land was replanted
with seed and 50 hectares of
scrubland was protected to 
assist in natural regeneration. 
The remaining 140 hectares of 
land will be planted with 40
different species in the Spring 
of 2006.
Greening Australia has been
contracted to National Grid
Australia to undertake this work.
They have more than 20 years’
experience with replanting and
rehabilitation works. National Grid
Australia is keen to build good
working relationships with farmers
and landowners alike.
Responsibility Business Review 17
Responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group awarded top grade for
apprentice scheme 
National Grid has been ranked among the
top 10% of UK employers for its engineering
apprenticeship scheme. The Company has
been awarded Grade 1 – one of the few 
UK energy organisations to achieve the 
top mark – for outstanding leadership and
management of its scheme by the Adult
Learning Inspectorate, the Government
body that monitors the standards of industry
education and training. The grade recognises
National Grid’s standards in a range of
areas, including attraction and recruitment,
learning plans for apprentices and contractual
requirements set out by the Learning and
Skills Council.
National Grid’s apprentices are on a three-
year scheme and receive practical on- and 
off-the-job training through our training
centre at Eakring. They are trained in
emergency and maintenance operations 
and in a range of electricity and gas roles,
from electrical craftsperson to technician.
Inclusion and diversity
‘Women in Networks’ is a network for 
women in the UK and the US that provides
an opportunity to come together for
employees who share a common interest in
making National Grid a great place to work.
Its aim is to allow employees to share and
explore some of the issues affecting women
in the workplace.
Women in Networks was launched on
29 November 2005 with a live cross-Atlantic
link. The UK event took place at the
Heritage Motor Museum in Warwick,
attended by about 200 people. The US held
events at four locations – Buffalo, Albany,
Syracuse and Westborough – at the same
time for a similar number of people. Deputy
Group Chief Executive Steve Holliday
launched the UK event and Mike Jesanis,
Chief Executive of National Grid in the US,
did the same in the US via a link to the four
American locations.
Electric and magnetic fields
Electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) can be
generated from a wide variety of sources,
including our distribution and transmission
power lines and wireless infrastructure.
National Grid recognises that there is some
scientific evidence suggesting that certain
adverse health effects are linked to EMFs. 
We take these issues very seriously and
continually assess the scientific evidence 
in this area, determine any implications for
the way in which we conduct our business,
and explain to society what the science is
telling us.
In all our operations, as a minimum we
comply with EMF regulations, guidelines or
practices in force where we operate.
Responding to national emergencies
In the US, National Grid sends crews
whenever possible to assist other utilities
that have been hit hard by major storms that
cause large-scale power outages. In Autumn
2005, National Grid sent crews to Florida in
the wake of Hurricane Wilma to help restore
power to 1.1 million customers. It marked the
fifth time in a 13-month period that National
Grid crews were dispatched to Florida and
the Gulf Coast. 
Nearly 550 National Grid workers logged
tens of thousands of hours in those efforts.
The Edison Electric Institute recognised
National Grid with an Emergency Assistance
Award for its contributions following
Hurricane Wilma.
Energy delivery and climate change
Our Framework for Responsible Business
includes a commitment to make a
contribution to minimising climate change.
The Board agreed our long-term strategy,
mapping out how we will achieve this as
well as contributing to the UK Government’s
long-term emission reduction targets. 
During 2005/06, our direct and indirect
emissions of greenhouse gases amounted 
to some 10.2 million tonnes CO
2
equivalent,
the same as 2004/05 if the sold networks
are excluded.
Compared with our verified baseline, we
have already reduced our climate change
impact in the UK by 14% – achieving both
the Kyoto 12.5% obligation in the UK 
and what would have been an 8% Kyoto
obligation in the US ahead of time.
National Grid continues its leadership in 
the US in the area of energy efficiency. 
The Company’s cumulative investment in
energy efficiency programmes has topped
$1 billion, participating customers having
saved $2.1 billion.
Administrative staff
retraining in UK 
gas distribution
Two of our female
administrative staff
recently took up new
roles as emergency gas
engineers. They help to
provide 24 hour cover for
the country’s domestic
gas infrastructure and
their duties include
attending emergency 
gas leaks reported in
people’s homes. 
The moves followed the
closure of the Bolton
office (as part of the
rationalisation of office
premises under the 
Way Ahead programme,
see page 15) and 
the centralisation of
many administrative 
roles to Hinckley and
Northampton. The two
assistants have been
equipped with the
required personal
protection equipment
and vehicles and are
studying for the required
qualification – SNVQ
Core Gas Safety. 18 Board of Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Board of Directors
01 Sir John Parker 
Chairman
(appointed October 2002) (Age 64) N (ch)
Sir John Parker became Chairman of the
Group following the merger of National Grid
Group plc and Lattice Group plc. He had
been Chairman of Lattice Group plc since its
demerger from BG Group plc in 2000. He
had previously been a Non-executive
Director of BG plc from 1997. Sir John’s
career has encompassed the engineering,
shipbuilding and defence industries. He is
Chairman of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam
Navigation Company, a Non-executive
Director of Carnival plc and Carnival
Corporation, Inc. and Senior Non-executive
Director of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir John is a former Chairman of RMC
Group plc, a former Chairman and Chief
Executive of Harland & Wolff plc and
Babcock International Group PLC and a
former Non-executive Director of Brambles
Industries plc, GKN plc and British Coal
Corporation. He is a Fellow of the Royal
Academy of Engineering.
02 Roger Urwin
Group Chief Executive
(appointed November 1995) (Age 60) 
E (ch), F
Roger Urwin became Group Chief Executive
in October 2002 following the merger 
of National Grid Group plc and Lattice 
Group plc. Prior to the merger he had been
appointed Group Chief Executive of 
National Grid Group plc in April 2001, 
where he played a key role in establishing
the Company’s international strategy and 
its successful expansion into the US. He
joined the Group in 1995, initially as CEO 
of the Company’s UK transmission business.
Previously, Roger was Managing Director
and Chief Executive of London Electricity
from 1990 to 1995. He is also a Non-
executive Director of Utilico Investment Trust
plc and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of
Engineering. He has announced his intention
to retire from National Grid at the end of
2006.
03 Steve Holliday 
Deputy Group Chief Executive
(appointed March 2001) (Age 49) E
Steve Holliday joined National Grid Group plc
as Group Director, UK and Europe in March
2001. Immediately following the merger of
National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group
plc in October 2002, he was responsible for
the Group’s electricity and gas transmission
businesses. He was appointed as Group
Director responsible for UK Gas Distribution
and Business Services in April 2003. He was
formerly an Executive Director of British
Borneo Oil and Gas. Previously, he spent 
19 years with the Exxon Group, where he
held senior positions in the international gas
business and managed major operational
areas such as refining and shipping. Steve’s
international experience includes a four-year
spell in the US. He has also developed
business opportunities in countries as diverse
as China, Australia, Japan, Brazil and the
former Soviet Union. He is a Non-executive
Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Following the announcement of Roger Urwin’s
retirement he was appointed Group Chief
Executive designate, becoming Deputy
Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2006.
04 Steve Lucas
Group Finance Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 52) E, F
Steve Lucas joined the Board following the
merger of National Grid Group plc and
Lattice Group plc in October 2002. He had
been Executive Director, Finance of Lattice
Group plc since its demerger from BG
Group plc in 2000. Previously, he was
Treasurer of BG Group plc having joined
British Gas plc in 1994. A Chartered
Accountant, he worked in private practice 
in the City of London until 1983. He then
joined Shell International Petroleum
Company, occupying a number of finance
management positions and treasury roles,
including seven years in Africa and the Far
East. Steve is also a Non-executive Director
of Compass Group PLC.
05 Nick Winser
Group Director
(appointed April 2003) (Age 45) E
Nick Winser joined the Board in April 2003
as Group Director responsible for UK and
US Transmission operations. He was
previously Chief Operating Officer of US
Transmission for National Grid Transco plc.
He joined National Grid Company plc in
1993, becoming Director of Engineering in
2001. Prior to this, he had been with
Powergen since 1991 as principal negotiator
on commercial matters, having joined the
Central Electricity Generating Board in 1983
where he served in a variety of technical
engineering roles.
06 Mike Jesanis
Group Director
(appointed July 2004) (Age 49) E
Mike Jesanis joined the Board in July 2004,
becoming Group Director responsible for 
US Distribution. He became President of
National Grid USA in November 2003,
having been its Chief Operating Officer and
responsible for day-to-day operations since
January 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer
of National Grid USA and New England
Electric System (NEES) between March
1998 and January 2001, having joined
NEES in July 1983. Mike is also Chairman 
of the Board of Trustees of Becker College
(Worcester, Massachusetts) and a member
of the Board of Trustees of Clarkson
University (Potsdam, New York). He is a
Director of the Massachusetts Taxpayers
Foundation, Jobs for Massachusetts, Inc.
and of the Boston Chamber of Commerce.
07 Edward Astle
Group Director
(appointed September 2001) (Age 52) E
Edward Astle joined the Board as Group
Director, Telecommunications in September
2001 and is now Group Director responsible
for Non-regulated Business and leads the
Group’s Business Development. He was
Managing Director of BICC Communications
from 1997 to 1999, and between 1989 
and 1997 he held a variety of positions with
Cable & Wireless. He was Regional Director
Europe, CEO of its global networks and
marine divisions, and in 1995 joined the
Cable & Wireless board as Executive
Director Global Businesses.
01 02 03 04
05 06 07
Committee membership
A Audit
E Executive
F Finance
N Nominations
R Remuneration
R&R Risk & Responsibility
(ch) denotes Committee chairman
  Board of Directors 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
08 Ken Harvey
Non-executive Director and
Senior Independent Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 65) 
N, R, R&R
Ken Harvey joined the Board following the
merger of National Grid Group plc and
Lattice Group plc, having been appointed 
to the Lattice Group plc board in September
2000. He was appointed Senior Independent
Director in October 2004. He is Chairman 
of Pennon Group plc. A Chartered Engineer,
Ken is a former Chairman and Chief
Executive of Norweb plc, and a former
Chairman of Comax Holdings Ltd, The
Intercare Group plc and Beaufort
International Group plc.
09 John Allan
Non-executive Director 
(appointed May 2005) (Age 57) 
A, R (ch)
John Allan was appointed to the Board in
May 2005. He is a member of the
Management Board of Deutsche Post,
having been appointed following its
acquisition of Exel plc in December 2005
where he had been Chief Executive since
September 1994. John started his career 
in marketing, at Lever Brothers, moving to
Bristol-Myers Company Limited and then
Fine Fare Limited. He joined BET plc in 1985
and was appointed to the board in 1987. He
is a member of the CBI’s Presidents’
Committee, the International Advisory
Council of the Singapore Economic
Development Board and the University of
Edinburgh Campaign Board. John was
previously a Non-executive Director of PHS
Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc and
Connell plc.
10 John Grant
Non-executive Director 
(appointed November 1995) (Age 60) 
A, N, R
John Grant was appointed a Director of the
Group in November 1995. He is Chairman of
Torotrak plc and Hasgo Group Limited and a
Non-executive Director of Corac Group Plc,
and The Royal Automobile Club Limited. 
He was Chief Executive of Ascot Plc from
1997 to 2000 and Finance Director of Lucas
Industries plc from 1992 to 1996. He
previously held a number of senior executive
positions during 25 years with Ford Motor
Company. John will retire from National Grid
with effect from the close of the 2006 Annual
General Meeting.
11 Paul Joskow
Non-executive Director
(appointed March 2000) (Age 58) 
F (ch), N
Paul Joskow was appointed a Director 
of the Group in March 2000 following the
acquisition of New England Electric System
(NEES). He served as a Director of NEES
between 1987 and its acquisition. He is a
Professor of Economics and Management at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT), a Director of the MIT Center for Energy
and Environmental Policy Research, a
Research Associate of the US National
Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow
of the Econometric Society and of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Paul is also an independent Trustee of the
Putnam Mutual Funds and an independent
Non-executive Director of TransCanada. 
12 Stephen Pettit
Non-executive Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 55) 
F , R, R&R (ch)
Stephen Pettit was appointed to the Board
following the merger of National Grid Group
plc and Lattice Group plc, having been
appointed to the Lattice Group plc board 
in 2001. He is a Non-executive Director of
National Air Traffic Services, Halma plc and 
is Chairman of ROK Property Solutions plc.
Stephen is also a member of BT plc’s
Equality of Access Board. He is a former
Executive Director of Cable & Wireless plc.
Before joining Cable & Wireless, he was
Chief Executive, Petrochemicals at British
Petroleum. Stephen was previously a 
Non-executive Director of KBC Advanced
Technologies plc and Norwood Systems
Limited.
13 Maria Richter
Non-executive Director 
(appointed October 2003) (Age 51) 
A, F , R&R
Maria Richter was appointed to the Board in
October 2003. Maria worked for Morgan
Stanley between 1993 and 2002, most
recently as Managing Director of its
Corporate Finance Retail Group. Prior to this,
she was Managing Director of Investment
Banking in the Southern Cone of Latin
America, and Executive Director and Head
of Independent Power and Structured
Finance Business. Previous appointments
include Vice President of Independent Power
Group for Salomon Brothers, and Vice
President of Prudential Capital Corporation
and Power Funding Associates. Maria is a
Director of Pro Mujer International, an
international microfinance organisation, 
and was, until April 2006, a Director of the
Western Electricity Co-ordinating Council.
14 George Rose
Non-executive Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 54) 
A (ch), N, R
George Rose was appointed to the Board
following the merger of National Grid Group
plc and Lattice Group plc, having been
appointed to the Lattice Group plc board in
September 2000. He has been Finance
Director of BAE Systems plc (formerly British
Aerospace plc) since 1998, having joined the
company in 1992. He is a member of the
shareholder committee of Airbus SAS and is
also a Non-executive Director of SAAB AB
and a member of the Financial Reporting
Review Panel. George is also a former 
Non-executive Director of Orange plc.
*
Helen Mahy
Group Company Secretary 
and General Counsel 
(appointed October 2002) (Age 45) E
Helen Mahy was appointed as Group
Company Secretary following the merger of
National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group
plc, having been Company Secretary at
Lattice Group plc since March 2002. She
was additionally appointed as General
Counsel from October 2003. Previously, she
was Group General Counsel and Company
Secretary at Babcock International Group
PLC. Helen was appointed a Non-executive
Director of Aga Foodservice Group plc in
March 2003. She is a barrister, member of
the Bar Council and an Associate of the
Chartered Insurance Institute. 
08
12
09 11
13
10
14
* Operating and Financial Review
This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends
and factors underlying the development, performance and
position of National Grid during the year ended 31 March 2006 as
well as those likely to affect our future development, performance
and position. It has been prepared in line with the guidance
provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and
Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board
in January 2006. 
About National Grid
Principal operations
Our principal operations are in regulated networks and comprise
the transmission and distribution of electricity and gas and the
provision of network infrastructure to the broadcast and
telecommunications industries, based mainly in the UK and the
US. We also have interests in related markets, including metering
services, liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities and property in the
UK, as well as electricity interconnectors in the UK and Australia.
History
National Grid originated from the restructurings of the UK gas
industry in 1986 and the UK electricity industry in 1990. We
entered the US electricity delivery market in 2000 in New England
and expanded into New York in 2002. We substantially increased
our UK wireless infrastructure activities in 2004. In 2005, following
the sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks, we adopted
National Grid as a single name for all our principal businesses. 
In 2006, we announced agreements to expand our activities in
the US with the proposed acquisitions of KeySpan Corporation
and of the Rhode Island gas distribution network owned by
Southern Union Company.
Key milestones
1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company
1990 Electricity transmission network in England and Wales
transferred to National Grid on electricity privatisation 
1995 National Grid listed on the London Stock Exchange
1997 British Gas (renamed BG) demerged Centrica
1997 National Grid demerged Energis
2000 New England Electric System and Eastern Utilities Associates
acquired by National Grid 
2000 Lattice Group demerged from BG Group and listed separately
2002 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation merged with National
Grid’s US operations
2002 Merger of National Grid and Lattice Group to form National
Grid Transco
2004 Acquisition of UK wireless infrastructure network from Crown
Castle International Corp.
2005 Sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks
2005 Adoption of National Grid as a single name for our 
principal businesses
2006 Agreements to acquire KeySpan Corporation and Southern
Union Company’s Rhode Island gas distribution network
The Operating and Financial Review consists of the following
sections:
Section Page Section Page
About National Grid 20 US electricity and 
gas distribution 48
Key performance indicators 30 US stranded cost 
recoveries 51
Performance during the year 31 Wireless infrastructure 52
UK electricity and gas Other activities 54
transmission 38
US electricity transmission 43 Financial position and
financial management 56
UK gas distribution 45 Accounting policies 62
Businesses and segments
The performances of our businesses are reported by segment,
reflecting the management responsibilities and economic
characteristics of each activity. Our principal businesses and
segments are as follows:
Business Segment Description of principal activities
Transmission UK electricity Owner and operator of the high-
and gas voltage electricity transmission 
transmission network in England and Wales, the
gas transmission network in Great
Britain, electricity interconnectors
with Scotland and with France, and
storage facilities for LNG. Operator
of the electricity transmission networks
in Scotland.
US electricity Owner and operator of high-voltage 
transmission electricity transmission networks in
the northeastern US.
UK UK gas The distribution of gas within 
Distribution distribution England as the owner and operator
of four of the UK’s eight gas
distribution networks.
US US electricity The delivery of electricity and gas 
Distribution and gas in New York and electricity in 
distribution New England.
US stranded Recovery, through charges to
cost recoveries electricity customers, of costs 
mainly incurred prior to divestiture of
electricity generation.
Wireless Wireless Provision of structures and 
infrastructure equipment to serve the broadcast
and mobile telecommunications
industries, principally in the UK, but
also in the US.
Other Other Other businesses, including metering 
businesses activities services, property management, 
and corporate an LNG gas import terminal in the 
activities UK and an electricity interconnector
business in Australia, as well as
corporate activities, such as
business development.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
20 Operating and Financial Review
About National Grid Acquisitions and disposals
Sales of four regional gas distribution networks
In June 2005, we sold four of our regional gas distribution
networks, comprising approximately half of the gas distribution
network in Great Britain, for net cash proceeds of £5.8 billion.
The effect of these sales has been to reduce by about half the
size of our UK gas distribution segment, which now comprises
four retained networks.
The sales have resulted in a significant restructuring of the gas
distribution market in the UK, so that four different owners are
now responsible for their respective regional networks.
Proposed acquisitions in the northeastern US
We have entered into two agreements to expand significantly our
operations in the northeastern US. These comprise the proposed
acquisition of KeySpan Corporation for $7.3 billion (£4.2 billion),
together with the assumption of approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6
billion) of debt and the proposed acquisition from Southern Union
Company of its Rhode Island gas distribution network for cash
consideration of $498 million (£286 million) and assumed debt 
of $77 million (£44 million).
KeySpan is the fifth largest distributor of natural gas in the US
and the largest in the northeastern US, serving 2.6 million
customers in New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
KeySpan also operates an electricity transmission and distribution
network serving 1.1 million customers in New York under a long-
term contract with the Long Island Power Authority. KeySpan’s
other interests include 6.7 GW of generation capacity, together
with a small portfolio of non-regulated energy-related services
and strategic investments in certain gas pipeline, storage and
LNG assets. 
The Rhode Island gas distribution business serves approximately
245,000 customers through a distribution network of over 3,000
miles of mains. The network substantially overlaps our existing
electricity distribution service area in Rhode Island. The rates for
the Rhode Island gas distribution business are set by the same
state regulators that set our electricity distribution rates in Rhode
Island. Both businesses have a history of performing under
incentive-based rate plans, which provide substantial benefits 
to customers and shareholders.
By combining our current US operations with those of KeySpan
and the Rhode Island gas distribution business, we expect to
become the third largest gas delivery business in the US. 
These proposed acquisitions represent an excellent fit with our
strategy, building on our core skills of owning and operating
network infrastructure, and they are expected to provide
additional opportunities for growth.
The proposed acquisition of KeySpan is subject to approvals from
federal and state regulatory authorities, our shareholders and
KeySpan’s shareholders, and is planned to be completed in early
2007. The proposed acquisition of the Rhode Island gas
distribution network is subject to approval by state regulatory
authorities and is expected to complete this summer.
Other acquisitions and disposals
There were no significant acquisitions completed during the year
ended 31 March 2006. 
During the year, we sold our interest in a joint venture, Energis
Polska. Net proceeds from this disposal amounted to £8 million.
In addition, on 22 February 2006, we entered into an agreement
to sell our 38.5% interest in Copperbelt Energy Corporation in
Zambia. This sale is subject to governmental and regulatory
consent by the Zambian authorities.
In 2004/05, we acquired the UK operations of Crown Castle
International Corp. for cash consideration of £1,138 million 
and a telecommunications tower operation in the US for cash
consideration of £13 million. Also in 2004/05, we disposed of 
our investment in a joint venture, Citelec, giving rise to a gain 
of £13 million.
Maine 
Vermont 
New  
Hampshire 
Pennsylvania
Connecticut 
New  
Jersey
Rhode 
Island
Massachusetts 
New York 
Canada 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 21
About National Grid 22 Operating and Financial Review
About National Grid
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
External market environment
The principal markets in which we operate are the energy
markets in the UK and the northeastern US and the wireless
infrastructure market in the UK.
Energy markets in the UK and the US
The generation and supply of electricity and gas in the UK and
the northeastern US are competitive in that consumers can
contract with different suppliers to obtain the energy they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that energy
from electricity generators or from gas producers as appropriate,
as well as arranging for that energy to be delivered through
physical delivery networks. 
These networks, including the ones we operate, are monopolies
in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no
methods of receiving energy other than through those networks.
In the UK, both domestic and commercial consumers contract
with energy suppliers, which obtain the energy required from
electricity generators and gas producers. Energy is transported
through electricity or gas transmission networks to regional
electricity or gas distribution networks that then deliver that
energy to consumers. 
We are the owner and operator of the electricity transmission
network in England and Wales, operator (but not owner) of 
the two electricity transmission networks in Scotland and owner
and operator of the gas transmission network and of four of the
eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
In the northeastern US, consumers can purchase their energy
through independent energy suppliers, but the majority still
purchase electricity or gas from their local electricity or gas
distribution business. Electricity is transported either direct into
local electricity distribution networks or via electricity transmission
networks, while gas is produced primarily in the Gulf of Mexico
and Canada and transported through interstate gas transmission
pipelines into local gas distribution networks. Regional transmission
organisations or independent system operators have the
responsibility for balancing electricity supply with demand. Gas
distribution networks, including our New York gas distribution
business, are each responsible for balancing gas supply with
demand in their distribution area.
Our US distribution businesses promote competition by
encouraging consumers to purchase their energy from
independent suppliers. 
Energy market developments
The UK and US are entering a period of changing supply patterns
for both gas and electricity, as more reliance is placed on
imported gas and on new sources of electricity generation,
including renewables. In the UK, the decline in UK continental
shelf gas reserves and the UK Government’s emphasis on
combating climate change and encouragement of renewable
generation mean that we continue to see a trend toward greater
use of imported gas for both consumption and use in power
generation. In the US, there is also likely to be an increased
reliance on imported gas and significant interest in the
development of renewable power generation.
These changes will have an impact on our electricity and gas
transmission and gas distribution businesses. In particular,
significant investment is likely to be required in our UK gas and
electricity transmission and distribution networks to link new
power plants and gas import facilities with domestic, business
and industrial consumers.
Wireless infrastructure market
The broadcast industry is supported by infrastructure for the
transmission of terrestrial, satellite, cable and broadband signals.
National Grid Wireless is one of the two providers of infrastructure
for terrestrial television and radio in the UK. 
Mobile infrastructure is provided by mobile operators and
independent wireless infrastructure providers, of which National
Grid Wireless is the leading independent provider in the UK.
Electricity generators
Other electricity 
transmission networks US electricity transmission
Gas transmission 
pipelines
Gas producers
Other electricity 
distribution networks
Other gas distribution
networks
US electricity and 
gas distribution
Commercial and domestic consumers
Electricity generators
Commercial and domestic consumers
Gas producers
UK electricity and gas transmission
Regional electricity 
distribution networks UK gas distribution
Other gas 
distribution networks Regulatory environment
As a result of our position in, and importance to, the economies
we serve, our electricity and gas transmission and distribution
businesses are subject to UK, European Union and US federal
and state laws and regulations.
In the UK, these businesses are regulated under the Gas Act
1986 and Electricity Act 1989 by the Office of Gas and Electricity
Markets (Ofgem). Ofgem operates under the direction and
governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, and has
established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of
revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses, typically
covering five-year price control periods.
In the US, our public utilities are regulated by utility commissions 
in the states in which we operate and by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC). These US regulators set service
standards and determine allowable levels of return. We were also
regulated under the Public Utility Holding Company Act 1935 until
its repeal became effective on 8 February 2006.
Certain of the UK activities of our Wireless business are subject to
regulation by the Office of Communications (Ofcom), in particular
our television and radio transmission infrastructure networks. We
operate two digital multiplexes under the terms of licences
granted by Ofcom. Ofcom is also responsible for regulating the
broadcast and telecommunications industries.
Our businesses are covered by safety legislation which is
enforced by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) in the UK and
federal and state safety regulators in the US. Our UK gas
operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby our
organisation, processes and procedures are documented in
safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
Our securities are listed on the London Stock Exchange and on 
the New York Stock Exchange. We are regulated by the Financial
Services Authority in the UK and by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in the US.
More information on the regulatory environment in which we operate
is provided in the segmental discussions on pages 38 to 55.
Regulatory developments
Regulatory developments in the UK during the year included:
on 1 April 2005, in our role as Great Britain System operator,
we took responsibility for operating the Scottish electricity
transmission networks in addition to the England and 
Wales network;
on 1 May 2005, our UK gas transmission and distribution
businesses (and each of the networks that we subsequently
sold) were each granted a gas transporter licence, replacing the
single integrated transmission and distribution licence that we
held previously. A new Uniform Network Code was introduced
by Ofgem, establishing the mechanisms for the operation of
the UK gas delivery market participants;
to align the price control periods for electricity transmission
with that of gas transmission in the UK, Ofgem extended the
electricity transmission price control period due to end on
31 March 2006 by a further year, extending the current period
to 31 March 2007;
Ofgem also intends to extend the current gas distribution
price control period originally scheduled to end on 31 March
2007 to 31 March 2008. The next five-year price control
review period will commence on 1 April 2008; and
following their review of the broadcasting transmission
services market, Ofcom introduced a new regulatory regime
in April 2005 that required broadcast network access
providers, including National Grid Wireless, to publish
reference offer terms and conditions for new contracts 
with effect from 30 December 2005.
Regulatory developments in the US during the year included the
enactment of the Energy Policy Act 2005, which is not expected
to have any immediate effect on the Group’s business, but certain
provisions, including transmission pricing incentives and the
creation of National Interest Electric Transmission Corridors, 
may benefit our long-term strategy. 
The repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act 1935
removed certain regulations imposed on us by the Securities and
Exchange Commission and replaced them with new regulations
by the FERC.
Price controls and rate plans
Our principal price controls and rate plans relate to electricity and
gas transmission and gas distribution in the UK and electricity
distribution in the US. They can be summarised as follows:
UK electricity transmission 
US 
electricity 
distribution 
UK gas transmission 
UK gas distribution 
Massachusetts 
Rhode Island 
New York 
2001/02
2002/03
2003/04
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
2007/08
2008/09
2009/10
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
Future price 
control 
Future price 
control 
Future price 
control 
Extension
Extension
Current rate plan (until 2019)
Current rate plan (until 2019)
Current rate plan
Current price 
control 
Current price 
control 
Current price 
control 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 23
About National Grid Business drivers
Our principal activities include the operation of highly complex
energy and other infrastructure networks. As a consequence, there
are many factors that influence the financial returns we obtain. We
consider the following to be our main business drivers:
Price controls The prices we charge for use of our energy 
and rate plans transmission and distribution networks are
determined in accordance with regulator-approved
price controls in the UK and rate plans in the US. 
The negotiation of these arrangements has a
significant impact on the revenue we obtain from 
our operations. 
In addition, these arrangements may include
incentives that permit us to earn additional revenues
based on our performance or penalise us if we do
not meet various targets.
The length of these arrangements is significant to 
us in that they provide stability to our operations and
allow us to plan ahead and invest with confidence
that we will obtain financial returns. In the UK, our
price controls typically cover periods of five years,
while in the US our electricity rate plans usually cover
periods of 10 to 20 years.
Our wireless infrastructure network in the UK is also
subject in part to regulatory price controls. 
Multi-year Revenues in our Wireless infrastructure business and
contractual several of our other businesses, including metering 
arrangements services, our LNG import terminal in the UK and our
electricity interconnector in Australia, are determined
by contractual arrangements, usually long-term and
with ‘blue chip’ customers.
Safety and Our ability to operate safely and reliably is very 
reliability important to us, our employees, our customers, the
public and our regulators. Our financial performance
is affected by our performance in these areas. 
Efficiency Our objective, and that of our regulators, is to deliver
services as efficiently as possible. This allows us 
to limit price increases or to reduce prices to our
customers and improve our own financial performance
to the benefit of our shareholders.
Capital Capital investment is a significant driver for organic 
investment growth.
In our regulated energy networks, the prices we charge
include an allowed return for capital investment
determined in accordance with our price controls 
and rate plans. These provide incentives for us to
enhance the quality and reach of our networks
through capital improvements.
For other businesses, our capital investment in new
assets allows us to develop new revenue streams or
to increase revenue from existing assets.
Acquisitions We consider investing in energy and other network 
and disposals infrastructure businesses where we believe we can
create value through operational improvements,
synergies and financial benefits. 
We consider disposals where we believe that the
price on offer is better than the long-term return we
can obtain ourselves or where a business does not 
fit with our long-term strategy.
Responsibility Our reputation is important to us. Delivering 
sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence
of our stakeholders and this can only be earned by
conducting our business in a responsible manner.
A number of other factors also affect our financial performance,
but are less significant than the principal business drivers above,
or are mitigated by the way our operations are structured:
Volumes Changes in the quantities of electricity and gas
delivered through our transmission and distribution
networks may result in an increase or decrease 
in our revenue. Volumes are affected by weather,
consumer demand and network availability as well 
as other factors. The impact of changing volumes
may sometimes be offset by changes in costs or 
may sometimes result in an under- or over-recovery
against our allowable revenue, with a corresponding
increase or decrease in revenue in future periods.
Exchange The reported results, cash flows and financial position
rates of our US operations are affected by movements in
the US dollar to sterling exchange rate. However, the
effect of these movements is partially hedged through
the use of US dollar denominated debt and derivative
financial instruments. 
Commodity We are allowed to recover certain costs, including 
and other commodity costs in the US and other direct costs 
pass-through in both the UK and the US, through charges to 
costs customers. The timing of recovery of these costs can
vary between financial periods leading to an under- 
or over-recovery within any particular financial period.
We are affected by movements in commodity prices
to the extent that they affect our own energy
requirements, the most significant of which relates to
gas purchases required for the operation of our gas
transmission and gas distribution networks in the UK.
Certain US commodity contracts are recorded in 
our balance sheet at their fair values, which are
affected by movements in commodity prices. Although
remeasurements in the carrying values of these
contracts are reflected in our income statement,
under our rate plans we expect to recover the net
costs incurred under these contracts from customers
in future periods.
Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, our operating costs
will increase each year as a result of wage increases
and inflation in external costs. In general, our revenues
also increase each year, although not necessarily at the
same rate, depending on our regulatory or contractual
arrangements. As a consequence, our ability to control
costs and improve efficiency is important to our
ability to increase operating profits.
Our price controls in the UK are linked to retail price
inflation, while our regulatory settlements in Rhode
Island and New York allow us to recover additional
distribution revenue from customers if there is a
significant change in the rate of inflation.
Seasonality Revenues from our gas distribution networks in the
UK and the US and our gas transmission network in
the UK are weighted towards the end of the financial
year, as gas demand is typically higher during the
winter months. Otherwise, seasonality does not have
a significant impact on revenues. 
With the exception of commodity and other volume-
related costs passed through to customers, our
operating costs are generally not seasonal.
Interest rates The costs of financing our operations are affected 
by changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of
our debt is at floating rates. We hedge some of our
exposure to interest rates with fixed rate debt and
derivative financial instruments to maintain a
proportion of our debt at fixed interest rates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
24 Operating and Financial Review
About National Grid Objectives and strategy
Our principal objective is to create value for our shareholders,
through our goal of being the world’s premier network utility.
To achieve our principal objective we have committed ourselves
to operating our businesses to the highest standards of safety,
reliability and efficiency and to acting in a responsible way that
contributes to society. We have established operating objectives
in the following areas:
Safety Safety is paramount. Our most important goals are to
ensure that members of the public are not injured as
a direct result of our operations and to deliver a working
environment where there are zero work-related
injuries and illnesses wherever we operate in the
world. 
Our goals also include reducing the risks of
transporting gas and improving the health of our 
staff so they are fit for work every day.
Reliability Our principal operations are critical to the functioning
of the economies we serve. The reliability of our
energy and wireless infrastructure networks, and the
quality of our service to our customers, are therefore
our next highest priorities after safety.
Efficiency By improving efficiency we can constrain the cost of
our operations borne by customers and improve
returns to shareholders. We continually seek
improvements in efficiency throughout our
businesses. This includes enhancing the performance
of our staff through their development and training. 
Responsibility We are committed to operating in a responsible way
and we have adopted high ethical and governance
standards. We take actions to minimise the
environmental impact of our operations and to
remediate contaminated land, promote inclusion and
diversity in our workforce, and invest in the
communities in which we operate.
We use our skills and assets to create value for shareholders
through investing for growth in our existing businesses, investing
in energy and selected other network assets and businesses and
improving the efficiency of our existing and acquired businesses.
To achieve our objectives, our strategy is to focus on the
ownership and operation of large complex networks by:
using our operational expertise to outperform benchmarks
and regulatory targets;
managing regulatory relationships to benefit customers 
and shareholders; and
using a disciplined approach to investment 
to maximise returns.
Key performance indicators
We measure the achievement of our objectives through the 
use of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of
quantitative indicators, termed key performance indicators (KPIs).
In line with our operating objectives, we use both financial and
non-financial KPIs.
KPIs are used as our primary measures of whether we have
achieved our principal operating objectives. The scale and size 
of our operations means that we use many other detailed
performance measures in addition to the KPIs listed below. 
We use qualitative assessments to judge progress against our
objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
Value Objective Key performance indicator
Safety Zero public Members of the public injured as a 
injuries direct result of our operations 
Zero work- Employee lost time injury 
related injuries frequency rate
Reduce risks Standards of service for responding 
from transporting to gas escapes
gas
Length of UK gas distribution 
mains replaced 
Zero work-related Sickness absence rate
ill health
Reliability Operational Business-specific reliability and 
reliability service quality measures
Efficiency Operate Adjusted operating profit*
efficiently
Achieve real reduction of 35% in 
UK gas distribution controllable 
costs by 31 March 2007
Responsibility Reduce Number of significant direct 
environmental environmental incidents
impact Greenhouse gas emissions per £m 
of revenue
Total amount of fines from citations
and prosecutions
Employ an Percentage of female employees
inclusive and 
Percentage of ethnic 
diverse work- 
minority employees
force
Shareholder Improve Adjusted earnings per share*
value financial 
Operating cash flows
performance
Total shareholder return
Invest for Capital expenditure
future growth
Investments in acquisitions
* Adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share are equal to operating profit
and earnings per share excluding exceptional items and remeasurements in each case.
Details of KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2006 are included on
page 30, while segment-specific KPIs are reflected in the business
segment sections on pages 38 to 55.
Shareholder value
Regulatory
relationships
Operational
expertise
Investment
Safety Reliability Efficiency Responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 25
About National Grid Resources
Our key strengths and resources include:
the skills and expertise of our people;
our processes and techniques for managing large complex
networks;
our relationships with customers, regulators and other
stakeholders;
our ability to work together to achieve our objectives; 
the control and/or ownership of the assets used in our
networks; and
our financial position, together with the committed and
uncommitted borrowing facilities available to us.
Our strategy for developing our people is discussed below. The
principal assets of each of our businesses are described in the
segmental sections of this Operating and Financial Review on
pages 38 to 55 and our financial position is described on pages
56 to 61.
Developing our people
We continue to invest in the development of our people. 
Throughout National Grid, people development forums provide the
opportunity for management teams to discuss the performance
and potential of their teams. This allows for the identification of
individual development needs and business skill requirements. 
Our UK engineering foundation programme has recently been
launched and is designed to facilitate the entrance, training 
and progression of young people into key engineering roles,
initially with UK electricity transmission. We intend to provide
opportunities for the young people on this programme to obtain 
a new vocational qualification, being an employer-led, UK
Government-backed, foundation degree.
A new career development programme was launched in April 2005
for operations engineers to develop their skills as line managers.
In addition, our flagship leadership development programme is to
be extended to middle management in 2006. Further development
is under way through an emerging leaders programme.
Our recruitment processes for apprentices, graduates and university
placements in the UK and the intern programme in the US,
continue to build on the previous successes of developing our
talent from within and addressing the decline in the number 
of graduates in technical engineering subjects. 
Employee engagement
Following our first Group-wide employee opinion survey in 2004,
we identified a number of areas for improvement. These included
improving opportunities for dialogue across the Group,
developing a better understanding of Group strategy among
employees, managing change better, improving performance
management, demonstrating our values in all that we do and
continuing to progress inclusion and diversity.
We have established a core set of three behavioural values that
apply across all our operations: Respect, Integrity and Ownership.
Across the Group, we have also refined our employee briefing
processes and publications. We have re-launched our Group, UK
and US intranet sites and our UK and US employee newspapers.
We have also introduced a Group-wide publication, ‘National Grid
World’, to provide employees with a broader view of Group activities.
Inclusion and diversity
In January 2005, we launched our Inclusion and Diversity
programme, setting out how we intend to develop and operate
our business in a way that results in a more inclusive and diverse
culture. We aim to ensure that our employees, regardless of race,
gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual orientation, religion or
background, have the opportunity to develop to their full potential.
We have taken a number of steps to make this vision a reality. 
We have established a number of employee groups, including
networks for women, and ethnic minority employees. We hope
these will help us to identify and remove any barriers that exist 
for these groups of employees. In particular, we are committed 
to increasing the number of women in senior management 
from the existing 18.3% through a variety of measures including
mentoring, development programmes and our continued
commitment to flexible working.
Employee development is extremely important to us and we 
have begun a programme of training for all our managers about
the knowledge and behaviour required to manage a diverse
workforce such that all our employees feel included and able 
to contribute effectively.
Capital investment
The Group’s total annual capital expenditure is expected to be
approximately £2.5 billion per year over the next five years and
was £2,062 million in 2005/06 in our continuing businesses,
compared with £1,518 million in 2004/05.
This reflects changing energy infrastructure requirements as the
UK’s dependency on gas imports and its focus on renewable
energy sources both increase. There is also a need to increase
the rate of asset replacement in UK electricity transmission as the
condition of assets built in the 1960s and 1970s necessitates
their replacement. 
Investment is being made in New England to deliver the 
regional system plan and in New York to address asset
replacement requirements and to maintain the safety 
and reliability of the network.
Isle of Grain
In July 2005, commercial operations for the first phase of the Isle
of Grain LNG import terminal commenced, and work on Phase II
is now under way. Cumulative investment has now reached
£249 million out of an expected £500 million total spend, all of
which is underpinned by long-term contracts signed with BP,
Centrica, Gaz de France and Sonatrach. Market appetite for
further expansion at the Isle of Grain is currently being explored.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
26 Operating and Financial Review
About National Grid National Grid Australia
We completed the construction of the Basslink project in Australia,
an electricity interconnector linking Victoria and Tasmania, during
the year and it became operational in April 2006.
Basslink can provide up to 600 MW of hydro electricity to
mainland Australia and over 300 MW of electricity into Tasmania.
Digital switchover
In our Wireless infrastructure business, we expect to invest 
over £200 million in new common digital television broadcast
infrastructure over the next six years to 2012, and around 
£50 million on our own digital broadcast transmission assets. 
Safety
Our approach to safety and occupational health is set out in our
Group Vision for Safety. This is underpinned by Group-wide
policies and strategy statements that are available on our
website. Our objective is to achieve zero work-related injuries,
zero work-related ill health and zero injuries to the public. While
this objective is demanding, we believe it is achievable.
This year we have reported a 27% reduction in the number of 
lost time injuries to our employees and an 18.5% reduction in lost
time injuries to our contractors. We continue to develop initiatives
and safety awareness campaigns to protect both the public and
our employees and contractors who are affected by, or involved
with, our operations. We also continue to exceed our safety
standards for uncontrolled and controlled gas escapes in the 
UK and to deliver our increased long-term iron mains replacement
programme as agreed with the Health and Safety Executive. 
Overall, our aim is to develop a culture in which acting safely
becomes second nature.
Reliability
Our approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves:
investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the
operational tools and techniques necessary to manage our
assets and operations to high standards and investing in the
renewal of assets; 
investing in the skills and capabilities of our people to give
them the ability to operate our networks to a high degree of
service excellence; and
maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of our
principal objectives, ensuring we are proactive about planning
to ensure reliability and that we react quickly to factors that
could compromise reliability.
Efficiency
We continually review our operations to identify opportunities 
to improve the productivity of our assets and our people, and 
to identify areas in which we can reduce costs or restrict cost
increases. Planning ahead is essential in our approach to
maintaining and improving efficiency. For example, in November
2005 we decided to establish a multi-function shared services
organisation for our businesses in the UK, comprising supply
chain management and significant parts of human resources and
finance. This is similar in nature to our existing shared services
organisation in the US.
Responsibility
Our Framework for Responsible Business defines the principles
by which we manage our business and our day-to-day dealings
with our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and local
communities. It is underpinned by Group-wide policies and
position statements that are also available on our website.
We believe strong corporate governance is essential to operating
responsibly and achieving our goals. We describe our approach
to corporate governance on pages 68 to 76.
Ethics
We have set out the ethical standards we expect each employee
to meet while conducting business for the Group in our Standards
of Conduct applicable to our US employees and our Code of
Business Conduct applicable to all our UK and other employees.
Allegations of misconduct are investigated and reported to our
Ethics Office in the US or to our Business Conduct Committee in
the UK. We aim to ensure that reported breaches are thoroughly
and promptly investigated and, where appropriate, acted upon
and any necessary improvements implemented. The Board Risk
& Responsibility Committee receives a twice-yearly report on the
number and type of inquiries and allegations. 
Environmental management 
We are committed to a year-by-year improvement in our
environmental performance. Our Group-wide environmental policy
sets out the key areas we are addressing, and we continue to
implement environmental management systems certified to the
international standard ISO 14001 to help us deliver improvements
in these areas. 
Approximately 86% of our employees work to systems certified to
ISO 14001. Later this year, National Grid Wireless will become the
latest of our businesses to seek external certification.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 27
About National Grid Climate change
We are committed to making a contribution towards minimising
climate change and our public position statement, Energy Delivery
and Climate Change, sets out how we propose to address the
issue of greenhouse gas emissions in particular. Following its
publication, we established a Group-wide Climate Change Strategy
Group, which has established a long-term strategy that maps 
out how we will achieve a 60% reduction in emissions well in
advance of the target date of 2050 set by the UK Government. 
We have already achieved the UK Kyoto obligation and what
would have been the US obligation. We are seeking means 
of reducing our impact further, taking into account the planned
acquisitions described on page 21.
Contaminated land
We manage a portfolio of contaminated land including former
manufactured gas plants, industrial landfills, former gas holders
and older substations on our distribution and transmission
networks. Sites can sometimes have a complex mix of
contamination dating back over 100 years.
In the UK, the main focus of our remediation programme is on
managing the environmental risk and returning land to beneficial
use, while in the US, our highest priority sites for remediation are
those with the highest environmental risk profile and those we are
required to remediate by regulatory agencies. Our goal is to return
these sites to productive public or private use.
Electric and magnetic fields (EMFs)
National Grid recognises that there is some scientific evidence
suggesting certain adverse health effects are linked to electric
and magnetic fields. There is also evidence linking an increased
risk of certain diseases to proximity to powerlines, though the
cause of this is not clear. As a consequence, there is public
concern and we take these issues very seriously. The balance 
of evidence remains against both power-frequency and radio-
frequency electric and magnetic fields causing ill health.
The World Health Organization has classified power-frequency
magnetic fields as ‘possibly’ carcinogenic. Our recently updated
Public Position Statement on EMFs helps set the framework
within which we continually assess the scientific evidence in this
area, determine any implications for the way in which we conduct
our business and explain to society what the science is telling us. 
In all our operations, as a minimum we aim to comply with
regulations, guidelines or practices relating to EMFs in force 
in the different jurisdictions in which we operate. Where other
companies, such as telecommunications operators, use our
assets, we expect them similarly to comply with the relevant
regulations, guidelines or practices.
Human rights 
Human rights are primarily the responsibility of governments.
However, we believe we can make a valuable contribution within
the context of our own operations to support and respect the
observance of human rights.
We do not have operations in countries that are considered to
have poor human rights. We have therefore focused on extending
our existing risk management processes by identifying and
understanding the areas where the Group might be exposed 
to human rights risks and opportunities, should we develop new
business in such countries. We have also started to assess the
human rights risks associated with our global supply chain and
have worked with other UK utilities to extend the screening of
potential suppliers to include labour-related issues.
We continue our work with the Business Leaders Initiative on
Human Rights, an international business-led initiative aimed at
developing practical business tools to incorporate human rights
into day-to-day business decision-making. As part of this work,
we addressed the informal interactive hearings of the General
Assembly of the United Nations in June 2005 on how responsible
business practices can help promote and fulfil the rights 
of everyone.
Community investment
The role of National Grid as a good corporate citizen is one 
that complements and adds value to our strategic ambitions 
and as such must be delivered through a consistent and
integrated approach. 
The Group’s Community Investment Policy provides a framework
for ensuring that investment delivers benefits for our business and
the communities involved. All community investment must develop
our business, support our employees, support communities and
enhance our reputation. To achieve these benefits, we focus our
investment on three key themes to ensure that we maximise the
impact of our investment: Skills and Education; Environment and
Energy; and Community Development.
Through our Social Policy Committee, successful projects are
being reviewed to determine whether they can be adopted in
other parts of the business: for example, opportunities to transfer
the successful ‘Young Offender Into Work Programme’ to the US,
a wider implementation of the US Syracuse Recycling Centre
model, and a sharing of best practice for fuel poverty initiatives
across the UK and the US. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
28 Operating and Financial Review
About National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 29
About National Grid
Stakeholder engagement
National Grid has a diverse range of external stakeholders
including customers, regulators, government and local
communities. We adopt an open and constructive approach 
in our dealings with external audiences. 
Stakeholder management includes coordinated activity 
ensuring appropriate engagement with the UK Government 
and Parliament, US Federal and State authorities and legislators,
devolved assemblies, regulators and other key stakeholders. 
This is supplemented by business-specific stakeholder planning,
enabling appropriate engagement mechanisms and agreements
to be put in place in the context of the Group and the wider
objectives of stakeholders. 
Each of our businesses engages with relevant stakeholders,
including customers, employees, contractors and the community,
both in terms of the services we provide, the way that we 
operate and the impact that our activities have on each of 
our stakeholders.
Risk and uncertainties 
As well as the opportunities we have to grow and develop 
our business, we face a number of risks and uncertainties 
in obtaining our objectives.
The most significant risk factors we have identified relate to: 
changes in laws or regulation;
breaches in environmental or health and safety law or
regulation;
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network
operations;
achievement of business performance objectives;
regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to
consumers;
reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside
our control;
business development activities;
fluctuations in the US dollar or movements in interest rates,
restrictions in borrowings and debt arrangements or changes
in credit ratings;
pension scheme funding requirements;
changes in tax rates; and
changes in accounting standards.
These are described in more detail on pages 74 to 76. We also
comment on financial risks and risk management ‘Financial
position and financial management’ on pages 56 to 61.
Legal and related matters 
In June 2005, Ofgem announced that certain aspects of the
domestic gas metering business were to be investigated by it
under the Competition Act 1998. Information requested as part 
of this investigation was provided to Ofgem in September 2005.
On 17 May 2006, Ofgem issued a statement of objections detailing
why it believes National Grid’s conduct is in breach of the
Competition Act. We shall be responding to the statement 
of objections in due course.
Other developments 
Other developments during the year that may affect us include
the European Union Electricity Regulation, which requires a
mandatory inter-operator compensation scheme to be
established in respect of electricity transfers between member
states. The scheme may be introduced in the course of 2006,
although this is by no means certain. Any receipts from, or
payments to, the scheme will have to be set against transmission
charges and so the overall impact is expected to be neutral. The
scheme could also have an impact on charging arrangements for
the interconnector with France. The Regulation allows for other
changes to be made to transmission tariffs and congestion
management across member state borders, although details of
these areas will only be developed over the coming year.
A European Union Directive concerning measures to safeguard
security of natural gas supply is due for implementation in May
2006. This will ensure that member states have in place, and
publish, policies and standards on gas security of supply. In
addition, the Gas Regulation on conditions for access to gas
networks was adopted by the European Union in September
2005 and will apply from 1 July 2006. 
There are also a number of European Directives and Regulations in
development covering many issues including electricity security of
supply, harmonisation of access to gas systems and infrastructure
development, where the precise impact on our businesses in the
future is currently uncertain.
We expect the impact of these regulations on our businesses to
be minimal. Key performance indicators
Value KPI Description Target Results
Safety Injuries to the public Members of the public Zero 2005/06: 20
injured as a direct result 2004/05: 52
of our operations
†
Employee lost time Injuries resulting in employees Zero 2005/06: 0.28
injury frequency rate taking time off work 2004/05: 0.37
(per 100,000 hours worked)
Gas safety-related Proportion of uncontrolled 97% 2005/06: 97.97% 
service standards gas escapes attended within 2004/05: 98.46%
one hour in the UK
UK gas distribution Length of gas main 2005/06: 1,724 km 2005/06: in excess of 1,710 km
mains replacement decommissioned 2004/05: 1,492 km 2004/05:1,458 km 
Sickness absence Proportion of available work Zero work-related sickness
‡
2005/06: 2.38% 
rate days which are lost due 2004/05: 2.69%
to sickness
Reliability Business-specific reliability and service quality measures are discussed in the business segment sections on pages 41, 44, 46, 
50, 53 and 55.
Efficiency Adjusted operating Operating profit from continuing To increase each year 2005/06: £2,527 million
profit* operations excluding exceptional 2004/05: £2,443 million
items and remeasurements
UK gas distribution Operating costs over which Reduce controllable costs Achieved by 31 March 2006
controllable costs we have direct control by 35% in real terms of their 
2002 level by 31 March 2007
Responsibility Significant direct Category 1 environmental Zero 2005/06: 22
environmental incidents incidents 2004/05: 23
Greenhouse gas CO
2
equivalent emissions 60% reduction by 2050 2005/06: 1,110
emissions tonnes per estimated to be directly 2004/05: 1,680 
£m of revenue or indirectly caused by
our operations
Fines from environmental Financial quantity Zero 2005/06: Zero
citations and prosecutions of fines imposed 2004/05: US$3,000 
and A$1,000
Percentage of female Proportion of employees We do not have specific targets 2005/06: 23.4%
employees who are female – our aim is to ensure that we 2004/05: 21.0%
recruit the best candidates
Percentage of ethnic Proportion of employees
regardless of sex, race, disability,
2005/06: 6.7%
minority employees who are from ethnic minorities
sexual orientation, age, religion
2004/05: 6.0%
or belief
Shareholder Adjusted earnings Earnings per share from To increase sufficiently 2005/06: 46.7p
value per share** continuing operations to support 7% dividend growth 2004/05: 42.3p
excluding exceptional through to March 2008
items and remeasurements
Operating cash flows Cash generated from To increase each year 2005/06: £3,131 million
continuing operations 2004/05: £2,911 million
Total shareholder Growth in share price, assuming To increase 2005/06: 22.9%
return reinvestment of dividends and 2004/05: 19.0%
returns of capital
Capital expenditure Additions to property, There is no numerical target for 2005/06: £2,062 million
plant and equipment capital expenditure or for 2004/05: £1,518 million
and to intangible assets acquisitions, as each investment
Investments in acquisitions Consideration in respect of 
is different and is considered
2005/06: No acquisitions
acquired businesses
on its merits
2004/05: £1,151 million
† Major injuries comprise fatalities and other injuries that require the person to receive hospital treatment or, in the UK, injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations. 
‡ The sickness absence rate includes absences resulting from both work-related and not work-related illnesses.
* Operating profit from continuing operations including exceptional items and remeasurements increased from £2,142 million in 2004/05 to £2,439 million in 2005/06. See page 33.
** Earnings per share from continuing operations including exceptional items and remeasurements increased from 36.3p in 2004/05 to 42.8p in 2005/06. See pages 35 and 36.
30 Operating and Financial Review
Key performance indicators
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 31
Performance during the year
Performance during the year
Operating performance
Safety performance
Against the significant safety improvements we have seen over
the past three years, it is with great sadness that we record that
there were six fatalities directly associated with our operations
during 2005/06. 
In October 2005, an employee died while working on our London
gas distribution network. There is an investigation into the incident
and we are working closely with the Health and Safety Executive.
We have reviewed our procedures and equipment for use 
while working in gaseous environments and we are currently
implementing an action plan under the management of a member 
of the UK gas distribution leadership team.
Two contractors died in a helicopter crash in Scotland while
carrying out an aerial survey of our gas transmission network.
There have also been three public fatalities resulting directly from
our operations: an elderly person died after being hit by a vehicle
from our UK gas distribution operations; in Zambia, a cyclist died
in a collision with a car driven by an employee of our joint venture,
Copperbelt Electricity Corporation; and, in the UK, a man died
after parachuting illegally from an electricity pylon.
These were tragic events and our thoughts and deepest
sympathies are with all those affected.
2004/05 lost time injuries were 160 excluding and 201 including the sold networks
respectively. 2005/06 excludes three lost time injuries that occurred in the sold networks
while still owned by National Grid.
Over the past 12 months, we have continued to see an
encouraging improvement in our safety performance across 
the Group. Excluding the sold networks, 117 of our employees
received injuries that resulted in them taking time off work during
2005/06 compared with 160 in 2004/05, a 27% reduction.
2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
Employee lost time injuries
Number
283
201
160
117
The lost time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate
indicator of year-on-year performance than an absolute measure
because it takes into account changing employee numbers
resulting from acquisitions and disposals, such as the sales of the
four UK gas distribution networks in 2005/06. The number of
employee lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked in 2005/06
fell to 0.28, a 24% improvement when compared with the
previous year.
There has also been a significant reduction in the number of
contractor lost time injuries across the Group, falling from 146 
in 2004/05 to 119 in 2005/06, a 18.5% decrease.
In December 2005, the safety management aspects of National
Grid Wireless’s integrated management system were certified to
the international occupational health and safety management
standard, OHSAS 18001. 
In our UK Transmission and Distribution operations, we have
reinforced our existing safety procedures by focusing on areas 
of our activities where there is most risk of serious injuries. 
We believe these procedures will help drive continual
improvements in key areas. 
In the US, we have unified our employee safety rules into an
Employee Safety Handbook that incorporates the best practices
from the New York and New England operations. 
We have continued to focus on our employees’ health by promoting
physical well-being, and highlighting mental health issues such as
stress. In the UK, we published a stress management standard
and implemented a drugs and alcohol policy, complementing 
those already in place for our US employees. In the US, we have
promoted employee health and well-being by offering wellness
programmes. 
Around 2.38% of available work days were lost due to sickness
absence compared with 2.69% for the previous year.
Employee lost time injury frequency rate
Per 100,000 hours worked
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
Mar 04 Sep 04 Mar 05 Sep 05 Mar 06 Responsibility
This year has again seen external endorsement of our responsible
business approach. We continue to feature in the Dow Jones
Sustainability World and FTSE4Good indices. We are one of only
two multi-utilities listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World
Index, confirming that our approach to responsible business is
indeed world-class.
In May 2006, we were placed equal fourth in Business in the
Community’s fourth Corporate Responsibility Index, a leading 
UK benchmark of responsible business, the only company to 
be ranked in the top five for three years running.
Ethics
In 2004/05, we reported on our website for the first time the
number of substantiated breaches of our employee codes of
business conduct. In 2005/06, there were 4.76 substantiated
breaches per 1,000 employees compared with 8.04 in 2004/05.
Offences include such things as internet and email abuse, misuse
of company vehicles and other assets and climbing electricity
pylons unattached. Disciplinary actions can range from a verbal
warning to dismissal.
Environmental management
The number of significant environmental incidents in 2005/06
arising directly from our operations was 22, compared with 23 in
the previous year. Incidents out of our control resulting from third
party or weather-related damage to our networks was 25
compared with 11 for 2004/05. 
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting 
from these incidents. We received 10 environmental citations in
2005/06 compared with 14 in the previous year, although none
attracted fines.
Contaminated land
In the UK, National Grid Property manages 382 contaminated
sites. This compares with 470 sites in 2004/05, the reduction
principally reflecting the transfer of sites as part of the sales of 
the four UK gas distribution networks in 2005. In the US, we have
responsibility for approximately 190 contaminated sites, the vast
majority of which are formerly owned manufactured gas plants.
During 2005/06, 35 sites in the UK and four sites in the US 
were remediated. 
Together with the Environment Agency, we have sought judicial
review to clarify the legal position with regard to the remediation
of a site in Bawtry, Yorkshire following a decision by the
Environment Agency that National Grid Gas plc was an
appropriate party to be involved in the clean up of the land. 
The site has a long and complex history of ownership. On 
17 May 2006, the High Court ruled in the Environment Agency’s
favour. We intend to appeal this decision, which we believe 
is incorrect in law.
Climate change
The largest sources of direct emissions continue to be methane
leakage and venting from our UK gas networks, while the largest
source of indirect emissions is caused by losses across our
electricity networks. Together these account for some 79% 
of our total emissions.
During 2005/06, our direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse
gas amounted to some 10.2 million tonnes CO
2
equivalent, the
same as 2004/05 excluding the sold networks.
In 2005/06, emissions per £million of revenue amounted to some
1,110 tonnes CO
2
equivalent compared with 1,680 tonnes for the
previous year.
Inclusion and diversity
At 31 March 2006, of our 19,783 employees across the Group,
23.4% were females and 6.7% were from ethnic minority groups
compared with 21.0% and 6.0% at 31 March 2005.
Community investment
The London Benchmarking Group model has been adopted to
provide a framework for measuring and reporting the Group’s
community investment contributions. Processes are now in place
so that community investment spend across the Group can be
captured and categorised according to the model, and spend
against our agreed themes can be reported as described on
page 28. During 2005/06, we invested some £7.7 million in
support of community initiatives and relationships across 
Group operations.
2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
Climate change
Greenhouse gas emissions
10.6
12.4
10.2 10.2
Million tonnes
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2.00
1.75
1.50
1.25
1.00
0.50
0.25
0
’000 tonnes per £m revenue
Totals are approximate and 
based on a combination of 
calendar and fiscal year data.
Revenue data in accordance 
with IFRS is not available 
for 2003/04
2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
36
23*
22
12
11
25
Significant environmental incidents
Direct
Indirect
* Restated to include one late 
 reported incident 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
32 Operating and Financial Review
Performance during the year Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 33
Performance during the year
During 2005/06, we contributed £912 million (2004/05: £1 billion)
to the communities we operate in, comprising employment,
property and corporate taxes.
Business segment performance
The operating performance of each business segment is
described in the business segment reviews on pages 38 to 55.
Financial performance
We report our financial results and position in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted in
the European Union. A summary of the effects of implementing
IFRS and the principal differences from our results for the year
ended 31 March 2005 previously reported under UK GAAP is 
on pages 62 and 63.
Continuing and discontinued operations
The financial results of our business segments (as described on
page 20) and of other activities are presented within continuing
operations.
The results of the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June
2005 are no longer included within the UK gas distribution
segment, but are instead presented as discontinued operations.
Use of adjusted profit measures 
We separately disclose items of income and expenditure that 
are material, either by their nature or their size, and are relevant 
to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance. These
include exceptional income or charges that do not relate to the
underlying financial performance of the Group and remeasurement
gains or losses arising from changes in the value of commodity
contracts and of derivative financial instruments, recorded at fair
value in the balance sheet.
In considering the financial performance of our businesses 
and segments, we use ‘business performance’ or ‘adjusted’ 
profit measures. References to ‘adjusted operating profit’,
‘adjusted profit before taxation’, ‘adjusted earnings’ and ‘adjusted
earnings per share’ are stated before exceptional items and
mark-to-market remeasurements of financial instruments and
commodity contracts.
The Directors believe that the use of these adjusted measures
best illustrates the underlying business performance of the Group.
Excluding exceptional items and mark-to-market remeasurements
of derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts
removes their distorting impact in order to provide a clearer
comparison from year to year.
Remeasurements arise on commodity contracts (other than
normal sale and purchase contracts) and on financial instruments
as these are recorded in the balance sheet at their fair values.
Remeasurements included in operating profit relate to changes 
in the fair value of those commodity contracts resulting from
movements in electricity and gas prices. Financial remeasurements
relate to changes in the fair values of derivative financial
instruments and in the fair value of commodity contracts 
resulting from changes in interest rates.
Operating financial performance
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Revenue 9,193 7,382
Other operating income 80 70
Operating costs excluding
exceptional items and remeasurements (6,746) (5,009)
Adjusted operating profit 2,527 2,443
Exceptional items (39) (263)
Remeasurements (49) (38)
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142
The following tables set out the revenue, adjusted operating profit
and operating profit of the Group by business segment.
Revenue by business segment
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
UK electricity and gas transmission 2,710 1,995
US electricity transmission 310 284
UK gas distribution 1,222 1,113
US electricity and gas distribution 3,711 3,087
US stranded cost recoveries 511 409
Wireless infrastructure 325 208
Other activities 701 734
Total segmental revenues 9,490 7,830
Less: sales between business segments (297) (448)
Revenue 9,193 7,382
Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and
remeasurements
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
UK electricity and gas transmission 844 859
US electricity transmission 127 126
UK gas distribution 483 424
US electricity and gas distribution 364 375
US stranded cost recoveries 489 465
Wireless infrastructure 75 42
Other activities 145 152
Adjusted operating profit 2,527 2,443
Segmental operating profit after exceptional items and
remeasurements
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
UK electricity and gas transmission 843 857
US electricity transmission 127 119
UK gas distribution 432 333
US electricity and gas distribution 364 258
US stranded cost recoveries 440 427
Wireless infrastructure 70 29
Other activities 163 119
Operating profit 2,439 2,142
Details of the financial performance of business segments,
including information on exceptional items and remeasurements,
are included in the business segment reviews on pages 38 to 55. Revenue, operating costs and operating profit
The movements in the year in revenue and other operating
income, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised
as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 7,452 (5,310) 2,142
Add back 2004/05 exceptional 
items and remeasurements – 301 301
2004/05 adjusted results 7,452 (5,009) 2,443
Exchange on US operations 169 (125) 44
2004/05 constant currency results 7,621 (5,134) 2,487
UK electricity and gas transmission 715 (730) (15)
US electricity transmission 13 (18) (5)
UK gas distribution 113 (54) 59
US electricity and gas distribution 488 (516) (28)
US stranded cost recoveries 84 (81) 3
Wireless infrastructure 114 (81) 33
Other activities (26) 19 (7)
Sales between businesses 151 (151) –
2005/06 adjusted results 9,273 (6,746) 2,527
2005/06 exceptional items
and remeasurements – (88) (88)
2005/06 results 9,273 (6,834) 2,439
The increases in revenue, operating costs and operating profit
from 2004/05 to 2005/06 from exchange on US operations
reflected the movement in the average US dollar to sterling
exchange rate from $1.87:£1 in 2004/05 to $1.79:£1 in 2005/06.
Other operating income relates primarily to gains on the sales 
of property, which were £10 million higher in 2005/06 than in
2004/05.
The most significant increases in revenue and operating costs
arose in UK electricity and gas transmission, including increased
revenues and operating costs in respect of operating the Scottish
electricity transmission networks following the introduction of the
British Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements
(BETTA), increased pass-through costs in US electricity and gas
distribution and US stranded cost recoveries, and a full-year
contribution from the Wireless infrastructure business. Revenue
and costs also increased in UK gas distribution, with savings in
controllable costs resulting in increased operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit increased by £40 million on a constant
currency basis. This was driven by favourable results from UK
capacity auctions in LNG storage and the French Interconnector,
a continued focus on efficiencies, particularly in UK gas
distribution, sustained volume growth in the US and a full-year
contribution from the enlarged and growing Wireless
infrastructure business.
These factors more than offset an increase in depreciation
charges in UK electricity and gas transmission, lower system
operator incentive profits also in UK electricity and gas
transmission and the timing of the recovery of certain pass-
through costs in the US.
Net operating exceptional charges of £39 million for 2005/06
consisted of £60 million of restructuring costs, primarily cost
reduction programmes in UK gas distribution, and £21 million of
gains relating to the disposals of joint venture investments. This
compared with £263 million in 2004/05, comprising £121 million
in restructuring costs (£82 million in UK gas distribution, £23
million in our US businesses and £16 million in other businesses),
£41 million in exceptional pension charges in the US and £101
million of increases in environmental provisions.
Operating remeasurements of £49 million (2004/05: £38 million)
relate to changes in the value of commodity contracts in the US
carried in the balance sheet at fair value arising from movements
in energy prices.
Total operating profit rose by £297 million from 2004/05 to
2005/06, resulting from an increase in adjusted operating profit 
of £84 million and a decrease in operating exceptional charges
and remeasurements of £213 million as compared with 2004/05.
Earnings from continuing operations
Adjusted earnings
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Adjusted operating profit 2,527 2,443
Net finance costs excluding
exceptional items and remeasurements (606) (706)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 3
Adjusted profit before taxation 1,924 1,740
Taxation excluding tax on 
exceptional items and remeasurements (597) (437)
Adjusted profit from continuing operations 1,327 1,303
Adjusted earnings per share 
from continuing operations 46.7p 42.3p
Earnings
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142
Net finance costs (663) (706)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 3
Profit before taxation 1,779 1,439
Taxation (562) (319)
Profit from continuing operations 1,217 1,120
Earnings per share from continuing operations 42.8p 36.3p
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
34 Operating and Financial Review
Performance during the year Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 35
Performance during the year
Net finance costs
Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and
remeasurements decreased by £100 million from 2004/05 to
2005/06. This was primarily explained by the reduction in our net
debt following the sales of the four UK gas distribution networks
and a reduction in the interest charge related to pensions. This
decrease is partially offset by the impact of a stronger US dollar.
Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements
Exceptional finance costs of £49 million in 2005/06 related to 
£39 million on the early repayment of debt and £10 million
relating to the issue of B shares, as part of the return of capital to
shareholders. The issue of the B shares was accounted for as
debt, and the associated issue costs recorded as an exceptional
finance cost.
Financial remeasurements of £8 million relate to net gains on
derivative financial instruments and the financial element of
commodity contract revaluations. 
Taxation
A net charge of £562 million arose in 2005/06, compared with
£319 million in 2004/05. This reflects net tax credits amounting 
to £35 million and £118 million in respect of exceptional items
and remeasurements in 2005/06 and 2004/05 respectively. The
effective tax rate was 32% for 2005/06 and 22% for 2004/05.
Excluding the effect of net tax credits on exceptional items and
remeasurements, the effective tax rate for 2005/06 and 2004/05
was 31% and 25% respectively, compared with a standard UK
corporation tax rate of 30% for both years. 
A reconciliation of the main components giving rise to the
difference between the relevant effective tax rate and the UK
standard corporation tax rate is shown in note 11 to the accounts.
Exchange rates
The weighted average exchange rate used to translate all US
dollar results into sterling for 2005/06 and 2004/05, being
$1.79:£1 and $1.87:£1 for each year respectively. The balance
sheets at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 have been
translated at $1.74:£1 and $1.89:£1 respectively.
Exchange rate movements impacted the translation of US dollar
denominated adjusted operating profit and operating profit for
2005/06 compared with 2004/05. If 2004/05 was translated 
on a comparable basis, using the 2005/06 average exchange
rate of $1.79:£1, adjusted operating profit and operating profit 
for 2004/05 would have been £44 million and £37 million 
higher respectively. 
The effect of movements in the US dollar exchange rate on
adjusted operating profit and operating profit was largely offset by
the increased sterling cost of US dollar debt taken out to finance
US dollar denominated investments and the reduced sterling cost
of US taxes. As a result, adjusted profit for the year and profit for
the year from continuing operations for 2004/05 would have been
£23 million and £19 million higher respectively if translated at the
2005/06 average exchange rate of $1.79:£1.
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations increased from
£1,120 million in 2004/05 to £1,217 million in 2005/06 as a
consequence of the changes in operating profit, net finance costs
and taxation.
Adjusted profit measures
The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the
corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
a) Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total 
operating profit
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Adjusted operating profit 2,527 2,443
Exceptional operating items (39) (263)
Operating remeasurements (49) (38)
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142
Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the income
statement under the heading ‘Operating profit – before exceptional
items and remeasurements’.
b) Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit
before taxation
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Adjusted profit before taxation 1,924 1,740
Exceptional operating items (39) (263)
Operating remeasurements (49) (38)
Exceptional finance costs (49) –
Financial remeasurements (8) –
Total profit before taxation 1,779 1,439
Adjusted profit before taxation is presented in note 11 to the
accounts under the heading ‘Profit before taxation before
exceptional items and remeasurements’.
c) Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings (profit for 
the year)
Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Adjusted earnings 1,327 1,303
Exceptional operating items (39) (263)
Operating remeasurements (49) (38)
Exceptional finance costs (49) –
Financial remeasurements (8) –
Tax on exceptional items and remeasurements 35 118
Earnings 1,217 1,120
Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the income
statement under the heading ‘Profit from continuing operations
after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements’.
Earnings per share from continuing operations
The following table sets out the adjusted basic earnings per 
share and basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
for 2005/06 and 2004/05 and reconciles the differences 
between them. Years ended 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations pence pence
Adjusted basic earnings per share 46.7 42.3
Exceptional operating items (1.4) (8.5)
Exceptional finance costs (1.7) –
Tax on exceptional items 0.9 3.3
Remeasurements (2.0) (1.2)
Tax on remeasurements 0.3 0.4
Earnings per share 42.8 36.3
Adjusted basic earnings per share for 2005/06 increased by
4.4 pence, an increase of 10% compared with 2004/05. 
This reflected the increase in adjusted profit for the year from
continuing operations and the share consolidation in August 
2005 following the £2 billion return of value to shareholders.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased from
36.3 pence in 2004/05 to 42.8 pence in 2005/06, reflecting the
increase in adjusted earnings, combined with lower exceptional
items and remeasurements, and the impact of the share
consolidation.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was
42.6 pence in 2005/06, 0.2 pence lower than basic earnings 
per share, compared with 36.2 pence per share in 2004/05 
(0.1 pence lower). The principal reason for the dilution in 2005/06
and 2004/05 relates to employee share option schemes.
Discontinued operations
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 168 1,102
Operating costs before exceptional items (107) (592)
Adjusted operating profit 61 510
Exceptional items (15) (74)
Operating profit 46 436
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures – (5)
Taxation (18) (140)
Profit from discontinued operations 28 291
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 2,605 13
Profit for the year 2,633 304
Discontinued operations primarily comprise the four regional gas
distribution networks we sold on 1 June 2005. Revenues,
operating costs before exceptional items and adjusted operating
profit in 2005/06 are substantially lower than 2004/05 as they
relate to a two-month period rather than a full year. In addition,
revenue for those two months is proportionally lower due 
to seasonality.
The exceptional charge of £15 million in 2005/06 arose from the
payment of a fine relating to one of the sold networks. The
exceptional items in 2004/05 related to costs incurred in
preparation for the disposal of the networks and to
reorganisations, primarily due to cost reduction programmes.
The Group’s share of post-tax results of joint ventures in 2004/05
relates to Citelec, which was sold in August 2004.
The gain on disposal of discontinued operations in 2005/06 
relates to the sales of gas distribution networks and in 2004/05 
to Citelec. 
Earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2005/06 was
92.8 pence, which includes 91.8 pence relating to the gain on
disposal of four regional gas distribution networks. This compares
with 9.9 pence in 2004/05. 
Net profit and total earnings per share for the year
Net profit from both continuing and discontinued operations was
£3,850 million in 2005/06 (£1,424 million in 2004/05). 
Total earnings per share from both continuing and discontinued
operations was 135.6 pence in 2005/06 (46.2 pence in 2004/05).
Cash flows
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing operations was £3,131 million 
in 2005/06, compared with £2,911 million in 2004/05. This
included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 
£118 million and £120 million respectively. After reflecting cash
flows relating to discontinued operations and tax paid, net cash
inflow from operating activities was £2,971 million, compared 
with £3,308 million in 2004/05. 
Net corporate tax payments amounted to £140 million in
2005/06, compared with £150 million in 2004/05.
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash outflows from continuing operations investing activities 
fell from £2,652 million in 2004/05 to £1,713 million in 2005/06,
as 2004/05 included £1,122 million in respect of the acquisition
of the UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp.
(£1,109 million) and a US telecommunications tower operation
(£13 million). Cash flows relating to discontinued operations
included £5,750 million of disposal proceeds and £115 million 
of cash outflows from investing activities, compared with 
£323 million in 2004/05.
2004/05 2005/06 2004/05 2005/06
Earnings per share
pence
Adjusted earnings
per share
Earnings
per share
36.3
42.8
42.3
46.7
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
36 Operating and Financial Review
Performance during the year Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 37
Performance during the year
Purchases of tangible and intangible fixed assets net of disposal
proceeds absorbed cash of £1,748 million compared with £1,484
million in 2004/05.
Cash flows from financing activities
Net cash used in financing activities of £5,712 million in 2005/06
(compared with £325 million in 2004/05) included £1,957 million
in respect of the £2 billion return of value to shareholders. 
Payments to providers of finance, in the form of net interest and
dividends, totalled £1,449 million in 2005/06 compared with
£1,390 million in 2004/05.
Net interest cash outflows fell from £762 million in 2004/05 to
£704 million in 2005/06. The reduction reflected the beneficial
impact of refinancing debt, lower short-term interest rates, the
stronger US dollar and receipt of £5.8 billion proceeds from the
four network sales.
£2 billion return to shareholders 
Following the successful completion of the sales of four regional
gas distribution networks for proceeds of £5.8 billion, we
implemented a B share scheme to return £2 billion to
shareholders in a tax efficient manner.
Dividends
Dividends in respect of the financial year
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Dividends pence pence pence pence pence
Interim 10.2 8.5 7.91 6.86 6.46
Final 15.9 15.2 11.87 10.34 9.58
Total 26.1 23.7 19.78 17.20 16.04
Dividends per ADS $ $$$$
Interim 0.88 0.79 0.67 0.54 0.47
Final 1.51 1.38 1.05 0.84 0.73
Total 2.39 2.17 1.72 1.38 1.20
The proposed total ordinary dividend for 2005/06 amounts to 
£709 million or 26.1 pence per ordinary share. This represents an
increase of 10% over the previous year’s ordinary dividend per
share of 23.7 pence (£731 million).
The above amounts exclude the return of £2 billion to
shareholders through the B share scheme.
The total ordinary dividend per share was covered 1.8 times by
adjusted earnings per ordinary share (2004/05 covered 1.8 times)
and covered 1.6 times by earnings per ordinary share from
continuing operations (2004/05 covered 1.5 times).
The table above shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable 
by National Grid for the past five financial years. These dividends
do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect of such
dividends. The table excludes dividends paid or payable by
Lattice Group prior to the merger with National Grid Group on
21 October 2002.
Dividends expressed in US dollars per ADS in the table above
reflect the actual amount paid to ADS holders, expressed to two
decimal places, with respect to all amounts with the exception of
the final ordinary dividend for 2005/06. The final ordinary dividend
per ADS for 2004/05 reflects the declared US dollar amount
expressed to two decimal places.
In accordance with IFRS, the final dividend proposed in respect 
of each financial year is now reported in the financial statements
for the subsequent year. As a consequence, the final dividend
proposed to shareholders for 2005/06 of 15.9 pence per share,
amounting to £433 million, will be reported in the financial
statements for the year ending 31 March 2007.
2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
2002/03 2003/04
2001/02
2001/02 2004/05 2005/06
Total ordinary dividends per 
share (pence)
Total ordinary dividends per 
ADS ($)
17.20
19.78
16.04
23.70
26.10
1.38
1.72
1.20
2.17
2.39 UK electricity and gas
transmission
About the segment
Principal activities
Our UK electricity and gas transmission segment has the following
principal activities:
Electricity We own the electricity transmission system in 
transmission England and Wales. 
owner
Our electricity assets comprise approximately 
4,500 miles of overhead line, about 415 miles of
underground cable and 337 substations at 240 sites.
Electricity We are the Great Britain System Operator, 
system responsible for managing the operations of both the 
operator England and Wales transmission system that we own
and also the two high-voltage electricity transmission
networks in Scotland.
Day-to-day operation of the Great Britain electricity
transmission system involves the continuous real-time
matching of demand and generation output, ensuring
the stability and security of the power system and the
maintenance of satisfactory voltage and frequency.
Gas We own the gas transmission network in Great Britain.
transmission 
This comprises approximately 4,300 miles of high
owner
pressure pipe and 26 compressor stations, connecting
to eight distribution networks and to third party
independent systems for onward transportation 
of gas to end consumers.
Gas system We operate the gas transmission network. 
operator
Day-to-day operation includes balancing supply and 
demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures
and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
French We own and operate the UK assets, and a portion 
interconnector of the subsea cables, that comprise the electricity 
interconnector between England and France as part
of a joint arrangement with the French transmission
operator, RTE. 
LNG storage We own and operate four liquefied natural gas (LNG)
storage facilities in the UK. 
External and regulatory environment
The electricity network infrastructure in the UK primarily
comprises three electricity transmission networks (one in England
and Wales and two in Scotland) and twelve regional electricity
distribution networks. In general, electricity generated is
transmitted over the electricity transmission networks to the
twelve regional electricity distribution companies, which distribute
electricity to end consumers on behalf of electricity suppliers. 
The energy markets in the UK are regulated by Ofgem, which 
has the responsibility for promoting competition, wherever
appropriate, and for regulating the companies that own and
operate the infrastructure through which electricity and gas 
are delivered.
The functioning of the electricity market in Great Britain is
governed by the British Electricity Trading and Transmission
Arrangements (BETTA), which became effective on 1 April 2005.
The gas infrastructure in the UK primarily comprises the gas
transmission network and eight regional gas distribution networks.
Gas is input into the gas transmission network, which connects
with each of the eight regional gas distribution networks, which in
turn distribute gas to consumers. Detailed arrangements for the
gas industry are provided through the Uniform Network Code
issued by Ofgem, which defines the obligations, responsibilities
and roles of the industry participants.
Certain consumers, primarily large industrial users, receive
electricity or gas direct from the relevant transmission network.
Through our subsidiary, National Grid Electricity Transmission plc,
we are the sole holder of an electricity transmission licence for
England and Wales. This licence also covers our role as the Great
Britain System Operator. We have a duty under the Electricity 
Act 1989 to develop and maintain an efficient, coordinated and
economical system of electricity transmission and to facilitate
competition in the supply and generation of electricity. Charges 
to users of the transmission networks comprise two principal
elements: Transmission Network Use of System charges in
respect of the electricity transmission owner activity and
Balancing Services Use of System charges in respect of the
electricity system operator activity. We collect these charges from
all Great Britain transmission network users and make payments
to the owners of the Scottish transmission networks for the
element of the Transmission Network Use of System charges 
that relate to their networks.
UK gas 
transmission
Theddlethorpe 
Isle of Grain 
Easington 
Bacton 
Barrow 
Burton
Point 
T o Northern 
Ireland 
T o the Republic  
of Ireland 
T eesside 
St Fergus 
Reception terminals
Transmission system
Interconnector
To/from 
Belgium 
UK electricity 
transmission
Transmission system (Scotland)
Transmission system (England & Wales)
Interconnector
To/from
France
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
38 Operating and Financial Review
UK electricity and gas transmission Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 39
UK electricity and gas transmission
Through our subsidiary National Grid Gas plc, we hold a gas
transporter licence in respect of the gas transmission network.
We have a duty under the Gas Act 1986 to develop and maintain
an efficient and economical pipeline system for the conveyance of
gas. Under the terms of our licence, we receive income through
charges to shippers for entry and exit capacity (gas transmission
owner and gas system operator activity) and commodity charges
(gas system operator activity).
Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be
charged by the owners and operators of electricity and gas
infrastructure in the UK. The current price controls in respect of
our electricity transmission owner activities commenced on 1 April
2001 and were originally intended to continue until 31 March
2006, but have been extended to 31 March 2007. The current
price controls in respect of our gas transmission owner and gas
system operator activities commenced on 1 April 2002 and are
due to continue until 31 March 2007. The next five-year price
control periods for both electricity and gas transmission activities
are due to commence on 1 April 2007.
The electricity interconnector between England and France and
our LNG storage facilities do not form part of our electricity and
gas transmission networks respectively and are each separately
regulated via a financial ring-fencing arrangement. A portion of the
LNG storage capacity is set aside to support network operating
requirements, with remaining capacity sold to gas shippers.
Business drivers
As electricity transmission owner and gas transmission owner, 
we own and maintain the physical assets, develop the networks
to accommodate new connections and disconnections, and
manage a programme of asset replacement and investment to
ensure the long-term reliability of the respective networks.
As electricity system operator and gas system operator, we
undertake a range of activities necessary for the successful
delivery in real-time of secure, reliable and efficient energy. In the
case of electricity this involves the continuous real-time balancing
of supply and demand, involving balancing services that include
commercial arrangements with market participants that enable
electricity demand or generation output to be varied. In the 
case of gas we ensure the system is balanced with supply and
demand at the end of each day and we are required to maintain
levels of short-term gas reserves to ensure that domestic and
other non-daily metered gas supplies can be maintained during
prolonged cold conditions.
The principal business drivers for our UK electricity and gas
transmission activities include:
the price controls set by Ofgem, which determine the prices
that can be charged to users of the electricity and gas
transmission networks;
capital investment, which drives the regulatory asset value, a
key component in determining our allowed revenues under
our price controls;
our ability to operate reliably, and so to earn incentives for
good performance and avoid penalties for poor performance; 
meeting regulatory targets for management of the electricity
and gas systems, generating incentives for good
performance; and
our ability to operate efficiently. 
Our principal business drivers are considered to be the following:
Business driver Description
Price The charges that we can make for access to our 
controls electricity and gas transmission systems are currently
determined by a formula linked to retail price inflation
(RPI). For electricity this is set at RPI -1.5% and for
gas RPI -2%. These formulae are based upon
Ofgem’s estimates of operating expenditure, capital
expenditure and asset replacement, together with an
allowed rate of return. The current rate of return is set
at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on our regulatory
asset value for both our electricity and gas networks.
Our electricity regulatory asset value as of 31 March
2006 is estimated at approximately £5.6 billion 
(£5.3 billion March 2005) and for gas £2.8 billion
(£2.5 billion March 2005).
Reliability We are subject to an incentive scheme based on the
reliability of the electricity transmission network in
England and Wales. This is based on achieving
reliability in excess of 99.9999%.
For 2006/07 there is the potential to earn additional
revenue up to 1% if loss of supply is less than
248 MWh. For loss of supply in excess of 274 MWh
up to a collar of 635 MWh we can potentially lose 
up to 1.5% of revenue.
Efficiency Both of our gas and electricity system operations 
(SO) have incentive schemes where, if we operate 
our networks more efficiently than Ofgem’s forecasts, 
we can increase our revenues.
Our electricity SO external incentive, the Balancing
Services Incentive Scheme (BSIS), has historically
been agreed on an annual basis. For the 2006/07
scheme, we decided not to accept Ofgem’s
proposals for the BSIS target. We considered that
neither of Ofgem’s external proposals offered an
appropriate balance of risk and reward. Normal
arrangements for the operation of the system and
management of payments will continue, but without a
financial incentive. We are at all times obligated under
our transmission licence to operate the system in an
economic and efficient manner.
For gas we have seven incentive schemes covering
activities such as cost of investment for additional
capacity, managing constraints, the cost of
purchasing shrinkage gas (gas used in operating the
system or lost during transport) and other gas
system operation costs. Current and future developments
British Electricity Trading and Transmission 
Arrangements (BETTA)
On 1 April 2005 we became responsible for operating the Great
Britain transmission system, setting charges and maintaining the
charging statements for all transmission users in Great Britain. 
As a consequence, under the regulatory arrangements for BETTA,
the Anglo-Scottish interconnector (previously subject to separate
commercial agreements outside the regulated business) is now
subject to price control in the same manner as other network
infrastructure in the regulated businesses of Scottish Power and
National Grid.
On 28 October 2005, the judicial review sought by Scottish
Power of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority’s decision to
approve the Great Britain Electricity Transmission Network Use of
System charging methodology developed and proposed by
National Grid and Ofgem was dismissed.
Gas transporter licence
On 1 May 2005 our gas transporter licence specific to our gas
transmission network was amended to facilitate the distribution
network sales. The five gas transporter licenses relevant to the
gas distribution networks were amended at the same time, four
of which were subsequently transferred to the four sold
distribution networks on 1 June 2005. 
UK energy market developments
The UK is entering a period of changing supply patterns for both
gas and electricity. The sources of gas and electricity are shifting,
with the decline in UK continental shelf (UKCS) gas reserves and
the Government’s emphasis on combating climate change and
encouragement of renewable generation. We also continue to 
see trends towards greater use of gas in power generation with
the UK moving towards a low carbon economy. 
We continue to work with the UK Government and Ofgem 
to make possible the necessary investments in the electricity
transmission network to support the development of renewable
energy projects. The final Transmission Investment for Renewable
Generation proposals from Ofgem recognised the need to invest
in networks to accommodate renewables. Funding costs for
£108 million of investment will be allocated to our electricity
transmission owner activity allowable revenue for the upgrade of
the Anglo-Scottish interconnector (conditional on the satisfactory
outcome of key planning consent issues in Scotland). At this time
access has been sought by over 13 GW of renewable generation
consisting of over 200 offers in Scotland. For England and Wales
offers have been made to 5 GW of renewable generation.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK
continental shelf, our latest forecast is that the UK will import
around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade. 
Activity to increase import capability has involved the 
development of gas interconnectors and LNG importation 
facilities by National Grid and other market participants. These
include the Norwegian interconnector and the LNG import facility
at Milford Haven in addition to our LNG import facility on the Isle 
of Grain. 
A number of gas pipeline and compressor projects are being
progressed to meet these developments. Around 90 miles of gas
pipeline is being constructed from Ganstead to Asselby in the
region of Humberside and from Pannal in North Yorkshire to
Nether Kellet in Lancashire to enable increased imports at
Easington. Around 206 miles of new pipeline is being built in
South Wales and Gloucestershire to cater for the Milford Haven
importation facility, which is to be connected during the 2007/08
gas supply year. These projects, responding to meet the 
changing supply sources, require over £1,000 million in capital
expenditure on the gas transmission network in the period up 
to 2008/09.
Gas supply
In 2004 our gas transporter safety case was amended to include 
a system of ‘safety monitors’. These monitor levels define
minimum levels of gas storage required to ensure continued and
safe delivery of gas to all domestic and other non-daily metered
customers under prolonged Winter conditions. 
Gas supply projections
bcm per annum
120
90
60
30
0
04/05 05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11
UKCS upside UKCS forecast Forecast import requirement
Demand forecast 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
40 Operating and Financial Review
UK electricity and gas transmission Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 41
UK electricity and gas transmission
For winter 2005/06 we worked with Ofgem and the industry to
enhance the level of information that is available to the market to
further promote industry participant response to the gas supply/
demand position. Of particular note is the introduction of the Daily
Summary Report, available on the National Grid website and the
introduction of the Gas Balancing Alert. This system is designed
to highlight to the market that a reduction in demand might be
required when the supply and demand balance is very tight.
Emissions trading
The European Union emissions trading scheme commenced 
on 1 January 2005. Its purpose is to reduce the level of carbon
dioxide emitted by placing a financial incentive on participants to
reduce their emissions of this greenhouse gas. Allowances are
granted to participants in accordance with a national allocation
plan and any shortfall or surplus can be traded with other
participants. 
Our carbon dioxide emissions between 1 January and
31 December 2005 in the UK were broadly in line with our
allocation, and so the scheme did not have a material financial
effect on our results in 2005/06. We similarly do not expect the
scheme to have a significant impact on our results in 2006 or
2007. Phase 2 of the emissions trading scheme, covering the
period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012, is in the
process of being negotiated.
Capital investment
Investment in electricity and gas transmission networks is, by 
its nature, variable and is largely driven by changing sources of
supply and asset replacement requirements. The gas transporter
and electricity transmission licences oblige us to provide
connections and capacity upon request.
The bulk of the current electricity transmission network was
installed during the 1960s and 1970s, with main plant asset lives
typically of between 40 and 50 years. Over the next few years,
we anticipate substantially increasing investment on replacing
parts of our UK electricity network as these assets become due
for renewal. 
In addition, parts of the gas transmission network are reaching
the end of their lives. These are mainly compressor stations,
control systems and valves (ie above ground assets and not the
high pressure pipes). This, together with work required to meet
changing supply sources, means that the UK electricity and gas
transmission business will be embarking on a significant increase
in investment and network renewal.
To meet the increasing programme of work, we have been
exploring ways to work more efficiently and collaboratively with
major suppliers and contractors to manage the increase in
workload effectively. 
Performance during the year
Operating performance
The winter of 2005/06 saw demand from the electricity
transmission network in England and Wales hit a peak 
of 53.73 GW. This compares with the previous year’s peak 
of 53.29 GW.
The total amount of electricity transmitted for 2005/06 was
312,399 GWh compared with 308,305 GWh for 2004/05.
2005/06 saw a maximum gas demand of 411 mcm on
1 February 2006. This decrease on the previous year’s peak 
of 418 mcm was partly due to increased demand-side response
reflecting the high gas prices that have been experienced 
this winter.
Our progress against our operating performance objectives 
during the year included the following:
Objective Performance
Safety During 2005/06 there were 14 lost time injuries
compared with 8 in 2004/05. The lost time injury
frequency rate increased to 0.28 in 2005/06 from
0.17 in 2004/05.
Reliability Electricity transmission network reliability in 2005/06
was 99.99990%. This compared with 99.99998% 
in 2004/05.
Our target reliability is 99.99990%.
Average annual availability of our electricity network 
in 2005/06 was 95.09%. This compared with 95.3%
in 2004/05.
This reflects the increased amount of asset
replacement activity to ensure the reliability of the
network for years to come.
System availability at winter peak demand was
97.9% in 2005/06 compared with 97.6% in 2004/05.
Compressor fleet performance during 2005/06
improved with the average time between compressor
failures at 10% above our five-year average. Financial performance 
The results for the UK transmission segment for the years ended
31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 2,710 1,995
Operating costs excluding exceptional items (1,866) (1,136)
Adjusted operating profit 844 859
Exceptional items (1) (2)
Operating profit 843 857
The principal movements between 2004/05 and 2005/06 can be
summarised as follows:
Operating Operating
Revenue costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 1,995 (1,138) 857
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 2 2
2004/05 adjusted results 1,995 (1,136) 859
LNG storage 34 (4) 30
French interconnector 43 (3) 40
Balancing Services Incentive Scheme 214 (235) (21)
Scottish networks pass-through 259 (259) –
Transmission owner depreciation 
and amortisation – (83) (83)
Other 165 (146) 19
2005/06 adjusted results 2,710 (1,866) 844
2005/06 exceptional items – (1) (1)
2005/06 results 2,710 (1,867) 843
The £715 million increase in UK electricity and gas transmission
revenue comparing 2005/06 with 2004/05 was mainly due to
higher incentivised costs associated with the Balancing Services
Incentive Scheme (BSIS), which flow through to revenue, and the
collection of Transmission Network Use of System charges under
BETTA on behalf of the Scottish network owners. Beneficial
outcomes from the capacity auctions in the LNG and electricity
interconnector markets have resulted in higher revenues
compared to 2004/05. Other higher revenues reflect favourable
timing and inflationary impacts, and higher pass through of costs
partly reduced by the transfer of the Scottish Interconnector into
the electricity transmission regulated business under BETTA.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by 
£730 million in 2005/06 compared to 2004/05. This is due to
higher incentivised BSIS costs resulting from higher constraint,
margin and energy balancing costs, and Transmission Network
Use of System charges owed to the Scottish networks owners
under BETTA which became effective from 1 April 2005.
Transmission owner depreciation and amortisation has increased 
by £83 million largely due to higher accelerated depreciation
associated with early asset write-offs and an increase in core
depreciation reflecting the ramp up in the capital programme.
Higher other operating costs reflected higher pass through costs
partly offset by the transfer of the Scottish Interconnector as
referred to above.
The £15 million decrease in UK electricity and gas transmission
adjusted operating profit comparing 2005/06 with 2004/05
reflected the movement in revenue and operating costs as
described above. 
The £1 million exceptional charge in 2005/06 relates to pension-
related elements of the Way Ahead programme in UK gas
distribution that have affected UK electricity and gas transmission.
Capital expenditure
Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and
extension of the UK electricity and gas transmission networks 
in 2005/06 was £890 million compared with £529 million in
2004/05.
In 2005/06, 50% or £265 million (2004/05: 41% or £163 million)
of electricity transmission capital expenditure was related to asset
replacement, reflecting the increasing need to replace transmission
network assets, many of which were commissioned in the 1960s.
In addition, 2005/06 has seen a substantial increase in the level
of capital investment in gas pipeline projects, some £156 million
higher than 2004/05.
2006 2005
£m £m
Property, plant & equipment 799 464
Intangible assets 91 65
Capital investment 890 529 
This includes £41 million of additions relating to emissions
allowances received during 2005/06.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
42 Operating and Financial Review
UK electricity and gas transmission Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 43
US electricity transmission
US electricity transmission
About the segment
Principal activities
In the US, we own and operate an electricity transmission network
of approximately 9,000 miles spanning upstate New York,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire and Vermont. 
Our US electricity transmission facilities operate at voltages
ranging from 69 kV to 345 kV, utilising nearly 8,900 miles of
overhead lines, 94 miles of underground cable and 496 substations.
We are the largest electricity transmission service provider in the
northeastern US by reference to the length of these high-voltage
transmission lines. In addition, we own and operate a 139-mile
direct current transmission line rated at 450 kV that is a key
section of an interconnector between New England and Canada.
External and regulatory environment
In New England and New York, our transmission business
operates within two independent organisations, ISO New
England, a regional transmission organisation (RTO), and New
York ISO, an independent system operator (ISO). These non-profit
entities are the system operators for the New England and New
York networks. As system operators, the ISOs are responsible 
for operating wholesale markets for energy, operating reserves
and capacity, maintaining the operating reliability of the New
England and New York networks, coordinating the activities 
of the transmission owners, and managing transparent
transmission expansion planning processes. 
We are one of several transmission owners operating within 
each of these ISOs. The transmission owners are responsible 
for certain aspects of the operation of the facilities they each 
own, such as maintenance, equipment restoration and switching
operations. National Grid works closely with ISO New England
and New York ISO to support efficient market and network
operations and transmission investment.
Business drivers
The revenue for our transmission business in New England and
New York is collected from transmission customers, including our
US electricity distribution network businesses, pursuant to tariffs
approved by state utility commissions and by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC). 
In New York, efficient and reliable operations within our long-term
rate plan are our primary business drivers. 
In New England, efficient operations are also key; however, the
rate structure is such that network availability, energy deliveries
and operational expenditure spend are all ‘pass-through’ items.
We neither gain nor lose from variability of any of these. The 
tariff allows for recovery of, and a return on, new investment
entering service.
Current and future developments
Energy Policy Act
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted in August 2005 
and contained several important provisions that affect our
transmission business. Among other things, the federal legislation
called for FERC to finalise its transmission pricing policy, providing
incentives for transmission investment and independence, 
the establishment of an electric reliability organisation for new
mandated reliability standards and federal backstop siting
authority for transmission facilities located within to-be-designated
national interest electricity transmission corridors. The focus 
of the legislation is to further the reliability and economic 
efficiency of the US electricity transmission network.
Regulation
Consistent with the FERC’s proposed pricing policy and the
financial incentives for joining a RTO, following ISO New
England’s filing to become a RTO, we have applied for an
increased rate of return for our New England assets. This
application is still under review by the FERC.
We have been pursuing a regional planning process with the New
York ISO to identify regional transmission needs. Progress has
been made and the New York ISO is in the first year of its
reliability planning process implementation. The New York ISO
has identified reliability needs and is in the process of evaluating
both regulated and market solutions to meet those needs.
Capital investment
We expect a significant level of investment in New England to
deliver our regional system expansion planning process projects.
There will also be an increase in investment in New York in order
to address asset replacement requirements and maintain the
safety and reliability of the network.
New  
Hampshire 
Connecticut 
Maine 
Vermont 
Massachusetts New York 
Canada 
Pennsylvania New
Jersey
Rhode Island
Transmission network Performance during the year
Operating performance
Our progress against our objectives during the year included the
following:
Objective Performance
Safety US electricity transmission had a lost time injury
frequency rate of zero during 2005/06, extending the
time since the last lost time injury to 35 months.
Reliability Average annual network availability in 2005/06 was
98.7%. This compared with 98.55% in 2004/05. 
Overall average network availability was similar in
New England and New York, for both summer and
winter.
Financial performance
2005
constant
2006 currency 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m £m
Revenue 310 297 284
Operating costs excluding exceptional items (183) (165) (158)
Adjusted operating profit 127 132 126
Exceptional items – (8) (7)
Operating profit 127 124 119
The principal movements between 2004/05 and 2005/06 can be
summarised as follows:
Operating Operating
Revenue costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 284 (165) 119
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 7 7
2004/05 adjusted results 284 (158) 126
Exchange rate movements 13 (7) 6
2004/05 constant currency results 297 (165) 132
Tariff adjustment 7 (7) –
Other 6(11)(5)
2005/06 results 310 (183) 127
The average exchange rates used to translate the results of US
operations during 2005/06 and 2004/05 were $1.79:£1 and
$1.87:£1 respectively. To illustrate underlying performance, the
impact of exchange rate movements has been separated from
other changes by also presenting the operating results for
2004/05 on a constant currency basis, using the average
exchange rate for 2005/06 of $1.79:£1.
The £13 million increase in revenue comparing 2005/06 with
2004/05 on a constant currency basis was due to a one-off
adjustment of £7 million to revenues collected from US electricity
distribution affiliates under the RTO tariff (there is a corresponding
adjustment in operating costs) and generally higher returns in
New England, the beneficial timing impact of revenue collection 
in New York and higher pass-through costs in New England and
the interconnector between New England and Canada. Partly
offsetting these increases was lower revenue from GridAmerica,
following cessation of its operations with effect from 1 November
2005, and a one-off refund associated with a prior period billing
error in New England.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by
£18 million in 2005/06 compared to 2004/05. This is due to 
the £7 million operating cost adjustment referred to above; higher
payroll and associated benefits costs in New York; a one-off
write-off of interconnection related costs; and generally higher
costs to address reliability issues; partly offset by lower operating
costs in GridAmerica following its cessation of operations.
The £1 million overall increase in adjusted operating profit 
and operating profit reflects a favourable exchange rate impact of
£6 million, largely offset by the net £5 million movement in revenue
and operating costs as described above.
Capital expenditure
Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and
extension of the US electricity transmission networks in 2005/06
was £91 million compared with £74 million in 2004/05. 
This increase in capital expenditure principally reflects additional
planned asset replacement in New England to increase reliability
and system security as well as facilitating an increase in transfer
capability into Boston.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
44 Operating and Financial Review
US electricity transmission Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 45
UK gas distribution
UK gas distribution
About the segment
Principal activities
Our UK gas distribution segment comprises almost half of Great
Britain’s gas distribution network, and remains the largest gas
distribution network in the country, consisting of approximately
82,000 miles of distribution pipelines.
We transport gas on behalf of approximately 70 active 
gas shippers from the gas transmission network through 
our four retained regional distribution networks to around
11 million consumers.
We continue to be responsible for the safety, development,
maintenance and daily operation of our UK gas distribution
networks.
We also continue to manage the national emergency number 
(0800 111 999) for our networks, the sold networks and the other
gas transporters. During 2005/06 we handled around 2.5 million
calls to the national emergency number.
External and regulatory environment
Gas is piped from the gas transmission network into each of the
eight regional gas distribution networks, which in turn distribute
gas to consumers. 
Detailed arrangements for the gas industry are provided through
the Uniform Network Code (as approved by Ofgem, from time to
time), which defines the obligations, responsibilities and roles of
the industry participants.
We hold a single gas distribution transporter licence, which
authorises us to operate the four gas distribution networks we
own. However, each of our four networks has its own separate
price control, which establishes the prices we can charge for the
services provided by each network.
Each network’s separate regulatory asset value associated with
its distribution assets was originally allocated to it using an
estimate of the UK gas distribution business’s regulatory asset
value as at 1 April 2002. The allocation was aimed at minimising
unnecessary regional differentials in transportation charges.
Business drivers
Our principal business drivers are considered to be the following:
Business driver Description
Gas The price controls that apply to UK gas distribution 
distribution take into account Ofgem’s estimates of operating 
price control expenditure, capital expenditure, replacement
expenditure and allowed rate of return. The current
rate of return is set at a real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on
our regulatory asset value. As at 31 March 2006, our
regulatory asset value is estimated at approximately
£5.9 billion.
Factors driving The networks’ price control formulae specify a 
revenue maximum allowed revenue assigned to each
network. Each formula retains a 65% fixed, 35%
variable revenue associated with transportation
volume changes, a mains replacement incentive
mechanism and the pass-through of prescribed rates
and gas transporter licence fees. 
In any year, revenue can be more or less than is
allowed under the price control formula, although
charges should be set to recover allowed revenue.
Any difference is carried forward and our charges are
adjusted accordingly.
Replacement Replacement expenditure improves the future safety 
expenditure and reliability of the network, through the replacement
of older gas pipes with modern pipes.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement
expenditure as recoverable during the year and 
50% as recoverable over future years.
Each network is subject to its own mains
replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% 
of any outperformance against Ofgem’s annual cost
targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears
50% of any overspend if it underperforms. 
Capital Capital expenditure ensures supply security and 
expenditure meets growing customer demand. Central
coordination ensures capital investment is effective
and efficient.
Standards of service
Ofgem has established standards of service we are required to
meet that apply to our operations.
These include:
overall standards of service, for example answering 90% 
of all calls to the national gas emergency number within 30
seconds of the call being connected and informing 97% 
of all customers when they are due to be reconnected after
an unplanned interruption;
connections standards of service that require us to provide
connections to customers to agreed timescales; and 
guaranteed standards of service for our other transportation
services. 
Compensation is paid to customers for any failures to meet both
the guaranteed and the connections standards of service.
National Grid operating area Current and future developments
Network sales
On 1 June 2005, we successfully completed the planned sales 
of four of our eight gas distribution networks (Scotland, Wales
and West, North of England and South of England), at a price 
of £5.8 billion, a considerable premium to the regulatory asset
value. From the cash sale proceeds we returned £2 billion to
shareholders and repaid around £2.3 billion of debt.
During the coming year, we will be working with the sold
networks in their exit from the existing transitional agreements.
These agreements came into effect prior to completion of the
network sales and, among those put in place, we currently
provide a front office systems managed service and a system
operation service to the sold networks.
Regulatory price control reviews
Ofgem intends to extend the current five-year gas distribution
price control for a further year through an extension price control
to cover the year ending 31 March 2008. Discussions have
commenced with Ofgem in relation to this extension period. The
next full price control period will now cover the period from 1 April
2008 to 31 March 2013.
Business improvements
Following completion of the Way Ahead restructuring programme,
a series of strategic development initiatives has been delivered in
support of our aim to be the most efficient UK gas distribution
network. Centralisation of many key processes has enabled us to
place increased emphasis on safety and efficiency, while sharing
best practice across the organisation and delivering our office
rationalisation programme. This has resulted in the consolidation
of 14 regional office locations into three key centres – Warwick,
Hinckley and Northampton.
Centralising our asset management, job scheduling and dispatch
processes has exploited our economies of scale, while also
maintaining alignment of our operational workforce across the
network to satisfy consumer requirements. 
Control of the gas distribution network for Great Britain has been
integrated into the business during the year. New connections work
associated with domestic premises has also been integrated, which
has resulted in improved efficiency, as well as continuity in meeting
the requirements of our customers on a more consistent basis. 
Having completed the Way Ahead transformation we are now
concentrating on continuous improvement techniques to refine
our existing business processes.
Performance during the year
Operating performance
Actual gas consumption rose to 347 TWh in 2005/06, compared
with 344 TWh in 2004/05 due to the weather being colder in
2005/06. However, underlying levels of gas demand, excluding
the effects of weather, fell from 357 TWh in 2004/05 to 346 TWh
in 2005/06, due to the increasing levels of gas supply prices
during 2005/06 affecting usage. The reduction was experienced
across all types of consumers, but was particularly noticeable for
larger users.
Our progress against our operating performance objectives during
the year included the following:
Objective Performance
Safety As described on page 31 there was one employee
fatality during 2005/06. 
Lost time injuries for the retained networks fell from
56 in 2004/05 to 24 in 2005/06, a 57% decrease. The
lost time injury frequency rate fell from 0.35 to 0.17. 
We again exceeded our targets on safety-related
standards – more than 97% of ‘uncontrolled’ gas
escapes (where the gas leak cannot be controlled 
by turning the gas supply off at the meter) were
attended within one hour, and more than 98% 
of ‘controlled’ gas escapes (where the gas leak 
can be controlled at the meter) were attended 
within two hours. 
We have decommissioned in excess of 1,710 km
(1,063 miles) of gas pipes in 2005/06 (in line with 
our target of 1,724 km (1,071 miles)) compared with
1,458 km (906 miles) in 2004/05.
Reliability Over the year we have achieved all our connections
standards of service along with all other standards of
service set by Ofgem that relate to our gas
transportation services.
Efficiency Our target of 35% reduction in controllable costs has
been achieved one year early. 
Our performance during 2005/06 under the current
distribution network exit incentive scheme and 
the mains replacement incentive scheme was 
broadly neutral.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, we made
around 50,000 new connections to our network.
Financial performance
The results for the UK gas distribution segment for the years
ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 1,222 1,113
Other operating income 4 –
Operating costs excluding exceptional items (743) (689)
Adjusted operating profit 483 424
Exceptional items (51) (91)
Operating profit 432 333
These results exclude the results of the four regional gas
distribution networks that were sold on 1 June 2005, which are
presented within discontinued operations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
46 Operating and Financial Review
UK gas distribution Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 47
UK gas distribution
The principal movements between 2004/05 and 2005/06 can be
summarised as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 1,113 (780) 333
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 91 91
2004/05 adjusted results 1,113 (689) 424
Business rates pass-through 23 (23) –
Weather and volumes 12 – 12
Other price changes 10 – 10
Way Ahead operating costs – 52 52
Gas commodity costs – (17) (17)
Other revenues and costs 68 (66) 2
2005/06 adjusted results 1,226 (743) 483
2005/06 exceptional items – (51) (51)
2005/06 results 1,226 (794) 432
Revenues in UK gas distribution increased by £109 million in
2005/06 compared with 2004/05. This included a £45 million
increase in revenue recovered under the distribution price control
formulae. The weather in 2005/06 was colder than 2004/05 and
this contributed £29 million of the increase, and an average price 
rise of 4.6% was implemented on 1 October 2005 resulting in 
a further £33 million increase. This was partially offset by a
£17 million reduction in underlying volumes. 
Other revenues increased by £64 million in 2005/06 compared 
with 2004/05, primarily because of the provision of services to 
the four regional gas distribution networks following their sales 
on 1 June 2005. 
Significant cost efficiencies have been achieved as a result of the
Way Ahead restructuring programme. Controllable costs, which
exclude increases in ongoing pension costs and gas commodity
prices, as well as the costs of providing services to the sold
networks and the Group’s other businesses, decreased by 19%
in real terms during the year. They have now reduced by 35% in
real terms since March 2002, thus achieving one year early the
target reduction originally set for March 2007.
Total operating costs excluding exceptional items increased by
£54 million in 2005/06 compared with 2004/05. Business rates
increased by £23 million following changes to rateable values
from 1 April 2005, but these have been recovered through the
price increases under the distribution price control, as referred to
above. The remaining increases in operating costs of £31 million
were primarily because of the effects of higher gas commodity
prices and the costs of providing services to the sold networks
and the Group’s other businesses, partially offset by the savings
made in Way Ahead operating costs.
Adjusted operating profit was £59 million higher in 2005/06 than
2004/05, an increase of 14%.
Exceptional charges of £51 million in 2005/06 and £91 million 
in 2004/05 predominantly related to restructuring costs under the
Way Ahead programme. 
Operating profit was £99 million higher in 2005/06 than 2004/05, 
an increase of 30%. In summary, revenue was £109 million 
higher, other operating income was £4 million higher, operating
costs were £54 million higher and exceptional charges were
£40 million lower.
Capital expenditure
Gross investment in the reinforcement, extension and
replacement of the UK gas distribution network was £444 million
in 2005/06 compared with £359 million in 2004/05. This excludes
the investment in the four regional gas distribution networks that
were sold on 1 June 2005.
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Capital expenditure 149 120
Replacement expenditure 295 239
Gross investment in the continuing business 444 359
Capital expenditure increased from £120 million in 2004/05 to
£149 million in 2005/06 because of a higher level of investment in
the reinforcement of high pressure pipelines, such projects being
dependent on forecasts of future demand, as well as higher
expenditure on new connections and the replacement of
commercial vehicles.
Replacement expenditure increased from £239 million in 2004/05
to £295 million in 2005/06 in line with the planned increase in the
long-term iron mains replacement programme agreed with the HSE. US electricity and gas distribution
About the segment
Principal activities
We are one of the leading electricity distribution service providers
in the northeastern US, as measured by energy delivered, and
one of the largest utilities in the US, as measured by the number
of electricity distribution customers. US electricity and gas
distribution serves approximately 3.4 million electricity customers
over a network of 72,000 circuit miles in New England and New
York and around 569,000 gas customers over a pipeline 
of 8,600 miles in New York.
External and regulatory environment
In the US, our electricity system spans upstate New York,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New Hampshire to customers
that include residences and small and large commercial 
and industrial enterprises. Our gas distribution system serves
customers in cities and towns in central and eastern New York.
Sharp increases in energy prices have renewed interest in the
public policy debate about restructuring the nation’s electricity
industry and increased the pressure on regulators and politicians
to consider taking action to mitigate the effects of increased
prices on customers.
As the debate continues, we have taken a leadership position, 
by advocating that a well-managed electricity system is the 
key to enabling robust competitive electricity markets that offer
customers choice, savings and other benefits. State regulators
continue to strongly support current recovery of power supply costs.
Our regulated operations and certain unregulated businesses must
comply with rules prescribed by the applicable state utility
commissions of New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and
New Hampshire as well as the rules prescribed by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission. Certain regulated operations
were also subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935 until its repeal became effective on 8 February 2006. 
Our New York business files reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under its legal name, Niagara Mohawk
Power Corporation.
Business drivers
Our primary business drivers are the long-term rate plans with
state regulators through which we can earn and retain certain
amounts in excess of traditional regulatory allowed returns. These
plans provide incentive returns and shared savings allowances,
which allow us an opportunity to benefit from efficiency gains 
we may identify within our operations. 
Our other main business drivers for US electricity and gas
distribution include our ability to streamline operations, to
enhance reliability and to generate funds for investment in our
infrastructure.
We recover our costs of providing electricity and gas distribution
under rates approved by applicable regulators. The rates are set
based on historical or forecasted costs, and we earn a return on
our assets. We benefit from the savings associated with
identifying additional efficiencies. Commodity costs are passed
through to customers. We are also subject to service quality
standards with respect to reliability and certain aspects of
customer service and safety.
We work towards service quality standards that our state
regulators expect us to achieve. If we fall below a prescribed
standard, we may incur a penalty. If we do better than the
standard, we may in some cases achieve an incentive.
New York Our electricity delivery rates are governed by a ten-
year rate plan that began on 1 February 2002. Under
the plan, after reflecting our share of savings related
to the acquisition of our New York business, we may
earn a threshold return on equity for our electricity
distribution business of 10.6%, or 12.0% if certain
customer outreach, education, competition-related
and low income incentive targets are met, and half 
of any earnings in excess of that amount up to 14%,
25% of any earnings in excess of that up to 16% and
10% beyond that. 
This effectively offers us the potential to achieve 
a return in excess of the regulatory allowed return 
of 10.6%.
Under the plan, gas delivery rates were frozen until
the end of the 2004 calendar year, and we now have
the right to request an increase at any time, if
needed. We may earn a threshold return on equity
ranging from 10.6% to 12.6% depending on the
achievement of certain customer migration levels 
and customer awareness and understanding of gas
competitive opportunities. Above this threshold, the
revenue equivalent of gas earnings must be shared
equally between shareholders and customers.
Maine 
Vermont 
New  
Hampshire 
Pennsylvania
Connecticut 
New  
Jersey
Rhode 
Island
Massachusetts 
New York 
Canada 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
48 Operating and Financial Review
US electricity and gas distribution Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 49
US electricity and gas distribution
Massachusetts Under our long-term rate plan in Massachusetts,
which runs until 2020, there is no cap on earnings
and no earnings-sharing mechanism until 2010. From
May 2000 until February 2005, rates were frozen. In
March 2005, a settlement credit in the company’s
rates expired, which represents an increase of
£6 million in pre-tax income through to February 2006.
From March 2006, rates are adjusted each March
until 2009 by the annual percentage change in
average electricity distribution rates in the
northeastern US. Regulators approved the first such
annual increase in the amount of £11 million, effective
1 March 2006. In 2009, actual earned savings will be
determined and we will be allowed to retain 100% 
of annual earned savings up to £39 million and 50%
of annual earned savings between £39 million and
£81 million before tax. Earned savings represent 
the difference between a test year’s distribution
revenue and our cost of providing service during 
the same test year, including a regional average
authorised return.
These efficiency incentive mechanisms provide an
opportunity to achieve returns in excess of traditional
regulatory allowed returns. We will be allowed to
include our share of earned savings in demonstrating
our costs of providing service to customers from
January 2010 until May 2020.
Rhode Island Our distribution rates in Rhode Island are also
governed by a long-term rate plan. Between May
2000 and the end of October 2004, rates were
frozen, and we were permitted to retain 100% of our
Rhode Island earnings up to an allowed return on
equity of 12%. We kept 50% of earnings between
12% and 13%, and 25% of earnings in excess of
13%. With effect from November 2004 until
December 2009, we agreed to lower our rates by
£6 million before tax per year.
From January 2005 onwards we are able to keep 
an amount equal to 100% of our earnings up to an
allowed return on equity of 10.5%, plus £2.6 million
before tax, which represents our share of
demonstrated savings subsequent to the acquisition
of Eastern Utilities Associates in 2000. Earnings
above that amount up to an additional 1% return on
equity are to be shared equally with our customers,
while additional earnings will be allocated 75% to
customers and 25% to us. This regulatory
mechanism offers the potential to achieve returns in
excess of traditional regulatory allowed returns.
New Our distribution rates in New Hampshire are based
Hampshire on our costs of providing distribution service plus 
a return on our investment, predominantly in the
distribution system infrastructure. These rates are
authorised by the New Hampshire Public Utilities
Commission.
Objectives and strategy
Our objective is to be the premier US energy delivery company
through innovation and continuous improvement in safety, service
quality and efficiency, and by operating in an environmentally 
and ethically responsible manner, to the benefit of customers,
shareholders and employees alike.
Meeting or exceeding our regulated service quality goals is a main
objective. We aim to realise this objective by increasing customer
satisfaction through a focus on improving service quality as we
strive for the optimum performance, and implementing a reliability
enhancement programme to improve service to our customers. 
A significant increase in spending on our infrastructure is under way
in order to modernise it to attain service quality goals.
Our approach to working towards our safety and occupational
health objective is to cultivate a culture in which acting safely
becomes second nature. Zero injuries every day for both our
employees and the people within our service territories is our 
goal and we believe this is achievable and sustainable. We will
continue to collaborate with regulators, policy makers and
customers to advance the development of the competitive
electricity and natural gas marketplace.
In line with our reliability objective, in order to improve
performance we have developed and begun execution of a five-
year reliability enhancement programme. This is made up of four
main categories of work:
vegetation management – incremental tree trimming to
address an increase in customer interruptions related to
contacts with tree limbs;
feeder hardening – upgrading our worst-performing overhead
electric circuits by replacing aged and deteriorated components
and protecting against lightning strikes and animal contacts;
asset replacement – replacing aging distribution equipment
before its expected end of life, including poles, underground
cable and substation equipment; and
inspection and maintenance – increasing our preventive
maintenance and repair activities to find potential faults before
they occur.
The planned capital investment of £290 million over the next 
five years from these initiatives will be recovered from customers
in accordance with our rate plans. The remaining incremental
operating costs will be offset by efficiencies created within 
our business.
Our workforce recruitment objective is to become the employer 
of choice. We seek to source and hire the best and the brightest
to create a workplace as diverse as the population 
we serve. Our strategy is to expand conventional sourcing
strategies, such as educational partnerships, and offer
challenging career opportunities and succession plans to 
retain our valued employees. We are committed to creating a climate that values, respects,
appreciates and celebrates the unique differences of all employees,
stakeholders and customers. The objective is to be a company
that better reflects our customer base and is recognised for our
inclusion and diversity efforts by our employees, peers and the
communities we serve. 
Current and future developments
We expect to complete the purchase of Southern Union
Company’s Rhode Island gas distribution network this summer. 
The transaction is subject to approval by state regulatory
authorities. 
We are moving forward with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan
Corporation. This is subject to approvals from the federal, 
state and local authorities, our shareholders and KeySpan’s
shareholders and is planned to be completed in early 2007.
These two transactions, combined with our current US
operations, will make us the third largest gas distribution business
in the US based on customers in the US.
Performance during the year
Operational performance
Our progress toward our operational objectives included 
the following:
Safety The number of employee lost time injuries in the US
electricity and gas distribution business fell from 81 
recorded at the end of 2004/05 to 66 in 2005/06, 
a decrease of 19%.
As a consequence, our lost time injury frequency rate
reduced from 0.5 in 2004/05 to 0.45 in 2005/06.
Customer We met or improved our standards on customer
service service, earning an incentive of £2.3 million in
Massachusetts.
Reliability We missed targets for reliability in the 2005 calendar
year, incurring an aggregate penalty of £8.7 million.
We are committed to reducing the frequency and
duration of service interruptions.
Financial performance 
The results of the US electricity and gas distribution segment for
the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
2005
constant
2006 currency 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m £m
Revenue 3,711 3,225 3,087
Other operating income 2 – –
Operating costs excluding 
exceptional items (3,349) (2,833) (2,712)
Adjusted operating profit 364 392 375
Exceptional items – (122) (117)
Operating profit 364 270 258
The average exchange rates used to translate the results of 
US operations during 2005/06 and 2004/05 were $1.79:£1 
and $1.87:£1 respectively. In order to illustrate underlying
performance, the impact of exchange rate movements has been
separated from other changes by also presenting the operating
results for 2004/05 on a constant currency basis, using the
average exchange rate for 2005/06 of $1.79:£1.
The principal movements between 2005/06 and 2004/05 can be
summarised as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 3,087 (2,829) 258
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 117 117
2004/05 adjusted results 3,087 (2,712) 375
Exchange movements 138 (121) 17
2004/05 constant currency 3,225 (2,833) 392
Purchased power 439 (444) (5)
Volume 18 – 18
Weather 14 – 14
Storm costs – (13) (13)
Depreciation and amortisation – (7) (7)
Pension costs – (23) (23)
Other 17 (29) (12)
2005/06 results 3,713 (3,349) 364
US electricity and gas distribution revenue increased by
£486 million in 2005/06 compared with 2004/05 on a constant
currency basis. This was primarily due to the recovery of higher
purchased power costs of £439 million. Commodity costs are
recovered in full from customers although the recovery of these
costs can occur in more than one financial year. The remaining
increases in revenue were due to favourable weather impact 
of £14 million, primarily due to the hot summer weather, and
underlying growth which added £18 million, as weather-normalised
deliveries to residential customers increased 1.7% over last year.
US electricity and gas distribution operating costs, excluding
exceptional items, increased by £516 million in 2005/06 compared
with 2004/05 on a constant currency basis. This was primarily
due to higher purchased power costs of £444 million which, as
mentioned above, are recovered from customers. The remainder
of the variance was largely due to increased pension costs of 
£23 million, the majority of which will be recovered from customers
beginning in 2006/07, an increase in depreciation and amortisation
expense of £7 million as capital projects, including new IT
systems, went into service, and higher storm costs of £13 million. 
The £28 million decrease in adjusted operating profit from US 
gas and electricity distribution was primarily due to a £23 million
increase in pension costs, the majority of which will be recovered
in future years, as described above, and timing in the recovery of
commodity costs. Excluding these items, US electricity and gas
distribution operating profit was flat year on year. Growth was
offset by higher depreciation and amortisation expense. The
increase in deliveries due to weather was offset by higher storm
costs. The strong focus on managing bad debts resulted in an
increase of only £2 million despite high gas and electricity prices.
There were no exceptional items in 2005/06 and so adjusted
operating profit was equal to operating profit. In 2004/05
exceptional charges of £117 million related to restructuring costs,
exceptional pension charges and increases in environmental
provisions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
50 Operating and Financial Review
US electricity and gas distribution  Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 51
US electricity and gas distribution and US stranded cost recoveries
Capital investment 
Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and extension
of the US electricity and gas distribution networks was £244 million
in 2005/06, compared with £234 million in 2004/05.
US electricity and gas distribution capital investment expenditure
increased by £10 million in 2005/06, reflecting a £10 million impact
of exchange rate movements. There was also an increase of
£14 million due to an investment in our Nantucket cable project,
which was offset by a lease recapitalisation of £13 million and 
other capital reductions.
US stranded cost recoveries
About the segment
Principal activities
The US stranded cost recoveries segment captures the recovery
of some of our historical investments in generating plants
together with costs incurred under certain commodity purchase
contracts that were ‘stranded’ when we divested our generation
business during the industry restructuring in New England and
New York. In addition, this segment includes the recovery of
certain above-market costs of commodity purchase contracts
that were in place at the time of restructuring and deregulation.
We are able, with the approval of the utility commissions in the
states in which we operate, to recover most of these costs,
through a special rate charged to electricity customers. Pursuant
to the agreements with our regulators, revenue from this segment
will decline as the recovery of stranded costs is completed.
Current and future developments
USGen settlement
In 1998, we transferred entitlement to power procured under
several long-term contracts to USGen New England, Inc., which
agreed to fulfil our performance and payment obligations under
the contracts. 
When USGen subsequently filed for bankruptcy, as part of the
bankruptcy settlement we resumed the performance and payment
obligations under the power contracts and received proceeds 
of approximately £115 million. We received £6 million in January
2005 and £109 million in June 2005, and we are crediting the
£115 million to customers through a reduction in their rates over
the period ending 31 December 2009.
The cost of power under commodity purchase contracts is in
excess of market values for electricity and so power purchased is
currently being resold at a loss. These losses are recovered in full
from customers although the recovery of these losses can occur 
in more than one financial year. These contracts are carried in the
balance sheet at fair value, with remeasurements recognised in the
income statement as energy prices fluctuate. At 31 March 2006
these commodity purchase contract liabilities were carried at 
£169 million.
Performance during the year
Financial performance
The results of the US stranded cost recoveries segment for the
years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
2005
constant
2006 currency 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m £m
Revenue 511 427 409
Operating costs excluding remeasurements (22) 59 56
Adjusted operating profit 489 486 465
Remeasurements (49) (40) (38)
Operating profit 440 446 427
The average exchange rates used to translate the results of US
operations during 2005/06 and 2004/05 were $1.79:£1 and
$1.87:£1 respectively. To illustrate underlying performance, the
impact of exchange rate movements has been separated from
other changes by also presenting the operating results for 2004/05
on a constant currency basis, using the average exchange rate
for 2005/06 of $1.79:£1.
The £84 million increase in revenue comparing 2005/06 with
2004/05 resulted from the recovery of higher purchased power
contract costs and increased recoveries of stranded costs in
accordance with our rate plans.
Operating costs for US stranded cost recoveries increased 
by £81 million, mainly because of higher purchased power 
contract costs.
Adjusted operating profit increased by £3 million to £489 million.
Remeasurements are related to changes in the carrying value 
of commodity contract liabilities. Operating profit decreased by 
£6 million as a consequence of the above changes. Wireless infrastructure
About the segment
Principal activities
National Grid Wireless operates in the UK and the US. In the UK,
we are the leading independent provider of network infrastructure
to mobile network operators and one of two providers of
transmission networks for analogue and digital television and
radio broadcasters.
Our primary operations comprise:
UK mobile We have around 5,000 active sites used for mobile 
telephone communications. Our main activity is the provision 
infrastructure of sites under contracts to the UK’s five mobile
phone operators. In addition, sites are also used by
other customers such as the emergency services and
taxi companies. We also provide other services such
as site design, antenna installation and project
management. In total we have around 13,500
marketable sites.
As the leading independent provider of network
infrastructure to mobile operators, with a substantial
portfolio of undeveloped sites, the business is well
positioned to benefit from continued demand for
mobile infrastructure, not least the roll-out of 3G
networks. 
UK broadcast Our broadcast transmission business is a network
infrastructure of transmission towers and broadcast equipment. It
has contracts to transmit analogue and digital radio
and television signals for reception by the public from
content providers such as the BBC, BSkyB, MTV,
Channel 4, Virgin Radio and talkSPORT. We own
some 750 purpose-built broadcast towers and
associated transmission equipment used for this
purpose. We also hold licences for two digital
television multiplexes utilised by broadcasters 
to broadcast eleven digital channels in the UK.
US operations Our US business provides communications
infrastructure and related network services to wireless
and fixed network operators in the northeastern US.
Services include the use of communication towers,
wireless pylon attachments, distributed antenna
system networks and related network services and 
a dark fibre network.
External and regulatory environment
The UK broadcast market comprises four transmission platforms:
terrestrial, satellite, cable and ADSL broadband. The terrestrial
platform is provided on a free-to-air basis, while other services
are typically bundled with a subscription package including other
products, for example telephony or internet access. 
Analogue terrestrial television and radio signals are transmitted 
by a number of different broadcasting organisations including 
the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Five as well as other regional
television companies and commercial radio stations. In addition,
there are six multiplex licences to provide digital terrestrial
television services, with two licences held by the BBC, one 
by D3&4, one by SDN and two by National Grid Wireless.
National Grid Wireless is one of the two incumbent suppliers 
of terrestrial broadcasting infrastructure in the UK. Terrestrial
broadcasting infrastructure suppliers provide managed
transmission services to individual broadcasters, consisting 
of the provision of dedicated broadcast equipment, and network
access, which represents the provision of shared sites and
equipment to support multiple services. Network access services
are regulated by Ofcom because of the uniqueness of these sites
and assets. 
Ofcom licenses all services that relate to fixed and wireless
communications and broadcasting in the UK market.
Business drivers
The principal business drivers for the Wireless infrastructure
segment are considered to be as follows:
Multi-year We have contracts with a number of broadcasters, 
contractual of which the most significant is our contract with 
arrangements the BBC. We also have long-term contracts with
mobile telecommunication providers in the UK,
including Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile, Hutchinson
3G and O2.
UK digital The switchover in the UK from analogue to digital 
switchover television by 2012 will have major capital investment 
implications as well as freeing up spectrum for 
alternative uses.
Mobile Another driver of our business is the continued 
operator demand for site infrastructure to support the 
demand expansion of the mobile operators’ networks,
particularly important to the roll out of 3G. The advent
of new technologies such as mobile television may
drive future increases in demand.
Channel We expect the broadcast business to continue to
technology benefit from advances in technology over time,
allowing additional channels to be offered to the
marketplace.
Main transmitting
stations
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
52 Operating and Financial Review
Wireless infrastructure Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 53
Wireless infrastructure
Current and future developments
Completion of integration
During 2005/06 we completed the process of integrating the 
UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp., which we
acquired for £1.1 billion in August 2004. 
This enabled us to achieve a run-rate of £18 million cash savings
ahead of the March 2006 target.
New digital multiplex channels
Due to improvements in multiplexing technology, three new
channels were successfully launched in the year.
UK digital switchover 
A significant change within the UK terrestrial broadcast market 
is the transition from analogue to digital television broadcasting.
This is expected to take place on a region by region basis over
the six years to 2012 and will involve the roll-out of new national
broadcast infrastructure.
We are currently working closely with the broadcast industry and
Government on the planning of switchover. We expect to invest
over £200 million in new common digital television broadcast
infrastructure over the six years to 2012, and around £50 million 
on our own digital broadcast transmission assets. 
During the year we successfully secured an extension to our
largest broadcast contract for the provision of analogue television
and radio services to the BBC during the switchover period.
Network access price control
During the year, Ofcom introduced regulatory requirements
governing network access services including access to the
masts, the towers, the buildings and equipment used for
broadcasting. 
Under these regulations we have to provide fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory access to these assets. Ofcom is currently
consulting on the regulatory framework for public service
broadcasting. It has provisionally announced that we can earn a
return, before specific risk adjustments, of 10.4% before tax on
the assets used for this service. The final outcome is still awaited.
Performance during the year
Operating performance
Objective Performance
Safety The major operational risks in our business arise 
from working at height and driving. During 2005/06,
Wireless infrastructure had one employee lost time
injury compared with five in 2004/05.
As a consequence our lost time injury frequency rate
reduced from 0.25 in 2004/05 to 0.07 in 2005/06.
Reliability Our broadcast networks operate with an average
availability in excess of 99.9%.
Efficiency We achieved our target of £18 million annualised
cash savings in January 2006, two months ahead 
of target. 
Improvements in multiplexing technology allowed us
to offer a further three new channels for commercial
broadcasting, bringing the total number of television
channels to eleven across our two multiplexes.
Financial performance 
The results for Wireless infrastructure for the years ended
31 March 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 325 208
Other operating income – 3
Operating costs excluding exceptional items (250) (169)
Adjusted operating profit 75 42
Exceptional items (5) (13)
Operating profit 70 29
The principal movements between 2004/05 and 2005/06 can be
summarised as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 211 (182) 29
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 13 13
2004/05 adjusted results 211 (169) 42
Full year trading results and synergies 114 (81) 33
2005/06 adjusted results 325 (250) 75
2005/06 exceptional items – (5) (5)
2005/06 results 325 (255) 70
The £114 million increase in Wireless infrastructure revenue and
other operating income, £81 million increase in operating costs
and £33 million increase in adjusted operating profit between
2005/06 and 2004/05 primarily reflects a full year’s (2004/05
seven months) contribution from the UK operations of Crown
Castle International Corp., synergies and underlying profit growth.
Exceptional charges of £13 million in 2004/05 and £5 million in
2005/06 primarily relate to restructuring costs incurred in the
acquisition and integration of the UK operations of Crown Castle
International Corp. into National Grid Wireless.
Capital expenditure
Capital investment in Wireless infrastructure was £43 million 
in 2005/06 compared with £19 million in 2004/05. 
The increase in capital expenditure primarily reflects a full year’s
capital expenditure compared with seven months capital
spending in 2004/05. Other activities
About other activities
Principal activities
Other activities include the following businesses and activities:
Business 
or activity Description
Metering National Grid Metering and OnStream provide
installation, maintenance and meter reading services
to gas and electricity suppliers in the regulated and
unregulated markets.
National Grid Metering provides services for an asset
base of around 20 million domestic, industrial and
commercial gas meters. 
OnStream’s focus is the provision of metering
services to the competitive market. 
National Grid The Basslink project is a 600 MW interconnector 
Australia linking the electricity network on the island state of
Tasmania to mainland Australia.
Grain LNG The Isle of Grain liquefied natural gas (LNG) import
terminal is the first new LNG import terminal
constructed and operated in the UK for some 20
years, involving planned investment of approximately
£500 million for Phases I and II.
National Grid National Grid Property is responsible for the 
Property management of all major occupied properties in 
the UK, and for the management, clean up and
disposal of surplus properties, largely comprising
contaminated former gas works.
Fulcrum Fulcrum Connections is the largest provider of gas 
Connections connections and associated design services with a
national footprint in the UK.
Advantica Advantica is a consultancy providing engineering 
and software services to enhance safety in the gas,
oil, electricity and water sectors, primarily in the 
UK and US.
Corporate This includes corporate overheads that are not 
activities allocated to individual businesses, and expenditure
incurred on business development.
External and regulatory environment
The majority of our other businesses either operate in markets
related to those of our principal businesses or provide support to
our own businesses.
With the exception of National Grid Metering, which is subject to
price controls, our other businesses are only indirectly affected by
the relevant regulatory regimes. Grain LNG was granted an
exemption by Ofgem from the regulated third party access
provisions for both Phase I and Phase II of the development. The
exemption introduced certain obligations to put in place effective
measures to allow third parties to access unused capacity. The
exemption is similar in nature to that in place at other new gas
supply infrastructure projects in the UK.
National Grid Metering is regulated by Ofgem as it has a dominant
market position in the provision of existing meters to UK gas
suppliers. OnStream is a participant in the competitive market that
now exists in the provision of new meters to gas and electricity
suppliers who wish to install or to replace meters as required.
National Grid Australia is a supplier to a regulated electricity utility,
Hydro Tasmania, and so is indirectly affected by the requirements
of state and federal energy regulators in Australia.
Business drivers
The principal business drivers for our other activities are
considered to be as follows:
Regulatory National Grid Metering operates within the 
price controls parameters set out within its licence. 
Multi-year The majority of National Grid Metering’s domestic 
contractual meters are covered by long-term contracts with gas 
arrangements suppliers. These contracts provide gas suppliers with
the flexibility to replace our meters while reducing the
risk of asset stranding.
OnStream has a five-year contract with Centrica for
the provision of gas and electricity meters.
National Grid Australia has a 25-year contract with
Hydro Tasmania to build, own and operate the
Basslink Interconnector.
Phase I of Grain LNG is underpinned by a long-term
contract with BP/Sonatrach. Similarly Phase II,
currently under construction, is underpinned by long-
term contracts signed with Centrica, Gaz de France
and Sonatrach. 
Capital We seek to make capital investments in projects 
investment that utilise our infrastructure expertise, such as our
investments in Grain LNG and Basslink, which we
believe will result in returns being generated from the
operation of these assets.
Efficiency Efficiency in delivering capital programmes and in
operating our other businesses and corporate
activities results in driving improved financial
performance. 
Current and future developments
Grain LNG
In July 2005, commercial operations for the first phase of the Isle
of Grain LNG import terminal commenced. The second phase of
development at the Isle of Grain LNG import terminal, announced
in March 2005, is now under way and is expected to be
completed by the end of 2008. This next phase will increase the
facility’s capacity to import and process LNG from 3.3 million tonnes 
per year up to 9.8 million tonnes per year, representing around
13% of current annual UK gas demand. Grain LNG Phase I was
completed in the year at a cost of £132 million and we have
spent £117 million of the £355 million to be invested in Phase II.
Market demand for a third phase of development is currently
being evaluated.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
54 Operating and Financial Review
Other activities Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 55
Other activities
National Grid Australia
During the year we invested a further £71 million in Basslink and,
excluding financing costs, total construction costs amounted to
£323 million.
Following a project delay the Basslink Interconnector was
successfully commissioned in April 2006.
Basslink can provide up to 600 MW of hydroelectricity to
mainland Australia and over 300 MW of electricity into Tasmania.
Metering
Both National Grid Metering and OnStream are investing in 
new automated meter reading systems in response to 
customer requirements.
Other developments
The HSE has recently issued new planning guidance on the
development of sites in close proximity to hazardous installations,
including gas holders. Without taking mitigating action, this may
lead to a reduction in the selling price likely to be realised for 
our sites located close to gas holders. As such, we are currently
assessing the consequence for our portfolio along with the
actions we can take to mitigate the impact of the new guidance.
Performance during the year
Operating performance
Our progress against our principal non-financial operating
objectives during the year included the following:
Objective Performance
Safety There was an increase in the total number of employee
lost time injuries in other businesses and corporate
activities from 10 in 2004/05 to 12 in 2005/06.
Reliability Our other businesses operated reliably throughout
the year.
Invest for We completed two major capital investment projects, 
future growth being Phase I of Grain LNG, which commenced
operations in July 2005, and the Basslink Interconnector,
which commenced operations in April 2006.
Financial performance 
The results for other activities for the years ended 31 March 2006
and 2005 were as follows:
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Revenue 701 734
Other operating income 74 67
Operating costs excluding exceptional items (630) (649)
Adjusted operating profit 145 152
Exceptional items 18 (33)
Operating profit 163 119
The principal movements between 2004/05 and 2005/06 can be
summarised as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 801 (682) 119
Add back 2004/05 exceptional items – 33 33
2004/05 adjusted results 801 (649) 152
Metering (10) 38 28
Property (4) (10) (14)
Grain LNG 27 (16) 11
Insurance (15) 2 (13)
Other (24) 5 (19)
2005/06 adjusted results 775 (630) 145
2005/06 exceptional items – 18 18
2005/06 results 775 (612) 163
Revenue and other operating income from other activities has
fallen from £801 million in 2004/05 to £775 million in 2005/06
primarily due to reduced revenue from our metering businesses,
where reductions at National Grid Metering were partially offset 
by revenue growth in OnStream, and reductions in other revenue,
including property, insurance and other businesses. These
decreases were partially offset by an increase in revenue from
Grain LNG following its successful commissioning in July 2005.
Operating costs excluding exceptional items reduced by
£19 million to £630 million in 2005/06. The lower costs for
metering are linked to the reduction in revenues along with
further cost savings arising from operational efficiencies. This 
was partially offset by an increase in costs at Grain LNG.
Exceptional items explain the difference between adjusted
operating profit and operating profit. The favourable movement
this year principally relates to the gain on sale of Energis 
Polska and the reversal of a previous impairment in Copperbelt 
Energy Corporation.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in 2005/06 amounted to £350 million, an
increase of £47 million compared with £303 million in 2004/05.
This reflected an increase of £85 million invested in the Grain 
LNG import terminal, a net increase of £19 million in our metering
businesses and £42 million from the purchase of National Grid
House in Warwick, partially offset by a reduction of £65 million 
in Australia as a result of the completion of the Basslink
Interconnector, £16 million in other property capital expenditure
and £18 million in other activities. Financial position and 
financial management
Going concern
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business
for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
We intend to finance the proposed acquisition of KeySpan for $7.3
billion (£4.2 billion), together with the assumption of debt of $4.5
billion (£2.6 billion), through operating cash flows, existing credit
facilities, future facilities and other financing that we reasonably
expect to be able to secure in the future. 
Capital structure
Balance sheet
Our balance sheet at 31 March 2006 can be summarised as
follows:
Net
Assets Liabilities assets
£m £m £m
Property, plant & equipment
and non-current intangible assets 19,256 – 19,256
Goodwill and non-current investments 2,302 – 2,302
Current assets and liabilities 1,668 (2,749) (1,081)
Other non-current assets and liabilities 38 (2,255) (2,217)
Post-retirement obligations – (1,915) (1,915)
Deferred tax 159 (2,161) (2,002)
Total before net debt 23,423 (9,080) 14,343
Net debt 2,501 (13,351) (10,850)
Total as at 31 March 2006 25,924 (22,431) 3,493
Total as at 31 March 2005 27,560 (25,439) 2,121
The increase in net assets from £2,121 million at 31 March 2005
to £3,493 million at 31 March 2006 resulted from the profit from
continuing operations of £1,217 million, the profit for the year
from discontinued operations of £2,633 million, net income
recognised directly in equity of £250 million and other changes 
in equity of £69 million, partially offset by the return of value to
shareholders of £2,009 million, dividends paid of £745 million 
and the effect of the implementation of IAS 39 of £43 million.
Net debt and gearing
Net debt decreased by £2.7 billion from £13.6 billion at 31 March
2005 to £10.9 billion at 31 March 2006, primarily as a result of
debt repayments following the disposals of the four regional gas
networks for £5.8 billion, partially offset by the £2 billion return of
capital to shareholders and an increase of £0.4 billion relating to
the adoption of IAS 39 on financial instruments.
The composition of net debt at 31 March 2006 is shown in note
33 to the accounts.
Gearing at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005, calculated as net
debt at that date expressed as a percentage of net debt plus net
assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 76% and 87%
respectively. By comparison, the gearing ratio, adjusted for the
inclusion of UK and US regulated businesses at their estimated
regulatory asset values (adjusted gearing ratio), amounted to 60%
at 31 March 2006 compared with 63% at 31 March 2005.
The Directors believe this adjusted ratio is a more relevant
measure of gearing than one based on book values alone,
because the book values do not reflect the economic value of the
UK regulated business assets. A reconciliation of the adjustments
necessary to calculate adjusted net assets is shown in the table
below:
2006 2005
Adjustment to net assets £m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 3,493 2,121
Adjustment for UK business regulatory values 2,815 5,821
Adjustment for US regulatory assets 2,702 2,754
Deferred tax (1,925) (2,848)
Adjusted net assets 7,085 7,848
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity rose from £2,111 million at 31 March 2005
to £3,482 million at 31 March 2006. This increased for the same
reasons that net assets increased, together with net movements
in minority interests of £1 million.
Liquidity and treasury management
Cash flow
Cash flows from our operations are largely stable over a period of
years, but they do depend on the timing of customer payments
and exchange rate movements. The Group’s electricity and gas
transmission and distribution operations in the UK and US are
subject to multi-year rate agreements with regulators. In the UK,
this results in essentially stable cash flows in local currency terms.
However, weather conditions can affect cash flows in those
businesses, with abnormally mild or extreme weather driving
volumes down or up respectively. In the US, the regulatory
mechanisms for recovering costs from customers can result in
very significant cash flow swings from year to year.
Cash flow forecasting
Both short- and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced
frequently to assist in identifying the liquidity requirements of the
Group.
These forecasts are supplemented by a financial headroom
position, details of which are supplied to the Finance Committee
of the Board regularly to demonstrate funding adequacy for at
least a 12-month period. The Group also maintains a minimum
level of committed facilities in support of that objective.
31 March
2005
31 March
2006
Net Debt
£bn
13.6
10.9
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
56 Operating and Financial Review
Financial position and financial management Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 57
Financial position and financial management
Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and
Medium Term Note Programmes
The Group has both committed and uncommitted facilities that
are available for general corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2006, National Grid had a US$3.0 billion US
Commercial Paper Programme (unutilised); National Grid
Electricity Transmission plc had a US$1.0 billion US Commercial
Paper Programme (unutilised) and a US$1.0 billion Euro
Commercial Paper Programme (unutilised); and National Grid and
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc had a joint Euro Medium
Term Note Programme of Û6 billion (Û2.0 billion unissued).
National Grid Gas plc had a US$2.5 billion US Commercial Paper
Programme (unutilised) and a US$1.25 billion Euro Commercial
Paper Programme (unutilised); and National Grid Gas plc and
National Grid Gas Holdings plc had a joint Euro Medium Term
Note Programme of Û10 billion (Û6.6 billion unissued). At
31 March 2006, the Group in the UK had £1.29 billion of long-
term committed facilities (undrawn), £50 million of short-term 
(364 day) committed facilities (undrawn) and US$1.55 billion 
of short-term (364 day) committed facilities (undrawn) and
£1.0 billion of uncommitted borrowing facilities (undrawn). 
The short-term committed facilities include an option to extend
these facilities.
National Grid’s US companies had committed facilities of 
US$680 million, all of which were undrawn at 31 March 2006. 
These facilities provide liquidity support for the tax-exempt debt
programmes for New England Power Company, Massachusetts
Electric Company and Nantucket Electric Company.
In addition to the above facilities, at 31 March 2006, National Grid
Australia had an A$630 million loan facility (A$50 million undrawn)
and National Grid Electricity Transmission plc has signed a loan
agreement for £200 million with the European Investment Bank
which can be drawn any time before June 2007.
Note 27 to the accounts shows the maturity profile of all undrawn
committed borrowing facilities of the Group in sterling at
31 March 2006.
Treasury policy
The funding and treasury risk management of the Group is
carried out under policies and guidelines approved by the Board.
The Finance Committee, a Board Committee (for further details
see page 70), is responsible for regular review and monitoring 
of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the
authority for which may be delegated. The Group has a Treasury
function that raises all the funding for the Group and manages
interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
The Group has financing programmes for each of the main Group
companies. The Finance Committee and the finance committee
or board of the appropriate Group undertaking approve all
funding programmes. The Treasury function is not operated as a
profit centre. Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-
speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial
instruments or products are matched to an underlying current or
anticipated business requirement.
The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy
guidelines set by the Board. Derivatives entered into in respect 
of gas and electricity commodities are used in support of
operational requirements and the policy regarding their use 
is explained on page 59.
The Group had borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2006
amounting to £13,126 million (31 March 2005: £14,290 million).
The table in note 27 shows the expected maturity of these
borrowings.
The Group has in place appropriate committed facilities, and
believes that the maturing amounts in respect of its contractual
obligations as shown in ‘Commitments and contingencies’ on
page 60 can be met from these facilities, operating cash flows
and other refinancings that it reasonably expects to be able to
secure in the future. The Group’s financial position enables it to
borrow on the wholesale capital and money markets and most of
its borrowings are through public bonds and commercial paper.
The Group places surplus funds on the money markets, usually 
in the form of short-term fixed deposits that are invested with
approved banks and counterparties. Details relating to the
Group’s cash, short-term investments and other financial assets
at 31 March 2006 are shown in notes 22 and 26 to the accounts.
We have a long-term senior unsecured credit rating of Baa1/A-,
provided by Moody’s and S&P respectively. In addition, certain
Group undertakings are also credit-rated. National Grid Electricity
Transmission plc has a credit rating of A2/A provided by Moody’s
and S&P respectively, whereas National Grid Gas plc has a credit
rating of A2/A/A+ and National Grid Gas Holdings plc has been
separately rated A3/A-/A by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch respectively.
In connection with the proposed acquisition of KeySpan
Corporation, our ratings have been moved to ‘creditwatch with
negative implications’ by S&P. Moody’s has placed the ratings 
of National Grid Gas plc, National Grid Gas Holdings plc and
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc on negative outlook 
and the other Group ratings on to review for downgrade. We
expect the long-term credit ratings of National Grid plc to reduce
by one notch as a direct result of the financing required for the
KeySpan acquisition.
It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fences around National Grid
Electricity Transmission plc, National Grid Gas plc and National
Grid Gas Holdings plc that they use reasonable endeavours to
maintain an investment grade credit rating. At these ratings, 
the principal borrowing entities of the Group should have good
access to the capital and money markets for future funding 
when necessary.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financing activities 
are set out on page 58, as are the policies for managing these
risks, which are agreed and reviewed by the Board and the
Finance Committee. Refinancing risk management
The Board controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount
of financing obligations (both principal and interest) arising on
borrowings in any financial year. This policy restricts the Group
from having an excessively large amount of debt to refinance in 
a given time-frame. During the year, a mixture of short-term and
long-term debt was issued.
Interest rate risk management
The interest rate exposure of the Group arising from its
borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed- and
floating-rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward 
rate agreements. Our interest rate risk management policy is to
seek to minimise total financing costs (being interest costs and
changes in the market value of debt) subject to constraints so
that, even with large movements in interest rates, neither the
interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set
limits. Some of the bonds in issue from National Grid Electricity
Transmission plc and National Grid Gas Holdings plc are index-
linked, that is their cost is linked to changes in the UK Retail Price
Index (RPI). The Group believes these bonds provide a good
hedge for revenues that are also RPI-linked under the price
control formulae.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk
management is measured by comparing the actual total financing
costs of its debt with those of a passively managed benchmark
portfolio. More information on the interest rate profile of our debt
is included in note 23 to the accounts.
Foreign exchange risk management
The Group has a policy of hedging certain contractually committed
foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size. 
It covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to
occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of
transactions six to twelve months in advance. Cover generally
takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies
and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
The principal foreign exchange risk to which the Group is exposed
arises from assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars. In
relation to these risks, the objective is to match the US dollar
proportion of the Group’s financial liabilities to the proportion 
of its cash flow that arises in dollars and is available to service
those liabilities.
Foreign exchange fluctuations will affect the translated value of
overseas earnings and cash flows. This translation has no impact
on the currency cash flows of the Group, and accordingly is not
hedged other than indirectly through the natural hedge of having
foreign currency interest expense arising on currency denominated
liabilities. Cash flows may be hedged through matching with
interest flows or by forward foreign exchange deals and options.
The currency and average interest rate compositions of the
Group’s financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 23 
to the accounts.
Counterparty risk management
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and
from the use of derivative instruments. The Finance Committee
has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which is controlled
through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures. Where
multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, 
a master netting arrangement can be put in place to reduce 
the Group’s exposure to credit risk of that counterparty. At the
present time the Group uses standard International Swap Dealers
Association (ISDA) documentation, which provides for netting in
respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement
with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange
rate derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other
than trading
As part of its business operations, the Group is exposed to risks
arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates. 
The Group uses financial instruments (derivatives) to manage
exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
The Group’s policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions can, to varying degrees, carry both
counterparty and market risk.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to manage the
composition of fixed- and floating-rate debt and so hedge the
exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements. In addition,
the Group enters into bought and written option contracts on
interest rate swaps. These contracts are known as swaptions.
The Group also enters into foreign currency swaps to manage the
currency composition of borrowings and so hedge the exposure
to exchange rate movements. Certain agreements are combined
foreign currency and interest rate swap transactions. Such
agreements are known as cross-currency swaps.
The Group enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest
rate risk on short-term debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an interest rate
that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified
maturity, starting at a future specified date.
More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in
note 23 to the accounts.
Valuation and sensitivity analysis
The Group calculates the fair value of debt and derivative
instruments by discounting all future cash flows by the market
yield curve at the balance sheet date. The market yield curve for
each currency is obtained from external sources for interest and
foreign exchange rates. In the case of instruments that include
options, the Black’s variation of the Black-Scholes model is used
to calculate fair value.
The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps
and currency swaps are a standard market methodology. These
techniques do not take account of the credit quality of either
party but this is not considered to be a significant factor unless
there is a material deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
58 Operating and Financial Review
Financial position and financial management Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 59
Financial position and financial management
In relation to swaptions, we use swaptions for hedging purposes
with a European style exercise. As a consequence, the Black’s
variation of the Black-Scholes model is considered to be sufficiently
accurate for the purpose of providing fair value information in relation
to these types of swaptions. More sophisticated valuation models
exist but the Group does not believe it is necessary to employ
these models, given the limited extent of its activities in this area.
For debt and derivative instruments held, the Group utilises a
sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes
in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of 
such instruments.
At 31 March 2006, the potential change in the fair value of the
aggregation of long-term debt and derivative instruments,
assuming an increase or decrease of 10% in the level of interest
rates and exchange rates, was £44 million and £46 million for
interest rates and £427 million and £521 million for exchange
rates respectively.
Commodity contracts
Power purchase contracts for normal sale and purchase
In the US we purchase electricity and gas to supply to our
customers. The electricity contracts, many of which are long-term 
in nature, enable us to provide the electricity purchased by
customers who do not choose to purchase their energy from
independent suppliers. Gas is purchased on behalf of those
customers who continue to buy supply service from us, and
encompasses both the gas itself and the interstate transportation
and storage services required to deliver gas to our system. In
addition, we purchase electricity and gas in both the UK and 
the US for our own operational requirements.
Commodity derivatives
In the normal course of business, the Group is party to
commodity derivatives. These have included indexed swap
contracts, gas futures, electricity swaps, gas options, gas
forwards and gas basis swaps that are principally used to
manage commodity prices associated with its gas and electricity
delivery operations. This includes the repurchase of capacity
rights already sold in accordance with our UK gas transporter
licences and Uniform Network Code obligations.
These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an
integral part of the Group’s financial risk management policy. 
At the core of this policy is a condition that the Group will engage
in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within
commodities and financial markets to which it has a physical
market exposure in terms and volumes consistent with its core
business. The Group does not issue or intend to hold derivative
instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments
consistent with its various licence and regulatory obligations in 
the UK and US.
Commodity contracts carried at fair value
As a result of the restructuring of the electricity industry in New
York State, a portion of existing power purchase agreements were
replaced in 1998 with indexed swap contracts that expire in June
2008. These indexed swaps are the subject of regulatory rulings
that allow the gains and losses to be passed on to customers.
At 31 March 2006, the Group had liabilities of £309 million
(31 March 2005: £327 million) in respect of the above indexed
swap contracts. The liability will be discharged over the remaining
term of the swaps as nominal energy quantities are settled and
will be adjusted as periodic reassessments are made of energy
prices. A 10% movement in the market price of electricity and
gas would result in a £12 million movement in the value of the
index-linked swap contracts assuming a US dollar to sterling
exchange rate of $1.79:£1. 
The fair value of the index-linked swap contracts is based on the
difference between projected future market prices and projected
contract prices as applied to the notional quantities stated in the
contracts and discounted using a US Treasury Bill rate curve to
the current present value.
Payments made under indexed swap contracts are affected by
the price of natural gas and we use New York Mercantile
Exchange (NYMEX) gas futures as hedges to mitigate the volatility
of this impact. The futures contracts are derivative commodity
instruments with gains and losses deferred as an offset to the
corresponding increases and decreases in the swap payments. 
We do not currently use options to hedge gas commodity
requirements. Gains relating to gas futures as at 31 March 2006
were not material.
Our rate agreement in New York allows for collection of the
commodity cost of natural gas sold to customers. The regulator
also requires that actions be taken to limit the volatility in gas
prices passed on to customers. We meet this requirement
through the use of NYMEX gas futures. These contracts are
hedges of our natural gas purchases. Gains and losses are
deferred until the month that the hedged contract settles. 
At 31 March 2006, deferred gains on these contracts were
immaterial in the context of the Group as a whole.
During 2005/06, a number of power purchase contracts reverted
to us as part of the settlement arising from USGen’s bankruptcy
as described on page 51. The power contracts were originally
entered into prior to the restructuring of the electricity industry 
in New England. The power delivered is not required for our
normal energy delivery activities and is sold in the energy markets
at prices that are currently significantly below the amount we are
required to pay. The fair value of these contracts amounted to
£169 million at 31 March 2006 (not applicable at 31 March 2005).
A 10% movement in the market price of electricity and gas would
result in a £16 million movement in the value of these contracts
assuming a US dollar to sterling exchange rate of $1.79:£1.
We are also a party to several other power purchase arrangements
entered into by the former generating business, the output of
which is sold to third parties through back-to-back arrangements.
The agreements extend for various terms through 2017. We
recover the costs incurred under the contracts, net of proceeds
received on sales, from customers as part of the US stranded
cost recoveries segment. As at 31 March 2006, our obligations under these agreements
totalled $1.3 billion (£0.7 billion) and our expected revenues from
sales was $0.9 billion (£0.5 billion). The fair value of the difference
between our obligations and the expected revenues from sales is
recorded in the balance sheet within commodity contract liabilities.
Commodity trading
In our UK gas transmission operations we are obliged to offer for
sale, through a series of auctions (both short- and long-term), a
predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the year
at specified locations. Where, on the day, the gas transmission
system’s capability is constrained, such that gas is prevented
from entering the system for which entry capacity rights have
been sold, then UK gas transmission is required to buy back
those entry capacity rights sold in excess of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to reduce the risk and
exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
Our UK electricity transmission operations have also entered into
electricity options, pursuant to the requirement to stabilise the
electricity market in Great Britain through the operation of BETTA.
The options are for varying terms and have been entered into so
that the Group has the ability to deliver electricity as required to
meet its obligations under the electricity transmission licence. The
Group has not and does not expect to enter into any significant
derivatives in connection with its BETTA role.
Commitments and contingencies
The Group’s commitments and contingencies outstanding at
31 March are summarised in the table below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Future capital expenditure contracted 
but not provided for 1,343 927
Total operating lease commitments 831 930
Power commitments 5,453 4,915
Other commitments, contingencies and guarantees 334 349
Information regarding the Group’s obligations under pension and
other post-retirement benefits is given below under the heading
‘Pensions and other post-retirement obligations’.
The power commitments shown in the commitments and
contingencies table above reflect the Group’s obligation to
purchase energy under long-term contracts. These contracts are
used in respect of the normal sale and purchase requirements for
the Group and do not include commodity contracts carried at fair
value as described on page 59.
In addition to the above, we have entered into agreements to
purchase KeySpan Corporation for $7.3 billion (£4.2 billion)
together with the assumption of debt of $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion)
and Southern Union’s Rhode Island gas distribution network for
cash consideration of $498 million (£286 million) and assumed
debt of $77 million (£44 million) as described on page 21. 
The Group proposes to meet all of its commitments from
operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities 
and other financing which we reasonably expect to be able to
secure in the future.
Contractual obligations at 31 March 2006
The table of contractual obligations shown below analyses the
long-term contractual obligations of the Group according to its
payment period.
Purchase obligations reflect the Group’s commitments under
power commitments and future capital expenditure contracted 
for but not provided. The other long-term liabilities reflected 
in the balance sheet at 31 March 2006 comprise commodity
contracts carried at fair value and trade and other liabilities that
represent contractual obligations. 
Less than More than
Contractual obligations Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years
Total borrowings 13,126 2,839 1,690 1,383 7,214
Derivative financial
liabilities 222 92 6 7 117
Operating lease 
commitments 831 87 156 138 450
Purchase obligations 6,796 2,847 1,688 682 1,579
Trade and other liabilities 
reflected in the 
balance sheet 2,394 1,756 420 125 93
23,369 7,621 3,960 2,335 9,453
Off balance sheet arrangements
There were no significant off balance sheet arrangements other
than the contractual obligations and commitments and
contingencies described above.
Pensions and other post-retirement obligations
UK retirement arrangements
The Group operates three UK occupational pension schemes:
the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, formerly named the
Lattice Group Pension Scheme (National Grid UK Scheme); 
the National Grid Electricity Group of the Electricity Supply
Pension Scheme (National Grid Electricity Scheme); and 
the National Grid Wireless Pension Scheme, formerly named
the Crown Castle UK Pension Scheme (the Wireless
Scheme). 
With the exception of the National Grid UK Scheme, which 
also has a defined contribution section, the above schemes 
are defined benefit pension schemes. All three defined benefit
pension schemes are closed to new entrants. Membership of the
defined contribution section of the National Grid UK Scheme is
offered to all new employees in the UK.
Actuarial valuations of the Wireless Scheme and the National Grid
UK Scheme are being carried out at 31 December 2005 and
31 March 2006 respectively and have not yet been completed.
The last actuarial valuation for the National Grid Electricity
Scheme was as at 31 March 2004. 
The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid UK
Scheme was as at 31 March 2003. This concluded that the pre-
tax deficit was £879 million (£615 million net of tax) in the defined
benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted
by the actuary. An interim annual assessment of the National Grid
UK Scheme was conducted at 31 March 2005. This assessment
showed that the deficit had decreased in the defined benefit section
on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
60 Operating and Financial Review
Financial position and financial management Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 61
Financial position and financial management
It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the
2003 actuarial valuation will need to be provided to the scheme
until the outcome of the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2007 is
known. At this point, the Group will pay the gross amount of any
deficit up to a maximum amount of £520 million (£364 million net
of tax) into the scheme. Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial
valuation has been completed, the Group has arranged for banks
to provide the trustees of the National Grid UK Scheme with
letters of credit. The main conditions under which these letters of
credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the
interests of the scheme, such as National Grid Gas plc, a Group
undertaking, becoming insolvent or the Group failing to make
agreed payments into the fund. Employer cash contributions for
the ongoing cost of the National Grid UK Scheme are currently
being made at a rate of 23.7% of pensionable payroll.
The actuarial valuation of the National Grid Electricity Scheme at
31 March 2004 was completed during the year ended 31 March
2005 and revealed a pre-tax deficit of £272 million (£190 million
net of tax) on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by
the actuary.
It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the
2004 actuarial valuation will need to be provided to the scheme
until the outcome of the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2007 is
known. At this point, the Group will pay the gross amount of any
deficit up to a maximum amount of £68 million (£48 million net of
tax) into the scheme. Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation
has been completed, the Group has arranged for banks to provide
the trustees of the National Grid Electricity Scheme with letters of
credit. The main conditions under which these letters of credit
could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests
of the scheme, such as National Grid Electricity Transmission plc,
a Group undertaking, becoming insolvent or the Group failing to
make agreed payments into the fund. Employer cash contributions
for the ongoing cost of the National Grid Electricity Scheme are
currently being made at a rate of 13.1% of pensionable payroll.
The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Wireless Scheme
was as at 31 December 2002. This revealed that the pre-tax
deficit was £3 million (£2 million net of tax) on the basis of the
funding assumptions adopted by the actuary. Employer cash
contributions for the ongoing cost of the Wireless Scheme are
currently being made at a rate of 18.4% of pensionable payroll.
US retirement arrangements
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans for its US
employees. Post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefits
are also provided to qualifying retirees.
Our US operations companies have non-contributory defined
benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees. All
employees, except union-represented employees, hired on or
after 15 July 2002 participate in a cash balance pension plan
design. Under that design, pay-based credits are applied based
on service time, and interest credits are applied based on 
an average annual 30-year Treasury bond yield. Non-union
employees hired by our New England business prior to 15 July
2002 and New England business union employees generally
participate in the historic final average pay pension plans which
have been in effect for several decades. In addition, a large
number of employees hired by our New York business prior to
July 1998 are cash balance design participants who receive a
larger benefit if so yielded under pre-cash balance conversion
final average pay formula provisions. Employees hired by our 
New York business following the August 1998 cash balance design
conversion participate under cash balance design provisions only.
Supplemental non-qualified, non-contributory executive retirement
programmes provide additional defined pension benefits for 
certain executives.
We also provide post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
Benefits include healthcare and life insurance coverage to eligible
retired employees. Eligibility is based on certain age and length of
service requirements and in some cases retirees must contribute
to the cost of their coverage. 
In New England, except in unusual circumstances, the funding
policy is to contribute to the plans each year the maximum tax-
deductible amounts for that year. In New York, the funding policy
is determined largely by our settlement agreements with the New
York Public Service Commission and the amounts recovered in
rates. However, the contribution for any year will not be less than
the minimum contribution required by federal law or greater than
the maximum tax-deductible amount.
We manage our benefit plan investments to minimise the long-
term cost of operating the plans, with a reasonable level of risk.
Risk tolerance is reviewed based on the results of a periodic
asset/liability study. This study includes an analysis of plan
liabilities and funded status and results in the determination of 
the allocation of assets across equity and fixed income. Equity
investments are broadly diversified across US and non-US
equities, as well as across growth, value, and small and large
capitalisation equity. Likewise, the fixed income portfolio is
broadly diversified across the various fixed income market
segments. For the other post-retirement benefits, since the
earnings on a portion of the assets are taxable, those investments
are managed to maximise after-tax returns consistent with the
broad asset class parameters established by the asset allocations.
Investment risk and return are reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Details of material litigation to which the Group was
a party at 31 March 2006
The Group was not party to litigation that was considered to be
material at 31 March 2006.
Related party transactions
The Group provides services to and receives services from related
parties. In the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group charged
£4 million and received charges of £32 million from its related
parties (other than Directors) compared with £4 million and
£24 million respectively in 2004/05. 
Further information on related party transactions is contained
within note 34 to the accounts. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements present our results for 
the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 and our financial
position as at 31 March 2006 and 2005. They have been
prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
adopted by the European Union.
We also provide a reconciliation from our results and financial
position as prepared under IFRS to the results and financial
position as if they had been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States 
(US GAAP), together with condensed US GAAP financial
information. A discussion of the principal differences between
IFRS and US GAAP is provided on pages 66 and 67.
Segmental reporting
In addition to presenting the consolidated financial results and
financial position in the financial statements, we provide a
breakdown of those results and balances into our business
segments. The presentation of segment information is based on
the management responsibilities that existed at 31 March 2006.
Our business segments are UK electricity and gas transmission,
US electricity transmission, UK gas distribution, US electricity and
gas distribution, US stranded cost recoveries and Wireless
infrastructure, with our other businesses and corporate activities,
including business development, being aggregated within Other
activities. Our geographical segments reflect the Group’s principal
activities in the UK and the US.
UK LNG storage activities and the Scottish and French electricity
interconnectors are now included within the UK electricity and
gas transmission segment, having previously been reported within
Other activities. This change in segmental presentation follows a
change in the organisational and management structure within
the Group and the change in regulatory arrangements for the
Scottish interconnector following the introduction of BETTA.
The results of the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June
2005 are no longer included within the UK gas distribution
segment, but are instead presented as discontinued operations. 
Adoption of IFRS
With effect from 1 April 2005, we present our consolidated
financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements presents the
impact of conversion from UK GAAP to IFRS on the financial
results for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the financial
position at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2004. As permitted by the
US Securities and Exchange Commission, only one year of IFRS
comparatives are included in the financial statements for the year
ending 31 March 2006 and hence the results for the year ended
31 March 2004 have not been presented under IFRS. 
The principal differences in our reported results and financial
position between UK GAAP and IFRS are as follows:
Replacement Replacement expenditure, primarily relating to our UK 
expenditure gas distribution networks, was expensed under UK
GAAP but is capitalised under IFRS.
Regulatory Regulatory assets, principally representing the right to 
assets recover revenues in the future from customers in
accordance with rate plans, were recorded as assets
under UK GAAP. Under IFRS these are not
recognised as assets.
Goodwill and Goodwill was amortised under UK GAAP. Under IFRS 
intangible goodwill is not amortised, and we have elected to 
assets retain the goodwill balance under UK GAAP at 
31 March 2004 as our brought forward goodwill
balance at 1 April 2005 under IFRS.
Under IFRS more intangibles, such as customer
relationships acquired in a business combination, are
recognised as assets than was the case under UK
GAAP. These intangible assets are amortised over
their useful economic lives.
Post-retirement Under IFRS the actuarially calculated value of
benefits obligations in respect of pensions and other post-
retirement benefit plans are recorded in the balance
sheet, net of the market value of scheme
investments. Changes in the value of the net liability
that differ from the actuarially calculated service cost
and expected investment returns and interest
charges are recorded as actuarial gains and losses in
the statement of recognised income and expense.
Deferred Deferred tax under UK GAAP was recorded based 
taxation on timing differences. Under IFRS deferred tax is
recorded based on temporary differences, in most
cases being the difference between an asset’s or a
liability’s carrying value in the balance sheet and its
associated tax basis.
Proposed Under UK GAAP the proposed final dividend was 
final recorded as a liability in the balance sheet. Under IFRS
dividend it is not recorded as a liability until the subsequent
financial period.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
62 Operating and Financial Review
Accounting policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 63
Accounting policies
Summary of the impact of adoption of IFRS
The impact of the adoption of IFRS on net assets at 31 March
2005 and 1 April 2004 can be summarised as follows:
31 March 1 April
2005 2004
£m£m
Net assets as reported under UK GAAP 1,391 1,271
Replacement expenditure 3,014 2,778
Non recognition of regulatory assets (1,587) (1,791)
Goodwill and intangible assets 127 –
Post-retirement benefits (1,149) (1,382)
Deferred taxation (95) (84)
Proposed final dividend 469 366
Non-equity minority interests (22) (38)
Other (27) (10)
Net assets reported under IFRS 2,121 1,110
The impact of the adoption of IFRS on the profit for the year
ended 31 March 2005 can be summarised as follows:
2005
£m
Profit for the year as reported under UK GAAP 907
Replacement expenditure 236
Non recognition of regulatory assets 151
Goodwill and intangible assets 105
Post-retirement benefits 41
Deferred taxation (11)
Non-equity minority interests (2)
Other (3)
Profit for the year reported under IFRS 1,424
Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations (304)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,120
Accounting for financial instruments
On 1 April 2005, we implemented new accounting policies for
financial instruments on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39. As a
consequence, derivative financial instruments are recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value, with changes in those values recorded
in the income statement or in equity. Our new accounting policies
are described on pages 97 and 98.
The impact of the adoption was to increase net debt by £348 million
from £13,638 million to £13,986 million, and to reduce net assets
by £43 million as described in note 2 to the accounts.
As permitted by IFRS 1, we adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with 
no restatement of comparatives, and so the balance sheet 
at 31 March 2005 and the income statement for the year 
then ended have not been restated for these changes in
accounting policies.
Choices made in adopting IFRS
We were required to make a number of choices on the adoption
of IFRS. The principal choices available to us and the choices
adopted were as follows:
Option Choices available Choice adopted
Date of 1 April 2003 – two periods 1 April 2004 – 
transition of IFRS comparatives one period of 
to IFRS
1 April 2004 – one period 
IFRS comparatives
of IFRS comparatives
Business Restate some or all previous Do not restate 
combinations combinations prior business 
Do not restate prior business 
combinations
combinations
(in particular, retain 
merger accounting 
for Lattice merger)
Pensions Recognise actuarial gains Recognise actuarial 
and losses each year gains and losses 
Adopt ‘corridor’ method 
each year in the 
going forward
statement of 
Adopt ‘corridor’ method 
recognised income 
retrospectively
and expense
Financial Adopt IAS 39 retrospectively Adopt IAS 39 on 
instruments
Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2004 
1 April 2005
Adopt IAS 39 on 1 April 2005
Carrying value Depreciated cost (adjusted Depreciated cost 
of assets at for IFRS changes) (adjusted for IFRS 
date of 
Fair value at date of transition
changes) in most 
transition cases
Share-based Recognise all active grants Recognise all 
payments retrospectively active grants 
Recognise only grants since 
retrospectively
7 November 2002
(already adopted 
under UK GAAP
with FRS 20)
Cumulative Restate cumulative Cumulative 
translation translations retrospectively differences from 
differences on 
Cumulative differences 
1 April 2004 only
foreign subs
from 1 April 2004 only
Joint ventures Equity account jointly Equity account 
controlled entities jointly controlled 
Proportionally consolidate 
entities
jointly controlled entities
Use of Adopt IFRS for parent Retain UK GAAP 
UK GAAP or company and subsidiaries for parent and 
IFRS in 
IFRS for parent, UK GAAP 
subsidiaries’
individual 
for subsidiaries
individual financial 
accounts
Retain UK GAAP for parent 
statements
and UK subsidiaries  Critical accounting policies
The application of accounting principles requires us to make
estimates, judgements and assumptions that may affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using historical
experience, consultation with experts and other methods that we
consider reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure
compliance with IFRS and US GAAP respectively. Actual results
may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which is
recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to the
revision become known.
Certain of the Group’s accounting policies have been identified 
as critical accounting policies, as these policies involve particularly
complex or subjective decisions or assessments. The discussion
of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction
with the description of the Group’s accounting policies set out in
the Group financial statements. Where critical accounting policies
adopted under US GAAP are significantly different from the ones
adopted under IFRS, additional information is included in the
discussion on our US GAAP accounting on pages 66 and 67.
Our critical accounting policies and accounting treatments are
considered to be:
Estimated The reported amounts for amortisation of intangible
asset fixed assets and depreciation of property, plant and 
economic equipment can be materially affected by the 
lives judgements exercised in determining their estimated
economic lives.
Intangible asset amortisation and depreciation 
of property, plant and equipment for continuing
operations amounted to £57 million and £895 million
respectively in 2005/06 and £45 million and
£774 million respectively in 2004/05.
Carrying value The carrying value of assets recorded in the 
of assets and consolidated balance sheet could be materially 
potential for reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as
impairments being required. Our total assets at 31 March 2006
were £25,924 million, including £18,935 million of
property, plant and equipment, £2,142 million of
goodwill and £321 million of other intangible assets.
Impairment reviews are carried out either when a
change in circumstance is identified that indicates an
asset might be impaired or, in the case of goodwill,
annually. An impairment review involves calculating
either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of
an asset or group of assets and comparing with the
carrying value in the balance sheet. These
calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the
price that could be obtained for, or the future cash
flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of
assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to
apply to those cash flows.
Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of energy and 
accruals transportation services supplied to customers
between the date of the last meter reading and the
year end. Changes to the estimate of the energy or
transportation services supplied during this period
would have an impact on the reported results of the
Group.
Our estimates of unbilled revenues in 2005/06
amounted to £169 million in the US and £268 million
in the UK compared with £130 million and £276 million
respectively in 2004/05.
Assets and Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial 
liabilities carried investments, derivative financial instruments and 
at fair value certain commodity contracts are carried in the 
balance sheet at their fair value rather than 
historical cost.
The fair value of financial investments is based on
market prices, as are those of derivative financial
instruments where market prices exist. Other
derivative financial instruments and those commodity
contracts carried at fair value are valued using
financial models, which include judgements on, in
particular, future movements in exchange and interest
rates as well as equity and commodity prices.
Hedge We use derivative financial instruments to hedge
accounting certain economic exposures arising from movements
in exchange and interest rates or other factors that
could affect either the value of our assets or liabilities
or affect our future cash flows.
Movements in the fair values of derivative financial
instruments may be accounted for using hedge
accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility,
documentation and effectiveness testing
requirements. If a hedge does not meet the strict
criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is
ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the
movements will be recorded in the income statement
immediately instead of being recognised in the
statement of recognised income and expense or 
being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of
debt. 
Pensions Pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations
and other recorded in the balance sheet are calculated actuarially
post-retirement using a number of assumptions about the future
benefit plans including inflation, salary increases, length of service
and pension and investment returns, together with
the use of a discount rate based on corporate bond
yields to calculate the present value of the obligation.
The selection of these assumptions can have a
significant impact on both the pension obligation
recorded in the balance sheet and on the net charge
recorded in the income statement.
Assets held At 31 March 2005, the planned sales of four of our 
for sale and regional gas distribution networks did not meet the 
discontinued criteria to be classified as assets held for sale. On 
operations 1 May 2005, these criteria were met and the assets
and liabilities of these businesses were classified as
assets held for sale and depreciation ceased from
that date until their disposal on 1 June 2005. 
The results of these operations have been classified
as discontinued operations and the comparatives
reclassified accordingly.
The determination of the date that the planned sales
met the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale
is a matter of judgement by management, with
consequential impact on balance sheet presentation
and the amount recorded for depreciation in the
results of the discontinued operation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
64 Operating and Financial Review
Accounting policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 65
Accounting policies
Exceptional Exceptional items, in particular restructuring costs, are 
items items of income or expense that are identified as
being material or one-off in nature that need to be
separately identified in the income statement.
Restructuring costs principally comprise severance 
or other costs necessary to complete a major
programme of restructuring.
Judgement is required in deciding the classification 
of items as exceptional. 
Provisions Provision is made for liabilities that are uncertain 
in timing or amount of settlement. These include
provisions for the cost of environmental restoration
and remediation, asset decommissioning,
restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
Calculations of these provisions are based on
estimated cash flows relating to these costs,
discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact
of discounting is material. The total costs and timing
of cash flows relating to environmental and
decommissioning liabilities are based on
management estimates supported by the use of
external consultants.
At 31 March 2006, we have recorded provisions
totalling £771 million (2005: £791 million), including 
£429 million (2005: £491 million) and £127 million
(2005: £105 million) in respect of environmental 
and decommissioning liabilities respectively. 
Tax estimates The Group’s tax charge is based on the profit for the
year and tax rates in effect. The determination of
appropriate provisions for taxation requires us to take
into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities
and estimate our ability to utilise tax benefits through
future earnings and tax planning. Our estimates and
assumptions may differ from future events.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions
could have on our results and financial position, the following
sensitivities are presented:
Assets’ useful An increase in the useful economic lives of assets 
economic lives of one year on average would reduce our annual
depreciation charge on property, plant and
equipment by approximately £40 million and our
annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by
£9 million.
Revenue A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues
accruals at 31 March 2006 would result in an increase or
decrease in our recorded net assets and profit for 
the year of approximately £22 million net of tax.
Assets carried A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair
at fair value value would result in an increase or decrease in the
carrying value of derivative financial instruments and
commodity contract liabilities of £44 million and 
£49 million respectively.
Hedge If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial 
accounting instruments during the year ended 31 March 2006
had not achieved hedge accounting, the profit for the
year would have been £131 million lower than that
reported net of tax and net assets would have been
£1 million lower.
Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows
in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an
increase or decrease in net assets of approximately
£50 million net of tax.
Accounting developments
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations
adopted in 2005/06
In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Group has
complied with International Financial Reporting Standards,
International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable
for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005.
Capital ‘Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial 
resource Statements’ requires new disclosures to be made 
disclosures about management of capital resources and
compliance with capital requirements.
Actuarial ‘Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: 
gains and Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and 
losses Disclosures’ enables actuarial gains and losses in
respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes to be
recognised in the statement of recognised income
and expense.
Cash flow ‘Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
hedges Recognition and Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge 
Accounting of Forecast Intra-group Transactions’
allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable
forecast intra-group transaction to qualify as a
hedged item in consolidated financial statements,
provided that the transaction is denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the
entity entering into that transaction and the foreign
currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Financial IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ replaces 
instrument the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 and locates
disclosures in one place all disclosures relating to financial
instruments. The new requirements incorporate many
of IAS 32’s disclosures as well as additional
qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks
arising from financial instruments. 
Forthcoming changes in IFRS
The following accounting standards and interpretations have not
yet been adopted, but are expected to be adopted by the Group
in future periods. Implementation of the following interpretations
are not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s results
or assets and liabilities.
Leases International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (IFRIC) No. 4 ‘Determining whether an
arrangement contains a lease’ provides guidance 
on determining whether arrangements which convey
the right to use an asset in return for a series of
payments should be accounted for in accordance
with IAS 17 ‘Leases’.
Share-based IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’ addresses the issue of 
payments whether IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payment’ applies 
to transactions in which the entity cannot identify
specifically some or all of the goods or services
received. 
Embedded IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’
derivatives prohibits reassessment of the treatment of embedded
derivatives subsequent to initial recognition unless
there is a change in the terms of the contract that
significantly modifies the cash flows which otherwise
would be required under the contract, in which case
reassessment is required.  US GAAP reporting
Overview
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain significant respects
from US GAAP. A reconciliation of net income and equity
shareholders’ funds from IFRS to US GAAP , together with a
summary of adjustments, is provided in note 37 to the accounts.
In addition, condensed income statements, balance sheets and
segmental information prepared in accordance with US GAAP are
provided in note 38 to the accounts.
Results and financial position under US GAAP
Net income from continuing operations for 2005/06 under 
US GAAP was £711 million (2004/05: £1,037 million). The
US GAAP results for 2005/06 and 2004/05 included profits
relating to discontinued operations amounting to £596 million 
and £267 million respectively. Consequently, net income 
for 2005/06 under US GAAP was £1,307 million (2004/05:
£1,304 million). This compared with the profit for the year 
under IFRS for 2005/06 and 2004/05 of £3,850 million and
£1,424 million respectively.
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP at 31 March 2006 
was £9,747 million (2005: £10,591 million) compared with
£3,842 million (2005: £2,111 million) under IFRS. Because the
application of merger accounting principles retained under IFRS
has fundamentally affected the comparison of IFRS results with 
US GAAP results, the following is a discussion of the impact 
the application of US GAAP has had on the results, which 
should be read in conjunction with the rest of this Operating 
and Financial Review.
The principal adjustments from net income and total shareholders’
equity under IFRS to their equivalents under US GAAP relate to
differences in accounting for the business combination with Lattice
Group as a purchase instead of as a merger, US regulatory
accounting, the recording of derivative financial instruments 
at their fair value in the balance sheet and hedge accounting; 
and differences in accounting for pensions. The other adjustments
between IFRS and US GAAP are explained in more detail in note 37
to the accounts.
Some of the adjustments included within the US GAAP summary
income statements and balance sheet substantially reflect
reclassifications of items that are presented differently under 
IFRS and US GAAP , but that do not significantly impact net 
income or net assets.
Merger with The application of UK GAAP to the business 
Lattice Group combination of National Grid Group and Lattice 
Group in 2002/03 resulted in the transaction 
being treated as a merger. As permitted by IFRS,
merger accounting for this transaction continues
under IFRS. Under US GAAP, purchase accounting
was applied rather than merger accounting, and
National Grid Group (now National Grid) was viewed
as the acquirer of Lattice Group.
The results of the Group under US GAAP include the
results of Lattice Group only from 21 October 2002,
the date of the business combination and not prior to
that date.
In addition, the recognition of Lattice Group’s assets
and liabilities at fair value under US GAAP resulted in
£3,824 million of goodwill being recognised.
The former Lattice Group assets included the four
regional gas distribution networks that were disposed
of in 2005/06. The higher book value of these assets
under US GAAP resulted in a significantly lower gain
recognised on disposal. The gain on disposal under
US GAAP was £2 billion lower than under IFRS.
Regulatory These assets are recorded in the US GAAP balance 
assets sheet in accordance with the principles of SFAS 71
‘Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation’. SFAS 71 provides that certain costs may
be deferred on the balance sheet (referred to as
‘regulatory assets’) if it is probable that the costs will
be recovered through future increases in regulated
revenue rates. An entity applying SFAS 71 does not
need absolute assurance prior to capitalising a cost,
only reasonable assurance. If the principles of SFAS
71 were not applicable, it is likely that this would
result in the full or partial non-recognition of these
regulatory assets and thereby materially alter the view
given under US GAAP.
The total carrying value of regulatory assets, 
under US GAAP , at 31 March 2006 amounted to
£3,051 million (£3,350 million at 31 March 2005).
Derivatives Under US GAAP , all derivatives are recorded at fair 
value except those that qualify for exemptions, such
as normal purchase rules for commodity contracts.
Changes in fair values of derivatives not designated
as a hedge under US GAAP are recorded through
earnings. The Group applies a hedging strategy
which meets IFRS requirements, but many of these
hedges do not meet the requirements to achieve
hedge accounting under US GAAP. This results in a
much greater volatility in the US GAAP income
statements. Under IFRS, the Group did not adopt
IAS 39 until 1 April 2005 and, therefore, did not
record derivatives at fair value in the year ended
2004/05. Upon adoption of IAS 39, the Group
recorded its outstanding derivatives at fair value and
took advantage of certain transition accommodations
that allowed for hedge accounting. These transition
alternatives were not available under US GAAP.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
66 Operating and Financial Review
Accounting policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Operating and Financial Review 67
Accounting policies
Pensions Under US GAAP, when the amount of pension
scheme assets is less than the accumulated benefit
obligation of that scheme, a minimum pension liability
is recognised. When compared with IFRS, differences
in the measurement of pension obligations, plan
assets, and periodic pension expense exist. The
primary difference is the fact that under US GAAP,
the Group includes actuarial gains and losses as a
component of periodic pension expense but, under
IFRS, these items are recorded directly to equity.
Differences in key assumptions used to measure plan
assets and obligations also create differences.
New US accounting pronouncements adopted during
2005/06
During 2005/06, the Group adopted the following US GAAP
accounting interpretations issued by the US Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB).
Asset FASB interpretation No. 47 ‘Accounting for 
retirement Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations’ (FIN 47) 
obligations clarified that the term ‘conditional asset retirement
obligation’, as used in SFAS No. 143 ‘Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations’ (SFAS 143), refers to a
legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity
in which the timing and/or method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the Group.
The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material
impact on the US GAAP consolidated financial
statements.
Recent US pronouncements not yet adopted
In preparing the US GAAP reconciliation for 2005/06 we have not
reflected the impact of recent US accounting pronouncements
that are expected to be adopted in future periods. The most
notable of these are:
Share-based FASB Statement No. 123 ‘Share Based Payment’
payments (SFAS 123(R)) requires all share-based payments to 
employees, including grants of employee stock 
options, to be recognised in the income statement 
based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no 
longer an alternative.
SFAS 123(R) is similar to IFRS 2, and to the method 
already adopted by the Group under FASB 
Statement No. 148 ‘Accounting for Stock Based 
Compensation – Transition and Disclosure’. 
Adoption of SFAS 123(R) is not expected to have 
a material impact on our results of operations or
financial position under US GAAP when it is adopted
on 1 April 2006. 
Exchanges of FASB Statement No. 153 ‘Exchanges of Non-
non-monetary Monetary Assets’ (SFAS 153) removes an exemption 
assets in APB Opinion No. 29 ‘Accounting for Non-
Monetary Transactions’ (APB 29) which permitted
exchanges of similar productive assets to be
accounted for at the carrying value of the assets
relinquished. All non-monetary transactions (apart
from those without commercial substance) must in
future be recorded at fair value.
The impact of the adoption of SFAS 153 cannot be 
predicted at this time because it will depend on 
whether applicable non-monetary transactions take 
place after 1 April 2006.
Carrying value FASB Statement No. 151 ‘Inventory Costs – an 
of inventories amendment of ARB No. 43’ (SFAS 151) clarifies 
that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, 
freight handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage)
should be recognised as current period expense.
The adoption of SFAS 151 is not expected to have a
material effect on our results or financial position
under US GAAP.
Accounting FASB Statement No. 154 ‘Accounting Changes and 
for changes Error Corrections – a replacement of APB Opinion No.
in accounting 20 and FASB Statement No. 3’ (SFAS 154) requires 
policies retrospective application of prior periods’ financial 
statements for changes in accounting principle. 
The adoption of SFAS 154 on 1 April 2006 will not
have a material effect on our US GAAP results and
financial position. However, there would be significant
differences in the presentation of changes in US
GAAP accounting policies if changes were to be
made in future periods compared with current
requirements.
Hybrid FASB Statement No. 155 ‘Accounting for Certain 
financial Hybrid Financial Instruments – an amendment of SFAS 
instruments No. 133 and SFAS No. 140’ (SFAS 155) provides 
a fair value measurement option for certain hybrid
financial instruments, which allows the recording of
an entire financial instrument at fair value rather than
accounting for the host instrument and the embedded
derivative separately, simplifying the accounting for
these instruments. It also requires that beneficial
interests in securitised financial assets be analysed to
determine whether they are freestanding derivatives
or they are hybrid instruments that contain embedded
derivatives requiring separate recognition.
The adoption of SFAS 155 is not expected to have a
material effect on our results or financial position
under US GAAP . Corporate Governance
Governance
The Board of National Grid is committed to embedding leading
governance practices within the operations of the Group. This
commitment is based on compliance with the Combined Code
and both established and emerging best practice. It extends
through National Grid’s Framework for Responsible Business,
codes of conduct for employees and involvement in the Business
Leaders Initiative on Human Rights.
Documents relating to National Grid’s governance 
(eg National Grid’s Framework for Responsible Business, 
Board Committee terms of reference, codes of conduct and 
position statements) can be found on the Group website 
at www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/about+us.
The Company complied fully with all provisions set out in Section
1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The Board
The Board of National Grid currently consists of 14 Directors, 
comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors and seven 
Non-executive Directors (including the Senior Independent
Director). Biographical details for each of the Directors, together
with details of Board Committee memberships, are set out on
pages 18 and 19.
The intended retirement of long-serving Non-executive Director,
John Grant, was announced prior to the year end. John Grant
stepped down as chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
at the end of February but remained a member to ensure an
effective transition to the new chairman of the Committee, 
John Allan.
Non-executive Director independence
Each of the Non-executive Directors is considered by the Board
to be independent, such determination being made following
initial consideration by the Nominations Committee. Independence
is considered at least annually and is based on the factors set out
in the Combined Code but importantly further examines whether
each Director is independent in character, judgement and
behaviour. Also considered are factors such as participation and
performance on both the Board and Board Committees. When
considering the length of service, Board service at National Grid
together with that at either Lattice Group plc or National Grid
Group plc prior to their merger is taken into account.
Professor Paul Joskow has now served on the Board for six
years under the criteria set out above. His period as a director of
New England Electric System (NEES) is not considered to have
an impact on his independence given NEES now represents a
minor part of the Group’s operations as a whole. Professor
Joskow is viewed as a particularly valuable member by the
Board. He has extensive knowledge of the US utility scene and
the Board recognises him as a world authority on utility regulation.
Group Chief Executive succession
During the year, the Group announced Roger Urwin’s intention 
to retire with effect from this calendar year end. At the same time,
it was announced that Steve Holliday would replace him and 
be appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive with effect from
1 April 2006, to ensure a smooth and progressive handover 
of responsibilities.
A particularly rigorous succession process was put in place by
the Chairman. This involved all the Non-executive Directors, not
just the members of the Nominations Committee. The process
extended over five months and included third party interviews of
the internal candidate, benchmarking of external candidates and
extensive input of views from existing Executive Directors. 
Board training and development
National Grid aims to ensure that all its Directors receive 
up-to-date information about the Group’s operations. Director
attendance at meetings is monitored to make sure that Board
members do not miss key visits and presentations. Board
members are also encouraged to attend external courses where
they feel that this will keep them updated on issues or will
improve their effectiveness as a Director. Attendance at external
courses is one issue raised when the Chairman holds his 
one-to-one meetings with each Director as part of the Board
effectiveness process.
Continued attention is also given to the development
programmes put in place for each of the Executive Directors.
These programmes were established following in-depth personal
appraisals with the assistance of external specialists. The
development programmes include external and internal mentoring
support, attendance at relevant business schools and experience
of other boardrooms through serving as non-executive directors.
Particular attention is given to newly appointed Directors.
Following appointment, materials and presentations are provided
as an induction to the Company and its businesses and detailed
information relating to the operation and management of the
Board is supplied. Following his appointment in May 2005, John
Allan attended a number of meetings with Executive Directors
and senior managers from both Corporate Centre functions and
various businesses within the Group. Site visits were also arranged
to familiarise him with the Group, aiming to equip him to participate
more effectively in Board meetings.
Board effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each
individual Director is vital to the overall success of the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
68 Corporate Governance The Board has a well established process for evaluating the
performance of the Board, Board Committees and individual
Directors. This formal process consists of questionnaires sent to
each Director, and certain Board Committee attendees, by the
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel on a confidential
basis. The questionnaires are complemented by one-to-one
meetings between the Chairman and each Director. The
questionnaires consider the performance of the Chairman, the
operation and performance of the Board and Board Committees
and Committee chairmen. The one-to-one meetings include
discussions of individual performance and any knowledge gaps
requiring training. The Non-executive Directors also meet
separately under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent
Director to consider the performance of the Chairman and to
provide him with feedback.
The Nominations Committee initially considers all the results and
based on the feedback from the questionnaires an overall outline
of results and action plan is drawn up. The results and action
plan are considered by the Board and, where relevant, each
Committee before being finalised. The aim of the action plan is
continually to improve processes, procedures and performance.
Actions highlighted in the 2005/06 action plan include:
continued monitoring of the balance of Board time spent on
administration, governance, operation and strategy to ensure
adequate time is spent on strategic debate;
consideration of additional site visits for Non-executive
Directors between scheduled Board meetings; and
more critical feedback on information presented to the Board
to ensure content is appropriate and adequate.
Actions undertaken as a result of the previous year’s evaluation
process included:
a review of Matters Reserved to the Board; and
a review of Committee interfaces.
The possibility of having the evaluation process reviewed by a
third party was discussed during the year. It was decided that,
given the level of development of the process and the continued
progress of the action plan, any review should be delayed until
the process was considered either in need of a major refresh or
no longer at the leading edge of best practice. 
Roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct
and have been set out and approved by the Board. The Chairman’s
main task is the management of the Board and its governance
while the Group Chief Executive’s is the day-to-day management
of the Group and the execution of Board-approved strategy.
The Chairman’s main duties outside the Group are set out in his
biography on page 18. His principal external positions during the
year were as Senior Non-executive Director of the Court of the
Bank of England, Chairman of Peninsular & Oriental Steam
Navigation Company and as Non-executive Director of Carnival
plc and Carnival Corporation, Inc. The Chairman’s contractual
commitment to the Company is two days per week but in practice
this is generally exceeded.
Senior Independent Director
Ken Harvey has been the Senior Independent Director throughout
the year. As well as leading the Non-executive Directors when
assessing the Chairman’s performance, the Senior Independent
Director is also available to shareholders in the event that they
feel it inappropriate to relay views via the Chairman or the Group
Chief Executive.
Operation of the Board
To ensure effective control of the Group, the Board has a number
of items reserved for its sole discussion and approval. At its
September meeting the Board discussed these items 
to ensure they were appropriate; this review was prompted by
issues raised during the 2004/05 Board evaluation process.
The complete document, Matters Reserved to the National 
Grid plc Board, is available on the Group website at
www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/about+us. The broad 
areas covered are: 
corporate governance; 
strategy/finance; 
approval of the Group’s budget and business plan;
Director/employee issues;
Director succession planning;
listing requirements; 
dividend policy; and 
approval of results announcements and the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Items considered at each Group Board meeting relate to: safety,
health and environment, finance, business/finance review, business
development, projects, and governance and administration. 
Other items discussed during the year included the Group’s 
new corporate identity and corporate values, specifically their
development and work to embed them within business operations.
Board Committees also carry out a significant amount of work
towards the successful management of the Group. The Board
has established Audit, Executive, Finance, Nominations,
Remuneration and Risk & Responsibility Committees. The Board
Committees ensure that issues of policy and oversight are given
time for detailed debate outside the Board, where time may 
be limited because of the number of issues to be covered. 
To ensure that all Directors are aware of discussions at Board
Committees, Board Committee chairmen provide a summary, 
at each appropriate Board meeting, of key issues debated and
present recommendations formulated.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Corporate Governance 69 Each Board Committee has terms of reference, agreed 
by both the Board and Board Committee. These terms 
of reference are all available on the Group website at
www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/about+us.
Audit Committee
The current membership of the Audit Committee is George Rose
(chairman), Maria Richter, John Grant and John Allan. John Allan
joined the Audit Committee following his appointment on 1 May
2005 and Maria Richter joined the Audit Committee at the same
time. These two Directors replaced Ken Harvey and Paul Joskow.
Each of these Directors is Non-executive and regarded by the
Board as independent. As required by the Audit Committee terms
of reference, the Board has determined that George Rose is an
‘audit committee financial expert’; his biographical details are on
page 19.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director,
Head of Internal Audit and Group Company Secretary and
General Counsel are invited to attend the majority of meetings.
Executive Directors, the Head of Risk & Compliance, the Group
Financial Controller and external auditors may be invited to attend
the Audit Committee as required.
Items discussed by the Audit Committee during the year
included:
recommendation with respect to the level of audit fees paid 
to the external auditors;
reviews of external auditor non-audit fees and 
consultancy spend;
review of the performance of the external auditors;
International Financial Reporting Standards conversion
project;
reports from the external auditors;
reports from the internal auditors;
review of results and Annual Report and Accounts;
reports on risk, compliance and business conduct 
(including whistleblowing); 
reports on Sarbanes-Oxley compliance preparations;
review of the Audit Committee terms of reference;
evaluation of the external audit process;
review of independence and objectivity of the external
auditors;
review of the effectiveness of internal controls for the year; and
reports from the disclosure committee.
All non-audit work by the external auditors is subject to pre-
approval and their total non-audit fees are reviewed by the Audit
Committee quarterly. Details of both the audit and non-audit fees
paid to the external auditors during the year are set out in note 5
to the accounts on page 112.
Executive Committee
The operational management of the Group and day-to-day
decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee which is
made up of all of the Executive Directors and the Group Company
Secretary and General Counsel. The Executive Committee is
chaired by the Group Chief Executive and meets monthly.
Issues covered on Executive Committee agendas during the year
included:
reports on safety, health and environment;
strategy/business development;
reports and discussions on human resources, 
succession planning and employee issues;
finance;
pensions;
budget and business plan;
foreign exchange and treasury management;
year-end processes (preliminary statements, assurance
processes, dividend payments, review of internal controls);
and
administrative items.
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee consists of Paul Joskow (chairman),
Roger Urwin, Steve Lucas, Stephen Pettit and Maria Richter.
Committee meetings are also attended by the Group Tax and 
Treasury Director.
The main responsibilities of the Finance Committee are the setting
and review of finance policy and the granting of certain approvals.
The discussion and review of issues at the Finance Committee
dovetails with processes at the Executive Committee and 
the Board.
Items discussed at the Finance Committee during the year
included:
treasury performance and activity reports;
Group funding/debt;
long-term treasury performance management;
committed borrowing facilities;
US financing;
foreign exchange policy;
guarantees;
delegations of authority;
tax updates;
pensions;
insurance renewal; and
electricity and gas trading activity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
70 Corporate Governance Nominations Committee
The current members of the Nominations Committee are 
Sir John Parker (chairman), Ken Harvey, John Grant, George
Rose and Paul Joskow. Each of the Non-executive members of
the Nominations Committee is considered by the Board to be
independent.
The Group Chief Executive is invited to attend most meetings and
the Group Human Resources Director attends as required.
The main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to
keep under review the size, structure and composition of the
Board, to ensure that an adequate Board succession plan is in
place and, when necessary, to identify and nominate individuals
for appointment to the Board.
Items included for discussion by the Nominations Committee
during the year included:
Board and Board Committee performance evaluation;
oversight of Group Chief Executive succession;
Non-executive Director succession; and
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
The Nominations Committee also receives regular reports from
the Group Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director
on succession and development planning for senior positions
within the Group.
The Nominations Committee has overall responsibility for the
Board performance evaluation process and for considering 
Non-executive Director independence prior to making
recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of John Allan (chairman),
John Grant, Ken Harvey, Stephen Pettit and George Rose. John
Allan joined the Remuneration Committee following his
appointment to the Board on 1 May 2005. John Allan replaced
John Grant as chairman of the Remuneration Committee with
effect from 1 March 2006. Each member of the Remuneration
Committee is a Non-executive Director and is considered by the
Board to be independent.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources
Director and Group Head of Compensation & Benefits are usually
invited to attend the Remuneration Committee to provide advice
as required.
No Committee member or attendee at the Remuneration
Committee participates in any discussion on his or her own
remuneration.
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are the
development of Group policy on Executive Director remuneration
and the determination of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Further detail is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
on pages 79 to 89.
To allow additional time for discussion the Remuneration
Committee held a separate strategy meeting during the year.
Items included on the Remuneration Committee agenda for
discussion during the year were:
remuneration issues and disclosure;
performance share plan update;
total shareholder return update;
Directors’ Remuneration Report;
bonuses and personal targets;
headroom/dilution update;
pensions update;
feedback on discussions with advisers;
tender for advisers; and
benchmarking and market trends.
Risk & Responsibility Committee
The members of the Risk & Responsibility Committee are
Stephen Pettit (chairman), Ken Harvey and Maria Richter. Ken
Harvey was appointed to the Risk & Responsibility Committee
with effect from 1 May 2005.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Corporate Responsibility
Director and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
normally attend Committee meetings with Executive Directors
invited to attend as necessary.
The Risk & Responsibility Committee reviews strategies, policies,
management initiatives and Group targets in respect of safety,
environment, health, inclusion and diversity, human rights, ethics
and community involvement.
The Risk & Responsibility Committee is involved in internal control
processes as it considers and provides reports to the Audit
Committee on the non-financial and reputational risks faced by
the Group. Items considered on the Risk & Responsibility agenda
during the year included:
Group risk, compliance (specifically non-financial items) 
and business conduct;
safety, health and environment audit programme and plan;
independent verification of non-financial data in the Annual
Report and Accounts;
review of corporate responsibility issues relevant to the
business;
non-financial performance targets;
work-related stress;
climate change;
human rights;
inclusion and diversity;
external advisers to the Risk & Responsibility Committee; and
electric and magnetic field science.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Corporate Governance 71 Communication with shareholders
During the year, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director held regular meetings with institutional investors, fund
managers and analysts to discuss information made public by 
the Group. In addition, the Chairman reminds major shareholders,
in writing, of his availability (along with that of the Senior
Independent Director or Non-executive Directors where required)
should there be issues that shareholders do not wish to raise via
the Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
To ensure that the Board is effectively informed of shareholder
views, it receives bi-annual feedback from the Company’s brokers
supplemented by the Group Head of Investor Relations. In addition,
notes from a number of analysts in the energy sector are circulated
to Directors. This ensures that all Board members, including the
Non-executive Directors, are aware of the current views of major
shareholders and of any outstanding issues they may have.
The principal method of communicating with the majority of
shareholders is through the Annual Review. Shareholders may
also attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting where they
have the opportunity to question Directors on any issues relating
to the management of the Company. The Group also runs a very
successful Shareholder Networking Programme, which allows a
small number of shareholders to visit operational sites and meet
senior managers, Directors and the Chairman. More details of the
Shareholder Networking Programme are on page 175.
Disclosure committees
National Grid has constituted disclosure committees that
undertake various duties relating to the material disclosures made
by the Company and relevant subsidiaries within the Group.
The Group Finance Director chairs the National Grid disclosure
committee. This committee assists the Group Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director in fulfilling their responsibility under
US securities laws to oversee the accuracy and timeliness of
material disclosures made by the Company. This includes the
design and implementation of controls and other procedures
intended to ensure that information required by the Company to
be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarised and reported
accurately and on a timely basis. The disclosure committee also
monitors the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls
and reviews and considers the preparation of material public
disclosures. It undertakes an evaluation of the effectiveness of 
the Company’s disclosure controls at the end of the Company’s
financial year and considers other matters as necessary.
72 Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Board and Board Committee attendance
The following table indicates the number of meetings of the Board and each of its Committees held during 2005/06 and the number of
those meetings that each of the Directors attended as a member:
Board Committees
Board Risk & 
meetings Audit Executive Finance Nominations RemunerationResponsibility 
Total meetings during the year 11 6 12 5 5 8 4
Sir John Parker 11 – – – 5 – –
Roger Urwin 11 – 12 5 – – –
Steve Holliday 11 – 11 – – – –
Steve Lucas 10 – 10 5 – – –
Nick Winser 11 – 12 – – – –
Mike Jesanis 11 – 12 – – – –
Edward Astle 10 – 12 – – – –
Ken Harvey 10 1 (i) – – 5 8 3 (ii)
John Allan 7 (iii) 4 (iii) – – – (iv) 5 (iii) –
John Grant 11 5 – – 5 8 –
Paul Joskow 11 1 (i) – 5 4 (v) – –
Stephen Pettit 11 – – 5 – (iv) 8 4
Maria Richter 10 5 (vi) – 5 – (iv) – 4
George Rose 9 6 – – 5 7 –
(i) Ken Harvey and Paul Joskow officially left the Audit Committee as of 1 May 2005; they were only eligible to attend one meeting.
(ii) Ken Harvey joined the Risk & Responsibility Committee on 1 May 2005; he was eligible to attend a total of three meetings.
(iii) John Allan joined the Board on 1 May 2005; he was eligible to attend a total of 10 meetings of the Board, five meetings of the Audit Committee and seven meetings of the Remuneration
Committee. As he was only notified of the dates of Board and Committee meetings upon his appointment, he was unable to join meetings on some occasions due to diary clashes.
(iv) At Nominations Committee meetings where the Group Chief Executive’s succession was discussed, all Non-executive Directors were invited to attend, meaning John Allan, Maria Richter
and Stephen Pettit attended some meetings of the Committee.
(v) Paul Joskow joined the Nominations Committee on 1 May 2005; he was eligible to attend a total of four meetings.
(vi) Maria Richter joined the Audit Committee on 1 May 2005; she was eligible to attend a total of five meetings. Corporate governance practices: differences from
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards
The corporate governance practices of the Group substantially
conform to those required of US companies listed on the NYSE.
The principal differences between the Group’s governance
practices pursuant to the Combined Code and UK best 
practice and the Section 303A Corporate Governance Rules 
of the NYSE are:
different tests of independence for Board members are
applied under the Combined Code and Section 303A;
there is no requirement for a separate corporate governance
committee in the UK; all Directors on the Board discuss 
and decide upon governance issues; and
while the Group reports compliance with the Combined 
Code in each Annual Report and Accounts, there is no
requirement to adopt and disclose separate corporate
governance guidelines.
Information assurance
Information is an important asset to the business and, like any
other asset, it must be fit for purpose.
Critical to demonstrating information integrity is a process of
assurance from the business that clearly demonstrates that
information is being sourced and managed effectively. The Group
recognises that these behaviours are important to achieving
necessary standards. The key objective of having accurate 
and reliable information is supported by a risk-based, holistic
approach that deals with information assurance as a business
critical function. This approach ensures that accurate and reliable
information is available to those who need it in a timely fashion,
thus enabling informed decisions that support and further our
Group objectives.
We manage a broad range of risks to our information. Key
elements in managing these risks are education, training and
awareness. These initiatives emphasise the importance of
information security, the quality of data collection and the
affirmation process that supports our business transactions,
evidencing our decisions and actions. The Group continues to
work collaboratively with a variety of organisations and
professional bodies to develop and implement best practice.
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Consequently, the Board, together with the Executive, Audit and
Risk & Responsibility Committees, is central to the internal control
process. Throughout the year, the Board receives reports from
each of these Committees and as part of the year-end process
receives the Group Chief Executive’s Letter of Assurance. This
process seeks to confirm compliance with all major internal and
external requirements along with the existence of appropriate
controls and processes to manage risks and to provide details 
of material risks and control weaknesses. The Board additionally
conducts a formal review of the effectiveness of internal controls
based on the information and assurances provided to it directly
and through the Committees mentioned. 
During the year, the Company has undertaken a review of its
year-end processes with the aims of maximising coordination
between these processes and ensuring the most effective use 
of resources.
As a result of the Group’s New York listing, we are also subject 
to the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the
requirement to make an assessment of our internal control over
financial reporting, commencing in 2006/07. A project team has
completed the labour-intensive task of documenting processes
and testing is well advanced. Progress ahead of next year’s
disclosure is satisfactory.
Risk management
We believe that risk management is an essential discipline in our
business operations. As an integral part of this, we have a Group-
wide risk management process to ensure a consistent approach
to the assessment, recording and reporting of our key risks in a
visible, structured and continuous manner. This process helps to
safeguard the Group’s assets and is designed to manage, rather
than eliminate, material risks to the achievement of the Group’s
business objectives, while also recognising that any such process
can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss. This process complies with the
Turnbull working party guidance (revised October 2005) and, in
addition, contributes toward the Group’s compliance with our
obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as other internal
assurance activities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Corporate Governance 73 The risk management process continues to be based on both
bottom-up and top-down assessments of operational, financial
and other business risks. From the bottom up, business units and
Corporate Centre functions must prepare and maintain risk
registers that capture their key risks and the actions that are
being taken to manage them. These risk registers are primarily
management tools for use at an operational level, but are also
intended to ensure that risk is reported on a consistent basis
throughout the Group. The key element in the top-down
assessment of our risk profile is the involvement of the Executive
Directors and other senior management across the Group at
critical stages in the review process. Their review of the bottom-
up assessment produces an overall evaluation of the risks that
are faced by the Group. Graphics that set out the Group’s risk
profile and any significant changes to this between reporting
periods are considered by the Executive Committee, the Risk &
Responsibility Committee and the Audit Committee twice a year.
The Audit Committee also reviews the risk management process
at least once during each year and reports on this to the Board.
During the year, the Group risk management process was subject
to independent internal review and found to be applied on a
consistent basis across the Group. In addition, during the year we
have sought to derive further benefits from this process through
closer coordination with the Group Insurance team and a more
formalised interaction with the Group Internal Audit function. An
external benchmarking exercise has also continued with other
FTSE 100 companies and similar organisations to measure the
effectiveness of our own approach and exchange best practice. 
Our risk management process has identified the risk factors set
out on pages 74 to 76.
Compliance management
During the year, we have continued to develop and implement
our Group-wide compliance management process, which seeks
to ensure that key legal and regulatory obligations are identified,
that appropriate control frameworks are established to minimise
the potential for and impact of non-compliance with these
obligations and that a transparent process exists to support this.
The principal areas of focus during the year have been to close
any outstanding gaps in the process and ensure that it is
consistently applied across our businesses. The compliance
management procedure is consistent with, and complementary to,
our risk management procedure including bottom-up and top-
down elements. The process is also used to review compliance
with our Group policies and procedures.
Twice a year the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and 
Risk & Responsibility Committee receive a report setting out 
the significant obligations across the Group and any material non-
compliances with those, together with control opinions and action
plans to improve controls where necessary. As with the Group
risk management process, the Audit Committee also reviews the
compliance management process at least once during each year
and reports on this to the Board.
The compliance management process also contributes toward
the entity level testing that is performed under the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act, as well as some of our other internal assurance
activities. Following the progress made in implementing this
process during the year we have commenced a series of meetings
with other leading companies to benchmark what we have
achieved to date.
Risk factors
Our risk management process has identified the following risk
factors which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation,
as well as the value and liquidity of our securities. Not all of these
factors are within our control. In addition, other factors besides
those listed below may have an adverse effect on the Group. Any
investment decision regarding our securities and any forward-looking
statements made by us should be considered in the light of these
risk factors and the cautionary statement set out on the inside
back cover.
Changes in law or regulation in the geographies in which we
operate could have an adverse effect on our results 
of operations.
Many of our businesses are utilities or networks that are subject
to regulation by governments and other authorities. Consequently,
changes in law or regulation in the countries or states in which
we operate could adversely affect the Group. Regulatory
decisions concerning, for example, whether licences or approvals
to operate are renewed, whether market developments have been
satisfactorily implemented and whether there has been any
breach of the terms of a licence or approval, the level of
permitted revenues for our businesses and proposed business
development activities could have an adverse impact on our
results of operations, cash flows, the financial condition of our
businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in the
future. For further information, see the Operating and Financial
Review and, in particular, the ‘External and regulatory environment’
sections for each of the Group’s business segments.
74 Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Corporate Governance 75
Breaches of or changes in environmental or health and safety 
laws or regulations could expose us to claims for financial
compensation and adverse regulatory consequences, as well 
as damaging our reputation.
Aspects of our activities are potentially dangerous, such as the
operation and maintenance of electricity lines and the transmission
and distribution of natural gas. Electricity and gas utilities also
typically use and generate in their operations hazardous and
potentially hazardous products and by-products. In addition,
there may be other aspects of our operations which are not
currently regarded or proved to have adverse effects but could
become so; for example, the effects of electric and magnetic
fields. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution,
the protection of the environment, and how we use and dispose
of hazardous substances and waste materials. We are also
subject to laws and regulations governing health and safety
matters protecting the public and our employees. Any breach of
these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a
breach, could adversely affect our results of operations and our
reputation. For further information about environmental and health
and safety matters relating to our businesses, see the ‘Operating
Responsibly’ section of our website at www.nationalgrid.com.
Network failure or the inability to carry out critical non-network
operations may have significant adverse impacts on both our
financial position and our reputation.
We may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry
out critical non-network operations. Operational performance
could be adversely affected by a failure to maintain the health of
the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or
inadequate record keeping. This could cause us to fail to meet
agreed standards of service or be in breach of a licence or
approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach
could result in adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as
well as harming our reputation. In addition to these risks, we may
be affected by other potential events that are largely outside of our
control such as the impact of weather or unlawful acts of third
parties. Weather conditions can affect financial performance,
particularly in the US, and severe weather that causes outages 
or damages infrastructure will adversely affect operational and
potentially business performance. Terrorist attack, sabotage or
other intentional acts may also physically damage our businesses
or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and as a
consequence adversely impact the results of operations.
Our results of operations depend on a number of factors
relating to business performance including performance
against regulatory targets and the delivery of anticipated 
cost and efficiency savings.
Earnings maintenance and growth from our regulated gas and
electricity businesses will be affected by our ability to meet or
better efficiency targets set by Ofgem and other regulators. From
time to time, we also publish cost and efficiency savings targets
for our businesses in the UK and the US. To meet these targets,
we must continue to improve operational performance. In 
the US, under our state rate plans, earnings from our regulated
businesses will be affected by our ability to deliver integration and
efficiency savings. Earnings from our regulated businesses in both
the UK and the US also depend on meeting service quality
standards set by regulators. To meet these standards, we must
improve service reliability and customer service. If we do not meet
these targets and standards, both our results of operations and
our reputation may be harmed.
Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs may
have an adverse effect on the results of operations.
Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact our energy
delivery businesses. Current regulatory arrangements in the UK
and the US provide the ability to pass through virtually all of the
increased costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if regulators in the UK or the US were to restrict this
ability, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
Our reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer 
a disruption to their supply even if this disruption is outside 
our control.
Our energy delivery businesses are responsible for transporting
available electricity and gas. We consult with and provide
information to regulators, governments and industry participants
about future demand and the availability of supply. However,
where there is insufficient supply our role is to manage the
relevant system safely, which in extreme circumstances may
require us to disconnect consumers.
Business development activity, including acquisitions and
disposals, may be based on incorrect assumptions or
conclusions; significant liabilities may be overlooked or there
may be other unanticipated or unintended effects.
In February 2006, we announced the acquisitions of KeySpan
Corporation and the Rhode Island gas distribution business of
Southern Union Company. These transactions are subject to a
number of conditions precedent, in particular, approvals from
relevant regulators and, in the case of the acquisition of KeySpan,
the approval of both its and our shareholders. These approvals
may not be received or they may be granted but on terms that
are different than anticipated. We have also announced that we
expect to achieve certain levels of synergy and efficiency savings
from these transactions, but these may not subsequently be
achievable. For further details concerning these transactions, 
see the ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ section of the Operating 
and Financial Review on page 21.  Fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
price indices, in particular, in the US dollar could have a
significant impact on our results of operations because we have
substantial business interests in the US and because of the
significant proportion of our borrowings, derivative financial
instruments and commodity contracts that may potentially be
affected by such fluctuations.
We currently have significant operations in the US and the
proportion of our activities located there will substantially increase
following the completion of the acquisition of KeySpan and the
Rhode Island gas distribution business of Southern Union
Company. These businesses are subject to the risks normally
associated with foreign operations, including the need to translate
US assets and liabilities, and income and expenses, into sterling,
our primary reporting currency. Our results of operations may be
similarly impacted because a significant proportion of our
borrowings, derivative financial instruments and commodity
contracts are affected by changes in exchange rates, interest
rates and commodity price indices, in particular, the US dollar to
sterling exchange rate. For further information about this, see the
‘Financial position and financial management’ section of the
Operating and Financial Review.
The nature and extent of our borrowings means that an increase
in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our financial
position and business results.
A significant proportion of our borrowings are subject to variable
interest rates which may fluctuate with changes to prevailing
interest rates. Increases in these interest rates could therefore
increase our costs and diminish our profits. For further information
about this, see the ‘Financial position and financial management’
section of the Operating and Financial Review.
Our financial position may be adversely affected by a number
of factors including restrictions in borrowing and debt
arrangements, changes to credit ratings and effective tax rates.
We are subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to
our listed debt securities and our bank lending facilities. We are
also subject to restrictions on financing which have been imposed
by regulators. These restrictions may hinder us in servicing the
financial requirements of our current businesses or the financing
of newly acquired or developing businesses. Our debt is rated by
credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings may affect
both our borrowing capacity and the cost of those borrowings.
The effective rate of tax we pay may be influenced by a number
of factors including changes in law and accounting standards, 
the proportion of our business operations which are located in the
US and our overall approach to tax planning, the results of which
could increase that rate.
Future funding requirements of our pension schemes could
adversely affect our results of operations.
We participate in a number of pension schemes which together
cover substantially all of our employees. In both the UK and the
US, the principal schemes are defined benefit schemes where 
the scheme assets are held independently of Group finances.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for these
schemes are based on various actuarial assumptions and other
factors including, among other things, the actual and projected
market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond
yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may require
us to make additional contributions to these pension schemes
which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price
controls or state rate plans, could adversely affect our results 
of operations.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
by the UK, US or international accounting standard setting
boards and other relevant bodies could have an adverse effect
on the Group’s reported financial results.
With the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS), as adopted by the European Union, changes in the
accounting treatment of replacement expenditure, regulatory
assets, pension and post-retirement benefits, derivative financial
instruments and commodity contracts have significantly affected
the way we report our financial position and results of operations.
New standards, rules or interpretations may be issued which could
also have significant effects. In addition, as a body of practice
develops, the application of accounting principles to our particular
circumstances may change.
76 Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Accompanying this Directors’ Report are an Operating 
and Financial Review (OFR), Corporate Governance section 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report. The OFR has been
prepared in accordance with ‘Reporting Statement: Operating
and Financial Review’, issued by the UK Accounting Standards
Board, and the Directors therefore consider that this will fulfil 
the requirement for a Business Review. The OFR also includes
information in respect of financial risks under the heading
‘Liquidity and treasury management’ on pages 56 to 59 and
employee involvement and employment practices principally 
on page 26.
Principal activity
The Company’s principal activity is as the ultimate holding
company of a group of companies involved in the transmission
and distribution of energy, the provision of wireless infrastructure
and other related businesses in related markets.
Directors
Biographical details of Directors serving as at the date of this
report are included on pages 18 and 19. Details of the remuneration
of all Directors serving during the period, along with information
on shares held, are included in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on pages 79 to 89.
The Company arranges Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance
cover, which the Board regards as appropriate and adequate. 
A qualifying third party indemnity provision was granted in favour
of Directors of the Company in accordance with sections 309A-B
of the Companies Act 1985 following changes in the Group’s
memorandum and articles of association which were approved 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2005. Copies of
individual Deeds of Indemnity are available for inspection by
shareholders at the Company’s registered office at 1-3 Stand,
London WC2N 5EH.
At no time during the year did any Director have any material
interest in a contract within the Group, being a contract of any
significance in relation to the Group’s business.
Code of Ethics
The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial
professionals. This code is available on the Group website at
www.nationalgrid.com (where any amendments or waivers will
also be posted). There were no amendments to, or waivers of,
our Code of Ethics during the year.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 10.2 pence per ordinary share ($0.8816 per
American Depositary Share) was paid on 25 January 2006 to
shareholders on the register on 2 December 2005. The Directors
are recommending that a final dividend of 15.9 pence per ordinary
share ($1.5115 per American Depositary Share) be paid on 23
August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 9 June 2006.
Political donations
The Group made no political donations in the UK or European Union
during the year (including donations as defined for the purposes
of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000).
National Grid USA’s political action committees, funded entirely by
voluntary employee contributions, gave $46,490 (£25,972) to US
state and national political and campaign committees in 2005/06.
Charitable donations
During 2005/06 the Group invested some £7.7 million (2004/05:
£7.3 million) in support of community initiatives and relationships
across its operations. The London Benchmarking Group model
was used to assess this overall community investment. Within
this figure, direct donations to charitable organisations amounted
to £2.7 million in the UK (2004/05: £1.3 million) and £2.1 million
($3.8 million) in the US (2004/05: £1.8 million ($3.4 million)). 
In addition to our charitable donations, substantial financial
support was provided for our Affordable Warmth Programme,
education programme, university research and our ‘Young
Offender Into Work Programme’.
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development during the year was 
£7 million, compared with £9 million in 2004/05. 
Purchase of own ordinary shares
The Company has authority from shareholders to repurchase up 
to 10% of its own ordinary shares. This authority was not used
during the year, nor in the period up to 17 May 2006. The Board
intends to seek shareholder approval to renew the authority at
this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Companies are permitted to hold repurchased shares as treasury
shares rather than cancelling them. The Board has no current
intention to hold repurchased shares as treasury shares, other
than as required for employee share schemes.
Return of cash – B shares
During the year, the Company returned £2 billion of value 
to shareholders by way of a B share scheme. Shareholders
received one B share for every existing ordinary share they held.
Shareholders then had choices in respect of the B shares and the
return of cash: (1) single B share dividend, (2) initial repurchase
offer and (3) future repurchase offers. Details were set out in the
Circular to Shareholders, dated 6 June 2005.
At the same time that the B shares were issued, the ordinary
shares were consolidated to reflect the return of cash.
Shareholders received 43 new ordinary shares (of 11
17
⁄43 pence
nominal value per share) for every 49 existing ordinary shares 
(of 10 pence nominal value per share).
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Report 77 Following the consolidation, shareholders may have ended up
with fractional entitlements to a new ordinary share. These
fractional entitlements were all aggregated and sold and the
proceeds distributed pro rata to the relevant shareholders. Where
an individual’s fractional entitlement was less than £1, this was
not distributed but was retained by the Company. These retained
fractional entitlements amounted to about £145,000 
and will be donated to charities selected by the Company.
The elections were split as follows: 1,226,547 shareholders
elected for the single B share dividend; 96,845 shareholders
elected for the initial repurchase offer; and 50,753 shareholders
elected to retain B shares.
Elections for the initial repurchase were received in relation to 
over 843,811,272 B shares, which were purchased at 65 pence
per share, free of all dealing expenses and commissions, on
22 August 2005. National Grid purchased all of these B shares,
which had initially been repurchased by JPMorgan Cazenove, 
for the same consideration. All the B shares repurchased were
subsequently cancelled.
A second repurchase of B shares is due to take place on 
8 August 2006. Details will be sent to shareholders who opted 
to retain B shares setting out what they should do to accept the
offer. The offer will again be carried out by a broker and approval
will be sought at the Annual General Meeting for the agreement
to repurchase shares from the broker. The Company will also
seek authority to renew its own authority to make market
purchases of up to 10% of the remaining B shares.
In accordance with the Company’s articles the 2,162,099,630
unlisted deferred shares, which were created following the
conversion of B shares upon the payment of the single B share
dividend, were transferred to the Company for an aggregate
1 pence, following which all of the deferred shares were cancelled.
Policy on payment of creditors
It is the Company’s policy to include in contracts, or other
agreements, terms of payment with suppliers. Once agreed, 
the Company aims to abide by these terms of payment.
The average creditor payment period at 31 March 2006 for the
Group’s principal operations in the UK was 20 days (28 days at 
31 March 2005).
Substantial shareholders
As at 17 May 2006, the Group has been notified of the following
beneficial interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital:
% of 
issued 
share
capital
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.86
Barclays plc 4.60
Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 4.21
Credit Suisse First Boston group 3.41
No further notifications have been received.
Employee share ownership
The Group facilitates share ownership among its UK employees
by the operation of both sharesave and share incentive plans. 
In the US, employees are able to invest in the Group through
employee incentive thrift plans.
In the UK, approximately 83% of employees participate in
sharesave schemes. There are also about 3,000 participants in
the current share incentive plan, holding shares purchased
monthly. In the US, approximately 77% of employees held ADSs
in the employee incentive thrift plans at 31 March 2006.
Annual General Meeting
National Grid’s 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on
Monday 31 July 2006 at The ICC in Birmingham. Details are set
out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Extraordinary General Meeting
On 27 February 2006 National Grid announced its acquisition of
KeySpan Corporation for approximately $7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) 
in cash (enterprise value approximately $11.8 billion (£6.8 billion)).
The acquisition is subject to a number of consents and approvals.
KeySpan is a major US energy delivery company. It is the largest
distributor of natural gas in the northeastern US and the fifth
largest in the US, with approximately 2.6 million customers in
New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. It also operates
an electricity transmission and distribution system serving
approximately 1.1 million customers in New York, under a
contract with the Long Island Power Authority. KeySpan also
owns and operates 6.7 GW of generation capacity in New York.
Its other assets include investments in natural gas pipeline and
storage assets.
National Grid will seek shareholder approval for the acquisition 
at an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM), which is expected to 
be held immediately after the Annual General Meeting. Separate
documentation will be sent to shareholders about the EGM.
Audit information
So far as the Directors in office at the date of the signing of this
report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which
the auditors are unaware and each such Director has taken 
all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware 
of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Helen Mahy
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
17 May 2006
National Grid plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH
Registered in England and Wales No. 4031152
78 Directors’ Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Directors’ Remuneration Report
We are pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
for 2005/06. Our policy of relating pay to the performance of the
Group continues to be a strong principle underlying the
Remuneration Committee’s consideration of executive
remuneration.
Last year we thoroughly reviewed our remuneration policies. 
As a result, we have established revised performance criteria for
the Performance Share Plan (our long-term incentive plan) and
introduced a Deferred Share Plan as part of the annual bonus
plan. We no longer operate the Share Matching Plan. We believe
this reflects best practice and aligns executive incentive plans as
closely as possible with the Group’s strategic objectives and 
our shareholders’ interests generally. 
Our main focus in 2005/06 has been to review pension
arrangements to take account of UK legislative changes effective
from April 2006. The modifications to pension provision are
outlined below. 
Overall, we believe that salary levels and the mix between fixed
and variable compensation are appropriate and we will continue
to review the remuneration package to ensure it remains so.
We are confident that our approach continues to align Executive
Directors’ remuneration with the interests of shareholders
generally, while maintaining the motivation and engagement of the
team leading the Group.
Joint statement from chairmen, Remuneration Committee
John Grant John Allan 
(1 April 2005 to 28 February 2006) (From 1 March 2006) 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee members are John Grant, 
John Allan, Ken Harvey, Stephen Pettit and George Rose. 
The Remuneration Committee chairman was John Grant until
February 2006. John Allan became Remuneration Committee
chairman in March 2006. Each of these Non-executive Directors
is regarded by the Board as independent and served throughout
the year except John Allan who was appointed to the Board with
effect from 1 May 2005.
The Group Human Resources Director and Group Head of
Compensation & Benefits provide advice on remuneration policies
and practices and are usually invited to attend meetings, along
with the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive. No Director or
other attendee participates in any discussion on his or her own
remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing
Group policy on executive remuneration and for determining the
remuneration of the Executive Directors and executives below
Board level who report directly to the Group Chief Executive. It
also monitors the remuneration of other senior employees of the
Group and provides direction over the Group’s share plans.
The Board has accepted all the recommendations made by the
Remuneration Committee during the year.
The Remuneration Committee has authority to obtain the advice
of outside independent remuneration consultants. It is solely
responsible for their appointment, retention and termination, 
and for approval of their fees and other terms.
In the year to 31 March 2006, the following advisors provided
services to the Remuneration Committee:
Ernst & Young LLP, independent remuneration advisors until
July 2005. They also provide taxation and financial advice to
the Group;
Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent remuneration advisors
from November 2005. They also provide taxation and financial
advice to the Group;
Alithos Limited, provision of Total Shareholder Return
calculations for the Performance Share Plan and Executive
Share Option Plan; 
Linklaters, advice relating to Directors’ service contracts as
well as providing other legal advice to the Group; and
Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited, advice relating
to pension taxation legislation. They also provide general
advice with respect to human resource issues across 
the Group.
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee determines remuneration policies
and practices with the aim of attracting, motivating and retaining
high calibre Executive Directors and other senior employees to
deliver value for shareholders and high levels of customer service,
safety and reliability in an efficient and responsible manner. The
Remuneration Committee sets remuneration policies and
practices in line with best practice in the markets in which the
Group operates. Remuneration policies continue to be framed
around the following key principles:
total rewards should be set at levels that are competitive 
in the relevant market;
a significant proportion of the Executive Directors’ total
reward should be performance based. Performance based
incentives will be earned through the achievement of
demanding targets for short-term business and personal
performance; and long-term shareholder value creation,
consistent with our Framework for Responsible Business
which can be found at
www.nationalgrid.com/responsibility/managementandgovernance;
for higher levels of performance, rewards should be
substantial but not excessive; and
incentive plans, performance measures and targets should be
structured to operate soundly throughout the business cycle.
They should be prudent and aligned as closely as possible
with shareholders’ interests.
It is currently intended to continue these policies in subsequent
years. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 79 Executive Directors’ remuneration
Remuneration packages for Executive Directors consist of the
following elements:
salary;
annual bonus including the Deferred Share Plan;
long-term incentive, the Performance Share Plan;
all-employee share plans;
pension contributions; and
non-cash benefits.
Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually and targeted broadly at the median
position in the relevant market. In determining the relevant
market, the Remuneration Committee takes account of the
regulated nature of the majority of the Group’s operating activities
along with the size, complexity and international scope of the
business. For UK-based Executive Directors a UK market is used
and a US market is used for the US-based Executive Director. In
setting individual salary levels, the Remuneration Committee takes
into account business performance, the individual’s experience in
the role and the employment and salary practices prevailing for
other employees in the Group.
Annual bonus including the Deferred Share Plan
Annual bonuses are based on achievement of a combination of
demanding Group, individual and, where applicable, divisional
targets. The principal measures of Group performance are
adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and cash flow; the main
divisional measures are divisional operating profit and divisional
cash flow. Individual targets are set in relation to key operating
and strategic objectives and include overriding measures of 
safety and customer service performance. The Remuneration
Committee sets targets at the start of the year and reviews
performance against those targets at year end. The Remuneration
Committee may use its discretion to reduce payments to take
account of significant safety or service standard incidents, or to
increase them in the event of exceptional value creation.
Performance against Group and divisional financial targets for this
year is shown in the table below:
Level of performance achieved in 2005/06
Financial measures as determined by the Remuneration Committee 
Group targets Divisional targets
Adjusted EPS Stretch
Cash flow Stretch
Operating profit Stretch
Cash flow Stretch (i)
Earnings (ii) Stretch
(i) Except US Distribution, where threshold was not achieved.
(ii) US Distribution financial measure only.
In 2005/06, all Executive Directors participated in the annual bonus
arrangements with a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% 
of base salary. One half of any bonus earned is automatically
deferred into National Grid shares (ADSs for the US-based
Executive Director) through the Deferred Share Plan. The shares
(or ADSs) are held in trust for three years before release. During
this time they are not owned by the Executive Directors and
therefore no dividends are paid. The Remuneration Committee
may, at the time of release of the shares, use its discretion to pay
a cash amount equivalent to the value of the dividends that would
have accumulated on the deferred shares.
The Remuneration Committee believes that requiring Executive
Directors to invest a substantial amount of their bonus in National
Grid shares increases the proportion of rewards linked to both
short-term performance and longer-term total shareholder
returns. This practice also ensures that Executive Directors share
a significant level of personal risk with the Group’s shareholders.
In line with US market practice, the US-based Executive
Director’s bonus is pensionable.
The US-based Executive Director also participates in the USA
Goals Program, a bonus plan covering a large number of US-
based employees that can pay up to 5.7% of salary on the
achievement of certain earnings and performance targets.
Long-term incentive 
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Executive Directors and approximately 350 other senior
employees who have significant influence over the Group’s ability
to meet its strategic objectives receive an award which will vest
subject to the achievement of performance conditions set by the
Remuneration Committee at the date of grant. The value of
shares constituting an award (as a percentage of salary) may vary
by grade and seniority subject to a maximum, for Executive
Directors, of 125% of salary. Awards were made at the maximum
percentage to Executive Directors in the year 2005/06. Shares
vest after three years, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant
performance criteria. Vested shares must then be held for a
further year (the retention period) after which they are released.
During the retention period, the Remuneration Committee has
discretion to pay an amount, equivalent in cash or shares, to the
dividend which would have been paid on the vested shares.
Under the terms of the PSP, the Remuneration Committee may
allow shares to vest early to a departing Executive Director to the
extent the performance condition has been met, in which event
the number of shares that vest will be pro-rated to reflect the
proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the
Executive Director’s date of departure.
80 Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Awards made in June 2003 and June 2004 were based on the
Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a
three-year period relative to the TSR performance of the following
group of comparator companies:
Ameren Corporation Iberdrola SA
AWG plc International Power plc
Centrica plc Kelda Group plc
Consolidated Edison, Inc. Pennon Group plc
Dominion Resources, Inc. RWE AG
E.ON AG Scottish Power plc
Electrabel SA Scottish & Southern Energy plc
Endesa SA Severn Trent plc
Enel SpA The Southern Company, Inc.
Exelon Corporation Suez SA
FirstEnergy Corporation United Utilities plc
FPL Group, Inc. Viridian Group plc
Gas Natural SDG SA
In calculating TSR for the 2003 and 2004 awards, it is assumed
all dividends are reinvested. No shares will be released if the
Group’s TSR over the three-year period, when ranked against
that of each of the comparator companies, falls below the
median. For TSR at the median, 30% of the shares awarded 
will be released; 100% of the shares awarded will be released 
for TSR ranking at the upper quartile or above. For performance
between median and upper quartile, the number of shares
released is calculated on a straight-line basis.
The performance condition for the June 2005 award was amended,
following consultation with our major shareholders, so that 50% 
of any award is based on the Group’s TSR performance when
compared to the FTSE 100 (as at 27 June 2005) and 50% is
based on the annualised growth of the Group’s EPS.
These measures were chosen because the Remuneration
Committee believes they offer an improved balance between
meeting the needs of shareholders (by measuring TSR
performance against other large UK companies) and providing a
measure of performance (EPS growth) over which the Executive
Directors have direct influence. The Remuneration Committee
considers the new PSP performance conditions to be at least 
as challenging as the previous single performance criterion. 
In calculating TSR for the 2005 award, it is assumed that all
dividends are reinvested. No shares will be released under the
TSR part of the award if the Group’s TSR over the three-year
performance period, when ranked against that of the FTSE 100
comparator group falls below the median. For TSR at the median,
30% of those shares will be released; 100% will be released
where National Grid’s TSR performance is 7.5% above that of the
median company in the FTSE 100 (upper target).
The EPS measure is calculated by reference to National Grid’s
real EPS growth. Where annualised growth in EPS (excluding
exceptional items and including continuing operations only) over
the three-year performance period exceeds the average annual
increase in RPI (the general index of retail prices for all items) 
over the same period by 3% (threshold performance), 30% of the 
shares under the EPS part of the award will be released; 100% 
of the shares will be released where EPS growth exceeds RPI
growth by 6% (upper target).
For performance (for each target) between threshold and the
upper target, the number of shares released is calculated 
on a straight-line basis. 
If the Remuneration Committee considers, in its absolute
discretion, the underlying financial performance of the Group
does not justify the vesting of awards, even if either or both of the
TSR condition and the EPS condition are satisfied in whole or in
part, it can declare that some or all of the award lapses.
No re-testing of performance is permitted for any of the PSP
awards that do not vest after the three-year performance period
and any such awards lapse.
Executive Directors’ remuneration package
Illustrated below is the remuneration package of Executive
Directors (excluding pensions, all-employee share plans and non-
cash benefits) for both ‘maximum stretch’ performance and
assuming ‘on target’ performance of 50% for the bonus plan; 
and TSR and EPS performance such that 37.5% of PSP awards
are released to participants at the end of the performance period
and subsequent retention period.
Note: Excludes Mike Jesanis’s participation in the USA Goals Program.
All-employee share plans
Sharesave: Employees resident in the UK, including Executive
Directors, are eligible to participate in HM Revenue and
Customs approved all-employee Sharesave schemes. Under
these schemes, participants may contribute between £5 and
£250 in total each month, for a fixed period of three years,
five years or both. Contributions are taken from net salary. 
At the end of the savings period, these contributions can be
used to purchase ordinary shares in National Grid at a
discount, capped at 20% of the market price, set at the
launch of the scheme.
Annual base pay  31% 
Annual bonus 31% 
PSP award 38% 
 
Annual base pay  53% 
Annual bonus 27% 
PSP award 20% 
 
On target performance Maximum stretch performance 
38 
31 
31 
20 
27 
53 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 81 82 Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Share Incentive Plan (SIP): Employees resident in the UK,
including UK-based Executive Directors, are eligible to
participate in the SIP . Contributions up to £125 are taken 
from participants’ gross salary and used to purchase ordinary
shares in National Grid each month. The shares are placed 
in trust and if they are left in trust for at least five years, 
they can be removed free of UK income tax and National
Insurance Contributions.
US Incentive Thrift Plan: Employees resident in the US,
including the US-based Executive Director, are eligible to
participate in the Thrift Plan, a tax-advantaged savings plan
(commonly referred to as a 401(k) plan) provided for employees
of National Grid’s US companies. This is a defined contribution
pension plan that gives participants the opportunity to invest
a maximum of 50% of salary (pre-tax) and/or up to 15% 
of salary (post-tax) up to applicable Federal salary limits
(US$210,000 for calendar year 2005 and US$220,000 for 2006).
The Company then matches 100% of the first 2% and 75%
of the next 4% of salary contributed, resulting in a maximum
matching contribution of 5% of salary up to the Federal salary
cap. Employees may invest their own and Company
contributions in Group shares or various mutual fund options.
Pensions 
Current UK-based Executive Directors are provided with final
salary pension benefits. The pension provisions for the UK-based
Executive Directors are designed to provide a pension of one
thirtieth of final salary at age 60 for each year of service subject 
to a maximum of two thirds of final salary, including any pension
rights earned in previous employment. Within the pension
schemes, the pensionable salary is normally the base salary in 
the 12 months prior to leaving the Company. Life assurance
provision of four times pensionable salary and a spouse’s pension
equal to two thirds of the Executive Director’s pension are
provided on death.
UK-based Executive Directors who joined the Company after 
31 May 1989 have been able to participate in an unfunded
scheme in respect of those benefits earned on pay above the 
HM Revenue and Customs Earnings Cap. An appropriate
provision in respect of the unfunded scheme has been made 
in the Company’s balance sheet. 
In response to the new pensions taxation legislation which came
into force on 6 April 2006 (A Day), the Remuneration Committee
ensured the pension policy post A Day did not provide the
Executive Directors with additional benefit accrual as a result of
the change in pensions taxation. The current UK-based Executive
Directors have elected to participate in the unfunded scheme in
respect of any benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance or
their Personal Lifetime Allowance. These Executive Directors are
able to cease accrual in the pension schemes and take a 30%
cash allowance in lieu of pension if they so wish in the future.
These choices are in line with those offered to current senior
employees in the Company, except the cash allowance varies
depending upon organisational grade. 
Mike Jesanis participates in a qualified pension plan and an
executive supplemental retirement plan provided by National
Grid’s US companies. These plans are non-contributory defined
benefit arrangements. The qualified plan is directly funded, while
the supplemental plan is indirectly funded through a ‘rabbi trust’.
Benefits are calculated using a formula based on years of service
and highest average compensation over five consecutive years. 
In line with many US plans, the calculation of benefits under the
arrangements takes into account salary, bonuses and incentive
share awards (the Deferred Share Plan) but not share options or
the PSP awards. The normal retirement age under the qualified
pension plan is 65. The executive supplemental plan, however,
provides unreduced pension benefits from age 55. On the death
of the participating Executive Director, the plans also provide for a
spouse’s pension of at least 50% of that accrued by the
participating Executive Director. Benefits under these
arrangements do not increase once in payment.
Non-cash benefits
The Group provides competitive benefits to Executive Directors,
such as a fully expensed car or a cash alternative in lieu of car
and fuel, use of a driver when required, private medical insurance 
and life assurance. UK-based Executive Directors with fewer than
five years’ continuous service, who were previously Executive
Directors of National Grid Group plc, are provided with long-term
ill-health insurance. Business expenses incurred are reimbursed 
in such a way as to give rise to no benefit to the Director.
Flexible Benefits Plan
Additional benefits may be purchased under the Flexible Benefits
Plan (the Plan), in which UK-based Executive Directors, along
with most other UK employees, have been given the opportunity
to participate. The Plan operates by way of salary sacrifice, that
is, the participants’ salaries are reduced by the monetary value
used to purchase benefits under the Plan. Many of the benefits
are linked to purchasing additional healthcare and insurance
products for employees and their families. One Executive Director,
Steve Lucas, participates in this Plan and details of the impact 
on his salary are shown in table 1A on page 84. 
A similar plan is offered to US-based employees. However, it is
not a salary sacrifice plan and therefore does not affect salary
values. Mike Jesanis participates in this plan. 
Share ownership guidelines
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up and retain a
shareholding of at least 100% of annual salary. As a minimum,
this should be achieved by retaining 50% of the after-tax gain on
any options exercised or shares received through the long-term
incentive or all-employee share plans.
Share dilution through the operation of share-based 
incentive plans
Where shares may be issued or treasury shares reissued to
satisfy incentives, the aggregate dilution resulting from executive
incentives will not exceed 5% in any 10-year period. Dilution
resulting from all incentives, including all-employee incentives, 
will not exceed 10% in any 10-year period. The Remuneration
Committee reviews dilution against these limits regularly and
under these limits, the Company currently has headroom 
of 3.97% and 5.73% respectively. Executive Directors’ service contracts
Service contracts for all Executive Directors provide for one year’s
notice by either party. The Remuneration Committee operates 
a policy of mitigation of losses in the event of an Executive
Director’s employment being terminated by the Group. If this
occurs, the departing Executive Director would be expected 
to mitigate any losses incurred as a result of the termination.
Therefore, entitlement to the payment of 12 months’
remuneration on early termination is not automatic, but 
instead is based on the circumstances of the termination. 
The Remuneration Committee, in determining any other 
such payments, will give due regard to the comments and
recommendations of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules, the
Combined Code and associated guidance, and other
requirements of legislation, regulation and good governance.
Date of contract Notice period
Executive Directors
Roger Urwin 17 November 1995 12 months
Steve Holliday 6 March 2001 12 months
Steve Lucas 13 June 2002 12 months
Nick Winser 28 April 2003 12 months
Mike Jesanis 8 July 2004 12 months
Edward Astle 27 July 2001 12 months
External appointments and retention of fees
With the approval of the Board in each case, Executive Directors
may normally accept an external appointment as a non-executive
director of another company and retain any fees received. The
table below details the Executive Directors who served as non-
executive directors in other companies during the year ended
31 March 2006.
Company Retained fees (£)
Executive Directors
Roger Urwin Utilico Investment Trust plc 20,250
Steve Holliday Marks and Spencer Group plc 50,000
Steve Lucas Compass Group PLC 66,875
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees are determined by the Executive
Directors subject to the limits applied by National Grid’s articles of
association. Non-executive Directors’ remuneration comprises an
annual fee (£35,000) and a fee for each Board meeting attended
(£1,500) with a higher fee for meetings held outside the Non-
executive Director’s country of residence (£3,000). An additional
fee is payable for chairmanship of a Board Committee and for
holding the position of Senior Independent Director (£12,500). 
The Audit Committee chairman receives a chairmanship fee of
£15,000 to recognise the additional responsibilities commensurate
with this role. The Chairman is covered by the Company’s
personal accident and private medical insurance schemes and
the Company provides him with life assurance cover, a car (with
driver when appropriate) and fuel expenses. Non-executive
Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan or in any
long-term incentive scheme, nor do they receive any pension
benefits from the Group.
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Chairman’s letter of appointment provides for a period of six
months’ notice to give the Group reasonable security with regard
to his service. The terms of engagement of Non-executive
Directors other than the Chairman are also set out in letters 
of appointment. For all Non-executive Directors, their initial
appointment and any subsequent reappointment is subject 
to election by shareholders. The letters of appointment do not
contain provision for termination payments.
Date of letter End of period
of appointment of appointment
Non-executive Directors
Sir John Parker (Chairman) 12 January 2004 2006 AGM
Ken Harvey 5 June 2003 2006 AGM
John Allan 3 November 2005 2008 AGM
John Grant 14 November 2005 2006 AGM
Paul Joskow 3 November 2005 2008 AGM
Stephen Pettit 5 June 2003 2006 AGM
Maria Richter 30 September 2003 2007 AGM
George Rose 5 June 2003 2008 AGM
Performance graph
The graph below represents the comparative TSR performance of
the Group from 31 March 2001 to 31 March 2006. For the period
before the merger of National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group
plc, the TSR shown is that of National Grid Group plc.
This graph represents the Group’s performance against the
performance of the FTSE 100 index, which is considered suitable
for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index of which
National Grid is a constituent. This graph has been produced in
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985.
In drawing this graph it has been assumed that all dividends have
been reinvested. The TSR level shown at 31 March each year is
the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30-day period
up to and including that date.
31/03
2001
31/03
2002
31/03
2003
31/03
2004
31/03
2005
31/03
2006
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
National Grid plc/National Grid Group plc FTSE 100 
Source: Datastream
National Grid plc/National Grid Group plc
TSRvFTSE 100      TSR%
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 83 Remuneration outcomes during the year ended 31 March 2006
Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 comprise the ‘auditable’ part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, being the information required by Part
3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
1. Directors’ emoluments
The following tables set out an analysis of the pre-tax emoluments during the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005, including bonuses
but excluding pensions, for individual Directors who held office in National Grid during the year ended 31 March 2006.
Year ended 
31 March
Table 1A Year ended 31 March 2006 2005 `
Benefits Benefits
Annual in kind (i) in kind
Salary bonus (cash) (non-cash) Total Total
£000s £000s £000s £000s £000s £000s
Executive Directors 
Roger Urwin 765 734 – 19 1,518 1,125
Steve Holliday (ii) (iii) 425 425 – 20 870 660
Steve Lucas (iv) 417 407 – 24 848 648
Nick Winser 385 366 – 20 771 531
Mike Jesanis (v) (vi) 469 385 7 13 874 446
Edward Astle 400 336 12 11 759 622
Total 2,861 2,653 19 107 5,640 4,032
(i) Benefits in kind comprise benefits such as a fully expensed car, driver, private medical insurance and life assurance.
(ii) Steve Holliday’s salary was increased to £600,000 on 1 April 2006, on appointment to Deputy Group Chief Executive.
(iii) The total for 2005 for Steve Holliday includes, as disclosed last year, an additional ex gratia bonus of £80,000 paid on completion of the sales of four of the UK gas distribution networks.
(iv) Steve Lucas participates in the Flexible Benefits Plan which operates by way of salary sacrifice, therefore his salary is reduced by the value of the benefits he has purchased. The value of
these benefits (£3,050) is included in the benefits in kind (non-cash) figure.
(v) Mike Jesanis’s values use an exchange rate averaged over the year 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 of US$1.79:£1. The exchange rate for the previous year was US$1.87:£1.
(vi) Mike Jesanis’s bonus includes a payment worth £4,787 in respect of his participation in the USA Goals Program (described on page 80).
Year ended 
31 March
Table 1B Year ended 31 March 2006 2005
Other 
Fees emoluments Total Total
£000s £000s £000s £000s
Non-executive Directors 
Sir John Parker (i) 400 45 445 406
Ken Harvey 67 – 67 58
John Allan (ii) 45 – 45 –
John Grant 67 –6765
Paul Joskow 74 – 74 73
Stephen Pettit 68 – 68 58
Maria Richter 61 – 61 66
George Rose 67 – 67 61
Total 849 45 894 787
(i) Sir John Parker’s other emoluments comprise benefits in kind such as a fully expensed car, driver, private medical insurance and life assurance.
(ii) John Allan’s appointment to the Board was effective from 1 May 2005 and he became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2006.
84 Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 85
2. Directors’ pensions
The table below gives details of the Executive Directors’ pension benefits in accordance with both Schedule 7A of the Companies 
Act 1985 and the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules.
Transfer value of
increase in
Additional accrued benefit
benefit earned in the year ended
Transfer value of in the 31 March 2006
Additional benefit Accrued accrued benefits Increase in year ended (excluding
earned during entitlement as at 31 March (i) transfer value 31 March 2006 Director’s
the year ended as at less Director’s (excluding contributions
31 March 2006 31 March 2006 2006 2005 contributions inflation) and inflation)
Table 2 £000s £000s £000s £000s £000s £000s £000s
Roger Urwin 59 516 11,291 9,016 2,229 47 990
Steve Holliday (ii) 17 71 1,161 679 466 16 247
Steve Lucas 18 160 2,725 2,261 452 14 224
Nick Winser (iii) 24 132 2,000 1,281 696 21 283
Mike Jesanis (iv) 82 279 2,497 1,687 810 82 583
Edward Astle 16 61 1,086 639 431 15 253
(i) The transfer values shown at 31 March 2005 and 2006 represent the value of each Executive Director’s accrued benefits based on total service completed to the relevant date. 
The transfer values for the UK-based Executive Directors have been calculated in accordance with guidance note ‘GN11’ issued by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries. 
The transfer values for the US-based Executive Director have been calculated using discount rates based on high yield US corporate bonds and associated yields at the relevant dates.
(ii) In addition, as a result of transferring in retained pension benefits during the year, there was an increase in accrued pension of £17,000 per annum and an increase in transfer value at the
year-end of £324,000. The transfer in also provides an accrued lump sum entitlement of £50,000.
(iii) The above information allows for the accrual of a pension benefit of two thirds of salary at age 60 taking into account standard benefits earned prior to 1 September 1998. This means
that, as well as the pension stated above, there is an accrued lump sum entitlement of £217,000 as at 31 March 2006. The increase to the accumulated lump sum including inflation was
£28,000 and excluding inflation was £23,000 in the year to 31 March 2006. The transfer value information above includes the value of the pension equivalent of the lump sum.
(iv) Through participation in the Thrift Plan in the US, the Group also made contributions worth £6,058 to a defined contribution pension arrangement. The exchange rate as at 31 March 2006
was US$1.74:£1. The exchange rate as at 31 March 2005 was US$1.89:£1.
3. Directors’ interests in share options
The table below gives details of the Executive Directors’ holdings of share options awarded under the Executive Share Option Plan
(ESOP), the Share Matching Plan and Sharesave schemes.
Options exercised Market price Exercise price
Options held or lapsed at date of Options granted Options held at per share
Table 3 at 1 April 2005 during the year exercise (pence) during the year 31 March 2006 (pence) Normal exercise period
Roger Urwin
ESOP 169,340 – – – 169,340 280.50 Sep 2000 Sep 2007
91,656 – – – 91,656 375.75 June 2001 June 2008
22,098 – – – 22,098 455.25 June 2002 June 2009
33,867 – – – 33,867 531.50 June 2003 June 2010
133,214 133,214 (i) – – – 563.00 June 2004 June 2011
186,915 62,305 (ii) – – 124,610 481.50 June 2005 June 2012
Share Match 4,047 4,047 (iii) 528.00 – – 100 in total June 2001 June 2005 
3,884 3,884 (iii) 528.00 – – 100 in total Jan 2002 June 2006
3,859 3,859 (iii) 528.00 – – 100 in total Jan 2002 June 2007
5,635 5,635 (iii) 528.00 – – 100 in total June 2004 June 2008
18,644 – – – 18,644 100 in total June 2005 June 2012
25,000 – – – 25,000 100 in total June 2006 June 2013
30,762 – – – 30,762 nil May 2007 May 2014
– – – 25,570 25,570 nil June 2008 June 2015
Sharesave 2,910 – – – 2,910 317.00 Apr 2007 Sep 2007
Total 731,831 212,944 25,570 544,457
Steve Holliday
ESOP 150,000 150,000 (i) – – – 540.00 Mar 2004 Mar 2011
71,936 71,936 (i) – – – 563.00 June 2004 June 2011
101,246 33,749 (iv) – – 67,497 481.50 June 2005 June 2012
Share Match 10,350 – – – 10,350 100 in total June 2005 June 2012
14,083 – – – 14,083 100 in total June 2006 June 2013
18,713 – – – 18,713 nil May 2007 May 2014
– – – 9,983 9,983 nil June 2008 June 2015
Sharesave 4,692 – – – 4,692 350.00 Mar 2008 Aug 2008
Total 371,020 255,685 9,983 125,318 3. Directors’ interests in share options (continued)
Options exercised Market price Exercise price
Options held or lapsed at date of Options granted Options held at per share
Table 3 (continued) at 1 April 2005 during the year exercise (pence) during the year 31 March 2006 (pence, except*) Normal exercise period
Steve Lucas 
ESOP 54,404 – – – 54,404 434.25 Dec 2005 Dec 2012
Share Match 16,909 – – – 16,909 nil May 2007 May 2014
– – – 14,778 14,778 nil June 2008 June 2015
Sharesave 2,700 2,700 603.00 – – 350.00 Mar 2006 Aug 2006
Total 74,013 2,700 14,778 86,091
Nick Winser
ESOP 10,633 10,633 610.50 – – 375.75 June 2001 June 2008
47,236 47,236 610.50 – – 455.25 June 2002 June 2009
19,755 – – – 19,755 531.50 June 2003 June 2010
24,156 24,156 (i) – – – 563.00 June 2004 June 2011
37,383 37,383 598.00 – – 481.50 June 2005 June 2012
Share Match 2,509 2,509 (v) 598.00 – – 100 in total June 2005 June 2012
3,937 – – – 3,937 100 in total June 2006 June 2013
14,059 – – – 14,059 nil May 2007 May 2014
– – – 11,581 11,581 nil June 2008 June 2015
Total 159,668 121,917 11,581 49,332
Mike Jesanis
ESOP 77,861 – – – 77,861 566.50 Mar 2003 Mar 2010
51,169 51,169 (i) – – – 563.00 June 2004 June 2011
66,099 – – – 66,099 481.50 June 2005 June 2012
Total (shares) 195,129 51,169 – 143,960
Phantom ADSs (vi) 666 – – 33 699 US$39.590* – –
2,857 – – 143 3,000 US$34.270* – –
3,288 – – 164 3,452 US$32.320* – –
2,895 – – 144 3,039 US$39.376* – –
– – – 4,730 4,730 US$47.762* – –
Total (Phantom ADSs) 9,706 – 5,214 14,920
Edward Astle
ESOP 193,952 193,952 (i) – – – 479.50 Sep 2004 Sep 2011
101,246 33,749 (vii) – – 67,497 481.50 June 2005 June 2012
112,262 112,262 (vii) 594.50 – – 434.25 Dec 2005 Dec 2012
131,086 – – – 131,086 400.50 June 2006 June 2013
Share Match 6,553 – – – 6,553 100 in total June 2005 June 2012
13,812 – – – 13,812 100 in total June 2006 June 2013
15,716 – – – 15,716 nil May 2007 May 2014
– – – 14,637 14,637 nil June 2008 June 2015
Sharesave 2,392 2,392 527.00 – – 397.00 Sep 2005 Feb 2006
Total 577,019342,355 14,637249,301
(i) For Executive Share Options granted in 2001, the performance condition was not satisfied at the end of the first three years of the performance period. It has subsequently been re-tested
on 31 March 2004 and 2005 and as a result the options have lapsed in full.
(ii) For Executive Share Options granted in 2002, the performance condition was partly satisfied at the end of the first three years of the performance period. As a result 62,305 shares of the
original 186,915 grant have lapsed.
(iii) Roger Urwin exercised Share Match awards over 17,425 shares. The market price at the date of exercise was 528p and he was required to pay 100p per award. He also received £15,704
in respect of a cash payment in lieu of dividends on exercise of the four Share Match awards.
(iv) For Executive Share Options granted in 2002, the performance condition was partly satisfied at the end of the first three years of the performance period. As a result 33,749 shares of the
original 101,246 grant have lapsed.
(v) Nick Winser exercised a Share Match award over 2,509 shares. The market price at the date of exercise was 598p and he was required to pay 100p in total. He also received £1,976 in
respect of a cash payment in lieu of dividends on exercise of the Share Match award.
(vi) In place of participation in the Share Matching Plan, Mike Jesanis elected to defer the ADS component of his bonus into a deferred compensation plan. For a Phantom award under the deferred
compensation plan, the ADS market value is tracked, additional value is accrued for dividends and the value is delivered, net of normal US deductions, depending on the participant’s election
ie: in 10 years, on a specified age date from 55 to 75, or on leaving, including retirement. The closing market price of ADSs at 31 March 2006 was US$49.63 (each ADS represents five
ordinary shares).
(vii) For Executive Share Options granted in 2002, the performance condition was partly satisfied at the end of the first three years of the performance period. As a result 33,749 shares of the
original 101,246 granted in June have lapsed and a further 37,421 of the original 112,262 granted in December have lapsed. During the year, Edward Astle exercised the remaining options
granted in December 2002.
86 Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 87
3. Directors’ interests in share options (continued)
ESOP
No further awards will be made under this plan but there are outstanding options granted in previous years. Such options will normally
be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant, subject to a performance condition. The performance
condition attached to the outstanding ESOP options is set out below. If the performance condition is not satisfied after the first three
years it will be re-tested as indicated.
Options worth up to 100% of an optionholder’s base salary will become exercisable in full if TSR, measured over the period of three
years beginning with the financial year in which the option is granted, is at least median compared with a comparator group of
companies. Grants in excess of 100% of salary vest on a sliding scale, becoming fully exercisable if the Group’s TSR is in the top
quartile. 
Grants made in 2000 and 2001
The performance condition attached to options granted in June 2000 is tested annually throughout the lifetime of the option. These
options remain unvested.
The comparator group for the 2000 award is unaudited and this information follows below. The Remuneration Committee at that time
believed the group to be an appropriate mix of energy distribution sector companies, including UK and international utilities. 
Allegheny Energy, Inc. Energy East Corporation NSTAR Scottish Power plc
BG Group plc FPL Group, Inc. Powergen plc Southern Company
British Energy plc GPU, Inc. Progress Energy, Inc. TXU, Corp
Central & South West Corporation Innogy Holdings plc Public Service Enterprise United Utilities plc
Consolidated Edison, Inc. International Power plc Group, Inc. Xcel Energy, Inc.
Duke Energy Corporation Niagara Mohawk Holdings, Inc. Scottish & Southern Energy plc
For options granted in June and September 2001, the performance condition could only be re-tested in years four and five. The final re-
test was undertaken in March 2006 and as the performance criterion was not met, all the shares comprised in these awards have
lapsed.
Grants made in 2003
Edward Astle received a grant of Executive Share Options on the basis of 1.5 times base salary at that time, as a one-off award, in June
2003 to fulfill an existing contractual commitment made on his recruitment. He was the only participant to receive such an award in
2003. The comparator group used for this award is unaudited and was the same group as that used for the 2003 PSP award (see page
81). The first test of the performance criterion was undertaken in March 2006. The performance criterion was not met and therefore it
may be re-tested twice, in March 2007, and if required, in March 2008. If the performance criterion has not been met by March 2008,
the award will lapse.
No alteration to the advantage of the participant may be made without prior approval of shareholders. 88 Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
4. Directors’ interests in the PSP
The table below gives details of the Executive Directors’ holdings of conditional shares awarded under the National Grid PSP. Under the
PSP, Executive Directors receive a conditional award of shares, up to a maximum of 125% of salary, which is subject to performance
criteria over a three-year performance period (see pages 80 and 81 for further details). Shares are then released following a further one-
year retention period.
Awards Market Lapsed
Conditional exercised/ Awards price at without Conditional
shares at lapsed granted award Date Vested vesting shares at Release
Table 4 31 March 2005 during year during year (pence, except*) of award in year in year 31 March 2006 date
Roger Urwin 195,866 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 195,866 June 2007
198,587 – – 424.875 June 2004 – – 198,587 June 2008
– – 181,442 527.03 June 2005 – – 181,442 June 2009
Total 394,453 – 181,442 – – 575,895
Steve Holliday 115,669 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 115,669 June 2007
117,681 – – 424.875 June 2004 – – 117,681 June 2008
– – 100,801 527.03 June 2005 – – 100,801 June 2009
Total 233,350 – 100,801 – – 334,151
Steve Lucas 115,669 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 115,669 June 2007
116,210 – – 424.875 June 2004 – – 116,210 June 2008
– – 99,615 527.03 June 2005 – – 99,615 June 2009
Total 231,879 – 99,615 – – 331,494
Nick Winser 92,535 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 92,535 June 2007
98,558 – – 424.875 June 2004 – – 98,558 June 2008
– – 91,314 527.03 June 2005 – – 91,314 June 2009
Total 191,093 – 91,314 – – 282,407
Mike Jesanis 41,871 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 41,871 June 2007
ADSs 19,987 (i) – – US$39.40* June 2004 – – ADSs 19,987 June 2008
– – ADSs 21,634 (i) US$48.534* June 2005 – – ADSs 21,634 June 2009
Total Shares 41,871 – – – – Shares 41,871
ADSs 19,987 – ADSs 21,634 – – ADSs 41,621
Edward Astle 107,958 – – 405.25 June 2003 – – 107,958 June 2007
110,326 – – 424.875 June 2004 – – 110,326 June 2008
– – 94,872 527.03 June 2005 – – 94,872 June 2009
Total 218,284 – 94,872 – – 313,156
(i) Mike Jesanis received awards over ADSs in June 2004 and 2005. Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
5. Directors’ interests under the Lattice Long-Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS)
Award held at Shares Market
1 April 2005 Adjusted resulting price at
Original including dividend market price from dividend Award date of
award reinvestment for award reinvestment released release Award held Date award
date shares at rollover in year during year (pence) 31 March 2006 released
Steve Lucas Nov 2001 98,201 388.24 2,856 101,057 511.53 – Nov 2005
Total 98,201 2,856101,057 –
No awards have been made under the LTIS since November 2001. Under the terms of the LTIS, notional allocations of shares were
made to key individuals. The allocations were subject to a performance condition over three years and a further retention period of one
year. The number of shares actually released to participants depended on the Group’s TSR compared with that of other regulated utility
companies operating in a similar environment.
The 2001 LTIS award held by Steve Lucas was released from trust on 2 November 2005.  Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Directors’ Remuneration Report 89
6. Directors’ beneficial interests
The Directors’ beneficial interests (which include those of their families) in National Grid ordinary shares of 11
17
/ 43p each are shown below.
Options/awards over Options/awards over
Ordinary shares at Ordinary shares at ordinary shares at ordinary shares at
31 March 2006 (i) 1 April 2005 31 March 2006 (iv) 1 April 2005
Sir John Parker 55,832 52,229 – –
Roger Urwin (ii) (iii) (v) 247,630 249,517 1,253,566 1,126,284
Steve Holliday (iii) (v) 28,063 25,843 531,405 604,370
Steve Lucas (ii) (iii) (vi) (vii) (viii) 159,379 102,063 417,585 404,093
Nick Winser (ii) (iii) 56,687 36,515 355,895 350,761
Mike Jesanis 3,281 3,557 445,105 336,935
Edward Astle (iii) 28,428 21,118 756,409 795,303
Ken Harvey (ii) 3,399 3,874 – –
John Allan 2,000 – – –
John Grant 8,775 10,000 – –
Paul Joskow 4,385 5,000 – –
Stephen Pettit 2,632 3,000 – –
Maria Richter 1,755 2,000 – –
George Rose (ii) 4,409 5,025 – –
(i) There has been no other change in the beneficial interests of the Directors in ordinary shares between 1 April 2006 and 17 May 2006, except in respect of routine monthly purchases 
under the SIP (see note (v) below).
(ii) Following the Return of Cash and subsequent ordinary share consolidation and issue of B shares in August 2005 (see pages 77 and 78 for further details), the following Directors held 
B shares at 31 March 2006: Roger Urwin (281,977), Steve Lucas (318), Nick Winser (20,787), Ken Harvey (3,874) and George Rose (5,025).
(iii) Each of the Executive Directors, with the exception of Mike Jesanis, was for Companies Act purposes deemed to be a potential beneficiary under the National Grid 1996 Employee Benefit
Trust and thereby to have an interest in 47 ordinary shares held by the 1996 Employee Benefit Trust as at 31 March 2006.
(iv) Includes the PSP awards detailed in table 4 above.
(v) Beneficial interest includes shares purchased under the monthly operation of the SIP in the year to 31 March 2006. Further shares were purchased in April and May 2006 on behalf of
Steve Holliday (22 shares) and Roger Urwin (22 shares).
(vi) Steve Lucas was, for Companies Act purposes, deemed to be a potential beneficiary in the 21,015 ordinary shares and 23,948 B shares held by Lattice Group Trustees Limited as trustee
of the Lattice Group Employee Share Ownership Trust, as at 31 March 2006.
(vii) Beneficial interest includes shares acquired pursuant to the Lattice All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
(viii) Includes the LTIS award detailed in table 5 above.
7. National Grid share price range
The closing price of a National Grid share on 31 March 2006 was 572.5p. The range during the year was 613.50p (high) and 489.25p (low).
Please note that the Register of Directors’ Interests contains full details of shareholdings and options/awards held by Directors as at 
31 March 2006.
On behalf of the Board
Helen Mahy
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel
17 May 2006 Independent Verifier’s Report on 
Corporate Responsibility
Assurance Statement
URS Verification Ltd (URSVL) was commissioned by National Grid
to provide independent assurance of the corporate responsibility
elements of its Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06 and the
website (www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/our+responsibility). This
statement relates to the corporate responsibility elements of the
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06. For our full opinion and
scope, see our statement at:
www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/our+responsibility/assurance
Responsibilities of Directors and Assurors 
The information contained in National Grid’s Annual Report 
and Accounts is the sole responsibility of the Directors of the
Company. The independence of our assurance team is important
and URSVL project team members have not been involved in 
the development of the report or associated systems. This
assurance statement is not intended to be used as advice or as
the basis for any decisions, including, without limitation, financial
or investment decisions.
Method
URSVL has performed this assurance process following the
principles of the AA1000 assurance standard. URSVL auditors
also apply the general principles of auditing and audit procedures
as contained within international standard ISO 19011.
Opinion
National Grid has continued to develop and implement new and
existing programmes in support of its Framework for Responsible
Business. We continue to be impressed by the Group’s management
focus on and commitment to addressing non-financial issues and
improving its impact on environment and society. In relation to
recommendations made by URSVL last year, the Group has: 
explained more clearly on its website how the Group’s
activities translate into impacts on the environment 
and society; 
communicated objectives, targets and future challenges 
in this report, to increase transparency of the Group’s
performance expectations and achievements;
finalised strategies and policies for health and community
investment and implemented initiatives supporting these.
While there has been continued work in developing tools to
assess potential human rights risks in its supply chain, this
initiative has yet to be fully implemented;
allocated additional resources to the implementation of its
inclusion and diversity programme with a focus on
establishing networks and training to increase awareness; and
improved the sharing of information between different parts of
the business on a wide range of issues.
During the year, National Grid agreed an impressive climate change
strategy for the Group. Achieving this should reduce the climate
change impact of its activities.
National Grid has achieved a continued reduction in lost time
incidents. Despite this, the Group recorded an employee fatality
directly associated with its operations in 2005. From our
engagement with personnel, including field force, as part of 
our assurance process, it is clear that safety is recognised 
as the number one priority across the organisation. Although,
based on a limited sample, we believe further cultural changes
are required in order to drive forward continuing improvements 
in safety performance. Alternative safety metrics may also assist
in the measurement of associated improvements. 
Materiality 
National Grid has well established and robust processes to
identify, assess and manage both financial and non-financial risks.
Management processes to assess and monitor compliance with
internal and external requirements have matured and this has
strengthened the control of non-financial risk and issues.
Completeness
In developing the non-financial elements of this report, National
Grid has considered those risks and issues that would be of
interest to shareholders, the key stakeholder group to which 
this report is directed. It is our opinion that the appropriate issues
are contained within this report in a fair and balanced manner,
however, the completeness of the presentation of some issues 
or projects, such as the Milford Haven pipeline, may not reflect
challenges experienced during the year. National Grid plans to
include information on additional issues that may be material to
other stakeholder groups such as bribery and corruption within
their website disclosure. 
National Grid has further developed its online internet-based
reporting tool to now include environmental as well as health and
safety data. This initiative should help improve the robustness of
reported environmental data. 
Responsiveness
Stakeholder engagement occurs at many levels across the
organisation and there is encouraging evidence that National Grid
seeks the views of external parties as an integral part of its decision-
making processes. Recent changes to internal processes have
helped to focus attention on key issues for the Group, identify
stakeholders and track stakeholder engagement activity.
Recommendations
To build further on the progress made in developing and integrating
its strategy, systems and reporting, National Grid should consider:
refining safety performance metrics and reporting to drive
forward continuing improvements in safety performance; 
ensuring that the commitments made to assess the 
risks posed by human rights in the supply chain are
implemented; and
monitoring implementation of the new strategies and
programmes, in particular climate change, to enable
performance against targets to be measured and reported.
Belinda Howell, Director 
For and on behalf of URS Verification Ltd, London, May 2006
90 Independent Verifier’s Report on Corporate Responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Contents to Financial Statements 91
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Preparing the Accounts
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
Preparing the Accounts
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare
accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the
end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for
the financial year.
The Directors consider that in preparing the Group Financial
Statements and the Company Financial Statements, the Company
has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied
and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and
estimates and all applicable accounting standards have been
followed.
The Directors have responsibility for preparing the accounts on
the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Group will continue in business. Therefore, the accounts
have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company
keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the Company and of the Group
and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with
the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and to detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the accounts, have requested 
the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever
inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of
enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee continues to
review the adequacy of the system of internal financial controls
adopted by the Group.
Contents to Financial Statements
91 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Preparing 
the Accounts
92 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members 
of National Grid plc
93 Group Accounting Policies
100 Group Income Statement
101 Group Balance Sheet
102 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
103 Group Cash Flow Statement
104 Notes to the Accounts
104 Note 1 – Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
109 Note 2 – Adoption of IAS 39 and IAS 32 and presentation 
of net debt at 1 April 2005
109 Note 3 – Segmental analysis
112 Note 4 – Other operating income
112 Note 5 – Operating costs
113 Note 6 – Exceptional items and remeasurements
113 Note 7 – Payroll costs and employees
114 Note 8 – Directors’ emoluments
114 Note 9 – Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
119 Note 10 – Finance income and costs
120 Note 11 – Taxation
121 Note 12 – Discontinued operations
121 Note 13 – Dividends
122 Note 14 – Earnings per share
123 Note 15 – Goodwill
124 Note 16 – Acquisitions
125 Note 17 – Other intangible assets
126 Note 18 – Property, plant and equipment
127 Note 19 – Investments in joint ventures
127 Note 20 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities
128 Note 21 – Other non-current receivables
128 Note 22 – Financial investments
129 Note 23 – Financial instruments
136 Note 24 – Inventories
136 Note 25 – Trade and other receivables
137 Note 26 – Cash and cash equivalents
137 Note 27 – Borrowings
139 Note 28 – Trade and other payables
139 Note 29 – Other non-current liabilities
140 Note 30 – Provisions
141 Note 31 – Share capital
145 Note 32 – Reconciliation of movements in total equity
146 Note 33 – Group cash flow statement
147 Note 34 – Related party transactions
147 Note 35 – Commitments and contingencies
148 Note 36 – Group undertakings and joint ventures
149 Note 37 – Differences between IFRS and US generally
accepted accounting principles
157 Note 38 – Condensed US GAAP financial information
161 Note 39 – National Grid Gas plc additional 
US GAAP disclosures
166 Company Accounting Policies
168 Company Balance Sheet
169 Notes to the Company Accounts
169 Note 1 – Changes in accounting policies
169 Note 2 – Fixed asset investments
170 Note 3 – Debtors
170 Note 4 – Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
170 Note 5 – Creditors (amounts falling due after more than 
one year)
170 Note 6 – Borrowings
171 Note 7 – Provisions for liabilities and charges
171 Note 8 – Share capital
171 Note 9 – Reserves
171 Note 10 – Commitments and contingencies 92 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members 
of National Grid plc
We have audited the Group and Company financial statements
(the ‘Financial Statements’) of National Grid plc for the year ended
31 March 2006 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the
Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense, the Group Cash Flow Statement,
the Group and Company Accounting Policies, the Notes to the
Accounts and the Notes to the Company Accounts. These
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted
by the European Union and the Company financial statements
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) 
are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members
as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act
1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report
includes that specific information presented in the Operating and
Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review
section of the Directors’ Report. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, 
if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. The other information comprises only the items listed
in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2006
audited financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
The Group financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of
its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation;
The Company financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 March 2006; 
The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
The information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
17 May 2006 Group Accounting Policies 
for the year ended 31 March 2006
(a) Basis of preparation of Group financial statements
These Group financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) adopted by the European Union. They are prepared on 
the basis of all IFRSs and Interpretations that are mandatory for
periods ending 31 March 2006 and in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The
2005 comparative financial information has also been prepared
on this basis, with the exception of certain standards, details of
which are given below, for which comparative information has not 
been restated.
In respect of the comparative financial information disclosed, IFRS 1
requires that estimates made under IFRS must be consistent 
with estimates made for the same date under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP) except
where adjustments are required to reflect any differences in
accounting policies.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, except for the recording of pension 
liabilities and revaluation of certain financial instruments from 
1 April 2005 onwards.
These Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
The preparation of financial statements requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent 
assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from these estimates.
IFRS transitional arrangements
The Group’s transition date to IFRS is 1 April 2004. The rules 
for first-time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 ‘First-time
adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’. In
preparing the Group’s first IFRS financial statements, these
transition rules have been applied to the amounts reported
previously under UK GAAP . IFRS 1 generally requires full
retrospective application of the Standards and Interpretations in
force at the first reporting date. However, IFRS 1 allows certain
exemptions in the application of particular Standards to prior
periods in order to assist companies with the transition process.
National Grid has applied the following exemptions:
(i) The Group has elected to adopt International Accounting
Standard (IAS) 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ with effect from 1 April 2005, with no
restatement of comparative information for the year to 31
March 2005. Accounting policy notes (o) and (p) explain the
basis of accounting for financial instruments before and after
1 April 2005.
(ii) IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ has not been applied to
business combinations that occurred before 1 April 2004. 
(iii) The Group has deemed cumulative translation differences for
foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition. Any
gains and losses on subsequent disposals of foreign
operations will not therefore include translation differences
arising prior to the transition date.
Other choices made on the adoption of IFRS:
(i) At the date of transition, the vast majority of assets were valued
at depreciated cost, as adjusted for IFRS measurement
changes with some assets being measured at deemed cost. 
(ii) The Group has elected to account for existing joint ventures
using the equity method. See Group Accounting Policies – 
(b) Basis of consolidation on page 94. 
(iii) For pensions accounting, the Group has elected to recognise
all actuarial gains and losses each year in the statement of
recognised income and expense. See Group Accounting
Policies – (m) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
on page 97. 
(iv) For share-based payments, all active grants were recognised
retrospectively. This is consistent with the treatment the Group
had applied in prior years under UK GAAP in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 20. See Group Accounting
Policies – (r) Share-based payments on page 99. 
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted 
in 2005/06
In preparing these financial statements, the Group has complied
with all IFRSs applicable for periods beginning on or after
1 January 2005. 
In addition the Group has adopted the following amendments 
to standards:
Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
The amendment requires new disclosures about entities’
management of their capital resources and compliance with
capital requirements. 
Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains
and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures’ 
The principal impact of adopting the amendment is that actuarial
gains and losses in respect of the Group’s defined benefit
schemes are recognised in the statement of recognised income
and expense and additional disclosures regarding the schemes
have been provided.
Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement: Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast
Intragroup Transactions’ 
In consolidated financial statements, the amendment allows the
foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup
transaction to qualify as a hedged item provided that the
transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 93
Group Accounting Policies Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the
foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
This replaces the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure’ and locates in one
place all disclosures relating to financial instruments. The new
requirements incorporate many of IAS 32’s disclosures as well 
as additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks
arising from financial instruments.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not 
yet adopted
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) 4 ‘Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease’
provides guidance on determining whether arrangements which
convey the right to use an asset in return for a series of payments
should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 17 ‘Leases’.
Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to have a
material impact on the Group’s results or assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 5 ‘Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning,
Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds’ addresses
the issues of how a contributor to such a fund should account for
its interest in the fund and how obligations to make additional
contributions should be accounted for. The Group has no such
funds and therefore adoption of IFRIC 5 would have no impact 
on the Group.
IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’ addresses the issue of whether IFRS 2
‘Share Based Payment’ applies to transactions in which the entity
cannot identify specifically some or all of the goods or services
received. Implementation of this Interpretation is not expected to
have a material impact on the Group’s results or assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’ prohibits
reassessment of the treatment of embedded derivatives
subsequent to initial recognition unless there is a change in the
terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows
that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which
case reassessment is required. Implementation of this
Interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the
Group’s results or assets and liabilities.
(b) Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements
of the Company and its subsidiaries (Group undertakings), together
with the Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of jointly
controlled entities (joint ventures) using the equity method of
accounting, where the investment is carried at cost plus post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the joint
venture, less any provision for impairment. A subsidiary is defined
as an entity controlled by the Company. Control is achieved where
the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. A
joint venture is an entity established to engage in economic activity,
which the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
Losses in excess of the Group’s interest in joint ventures are not
recognised, except where the Group has made a commitment 
to make good those losses.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting
policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial
statements of the Company, subsidiaries and joint ventures into
line with those used by the Group under IFRS. Inter-company
transactions are eliminated.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or
disposed of during the year are included in the Group income
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the
effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method, where
the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities on a fair
value basis and the remainder recognised as goodwill.
(c) Foreign currencies
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of
the Group undertaking concerned are recorded at the rates of
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing
exchange rates. Other non-monetary assets are not retranslated
unless they are carried at fair value.
As set out in note (p) below, as permitted by IFRS 1, prior to 
1 April 2005 the Group adopted UK GAAP for hedge accounting
and, consequently, monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies were translated at hedged rates instead of
closing exchange rates. 
Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and
liabilities are included in the income statement.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the operations that
have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation
currency are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the
balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at
the weighted average exchange rates for the period. Exchange
differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the
Group’s translation reserve. 
(d) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the
excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the
fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or
joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is not amortised, but 
is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed.
Goodwill recorded under UK GAAP arising on acquisitions before
1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has been frozen at
that date, subject to testing for impairment.
94 Group Financial Statements
Group Accounting Policies Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of 
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing exchange rate.
(e) Intangible assets other than goodwill
With the exception of goodwill, as described above, identifiable
intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated
amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are
recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified; it is
probable that the asset created will generate future economic
benefits; and that the development cost of the asset can be
measured reliably. Where no internally generated intangible asset
can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded as an
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
On a business combination, as well as recording separable
intangible assets possessed by the acquired entity at their fair
value, identifiable intangible assets that arise from contractual or
other legal rights are also included in the balance sheet at their
fair value.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic useful lives.
Amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: 
Amortisation periods for categories of intangibles Years
Software 3 to 5
Telecommunication licences 10 to 25
Acquired customer relationships 10 to 25
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed
cost at the date of transition to IFRS, less accumulated
depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are directly
attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment
as well as the cost of any associated asset retirement obligations.
Property, plant and equipment includes assets in which the
Group’s interest comprises legally protected statutory or
contractual rights of use.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets,
including capital expenditure for safety and environmental assets,
and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of existing
assets.
Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and
equipment are included in creditors as deferred income and
credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over 
the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which 
they relate.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land and assets in the
course of construction.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated, principally
on a straight-line basis, at rates estimated to write off their book
values over their estimated useful economic lives. In assessing
estimated useful economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular
basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and
operational requirements relating to particular assets. Unless
otherwise determined by operational requirements, the
depreciation periods for the principal categories of property, plant
and equipment are, in general, as shown below:
Depreciation periods for category of assets Years
Plant and machinery
Electricity transmission plant 15 to 60
Electricity distribution plant 15 to 60
Interconnector plant 15 to 60
Gas plant – mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100
Gas plant – storage 40
Gas plant – meters 10 to 33
Wireless towers/infrastructure 20 to 55
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 65
Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10
(g) Impairment of assets
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between
the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if
lower. Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which that
asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less
costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date the
impairment review is undertaken.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash
flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash
flows have not been adjusted.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Otherwise,
tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some
indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been
impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where
material, are disclosed separately.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 95
Group Accounting Policies (h) Taxation
Current tax
Current tax asset and liabilities for the current and prior periods
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or
paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used
to compute the amount are those that are enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax and investment tax credits
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method
and is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation 
of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from 
the initial recognition (other than a business combination) of other
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the
accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and jointly
controlled entities, except where the Group is able to control 
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement,
except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all
or part of the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Unrecognised
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date
and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be
recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the
same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current
tax asset and liabilities on a net basis.
Investment tax credits are amortised over the economic life of the
asset which gives rise to the credits.
(i) Discontinued operations and non-current assets 
held for sale
Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of
the business that has been sold or is classified as held for sale
are shown separately from the continuing operations of the Group.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for
sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value
less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged on assets and
disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held 
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the
asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its
present condition. Management must be committed to the sale,
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a
completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable,
direct labour costs as well as those overheads that have been
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and
condition.
(k) Decommissioning and environmental costs
Provision is made for decommissioning and environmental costs,
based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present
values. Where appropriate, the establishment of a provision is
recorded as part of the original cost of the related property, plant
and equipment.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or
discount rates or changes in the expected timing of expenditures
that relate to property, plant and equipment are recorded as
adjustments to their carrying value and depreciated prospectively
over their remaining estimated useful economic lives, otherwise
such changes are recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the discount is included within the income
statement as a financing charge.
(l) Revenues
Revenues primarily represent the sales value derived from the
transmission and distribution of energy and recovery of US
stranded costs together with the sales value derived from the
provision of other services, including wireless infrastructure
services, to customers during the year and excludes value added
tax and intra-group sales.
US stranded costs are various generation-related costs that the
Group incurred prior to the divestiture of generation assets
beginning in the late 1990s and the Group is recovering these
costs over the period up to 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
96 Group Financial Statements
Group Accounting Policies The recovery of stranded costs and other amounts allowed to 
be collected from customers under regulatory arrangements 
are recognised in the period in which they are recoverable 
from customers.
Revenues include an assessment of energy and transportation
services supplied to customers between the date of the last
meter reading and the year end, exclude inter-business and inter-
company transactions, and are stated net of value added tax and
similar sales based taxes.
Where revenues received or receivable exceed the maximum
amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will
be made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, no liability is
recognised. Similarly no asset is recognised where a regulatory
agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in
respect of an under-recovery.
(m) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing
benefits is determined using the projected unit method, with
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Current service cost is recognised in operating costs in the period
in which the defined benefit obligation increases as a result of
employee services.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which
they occur in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that
benefits are already vested. Otherwise such costs are amortised
on a straight-line basis over the period until the benefits vest.
Settlements are recognised when the Group enters into a
transaction that eliminates all further legal or constructive
obligations for benefits under a scheme.
Curtailments are recognised when the group is committed to 
a material reduction in the number of employees covered by 
a scheme.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet
represent the present value of the defined benefit obligations, as
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets and any unrecognised
past service cost.
The expected return on scheme assets and the unwinding of the
discount on defined benefit obligations are recognised within
interest income and expense respectively.
(n) Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at their fair 
value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments
on inception, and depreciated over their useful economic lives.
The corresponding liability is recognised as a finance lease
obligation within borrowings. Rental payments are apportioned
between finance costs and reduction in the finance lease
obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest.
(o) Financial instruments
Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all 
of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of
direct issue costs.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision is
established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts
due under the original payment terms. Indications that the trade
receivable may become irrecoverable would include financial
difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtor’s insolvency, 
and default or significant failure of payment.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest income,
together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables are
derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
Other financial investments are initially measured at cost 
including transaction costs, but with effect from 1 April 2005 
are subsequently carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value 
of investments classified at fair value through profit and loss are
included in the income statement, while changes in the fair value
of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised
directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit
or loss for the period. Investment income on investments classified
at fair value through profit and loss and on available-for-sale
investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs plus accrued interest
less any repayments, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue costs and
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over
the life of the borrowing. Prior to 1 April 2005, accrued interest is
presented as part of current liabilities and not combined with the
principal amounts payable.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value,
and are subsequently also measured at fair value. Changes in the
fair value of derivative financial instruments are included in the
income statement to the extent hedge accounting is not applied.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active
markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices
for issued liabilities. When independent prices are not available,
fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which
refer to observable market data. These include comparison with
similar instruments where market observable prices exist,
discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other
valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 97
Group Accounting Policies Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement 
or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an
accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition,
construction or production of qualifying assets (being assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for
their intended use or sale) are added to their cost. Such additions
cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended
use or sale. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the
income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are
recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group
commits to purchase or sell the assets. Regular way transactions
require delivery of assets within the time frame generally established
by regulation or convention in the marketplace. 
(p) Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into both derivative financial instruments
(derivatives) and non-derivative financial instruments in order 
to manage its interest rate and foreign currency exposures and
commodity price risks in respect of expected energy usage. The
principal derivatives used include interest rate swaps, forward rate
agreements, currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts,
interest rate swaptions and indexed swap contracts relating to
the purchase of energy.
All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with 
a view to managing the interest, currency or commodity price
risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities
and the financing of those activities.
With effect from 1 April 2005, derivatives are carried in the
balance sheet at their fair value. Commodity contracts that meet
the definition of a derivative and which are not used for normal
purchase normal sale requirements are also carried at fair value. 
From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting 
is described below. Disclosures on the impact of implementing
IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 are set out in note 2.
Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows (cash
flow hedges) are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts
deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are subsequently
recognised in the income statement in the same period in which
the hedged item affects net profit or loss. Where a non-financial
asset or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction
or firm commitment being hedged, the amounts deferred in equity
are included in the initial measurement of that non-monetary
asset or liability.
Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are
designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value of assets 
or liabilities (fair value hedges) are recognised in the income
statement. An equal and opposite amount is recorded as an
adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a
corresponding entry in the income statement, to the extent that
the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that the
fair value hedge is effective.
Exchange gains or losses arising on financial instruments that are
designated and effective as hedges of the Group’s net investment
in overseas operations (net investment hedges) are recorded
directly in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised immediately
in the income statement. Amounts deferred in equity in respect 
of net investment hedges are subsequently recognised in the
income statement in the event of the disposal of the overseas
operations concerned.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as
they arise, within finance costs. Remeasurements of commodity
contracts carried at fair value are recognised in the income
statement, with changes due to movements in commodity prices
recorded in operating costs and changes relating to movements in
interest rates within finance costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gains or losses
relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially
retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the income
statement in the same periods in which the previously hedged
item affects net profit or loss. For fair value hedges, the
cumulative adjustment recorded to the carrying value of the
hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, 
is amortised to the income statement using the effective 
interest rate method.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the
income statement immediately.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised
gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Prior to 1 April 2005, the Group adopted UK GAAP for hedge
accounting and for derivatives. Derivatives used for hedging
purposes were not recorded on the balance sheet as assets or
liabilities. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies were
retranslated at hedged rates instead of closing rates. Exchange
gains and losses relating to the hedge of the net investment in
overseas subsidiaries were recorded directly in equity.
As permitted by the provisions of IFRS 1, the comparative
balance sheet and income statement for the year ended 
31 March 2005 have not been restated to reflect either the
adoption of IAS 39 or IAS 32.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
98 Group Financial Statements
Group Accounting Policies (q) Restructuring costs
Costs arising from Group restructuring programmes primarily
relate to redundancy costs. Redundancy costs are charged to 
the income statement in the year in which the Group becomes
irrevocably committed to incurring the costs and the main
features of the restructuring plan have been announced to
affected employees.
(r) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain
employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
(s) Exceptional items and remeasurements
Exceptional items are credits or charges relating to non-recurring
transactions that are material, by virtue of their size or nature, and
therefore relevant to understanding the Group’s financial
performance and are shown separately to provide a better
indication of the underlying results of the Group.
Remeasurements are gains or losses arising from movements 
in the carrying value of commodity contracts and of financial
instruments, principally derivatives, which provide economic
hedges but do not achieve hedge accounting or are ineffective
under IAS 39, and are shown separately to provide a better
indication of the underlying results of the Group.
(t) Other operating income
Other operating income includes profits or losses arising on the
disposal of properties by the Group’s property management
business, which is considered to be part of the normal recurring
operating activities of the Group.
(u) Emission allowances
Emission allowances are recorded as an intangible asset within
current assets and are initially recorded at deemed cost. For
allocations of emission allowances granted to the Group by the
UK Government, cost is measured as fair value at the date of
allocation. Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income
and are recognised in the income statement over the period 
to which they relate. A provision is recorded in respect of the
Group’s obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are
recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon
dioxide emissions are made.
(v) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in
hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with 
an original maturity of less than three months that are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an
insignificant change in value.
(w) Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of financial statements requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these
estimates. Information about such judgements and estimation is
contained in the accounting policies and/or the Notes to the
Accounts, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the
amounts recognised in the financial statements:
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the
definition of adjusted earnings – notes 6 and 14.
The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular,
those relating to business combinations – Group Accounting
Policies (a) Basis of preparation of Group financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year:
Impairment of goodwill – Group Accounting Policies (d)
Goodwill and note 15.
Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment
charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and
equipment – Group Accounting Policies (e) Intangible assets
other than goodwill, (f) Property, plant and equipment and (g)
Impairment of assets.
Estimation of liabilities for pension and other post-retirement
costs – note 9.
Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives – note 23.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue –
Group Accounting Policies (l) Revenues.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets – Group Accounting
Policies (h) Taxation and note 20.
Environmental liabilities – note 30.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 99
Group Accounting Policies Group Income Statement 
for the years ended 31 March 
2006 2005 (i)
Notes £m £m
Group revenue 3(a) 9,193 7,382
Other operating income 4 80 70
Operating costs 5 (6,834) (5,310)
Operating profit
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 3(b) 2,527 2,443 
Exceptional items and remeasurements 6 (88) (301)
Total operating profit 3(b) 2,439 2,142
Interest income and similar income 10 1,038 946 
Interest expense and other finance costs
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 6 (1,644) (1,652)
Exceptional items and remeasurements 6,10 (57) –
10 (1,701) (1,652)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3(c) 3 3
Profit before taxation
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 1,924 1,740
Exceptional items and remeasurements (145) (301)
Total profit before taxation 1,779 1,439
Taxation
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 11 (597) (437)
Exceptional items and remeasurements 6,11 35 118 
Total taxation 11 (562) (319)
Profit from continuing operations after taxation
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 1,327 1,303
Exceptional items and remeasurements 6 (110) (183)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,217 1,120 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations
Before exceptional items 12 43 352
Exceptional items 12 2,590 (48)
12 2,633 304
Profit for the year 3,850 1,424
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 3,848 1,424
Minority interests 2 –
3,850 1,424
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Basic 14 42.8p 36.3p
Diluted 14 42.6p 36.2p
Earnings per share
Basic 14 135.6p 46.2p
Diluted 14 135.0p 46.0p
(i) Refer to note 1 for the basis of preparation of the comparatives presented under International Financial Reporting Standards. 
The notes on pages 104 to 165 form part of the Group Financial Statements.
100 Group Financial Statements
Group Income Statement
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 101
Group Balance Sheet
Group Balance Sheet 
at 31 March
2006 2005 (i)
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 2,142 2,031
Other intangible assets 17 321 358
Property, plant and equipment 18 18,935 22,645
Investments in joint ventures 19 12 17
Deferred tax assets 20 159 318
Other receivables 21 38 96
Financial investments 22 148 131
Derivative financial assets 23 351 –
Total non-current assets 22,106 25,596
Current assets
Other intangible assets 17 41 –
Inventories 24 108 101
Trade and other receivables 25 1,519 1,193
Financial investments 22 384 398
Derivative financial assets 23 314 –
Cash and cash equivalents 26 1,452 272
Total current assets 3,818 1,964
Total assets 3(d) 25,924 27,560
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 26 (3) (18) 
Borrowings 27 (2,839) (3,243)
Derivative financial liabilities 23 (92) –
Trade and other payables 28 (2,095) (2,337)
Current tax liabilities (419) (103)
Provisions 30 (235) (273)
Total current liabilities (5,683) (5,974)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 (10,287) (11,047) 
Derivative financial liabilities 23 (130) –
Other non-current liabilities 29 (1,719) (2,429)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (2,161) (3,189)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations 9 (1,915) (2,282)
Provisions 30 (536) (518)
Total non-current liabilities (16,748) (19,465)
Total liabilities 3(d) (22,431) (25,439)
Net assets 3,493 2,121
Equity
Called up share capital 31 310 309
Share premium account 32 1,316 1,289
Retained earnings 32 6,817 5,650
Translation reserve 32 127 (6)
Cash flow hedge reserve 32 37 –
Available-for-sale investment reserve 32 6 –
Other reserves 32 (5,131) (5,131)
Total parent company shareholders’ equity 3,482 2,111
Minority interests 32 11 10
Total equity 3,493 2,121
(i) Refer to note 1 for the basis of preparation of the comparatives presented under International Financial Reporting Standards. 
These financial statements comprising the Group Income Statement, Group Balance Sheet, Group Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense, Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 39, were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2006
and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir John Parker Chairman
Steve Lucas Group Finance Director Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the years ended 31 March 
2006 2005 (i)
£m £m
Exchange adjustments 141 (6)
Actuarial gains 181 253
Net losses taken to equity in respect of cash flow hedges (12) –
Transferred to profit or loss on cash flow hedges (20) –
Net gains taken to equity on available-for-sale investments 4 –
Transferred to profit or loss on sale of available-for-sale investments (1) –
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity (43) (66)
Net income recognised directly in equity 250 181
Profit for the year 3,850 1,424
Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,100 1,605
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 4,097 1,605
Minority interests 3 –
4,100 1,605
Effect of change in accounting policy – IAS 39 (ii) (43) –
(i) Refer to note 1 for the basis of preparation of the comparatives presented under International Financial Reporting Standards. 
(ii) The Group has adopted IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ prospectively with effect from 
1 April 2005, in accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1. An analysis of the impact that the adoption of IAS 39 had on the Group’s reserves is provided in note 32. The impact 
of IAS 39 attributable to minority interests was £nil.
102 Group Financial Statements
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 103
Group Cash Flow Statement
Group Cash Flow Statement 
for the years ended 31 March
2006 2005 (i)
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142 
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items and remeasurements 88 301 
Depreciation and amortisation 952 819 
Share-based payment charge 15 12 
Changes in working capital (212) (105)
Changes in provisions 9 (119)
Changes in pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations (42) (19)
Cash flows relating to exceptional items (118) (120)
Cash flows generated from continuing operations 3,131 2,911
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations 33(a) (20) 547
Cash generated from operations 3,111 3,458
Tax paid – continuing operations (103) (52)
Tax paid – discontinued operations (37) (98)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,971 3,308
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired – (1,122)
Sale of investments in joint ventures 8 8
Purchases of intangible assets (16) (79)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,750) (1,427)
Disposals of property, plant and equipment 18 22 
Purchases of financial investments (2,870) (113)
Sales of financial investments 2,895 54
Dividends received from joint ventures 2 5
Cash flows used in continuing operations investing activities (1,713) (2,652)
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations – disposal proceeds 5,750 –
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations – other investing activities (115) (323)
Net cash inflow from/(used in) investing activities 3,922 (2,975)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 54 13
Proceeds from loans received 1,026 998
Repayment of loans (1,714) (868)
Net movements in short-term borrowings and derivatives (1,616) 922
Interest received 130 75
Interest paid (834) (837)
Exceptional finance costs on the repayment of debt (49) –
Dividends paid to shareholders (745) (628)
Cash paid to shareholders under B share scheme (1,957) –
Purchase of treasury shares (7) –
Net cash used in financing activities (5,712) (325)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,181 8
Exchange movements 14 (1)
Net cash and cash equivalents at start of year (ii) 254 247
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year (ii) 26 1,449 254
(i) Refer to note 1 for the basis of preparation of the comparatives presented under International Financial Reporting Standards.
(ii) Net of bank overdrafts. Notes to the Accounts
104 Group Financial Statements
Note 1
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
1. Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
With effect from 1 April 2005, National Grid plc is required to report its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as
adopted by the EU.
The tables below present the impact of conversion from UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) to IFRS on the primary
statements. The transition date chosen for the adoption of IFRS is 1 April 2004, and only one year of IFRS comparatives are included in
these financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
As permitted by International Financial Reporting Standard No. 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’ (IFRS 1), the comparative balance sheet
at 31 March 2005 and income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 have not been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 39
and IAS 32 on 1 April 2005. Summary disclosures on the impact of the adoption of IAS 39 and IAS 32 as at 1 April 2005 are included 
in note 2.
A comparative balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and an income statement, cash flow statement and statement of recognised income
and expense for the year ended 31 March 2005 were originally set out in the Group’s IFRS conversion statement for the year ended
31 March 2005, which was published on 29 July 2005. The financial information in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 included 
in this Annual Report and Accounts has been derived from the Group’s IFRS conversion statement for the year ended 31 March 2005. 
As noted in the IFRS conversion statement, the comparative results and financial position under IFRS were subject to change as there
was not yet a significant established practice from which to draw conclusions on the application and interpretation of IFRS.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, a reassessment of the IFRS adjustment for regulatory assets has resulted in an increase in net
assets under IFRS at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 of £26m compared with the value attributed to net assets as presented in the
IFRS conversion statement. There was no impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005.
In August 2005, the provisional fair values applied on the acquisition of the UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp. were
reviewed and a number of adjustments were made to those provisional fair values as a result of better information becoming available.
As required by IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, the balance sheet presented for March 2005 has been re-presented to reflect these fair
value adjustments. The overall impact on the carrying value of net assets was £nil: goodwill increased by £10m; property, plant and
equipment decreased by £8m; deferred tax liabilities decreased by £4m; and non-current provisions increased by £6m. There was no
impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005.
A past service pension cost of £41m (£24m net of tax) that arose in the second half of 2004/05, which was included within the IFRS
conversion statement in operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements, has been reclassified as an exceptional item as
reported in note 6.
a) Impact of adoption of IFRS on net assets at 1 April 2004 (date of adoption of IFRS)
The following is a summary of the IFRS measurement and presentation adjustments as they affected net assets at 1 April 2004 (the date
of adoption of IFRS), which arise as a consequence of applying IFRS measurement principles as compared with UK GAAP.
At 1 April 2004 Notes £m
Net assets under UK GAAP 1,271
IFRS measurement adjustments
Replacement expenditure 1(c)(i) 2,778 
Derecognition of regulatory assets 1(c)(ii) (1,791)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 1(c)(v) (1,382)
Deferred taxation 1(c)(vi) (84)
Proposed final dividend 1(c)(vii) 366 
Other adjustments 1(c)(viii) (10)
(123)
IFRS presentation adjustments
Non-equity minority interests 1(d)(i) (38)
Net assets under IFRS 1,110
Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the underlying IFRS adjustment. Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 105
Note 1 (continued)
1. Adoption of IFRS (continued)
b) Reconciliation of profit for the year and net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS
The following tables show the effect of IFRS measurement and presentation adjustments on profit for the year and net assets measured
under UK GAAP as a consequence of applying IFRS measurement principles as compared with UK GAAP:
For the year ended 31 March 2005 Notes £m
Profit for the year before minority interests under UK GAAP 907
IFRS measurement adjustments
Replacement expenditure – gross 1(c)(i) 344 
Replacement expenditure – depreciation 1(c)(i) (108)
Derecognition of regulatory assets 1(c)(ii) 151 
Goodwill amortisation 1(c)(iii) 109 
Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill 1(c)(iv) (4)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 1(c)(v) 41 
Deferred taxation 1(c)(vi) (11)
Other adjustments 1(c)(viii) (6)
516 
IFRS presentation adjustments
Non-equity minority interests 1(d)(i) (2)
Share of results of joint ventures 1(d)(ii) 3
1
Profit for the year under IFRS 1,424
Less: profit for the year under IFRS – discontinued operations (304)
Profit for the year under IFRS – continuing operations 1,120
Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the underlying IFRS adjustment.
At 31 March 2005 Notes £m
Net assets under UK GAAP 1,391
IFRS measurement adjustments
Replacement expenditure 1(c)(i) 3,014 
Derecognition of regulatory assets 1(c)(ii) (1,587)
Goodwill 1(c)(iii) 28 
Intangible assets other than goodwill 1(c)(iv) 99 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 1(c)(v) (1,149)
Deferred taxation 1(c)(vi) (95)
Proposed final dividend 1(c)(vii) 469 
Other adjustments 1(c)(viii) (27)
752
IFRS presentation adjustments
Non-equity minority interests 1(d)(i) (22)
Net assets under IFRS 2,121
Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the underlying IFRS adjustment. 1. Adoption of IFRS (continued)
c) IFRS measurement adjustments
The following relate to the measurement adjustments included in the income statement and balance sheet.
(i) Replacement expenditure (repex)
Repex represents the cost of planned replacement of gas mains and services and is undertaken to maintain the safety of the
networks. Under UK GAAP , the gas distribution pipeline network is treated as a single infrastructure asset for accounting purposes
and repex is recorded as an expense as it represents a repair to that single infrastructure asset and repex does not have the effect
of enhancing the economic benefits of the pipeline network as a whole. Under IFRS, the individual assets and components within
the gas distribution pipeline network are recorded separately, and hence repex is treated as the replacement or restoration of those
individual assets or components. 
The adjustment to net assets reflects the aggregate of the cumulative capitalisation of repex incurred, net of cumulative
depreciation, the derecognition of previously replaced gas mains and services, and the effect on cumulative depreciation of
depreciating gas mains and services at an individual asset or component level, rather than at a distribution pipeline network level.
(ii) Derecognition of regulatory assets
Regulatory assets arise when a US-based public utility, authorised by its regulator, defers to its balance sheet certain costs 
or revenues that will be recovered from or passed on to customers through future rate changes. These assets were recognised 
in the balance sheet under UK GAAP as they met the definition of an asset as set out in FRS 5 ‘Reporting the Substance of
Transactions’. Under IFRS, regulatory assets are not permitted to be recognised in the balance sheet as they do not meet the
definition of an asset under the different definition that is set out in IAS 1. In addition, the International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee has expressed the opinion that the recognition criteria of US Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) 71 is not fully consistent with IFRS recognition criteria. Under IFRS, costs are charged to the income statement
when incurred and recoveries from customers are recognised when receivable.
(iii) Goodwill and goodwill amortisation
In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has not restated any business combinations that occurred prior to 31 March 2004 and
goodwill at 1 April 2004, which mainly related to US businesses, has therefore not been adjusted from the amount calculated
under UK GAAP .
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp. during the year ended 31 March 2005
has been remeasured under IFRS, resulting in a reduction in goodwill of £80m, principally relating to the recognition of intangible
assets partially offset by higher deferred tax liabilities recognised on the acquisition under IFRS.
In addition, an adjustment has been recorded in respect of goodwill amortisation of £109m. Under UK GAAP, goodwill is amortised
over a period of 20 years, while under IFRS goodwill amortisation ceased from 1 April 2004 onwards. IFRS instead requires that
goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment are identified.
(iv) Intangible assets other than goodwill and related amortisation
In a business combination, IFRS requires fair values to be attributed to intangible assets that are not recognised under UK GAAP
together with associated deferred tax balances. A corresponding reduction in goodwill arises as a consequence. The acquisition of
the UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp. during the year ended 31 March 2005 resulted in the recognition under
IFRS of certain intangibles, amounting to £188m at the date of acquisition, which are being amortised on a straight-line basis over 
periods ranging from 10 to 25 years.
(v) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Under UK GAAP , the Group’s pensions and other post-retirement benefits were accounted for under SSAP 24 prior to the date of
transition. Under IFRS, these benefits are accounted for under IAS 19, with the Group recognising all of its net pension and other
post-retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet at 1 April 2004 with a corresponding adjustment to opening reserves.
There are also differences in the measurement of the annual pension expense under IAS 19 compared with SSAP 24.
(vi) Deferred taxation
Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences. Under IFRS, deferred tax is recognised in respect 
of temporary differences, being the differences between the book recorded value and the tax base of assets and liabilities. The
adoption of IFRS resulted in a total reduction in the net deferred tax liability of £165m, which includes the tax effect of the other
IFRS adjustments, which are shown net of tax in the reconciliations above.
(vii) Proposed final dividend
Under UK GAAP, final ordinary dividends are recorded as a liability in the year in respect of which they are proposed by the Board
of Directors for approval by the shareholders. Under IFRS, dividends are not provided for until approved.
(viii) Other measurement adjustments
Other differences on transition from UK GAAP to IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005 are not individually material and relate to
recognition of finance lease obligations and the related finance lease assets, certain intangible assets and the timing of recognition
of provisions.
106 Group Financial Statements
Note 1 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 107
Note 1 (continued)
1. Adoption of IFRS (continued)
d) IFRS presentation adjustments
The following notes relate to the presentation adjustments included in the income statement and balance sheet. 
(i) Non-equity minority interests
In the income statement, under UK GAAP , dividends paid to non-equity minority interests are included within ‘Loss for the year
attributable to minority interests’. Under IFRS, this amount is included within ‘Net finance costs’.
Under UK GAAP , non-equity minority interests are shown separately from shareholders’ equity within capital and reserves. Under
IFRS this amount is included within liabilities, resulting in lower net assets.
(ii) Share of results of joint ventures
Under UK GAAP , the Group’s share of the joint ventures’ operating profits, interest and tax are classified within their respective
income statement captions. IFRS instead requires that, where equity accounting is adopted, the post-tax share of results from joint
ventures is separately disclosed as a single line-item in the income statement.
(iii) Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Under UK GAAP , gains and losses on disposal of properties by our property management business are included within exceptional
items, even though these are considered to be part of the normal recurring operating activities of the Group. Under IFRS, such
gains and losses are included within other operating income.
(iv) Profit on disposal of joint venture
Under UK GAAP , the profit on disposal of a joint venture has been disclosed as a non-operating exceptional item. Under IFRS, 
this profit has been disclosed within the single line-item ‘profit for the year from discontinued operations’ in the income statement.
(v) Cash and cash equivalents
Under UK GAAP , cash excludes short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
subject to an insignificant change in value. Under IFRS, such investments are included within cash and cash equivalents.
(vi) Software
Under UK GAAP , software is capitalised together with the related hardware within property, plant and equipment. Under IFRS,
software is classified within intangible assets.
(vii) Short-term provisions
Under UK GAAP , provisions are presented on the balance sheet separately from creditors and include both current and non-
current provisions. Under IFRS, the current portion of provisions is included within current liabilities.
(viii) Cumulative translation differences
Exchange adjustments arising on the retranslation of overseas subsidiaries’ net assets on consolidation are recorded directly in
equity within the reserve for cumulative translation differences. As permitted by IFRS 1, this was set at nil on 1 April 2004. This
adjustment reflects the reclassification of UK GAAP translation differences from retained earnings into the cumulative translation
differences reserve during the year ended 31 March 2005. 
e) Impact of adoption of IFRS on cash flow statement
The principal changes to the Group cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 on adoption of IFRS are summarised below.
Income taxes of £150m paid during the year ended 31 March 2005 are classified as part of operating cash flows under IFRS, but were
classified as a separate category of the cash flow under UK GAAP.
Replacement expenditure of £474m, which was previously written off to the income statement under UK GAAP, is now capitalised under
IFRS. Therefore, this expenditure is classified as investing activities in the IFRS cash flow statement, but was previously classified as
operating cash flow under UK GAAP .
Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment of £70m which were previously classified as investing activities under UK GAAP, are
now presented within operating cash flow, in line with the treatment in the income statement under IFRS.
In accordance with IAS 7 ‘Cash flow statements’, cash equivalents include certain short-term highly liquid investments that are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value. These were previously shown within cash flows
from the management of liquid resources, as they did not fall within the definition of cash according to UK GAAP. 1. Adoption of IFRS (continued)
f) Reconciliation of summary financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 from UK GAAP to IFRS
As previously
presented IFRS IFRS IFRS
under measurement presentation discontinued
UK GAAP (i) changes changes operations IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m 
Summary Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2005
Group revenue 8,521 (37) – (1,102) 7,382
Other operating income n/a – 70 – 70
Operating costs (6,676) 700 – 666 (5,310)
Operating profit 1,845 663 70 (436) 2,142
Share of joint ventures operating profit 7 – (7) – n/a
Non-operating exceptional items 83 – (83) – n/a
Net finance costs (783) 69 8 – (706)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures n/a – 3 – 3
Profit before taxation 1,152 732 (9) (436) 1,439
Taxation (245) (216) 2 140 (319)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 907 516 (7) (296) 1,120
Profit for the year from discontinued operations n/a – 8 296 304
Minority interests 1 – (1) – n/a
Profit for the year 908 516 – – 1,424
Summary Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2005
Non-current assets 22,395 3,201 – – 25,596
Current assets 2,316 (352) – – 1,964
Total assets 24,711 2,849 – – 27,560
Current liabilities (6,148) 447 (273) – (5,974)
Non-current liabilities (17,172) (2,544) 251 – (19,465)
Total liabilities (23,320) (2,097) (22) – (25,439)
Net assets 1,391 752 (22) – 2,121
Equity
Called up share capital 309 – – – 309
Share premium account 1,289 – – – 1,289
Retained earnings 4,892 685 73 – 5,650
Other reserves (5,131) 67 (73) – (5,137)
Total shareholders’ equity 1,359 752 – – 2,111
Minority interests 32 – (22) – 10
Total equity 1,391 752 (22) – 2,121
Summary Group Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 March 2005
Cash generated from operations
Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations 2,909 479 70 (547) 2,911
Cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations n/a – – 547 547
Tax paid – continuing operations (150) – – 98 (52)
Tax paid – discontinued operations n/a – – (98) (98)
Net cash inflow from operations 2,759 479 70 – 3,308
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations (2,441) (475) (59) 323 (2,652)
Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations n/a – – (323) (323)
Net cash used in investing activities (2,441) (475) (59) – (2,975)
Net cash flows from financing activities (305) (4) (16) – (325)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 13 – (5) – 8
(i) Represents UK GAAP measurement principles, but presented in IFRS formats for comparability.
108 Group Financial Statements
Note 1 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 109
Notes 2 and 3
2. Adoption of IAS 39 and IAS 32 and presentation of net debt at 1 April 2005
a) Adoption of IAS 39 and IAS 32
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted IAS 39 and IAS 32. IAS 39 requires certain financial instruments to be recorded in the balance
sheet at fair value rather than historical cost. Note 23 contains the disclosures required by IAS 39, IAS 32 and IFRS 7. 
The principal effect of the adoption of these standards at 1 April 2005 is to record derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale
investments in the balance sheet at their fair value, while deferred gains and losses relating to items qualifying for hedge accounting are
derecognised and instead recorded in equity (for cash flow hedges and net investment hedges) or by adjusting the carrying value of the
hedged financial instrument (for fair value hedges).
As permitted by IFRS 1, the balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 have not
been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 39 and IAS 32 on 1 April 2005.
b) Effect of IAS 39 on net debt and net assets
IAS 39 IAS 39
transition reclass- IFRS
adjustment ifications post-
at 1 April at 1 April IAS 39
At 31 March 2005 2005 at 1 April
2005 (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 272 – – 272
Bank overdrafts (18) – – (18)
Net cash and cash equivalents 254 – – 254
Financial investments 398 3– 401
Borrowings (14,290) (580) (314) (15,184)
(13,638) (577) (314) (14,529)
Derivative financial assets – 633 92 725
Derivative financial liabilities – (178) (4) (182)
Net debt (13,638) (122) (226) (13,986)
Accrued interest (255) 29 226 –
Deferred gains and losses (39) 39 – –
Available-for-sale investments 131 4– 135
Commodity contract assets – 63 – 63
Commodity contract liabilities (327) (193) – (520)
Purchased power obligations (144) 130 – (14)
Other assets and liabilities 16,393 7 – 16,400
Net assets 2,121 (43) – 2,078
(i) On the adoption of IAS 39, derivative financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to retained earnings or to other reserves within
equity (in respect of derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges) or to the carrying value of debt (in respect of derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges). The
impact on other assets and liabilities principally relates to the deferred tax effect of these adjustments.
(ii) Up to 31 March 2005, deferred gains and losses relating to hedged financial instruments were carried forward in the balance sheet and reflected in the income statement in line with those
hedged financial instruments. Under IAS 39, deferred gains and losses relating to qualifying hedge relationships are recorded in equity (for cash flow hedges and net investment hedges) or
by adjusting the carrying value of the hedged financial instrument (for fair value hedges) or in the income statement if hedge accounting is not achieved.
(iii) On the adoption of IAS 39, available-for-sale investments (being financial investments not held for financial management purposes) and financial investments have been adjusted by £4m
and £3m respectively. Under UK GAAP and IFRS at 31 March 2005, these are carried at cost, while under IAS 39 these are carried at fair value.
(iv) Up to 31 March 2005, index-linked swap contracts were carried at fair value. Under IAS 39, these commodity contracts are treated as derivative financial instruments and are also carried
at fair value. In addition, assets and liabilities arising from certain other commodity contract assets and liabilities not previously recognised as at 31 March 2005 are recorded on the balance
sheet as at 1 April 2005, offset by a reduction in purchased power obligations.
(v) Up to 31 March 2005, accrued interest was presented separately within creditors from the financial instruments to which it relates. Under IAS 32 and IAS 39 the carrying value of borrowings
and derivative financial assets and liabilities includes the related accrued interest balance.
3. Segmental analysis
Segmental information is presented in accordance with the management responsibilities and economic characteristics, including
consideration of risks and returns, of the Group’s business activities.
The following table describes the main activities for each business segment:
UK electricity and gas transmission High-voltage electricity transmission networks, the gas transmission network in the UK, the
UK liquefied natural gas storage activities and the Scottish and French electricity interconnectors 
US electricity transmission High-voltage electricity transmission networks and management of electricity transmission
operations for other utilities in the US
UK gas distribution Four of the eight regional networks of Great Britain’s gas distribution system
US electricity and gas distribution Electricity and gas distribution in New York and electricity distribution in New England
US stranded cost recoveries The recovery of stranded costs from US customers as permitted by regulatory agreements
Wireless infrastructure Broadcast and mobile telephone infrastructure in the UK and US
Other activities primarily relates to UK-based gas metering activities, UK property management, a UK LNG import terminal, an electricity
interconnector in Australia and our engineering and software company, together with corporate activities, including business development. 3. Segmental analysis (continued)
Our UK liquefied natural gas storage activities and the Scottish and French interconnectors are both included within UK electricity and
gas transmission. These were previously reported in the Group UK GAAP accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005 within Other
activities. This change in segmental presentation follows a change in the organisational and management structure within the Group and
the change in regulatory arrangements for the Scottish interconnector following the introduction of the British Electricity Trading and
Transmission Arrangements (BETTA). The impact of this change on segment results has been reflected in the tables below. The impact
of this change on the UK electricity and gas transmission segment results for the year ended 31 March 2005 was to increase revenue
by £65m and operating profit by £42m, increase total assets by £191m and total liabilities by £16m, increase capital expenditure by
£7m and increase depreciation and amortisation by £10m. Within Other activities, revenue was decreased by £110m and operating
profit by £42m, total assets and total liabilities decreased by £191m and £16m respectively, capital expenditure decreased by £7m and
depreciation and amortisation decreased by £10m. Intra-group revenue eliminations were reduced by £45m. There was no difference
between the impact on operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements and that for operating profit after exceptional
items and remeasurements.
Discontinued operations comprise the operations of the four UK gas distribution networks that the Group sold on 1 June 2005 and the
results of Citelec, an Argentinian joint venture sold in August 2004. The results for discontinued operations are disclosed in note 12.
The Group assesses the performance of its businesses principally on the basis of operating profit before exceptional items and
remeasurements. The Group’s primary reporting format is by business and the secondary reporting format is by geographical area.
Sales between businesses are priced having regard to the regulatory and legal requirements that the businesses are subject to.
a) Group revenue
Sales Sales Sales Sales
Total between to third Total between to third
sales businesses parties sales businesses parties
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m£m£m £m£m£m
Business segments
UK electricity and gas transmission 2,710 15 2,695 1,995 10 1,985
US electricity transmission 310 48 262 284 45 239
UK gas distribution 1,222 86 1,136 1,113 135 978
US electricity and gas distribution 3,711 2 3,709 3,087 2 3,085
US stranded cost recoveries 511 – 511 409 – 409
Wireless infrastructure 325 – 325 208 – 208
Other activities 701 146 555 734 256 478
9,490 297 9,193 7,830 448 7,382
Geographical segments
UK 4,671 3,621
US 4,522 3,761
9,193 7,382
The table above represents revenue from continuing operations only, as disclosed in the Group Income Statement as ‘Group revenue’.
Revenue from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £168m (2005: £1,102m). See note 12 for additional
disclosures on discontinued operations.
The analysis of Group revenue by geographical area is on the basis of destination. There are no sales between the UK and US
geographical areas.
Approximately 9% (2005: 9%) of Group revenue for the year ended 31 March 2006 amounting to approximately £0.9bn (2005: £0.7bn)
derives from a single customer, the Centrica Group. The majority of this revenue is in the UK gas distribution segment with lesser
amounts in Other activities and the UK electricity and gas transmission segment. 
110 Group Financial Statements
Note 3 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 3. Segmental analysis (continued)
b) Operating profit
Before exceptional items After exceptional items
and remeasurements and remeasurements
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Business segments
UK electricity and gas transmission 844 859 843 857
US electricity transmission 127 126 127 119
UK gas distribution 483 424 432 333
US electricity and gas distribution 364 375 364 258
US stranded cost recoveries 489 465 440 427
Wireless infrastructure 75 42 70 29
Other activities 145 152 163 119
2,527 2,443 2,439 2,142
Geographical segments
UK 1,549 1,473 1,489 1,335
US 983 970 934 807
Rest of the World (5) – 16 –
2,527 2,443 2,439 2,142
The table above represents operating profit from continuing operations only, as disclosed in the Group Income Statement, and excludes
the results of discontinued operations. Operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements for discontinued operations for 
the year ended 31 March 2006 was £61m (2005: £510m). Operating profit after exceptional items and remeasurements for discontinued
operations for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £46m (2005: £436m). See note 12 for additional disclosures on discontinued
operations.
c) Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ post-tax results relate to electricity activities and are located in the Rest of the World
geographical segment (2006: £3m; 2005: £3m).
d) Total assets and total liabilities
Total assets Total liabilities
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Business segments
Group undertakings – continuing operations
UK electricity and gas transmission 7,181 6,635 (1,447) (1,837)
US electricity transmission 1,653 1,545 (40) (99)
UK gas distribution 5,091 4,766 (1,154) (1,152)
US electricity and gas distribution 5,756 5,001 (1,761) (1,734)
US stranded cost recoveries 104 63 (665) (618)
Wireless infrastructure 1,571 1,579 (293) (267)
Other activities 1,896 1,628 (1,106) (748)
23,252 21,217 (6,466) (6,455)
Group undertakings – discontinued operations – 5,300 – (1,115)
Group undertakings 23,252 26,517 (6,466) (7,570)
Joint ventures – continuing operations (electricity activities) 12 17 – –
Unallocated 2,660 1,026 (15,965) (17,869)
25,924 27,560 (22,431) (25,439)
Geographical segments
UK 15,227 19,504 (3,948) (5,072)
US 7,659 6,750 (2,488) (2,467)
Rest of the World 378 280 (30) (31)
Unallocated 2,660 1,026 (15,965) (17,869)
25,924 27,560 (22,431) (25,439)
The analysis of total assets and total liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes inter-business balances. Unallocated total
assets include cash and cash equivalents, taxation, financial investments and derivative assets. Unallocated total liabilities include bank
overdrafts, borrowings and derivative liabilities, taxation, interest and dividends.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 111
Note 3 (continued) 3. Segmental analysis (continued)
e) Other segmental information
Depreciation and 
Capital expenditure amortisation
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Business segments
Continuing operations
UK electricity and gas transmission 890 529 377 296
US electricity transmission 91 74 45 41
UK gas distribution 444 359 161 163
US electricity and gas distribution 244 234 145 135
Wireless infrastructure 43 19 64 37
Other activities 350 303 160 147
2,062 1,518 952 819
Discontinued operations 87 387 13 176
Group undertakings 2,149 1,905 965 995
Geographical segments
UK 1,738 1,455 771 816
US 340 312 194 179
Rest of the World 71 138 – –
2,149 1,905 965 995
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets amounting to £2,093m 
(2005: £1,827m) and £56m (2005: £78m) respectively.
Depreciation and amortisation includes depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of other intangible assets
amounting to £908m (2005: £950m) and £57m (2005: £45m) respectively. 
4. Other operating income
Other operating income represents income on disposal of property, plant and equipment, principally properties disposed of by the
Group’s property management business.
5. Operating costs
Before exceptional items Exceptional items and
and remeasurements remeasurements Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 895 774 – – 895 774
Amortisation of intangible assets 57 45 – – 57 45
Payroll costs (note 7(a)) 844 828 48 91 892 919
Other operating charges:
Purchases of electricity 1,928 1,458 49 38 1,977 1,496
Purchases of gas 566 357 – – 566 357
Rates and property taxes 443 406 – – 443 406
Electricity transmission services scheme direct costs 536 301 – – 536 301
Payments to Scottish network owners under BETTA 259 – – – 259 –
Other operating charges 1,218 840 (9) 172 1,209 1,012
4,950 3,362 40 210 4,990 3,572
6,746 5,009 88 301 6,834 5,310
Operating costs include:
Research expenditure 7 9
Operating lease rentals
Plant and machinery 36 20
Other 84 63
Auditors’ remuneration
Statutory audit services
Annual audit 4 5
Regulatory reporting 1 1
Further audit related services – 1
Tax compliance services – 1
Tax advisory services 1 1
Other non-audit services 1 –
112 Group Financial Statements
Notes 3 (continued), 4 and 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 6. Exceptional items and remeasurements
The Group separately discloses items of income and expenditure relating to transactions that are material, either by their nature or size,
that are relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance. These include non-recurring exceptional income or charges
that do not relate to the underlying financial performance of the Group and remeasurement gains or losses arising from movements in
the carrying value of certain commodity contracts and of derivative financial instruments.
2006 2005
£m £m
Exceptional items – restructuring costs (i) 60 121
Exceptional items – past service pension costs (ii) – 41
Exceptional items – environmental related provisions (iii) – 101
Exceptional items – profit on sale and reversal of impairment (iv) (21) –
Remeasurements – commodity contracts (v) 49 38
Total exceptional items and remeasurements included within operating profit 88 301
Exceptional finance costs (vi) 49 –
Remeasurements – commodity contracts (v) 14 –
Remeasurements – net gains on derivative financial instruments (vii) (6) –
Total exceptional items and remeasurements included within finance costs 57 –
Total exceptional items and remeasurements before taxation 145 301
Tax on restructuring costs (i) (12) (34)
Tax on exceptional past service pension costs (ii) – (17)
Tax on environmental related provisions (iii) – (39)
Tax on commodity contract remeasurements (v) (25) (15)
Tax on exceptional finance costs (vi) (15) –
Tax on derivative financial instrument remeasurements (vii) 17 –
Other exceptional tax credits (viii) – (13)
Tax on exceptional items and remeasurements (35) (118)
Total exceptional items and remeasurements 110 183
(i) Restructuring costs relate to planned cost reduction programmes in the UK (2005: UK and US) businesses. For the year ended 31 March 2006, restructuring costs included pension
curtailment costs of £25m arising as a result of redundancies (2005: £22m).
(ii) Past service pension costs arose from the renegotiation of terms and conditions of service with certain employees in the US.
(iii) During the year ended 31 March 2005, a review of the environmental provisions was undertaken to take into account the impact of changes to UK regulations on waste disposal. 
This review, together with related revisions to the expected UK expenditure profile, resulted in a charge of £41m in 2005. Following a similar review in the US of environmental provisions, 
an additional exceptional charge of £60m was made for site restoration, which reflected the experience of restoring similar sites.
(iv) Reversal of a prior period impairment of £13m related to National Grid’s investment in Copperbelt Energy Corporation (CEC) and a gain on disposal of an investment in Energis Polska of £8m.
(v) Remeasurements – commodity contracts represent mark-to-market movements on certain commodity contract obligations, primarily indexed-linked swap contracts, in the US. 
Under the Group’s existing rate plans in the US, commodity costs are fully recovered from customers, although the pattern of recovery may differ from the pattern of costs incurred. 
These movements are comprised of those impacting operating profit which are based on the change in the commodity contract liability and those impacting finance costs as a result 
of changing discount rates due to market fluctuations.
(vi) Exceptional finance costs for the year ended 31 March 2006 represent costs incurred on the early redemption of debt following the disposal of four gas distribution networks (£39m),
together with issue costs associated with the B share scheme (£10m).
(vii) Remeasurements – net gains on derivative financial instruments comprise non-cash gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments reported in the income statement. 
These exclude gains and losses for which hedge accounting has been effective, which have been recognised directly in equity or offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
(viii) The exceptional tax credit in 2005 includes: a credit of £22m associated with the prior period disposal of Energis, a former associate company; a £3m credit associated with the prior
period write-down of investments; and a £12m charge relating to the settlement of the liabilities arising from operating the Group’s Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
7. Payroll costs and employees
a) Payroll costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 891 911
Social security costs 63 59
Other pension costs 142 147
Share-based payments 15 12
Severance costs 23 12
1,134 1,141
Less: Amounts capitalised (242) (222)
892 919
Payroll costs above represent continuing operations only. Payroll of discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2006 was
£29m (2005: £132m).
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 113
Notes 6 and 7 7. Payroll costs and employees (continued)
b) Number of employees
31 March Average Average
2006 2006 2005
Number Number Number
UK 11,409 11,421 11,784
US 8,362 8,414 8,663
Rest of the World 12 8 13
Continuing operations 19,783 19,843 20,460
Discontinued operations – 686 4,147
19,783 20,529 24,607
The vast majority of employees in:
– the US are either directly or indirectly employed in the transmission and distribution of electricity or the distribution of gas.
– the UK are either directly or indirectly employed in the transmission and distribution of gas or the transmission of electricity. At 
31 March 2006, 3,011 employees were employed in other businesses, of which 695 were in the Wireless infrastructure segment. 
c) Key management compensation
2006 2005
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 7 6
Post-employment benefits 5 4
Share-based payments 2 2
14 12
The key management comprises the Board of Directors, including the Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
8. Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments are contained in the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 89, which
form part of these accounts.
9. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Substantially all the Group’s employees are members of defined benefit pension schemes.
In the UK the principal schemes are the National Grid UK Pension Scheme (formerly named the Lattice Group Pension Scheme), the
National Grid Electricity Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme and the National Grid Wireless Pension Scheme (formerly
named the Crown Castle UK Pension Scheme).
National Grid UK Pension Scheme
The National Grid UK Pension Scheme provides final salary defined benefits for employees who joined prior to 31 March 2002 and
defined contribution benefits for employees joining from 1 April 2002. The scheme is funded with assets held in a separate trustee
administered fund. It is subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies
the rate of employers’ contribution, which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the
scheme’s assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2006 is currently being carried out by Watson Wyatt LLP. The last completed full
actuarial valuation was as at 31 March 2003. The aggregate market value of the scheme’s assets was £10,141m and the value of the
assets represented approximately 92% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable
earnings and service at 31 March 2003 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The results of the actuarial valuation carried out at 31 March 2003 showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the
contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 23.7% of pensionable earnings (20.7% employers and 3% employees). This
contribution rate is currently being reviewed. The ongoing contribution rate does not include an allowance for administration expenses.
These contributions are renewed annually. From 1 April 2006 the rate used for the recovery of administration costs was 3% of salary.
Employers are currently, therefore, paying a total contribution rate of 23.7%.
It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the 2003 actuarial valuation will need to be provided to the scheme until 
the outcome of the interim actuarial assessment at 31 March 2007 is known. At this point, the Group will pay the gross amount of any
deficit up to a maximum amount of £520m (£364m net of tax) into the scheme. Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation has been
completed, the Group has arranged for banks to provide the trustees of the National Grid UK Scheme with letters of credit. The main
conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events that would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as
National Grid Gas plc, a Group undertaking, becoming insolvent or the Group failing to make agreed payments into the fund.
114 Group Financial Statements
Notes 7 (continued), 8 and 9
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 9. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Electricity Supply Pension Scheme
The Electricity Supply Pension Scheme provides final salary defined benefits on a funded basis. The assets of the scheme are held in a
separate trustee administered fund. The scheme is divided into sections, one of which is the Group’s section. The Group’s section of the
scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2006. It is subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of
which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employers’ contribution, which, together with the specified contributions payable by the
employees and proceeds from the scheme’s assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out by Hewitt Bacon Woodrow at 31 March 2004. The aggregate market value of the
scheme’s assets was £1,110m and the value of the assets represented approximately 80.4% of the actuarial value of benefits due to
members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2004 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected
increases in pensionable earnings.
The results of the actuarial valuation carried out at 31 March 2004 showed that, based on long-term financial assumptions, the
contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 19.1% of pensionable earnings (13.1% employers and 6% employees). 
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next independent actuarial valuation is carried out, which will be no later than 
31 March 2007.
It has been agreed that no funding of the deficit identified in the 2004 actuarial valuation will need to be provided to the scheme until 
the outcome of the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2007 is known. At this point, the Group will pay the gross amount of any deficit up 
to a maximum amount of £68m (£48m net of tax) into the scheme. Until the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation has been completed, the
Group has arranged for banks to provide the trustees of the scheme with letters of credit. The main conditions under which these letters
of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as National Grid Electricity Transmission
plc, a Group undertaking, becoming insolvent or the Group failing to make agreed payments into the fund.
National Grid Wireless Pension Scheme
The National Grid Wireless Pension Scheme provides final salary defined benefits for service up to and including 30 June 2003 and a
career averaged pension for service after 1 July 2003 on a funded basis. The scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 August 1997.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund. It is subject to independent valuations at least every three
years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employers’ contributions which, together with the specified
contributions payable by employees and proceeds from the scheme’s assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable
under the scheme. 
The latest full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2005 is currently being carried out by Deloitte Total Reward and Benefits Limited.
The last completed full actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2002. The aggregate market value of the scheme’s assets was 
£15m and the value of the assets represented approximately 84% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the
basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 December 2002 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in
pensionable earnings.
The results of the actuarial valuation carried out at 31 December 2002 showed that, based on long-term financial assumptions, the
contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 25.9% of pensionable earnings (18.4% employers and 7.5% employees).
This contribution rate is currently being reviewed.
US defined benefit pension schemes
Substantially all the Group’s US employees are members of defined benefit plans. The assets of the plans are held in separate trustee
administered funds. The latest full actuarial valuations of these plans were carried out by Hewitt Associates LLC at 1 April 2005. The
aggregate market value of the assets relating to the Group’s US defined plans at 31 March 2005 totalled US$1,961m and the actuarial
value of the assets represented approximately 90% of the actuarial value of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for
future salary increases.
US healthcare and life insurance – retirees
In the US, the Group provides healthcare and life insurance to eligible retired US employees. Eligibility is based on certain age and length
of service requirements and in some cases retirees must contribute to the cost of their coverage.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 115
Note 9 (continued) 9. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
US other post-
Pensions retirement benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
Present value of funded obligations (16,520) (15,679) (1,223) (1,068)
Fair value of plan assets 15,341 14,077 568 488
(1,179) (1,602) (655) (580)
Present value of unfunded obligations (96) (90) – –
Other post-employment liabilities – – (34) (34)
Unrecognised past service cost – – 49 50
Net liability in the balance sheet (1,275) (1,692) (640) (564)
Liabilities (1,275) (1,718) (640) (564)
Assets – 26 – –
Net liability (1,275) (1,692) (640) (564)
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
Defined contribution scheme costs 2 2 – –
Defined benefit scheme costs
Current service cost 114 107 16 11
Past service cost – 16 6 25
Curtailment (gain)/loss on redundancies (24) 22 – –
Special termination benefits on redundancies 45 – – –
Curtailment cost – augmentations 5 – – –
Total in payroll costs 142 147 22 36
Interest cost 828 825 63 56
Expected return on plan assets (862) (843) (41) (39)
Total in finance costs (34) (18) 22 17
Current service costs 5 27 – –
Curtailment/settlement gain on sale of distribution networks (168) – – –
Total in discontinued operations (163) 27 – –
Actual return on plan assets 2,359 1,261 65 26
116 Group Financial Statements
Note 9 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 9. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
US other post-
Pensions retirement benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
Opening defined benefit obligation 15,769 15,403 1,068 1,002
Current service cost 119 134 16 11
Interest cost 828 825 63 56
Actuarial losses 1,300 147 40 5
Curtailment (gain)/loss on redundancies (24) 22 – –
Curtailment gain on sale of distribution networks (168) – – –
Settlement on sale of distribution networks (589) – – –
Net transfers and disposals (15) – – –
Gains on settlements (20) (1) – –
Special termination benefits 45 – – –
Curtailment cost – augmentations 5 – – –
Liabilities assumed in a business combination – 31 – –
Plan amendment – 17 – 79
Employee contributions 14 17 – –
Benefits paid (775) (783) (59) (52)
Exchange differences on foreign plans 127 (43) 95 (33)
Closing defined benefit obligation 16,616 15,769 1,223 1,068
Changes in the fair value of plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets 14,077 13,411 488 496
Expected return on plan assets 862 843 41 39
Actuarial gains/(losses) 1,497 418 24 (13)
Assets distributed on settlements and transfers (623) – – –
Employer contributions 191 184 30 32
Employee contributions 14 17 – –
Assets acquired in a business combination – 21 – –
Benefits paid (774) (783) (59) (52)
Exchange differences on foreign plans 97 (34) 44 (14)
Closing fair value of plan assets 15,341 14,077 568 488
Expected contributions to defined benefit plans in the following year 153 164 50 50
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 117
Note 9 (continued) 9. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
US other post-
Pensions retirement benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Amounts recognised in statement of recognised income and expense
Actuarial gain/(loss) during the year 197 271 (16) (18)
Exchange differences (30) 9 (51) 19
Total recognised for the year 167 280 (67) 1
Cumulative actuarial gain/(loss) 468 271 (34) (18)
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets were as follows:
US other post-
UK pensions US pensions retirement benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
% % % % % %
Equities 40.7 41.5 66.4 64.5 69.0 65.0
Corporate bonds 19.2 17.3 32.0 34.0 30.6 33.8
Gilts 30.1 31.9 – – – –
Property 8.5 8.0 0.2 0.3 – –
Other 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.2 0.4 1.2
Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
The principal actuarial assumptions used were:
Discount rate (i) 4.9 5.4 6.0 5.8 6.0 5.8
Expected return on plan assets 5.8 6.2 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.3
Rate of increase in salaries (ii) 3.9 3.9 4.1 4.1 – –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.0 3.0 – – – –
Rate of increase in Retail Price Index or equivalent 2.9 2.9 – – – –
Initial healthcare cost trend rate – – – – 10.0 10.0
Ultimate healthcare cost trend rate – – – – 5.0 5.0
(i) For the year ended 31 March 2006, a 0.1% reduction in the discount rate would increase the current service cost by £3m and reduce the interest on liabilities by £1m.
(ii) A promotional age-related scale has also been used where appropriate.
(iii) The pensions and other post-retirement benefit assumptions allow for future improvements in mortality.
In respect of US schemes, the estimated rate of return for various passive asset classes is based both on analysis of historical rates 
of return and forward-looking analysis of risk premiums and yields. Current market conditions, such as inflation and interest rates, are
evaluated in connection with the setting of our long-term assumptions. A small premium is added for active management of both equity
and fixed income. The rates of return for each asset class are then weighted in accordance with our target asset allocation, and the
resulting long-term return on asset rate is then applied to the market-related value of assets. The long-term target asset allocation for
the US pension schemes is 60% equities, 35% bonds and 5% property and other. The long-term target asset allocation for other post-
retirement benefit schemes is 67% equities and 33% bonds.
In respect of UK schemes, the expected long-term rate of return on assets has been set reflecting the price inflation expectation, the
expected real return on each major asset class and the long-term asset allocation strategy adopted for each plan. The expected real
returns on specific asset classes reflect historical returns, investment yields on the measurement date and general future return
expectations, and have been set after taking advice from the schemes’ actuaries. The long-term target asset allocation for the National
Grid UK Pension Scheme is 40% equities, 52% bonds and 8% property and other. The long-term asset allocation for the Group’s
section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme is 63% equities, 30% bonds, 7% property and other.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement. A one percentage
point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
2006 2005
£m £m
Increase
Effect on the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost 15 12
Effect on defined benefit obligation 186 156
Decrease
Effect on the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost (12) (10)
Effect on defined benefit obligation (161) (136)
2006 2005
£m £m
Experience gains on liabilities 192 42
Experience gains on assets 1,521 405
118 Group Financial Statements
Note 9 (continued) 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 10. Finance income and costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Pensions – expected return on scheme assets 903 882
Interest income on financial instruments held at amortised cost 135 64
Interest income and similar income 1,038 946
Pensions – interest on scheme liabilities (891) (881)
Interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost (746) (820)
Exceptional debt redemption and B share issue costs (49) –
Interest on derivatives (49) –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (18) (14)
Less: interest capitalised 60 63
Interest expense (1,693) (1,652)
Net (losses)/gains on derivative financial instruments:
On derivatives designated as fair value hedges (10) –
On derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 17 –
On derivatives designated as net investment hedges (25) –
On undesignated forward rate risk relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges 36 –
On derivatives not designated as hedges or ineligible for hedge accounting (12) –
Financial element of remeasurements on commodity contracts (14) –
Net losses on derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts (8) –
Interest expense and other finance costs (1,701) (1,652)
Net finance costs (663) (706)
Comprising:
Interest income and similar income 1,038 946
Interest expense and other finance costs
Before exceptional items and remeasurements (1,644) (1,652)
Exceptional items and remeasurements (57) –
(663) (706)
Interest income on financial instruments held at amortised cost comprises interest income from bank deposits and other financial assets
£131m (2005: £59m) and interest receivable on finance leases £4m (2005: £5m).
Interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost comprises interest on bank loans and overdrafts £33m (2005: £45m), interest
on other borrowings £712m (2005: £772m) and interest on finance leases £1m (2005: £3m).
Interest on funding attributable to assets in the course of construction was capitalised during the year at a rate of 5.9% (2005: 5.6%).
Interest expense and other finance costs include £49m (2005: £12m) relating to losses incurred on the repurchase of debt and B share
issue costs during the year.
Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges includes a net loss of £11m from derivatives designated as fair value hedges and a net gain of £1m
from the fair value adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
Net gains on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges includes net gains of £20m transferred from equity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 119
Note 10 11. Taxation
Taxation on items charged/(credited) to the income statement
2006 2005
£m £m
United Kingdom
Corporation tax at 30% 290 31
Adjustment in respect of prior years (i) (5) (19)
Deferred tax 1 82
286 94
Overseas
Corporate tax 125 33
Adjustment in respect of prior years 22 (21)
Deferred tax 129 213
276 225
Taxation 562 319
Comprising:
Taxation – excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 597 437
Taxation – exceptional items and remeasurements (note 6) (35) (118)
562 319
(i) The UK corporation tax adjustment in respect of prior years includes £nil (2005: £10m) that relates to exceptional items.
Taxation on items charged/(credited) to equity
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax charge on available-for-sale investments 1 –
Deferred tax credit on revaluation of cash flow hedges (20) –
Deferred tax credit on employee share options (7) (4)
Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains 62 66
36 62
The tax charge for the period is higher (2005: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%). The differences are
explained below:
Before After Before After
exceptionals exceptionals exceptionals exceptionals
and and and and
remeasure- remeasure- remeasure- remeasure-
ments ments ments ments
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m
Profit before taxation
Before exceptional items and remeasurements 1,924 1,924 1,740 1,740
Exceptional items and remeasurements – (145) – (301)
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 1,924 1,779 1,740 1,439
Profit on continuing operations multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2005: 30%) 577 534 522 432
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 17 17 (30) (40)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 90 114 89 55
Non-taxable income (179) (181) (174) (124)
Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 69 59 37 22
Impact of employee share options (3) (3) (2) (2)
Other 26 22 (5) (24)
Total taxation (continuing operations) 597 562 437 319
%% %%
At the effective income tax rate 31.0 31.6 25.1 22.2
Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Group has £nil (2005: £39m) non-trade deficits recognised and carried forward in the year.
120 Group Financial Statements
Note 11
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 12. Discontinued operations
On 1 June 2005, the Group disposed of its holdings in four of its eight regional gas distribution networks. The results of these
operations were previously included within the UK gas distribution segment, when reported under UK GAAP. The Group disposed 
of its interest in Citelec, an Argentinian joint venture, in August 2004.
Results of discontinued operations
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenues 168 1,102
Operating costs (122) (666)
Operating profit before exceptional items 61 510
Exceptional items (i) (15) (74)
Total operating profit from discontinued operations 46 436
Share of post-tax results of joint venture – (5)
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 46 431
Taxation (18) (140)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 28 291
Gain on disposal of gas distribution networks (ii) 2,636 –
Gain on disposal of joint venture – 13
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations before tax 2,636 13
Taxation (31) –
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 2,605 13
Total profit for the year from discontinued operations
Before exceptional items 43 352
Exceptional items 2,590 (48)
2,633 304
(i) The operating exceptional item for the year ended 31 March 2006 related to a fine incurred in respect of a breach of the Health and Safety at Work Act arising from a gas explosion in
Scotland in December 1999. Exceptional items for the year ended 31 March 2005 related to restructuring costs (£70m) and environmental costs (£4m).
(ii) The gain on disposal of the gas distribution networks resulted from proceeds of £5,760m comprising cash and cash equivalents, which is significantly in excess of the net book value of the
net assets disposed of £3,155m.
13. Dividends
The following table shows the dividends paid to equity shareholders:
2006 2005
pence pence
(per ordinary 2006 (per ordinary 2005
share) £m share) £m
Ordinary dividends
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005 15.2 469 ––
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 10.2 276 8.5 262
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 –– 11.9 366
25.4 745 20.4 628
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend for 2006 of 15.9p per share that will absorb £433m of shareholders’ equity. 
It will be paid on 23 August 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 9 June 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 121
Notes 12 and 13 14. Earnings per share 
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent
company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted earnings per share, excluding exceptional items and remeasurements, are provided to reflect the underlying performance of the
Group. Further details of exceptional items and remeasurements can be found in note 6 to the accounts.
a) Basic earnings per share
Profit for Earnings Profit for Earnings
the year per share the year per share
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m pence £m pence
Adjusted earnings – continuing operations 1,325 46.7 1,303 42.3
Exceptional operating items (39) (1.4) (263) (8.5)
Exceptional finance costs (49) (1.7) ––
Tax on exceptional items 27 0.9 103 3.3
Remeasurements (57) (2.0) (38) (1.2)
Tax on remeasurements 8 0.3 15 0.4
Earnings per share – continuing operations 1,215 42.8 1,120 36.3
Adjusted earnings – discontinued operations 43 1.5 352 11.4
Gain on disposal of gas distribution networks (net of tax) 2,605 91.8 ––
Other exceptional items (net of tax) (15) (0.5) (48) (1.5)
Earnings per share – discontinued operations 2,633 92.8 304 9.9
Basic earnings per share 3,848 135.6 1,424 46.2
2006 2005
millions millions
Weighted average number of shares – basic 2,837 3,082
b) Diluted earnings per share
Profit for Earnings Profit for Earnings
the year per share the year per share
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m pence £m pence
Adjusted diluted earnings – continuing operations 1,325 46.5 1,303 42.1
Exceptional operating items (39) (1.4) (263) (8.5)
Exceptional finance costs (49) (1.7) ––
Tax on exceptional items 27 0.9 103 3.3
Remeasurements (57) (2.0) (38) (1.2)
Tax on remeasurements 8 0.3 15 0.5
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 1,215 42.6 1,120 36.2
Adjusted diluted earnings – discontinued operations 43 1.5 352 11.4
Gain on disposal of gas distribution networks (net of tax) 2,605 91.4 ––
Other exceptional items (net of tax) (15) (0.5) (48) (1.6)
Diluted earnings per share – discontinued operations 2,633 92.4 304 9.8
Diluted earnings per share 3,848 135.0 1,424 46.0
2006 2005
millions millions
Weighted average number of shares – diluted 2,851 3,096
c) Reconciliation of basic to diluted average number of shares
2006 2005
millions millions
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – basic 2,837 3,082
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – employee share options 14 14
Weighted average number of ordinary shares – diluted 2,851 3,096
As at 31 March 2006, there were 2,367,011 outstanding share options in respect of the executive share schemes that were anti-dilutive
instruments.
122 Group Financial Statements
Note 14
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 15. Goodwill
£m
Cost at 1 April 2004 1,548
Exchange adjustments (47)
Acquisition of Group undertakings 544
Cost at 31 March 2005 2,045
Exchange adjustments 111
Cost at 31 March 2006 2,156
Accumulated impairment losses at 1 April 2004 12
Impairment charge 2
Accumulated impairment losses at 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006 14
Net book value at 31 March 2006 2,142
Net book value at 31 March 2005 2,031
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment. The amounts disclosed above as at 31 March 2006 include balances relating to our
businesses in New England £882m (2005: £823m), New York £639m (2005: £592m) and National Grid Wireless £541m (2005: £541m). 
Within the New England and New York businesses, goodwill is allocated to the individual subsidiary companies. These are defined as
cash generating units for impairment testing purposes. Within National Grid Wireless goodwill is allocated to the three main business
sectors (pylons, towers and managed sites), which are defined as cash generating units.
The recoverability of the goodwill relating to the New England and New York companies has been assessed by comparing the carrying
value of these businesses with the recoverable amount on a value-in-use basis. This has been calculated based on projections that
incorporate our best estimates of future cash flows, customer rates, costs, future prices, growth, operating costs and the cash flows,
prepared from internal forecasts for the next five years extrapolated into the future by using a 2% growth rate. Cash flow projections
have been discounted to reflect the time value of money, using a discount rate of 5.75%. The discount rate is the post-tax weighted
average cost of capital. On a pre-tax basis it is estimated that the discount rate would be approximately 9.58%.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill relating to National Grid Wireless has been based on an assessment of the fair value of the
business. This has been determined by considering other recent transactions and external information on valuations placed on similar
wireless infrastructure businesses, including National Grid Wireless. The key assumption used relates to the earnings multiples that might
be applicable in the purchase or sale of wireless infrastructure networks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 123
Note 15 16. Acquisitions
On 31 August 2004, the Group acquired the UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp. for a total consideration of £1,138m,
including acquisition costs of £14m. This transaction has been recorded using the acquisition method of accounting.
In accordance with IFRS 3, a hindsight review of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired was undertaken in August 2005.
Following this review, the amount of goodwill arising on this acquisition, being the difference between the purchase consideration and
the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, was £541m. 
The other acquisition that was carried out during the year ended 31 March 2005 was that of a telecommunications tower operation 
in the US. The book and fair value of assets acquired was £10m compared with total cash consideration of £13m, giving rise to 
goodwill of £3m.
The acquired businesses are presented within the Wireless infrastructure segment.
Other
Crown Castle acquisition acquisition
Book Accounting
value at policy Fair value Final Book and Total
acquisition adjustments adjustments fair value fair value fair value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets – 6 188 194 – 194
Property, plant and equipment 519 (10) 103 612 6 618
Inventories 3 –– 3– 3
Trade and other receivables 43 – – 43 4 47
Cash and cash equivalents 29 – – 29 – 29
Current liabilities (152) – – (152) – (152)
Deferred tax liabilities (32) 4 (85) (113) – (113)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations – (10) – (10) – (10)
Provisions (2) (1) (6) (9) – (9)
Net assets acquired 408 (11) 200 597 10 607
Goodwill arising on acquisition 541 3 544
Total consideration 1,138 13 1,151
The adjustments recorded to book value reflect accounting alignments to bring the accounting policies of the acquired businesses into
line with those of the Group under IFRS, which resulted in a reduction of £4m to tangible fixed assets relating to the accounting for
leasehold properties, £6m of software costs transferred from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets and an increase of £1m
to provisions for liabilities and charges relating to decommissioning provisions. It also entailed the recognition of pensions and other
post-retirement benefit obligations of £10m. Deferred tax on these transactions amounted to £4m.
Fair value adjustments primarily related to the revaluation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of intangible assets and net
provisions to their fair value at the date of acquisition. Deferred tax liabilities on these transactions amounted to £85m.
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents on the acquisitions in 2005 was as follows:
Other
Crown Castle acquisitions Total
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 1,138 13 1,151
Cash acquired (29) – (29)
1,109 13 1,122
124 Group Financial Statements
Note 16
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 17. Other intangible assets
Customer
relationships Software Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 April 2004 – 197 8 205
Exchange adjustments –– ––
Acquisition of Group undertakings 164 6 24 194
Additions – 78 – 78
Disposals – (8) – (8)
Cost at 31 March 2005 164 273 32 469
Exchange adjustments –8 –8
Additions –144256
Disposals – (3) – (3)
Cost at 31 March 2006 164 292 74 530
Amortisation at 1 April 2004 – 68 7 75
Exchange adjustments –– – –
Amortisation charge for the year 6 38 1 45
Disposals – (9) – (9)
Amortisation at 31 March 2005 6 97 8 111
Exchange adjustments –3 –3
Amortisation charge for the year 11 45 1 57
Disposals – (3) – (3)
Amortisation at 31 March 2006 17 142 9 168
Net book value at 31 March 2006 147 150 65 362
Net book value at 31 March 2005 158 176 24 358
Other consists of emissions allowances of £41m (2005: £nil) and licences of £24m (2005: £24m).
Other intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Current 41 –
Non-current 321 358
362 358
Expected amortisation of intangible assets for the next five years is: £m
2007 52
2008 55
2009 51
2010 48
2011 43
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 125
Note 17 18. Property, plant and equipment
Assets Motor
Plant in the vehicles
Land and and course of and office
buildings machinery construction equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 April 2004 858 28,967 1,129 797 31,751
Exchange adjustments (13) (202) (2) (1) (218)
Acquisition of Group undertakings 29 584 – 5 618
Additions 32 808 980 7 1,827
Disposals (34) (117) – (22) (173)
Reclassifications 39 776 (838) 23 –
Cost at 31 March 2005 911 30,816 1,269 809 33,805
Exchange adjustments 35 555 12 1 603
Additions 65 588 1,339 101 2,093
Disposal of Group undertakings (30) (6,976) (9) (253) (7,268)
Disposals (25) (128) – (18) (171)
Reclassifications 18 847 (895) 37 7
Cost at 31 March 2006 974 25,702 1,716 677 29,069
Depreciation at 1 April 2004 276 9,634 – 526 10,436
Exchange adjustments (3) (73) – (1) (77)
Depreciation charge for the year (i) 19 846 – 85 950
Impairment charge 2– –– 2
Disposals (12) (121) – (18) (151)
Depreciation at 31 March 2005 282 10,286 – 592 11,160
Exchange adjustments 7 200 – – 207
Depreciation charge for the year (i) 17 816 – 75 908
Disposal of Group undertakings (13) (1,781) – (200) (1,994)
Disposals (9) (121) – (17) (147)
Depreciation at 31 March 2006 284 9,400 – 450 10,134
Net book value at 31 March 2006 690 16,302 1,716 227 18,935
Net book value at 31 March 2005 629 20,530 1,269 217 22,645
(i) Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of £13m (2005: £176m).
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
2006 2005
£m £m
Freehold 649 590
Long leasehold (over 50 years) 13 12
Short leasehold (under 50 years) 28 27
690 629
The cost of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2006 included £504m (2005: £449m) relating to interest capitalised. 
Included within trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities at 31 March 2006 are contributions to the cost of property,
plant and equipment amounting to £31m (2005: £53m) and £1,018m (2005: £1,150m) respectively.
During the course of the year, some of our businesses have reviewed the useful lives of some of their assets. These changes have
resulted in a net reduction in the depreciation charge of £17m.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment which is carried at deemed cost within plant and machinery at the date of transition
to IFRS on 1 April 2004 amounted to £152m.
126 Group Financial Statements
Note 18
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 19. Investments in joint ventures
£m
At 1 April 2004 19
Disposals 5
Share of retained loss (2)
Dividends received (5)
At 31 March 2005 17
Exchange adjustments 2
Disposals (2)
Share of retained profit 3
Dividends received (2)
Impairment provision written back 13
Reclassification as asset held for sale (19)
At 31 March 2006 12
The names of the principal Group undertakings and joint ventures are included in note 36.
20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon, during the current
and prior reporting periods:
Deferred tax (assets)/liabilities
Pensions
and other
Accelerated Employee post- Other net
tax share retirement Mark-to- temporary
depreciation options benefits market differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets at 1 April 2004 – (8) (684) – (1,087) (1,779)
Deferred tax liabilities at 1 April 2004 3,939 – 127 – 77 4,143
At 1 April 2004 3,939 (8) (557) – (1,010) 2,364
Exchange adjustments (21) – 9 – 29 17
Charged/(credited) to income statement 111 (6) 20 – 219 344
Charged/(credited) to equity – (4) 66 – – 62
Acquisition of Group undertakings 69 – – – 44 113
Other – – – – (29) (29)
At 31 March 2005 4,098 (18) (462) – (747) 2,871
Deferred tax assets at 31 March 2005 – (18) (462) – (931) (1,411)
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 March 2005 4,098 – – – 184 4,282
At 31 March 2005 4,098 (18) (462) – (747) 2,871
First time adoption of IAS 39 – – – 38 (54) (16)
At 1 April 2005 4,098 (18) (462) 38 (801) 2,855
Exchange adjustments 60 – (10) – (72) (22)
Charged/(credited) to income statement 31 (3) 25 (4) 130 179
Charged/(credited) to equity – (7) 62 (20) 1 36
Disposal of Group undertakings (1,068) – – – 9 (1,059)
Other – – (12) – 25 13
At 31 March 2006 3,121 (28) (397) 14 (708) 2,002
Deferred tax assets at 31 March 2006 (5) (28) (397) (6) (835) (1,271)
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 March 2006 3,126 – – 20 127 3,273
3,121 (28) (397) 14 (708) 2,002
Deferred tax charged/(credited) to income statement includes £49m (2005: £49m) reported within profits for the year from discontinued
operations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is intention to settle the
balances net. The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet purposes:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities 2,161 3,189
Deferred tax assets (159) (318)
2,002 2,871
At the balance sheet date there were no material current deferred tax assets or liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 127
Notes 19 and 20 20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Deferred tax assets in respect of capital losses, non-trade deficits, trading losses and pre-trading expenditure have not been recognised
as their future recovery is uncertain or not currently anticipated. The deferred tax assets not recognised are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Capital losses 338 304
Non-trade deficits 166 166
Trading losses 17 17
Pre-trading expenditure 9 6
The capital losses, non-trade deficits, trading losses and pre-trading expenditure are available to carry forward indefinitely. The capital
losses can be offset against specific types of future capital gains, non-trade deficits against specific future non-trade profits and the
trading losses and pre-trading expenditure against specific future trading profits.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures for
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised at the balance sheet date is approximately £546m. No liability is recognised in
respect of the differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is
probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
21. Other non-current receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Lease debtors 23 31
Prepayments 7 7
Other debtors 8 58
38 96
22. Financial investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current
Available-for-sale investments 83 65
Loans and receivables 6 8
Other financial investments at fair value through the income statement 59 58
148 131
2006 2005
£m £m
Current
Available-for-sale investments 254 –
Loans and receivables 130 398
384 398
Available-for-sale investments and other financial investments at fair value through the income statement are recorded at fair value as at
31 March 2006 and at cost as at 31 March 2005.
There is no significant interest rate or currency rate risk on financial investments.
128 Group Financial Statements
Notes 20 (continued), 21 and 22
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 23. Financial instruments
The Group’s treasury policy, described on pages 57 to 59, includes details of the objectives, policies and strategies of the Group
associated with financial instruments.
The Group’s counterparty exposure under derivative financial contracts at 31 March 2006 was £524m (2005: £671m).
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had a number of exposures to individual counterparties. In accordance with Group Treasury policies
and exposure management practices, counterparty credit exposure limits are continually monitored and adhered to, and no individual
exposure is considered as significant in the context of the ordinary course of the Group’s treasury management activity. 
Collateral agreements exist with certain counterparties. The amount of cash posted with the Group and by the Group was £240m and
£20m respectively as at 31 March 2006. 
Book and fair values of financial instruments at 31 March
2006 2005
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Borrowings (13,126) (13,757) (14,290) (15,646)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,452 1,452 272 272
Bank overdrafts (3) (3) (18) (18)
Financial investments
Available-for-sale 337 337 65 69
Other financial investments through the income statement 5959 5858
Loans and receivables 136 136 406 406
Trade and other receivables
Loans and receivables 1,006 1,005 709 709
Assets held for sale 19 19 ––
Trade and other payables (1,906) (1,891) (1,905) (1,905)
Derivative financial assets 665 665 – 725
Derivative financial liabilities (222) (222) – (182)
Commodity contract liabilities (488) (488) (471) (471)
Market values, where available, have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair values have been
calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates. Due to their short maturities, the fair value of short-term receivables 
and payables approximates to their book value.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 129
Note 23 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Currency and interest rate composition of financial liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by contractual maturity, of the Group’s non-derivative financial instruments that are
exposed to interest rate risks before taking into account currency and interest rate swaps:
At 31 March 2006
More than
Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total
Fixed rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities
Other bonds
Sterling (285) (229) (212) (294) (248) (1,915) (3,183)
Euro (1,206) (12) (775) (205) – (1,796) (3,994)
US dollar (392) (121) (37) (363) (3) (621) (1,537)
Other (49) – (207) (7) (10) (217) (490)
Other loans
Sterling (55) – – – – – (55)
US dollar – – – – – (24) (24)
Bank loans
Sterling (37) – – – – – (37)
Finance leases
Sterling (4) (2) (1) (1) – – (8)
(2,028) (364) (1,232) (870) (261) (4,573) (9,328)
More than
Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total
Floating rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities
Other bonds
Sterling (i) (25) – (39) (214) – (1,391) (1,669)
Euro – (29) – – – – (29)
US dollar (13) (6) (11) – – (588) (618)
Other (12) – – – (27) (20) (59)
Other loans
Sterling (70) – – – – – (70)
Bank loans
Sterling (64) – – – – (550) (614)
US dollar (176) – – – – – (176)
Other (441) – – – – – (441)
Finance leases
US dollar (10) (5) (6) (6) (6) (89) (122)
Bank overdraft 
Sterling (3) – – – – – (3)
(814) (40) (56) (220) (33) (2,638) (3,801)
(i) Includes bonds linked to the retail price index.
130 Group Financial Statements
Note 23 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity analysis
The following is an analysis of contractual cash flows payable by National Grid under financial liabilities by remaining contractual
maturities at the balance sheet date:
Due within 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years
Fixed Floating Fixed Floating
interest interest Repayment interest interest Repayment
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities
Other bonds (483) (40) (1,778) (436) (40) (404)
Other loans – (10) (55) – – –
Bank loans – (39) (736) – (27) –
Finance lease liabilities – (6) (14) – (6) (5)
Other non-interest bearing liabilities – – (1,582) – – (324)
(483) (95) (4,165) (436) (73) (733)
Derivative liabilities (net)
Cross currency interest rate swaps (17) (5) (32) (17) – (1)
Foreign exchange forward contracts – – (3) – – –
Interest rate swaps (9) (11) – (7) (8) –
Commodity contracts – – (174) – – (169)
(26) (16) (209) (24) (8) (170)
Derivative assets (net)
Cross currency interest rate swaps 2 (4) 194 (5) – (4)
Foreign exchange forwards – – 2 – – 1
Interest rate swaps 3 4 – 2 4 –
5 – 196 (3) 4 (3)
Total at 31 March 2006 (504) (111) (4,178) (463) (77) (906)
Due between 2 and 3 years Due 3 years and beyond
Fixed Floating Fixed Floating
interest interest Repayment interest interest Repayment
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities
Other bonds (384) (38) (1,317) (3,835) (49) (8,303)
Other loans –– ––– (94)
Bank loans – (27) – – (111) (551)
Finance lease liabilities – (6) (6) – (6) (105)
Other non-interest bearing liabilities – – – – – –
(384) (71) (1,323) (3,835) (166) (9,053)
Derivative liabilities (net)
Cross currency interest rate swaps (14) – 1 (94) – (50)
Foreign exchange forwards – – – – – –
Interest rate swaps 4 (8) – (8) (31) –
Commodity contracts – – (50) – – (95)
(10) (8) (49) (102) (31) (145)
Derivative assets (net)
Cross currency interest rate swaps (2) – 54 (22) (7) 272
Foreign exchange forwards – – – – – –
Interest rate swaps 1 3 – 121 33 –
(1) 3 54 99 26 272
Total at 31 March 2006 (395) (76) (1,318) (3,838) (171) (8,926)
Sensitivity analysis at 31 March 2006
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK and US
interest rates and the US dollar to sterling exchange rate on our financial instruments. We have excluded from this analysis the impact of
movements in market variables on the carrying value of our commodity contracts as we are able to recover the costs of these contracts
from customers in future periods.
The analysis also excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-retirement
obligations, provisions and on the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries (other than financial instruments).
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 131
Note 23 (continued) 23. Financial instruments (continued)
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt
and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge
designations in place at 31 March 2006. As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position as at 31 March 2006 and is
not representative of the year then ended as all of these varied during the course of 2005/06.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
the sensitivity to interest rates relates only to derivative financial instruments, as debt and deposits are carried at amortised cost and
so their carrying value does not change as interest rates move;
the sensitivity of accrued interest to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, deposits and
derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked debt;
changes in the carrying value of derivatives from movements in interest rates designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be
recorded fully within equity;
changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates have
an immaterial effect on the income statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt;
changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in interest
rates are recorded in the income statement designated using the spot rather than the forward translation method;
changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investments from movements in the US dollar to
sterling exchange rate are recorded directly in equity;
changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the income statement;
all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the
income statement;
debt with a maturity below one year is floating rate for the accrued interest part of the calculation; and
the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in
interest rates affects a full twelve month period for the accrued interest portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from
movements in changes in UK and US interest rates and in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate.
Income
statement Equity
+/- £m +/- £m
UK interest rates +/- 0.10% 14 14
US interest rates +/- 0.10% 62
US dollar exchange rate +/- 10% 52 228
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s hedging policies are set out on page 58. The Group has entered into a number of derivative financial instruments as
detailed below, which are designated as follows:
Fair value hedges
The Group maintains interest rate and currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate
debt issued by the Group. Change in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the
income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The
gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement
within interest expense and other finance costs. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement
within net (losses)/gains on derivative financial instruments. Changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to
interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within interest expense and other finance costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount is amortised to the income
statement under the effective interest rate method.
132 Group Financial Statements
Note 23 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Cash flow hedges
The Group maintains interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps that qualify for hedge accounting as designated cash flow hedges
relating to future interest payments on debt. The revaluation of these swaps is included in the cash flow hedge reserve and is recycled to
the income statement as the interest charge relating to the debt is recorded. 
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge anticipated and committed future purchases. Where designated, these
contracts qualify for hedge accounting and are designated as cash flow hedges. When the underlying purchase is recorded, the
associated gains and losses deferred in equity are removed and included in the initial cost of the asset.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain
or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the
income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity 
is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedges
The Group uses US dollar borrowings, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts as instruments to hedge the net
investment in the Group’s US based subsidiaries.
The cross currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts are hedge accounted using the spot to spot method. The foreign
exchange gain/(loss) on retranslation of the debt and the spot to spot movements on the cross currency swaps and forward currency
contracts are transferred to equity to offset (losses)/gains on translation of the net investment in the Group’s US based subsidiaries.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
The Group’s policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes, however due to the complex nature of hedge accounting under IAS 39
some derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income
statement within net (losses)/gains on derivative financial instruments.
The maturity of derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2006 can be analysed as follows:
Total
Maturity Maturity fair
within Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity over value
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets
Interest rate swaps 73 – 4 1 – 135 213
Cross currency swaps 238 3 52 17 1 138 449
Foreign exchange forward contracts 3 – – – – – 3
Total at 31 March 2006 314 3 56 18 1 273 665
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps (42) – (4) (5) (1) (31) (83)
Cross currency swaps (47) (1) (2) (1) – (85) (136)
Foreign exchange forward contracts (3) – – – – – (3)
(92) (1) (6) (6) (1) (116) (222)
Commodity contract liabilities (174) (169) (50) (15) (13) (67) (488)
Total at 31 March 2006 (266) (170) (56) (21) (14) (183) (710)
The notional amounts of the above derivatives and commodity contract liabilities can be analysed as follows:
Total
Maturity Maturity fair
within Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity over value
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets
Interest rate swaps 1,196 65 475 117 – 1,844 3,697
Cross currency swaps 1,254 35 1,109 189 26 2,322 4,935
Foreign exchange forward contracts 46 19 – – – – 65
Total at 31 March 2006 2,496 119 1,584 306 26 4,166 8,697
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1,534 50 370 378 86 1,037 3,455
Cross currency swaps 864 7 160 8 10 1,087 2,136
Foreign exchange forward contracts (47) (11) (20) – – – (78)
Total at 31 March 2006 2,351 46 510 386 96 2,124 5,513
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 133
Note 23 (continued) 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Commodity contract liabilities of £488m include electricity swaps with notional quantities totalling 9,223,107 MWh. Other commodity
contract liabilities, relating to power purchase commitments over periods of two to twelve years, do not have specified notional
quantities. Commodity contracts are described in more detail on pages 59 and 60.
Assets Liabilities
Notional Notional 
Fair value amount Fair value amount
At 31 March 2006 £m £m £m £m
Fair value hedge derivative instruments
Interest rate swaps 92 (1,408) (9) (908)
Cross currency swaps 146 (1,453) (72) (755)
Forward foreign currency contracts – – – –
238 (2,861) (81) (1,663)
Cash flow hedge derivative instruments
Interest rate swaps 80 (436) (16) (685)
Cross currency swaps 112 (1,745) (22) (804)
Forward foreign currency contracts 3 (78) (3) 24
195 (2,259) (41) (1,465)
Net investment hedge derivative instruments
Interest rate swaps 19 (904) (16) (525)
Cross currency swaps 191 (1,735) (40) (565)
Forward foreign currency contracts – 37 – 27
210 (2,602) (56) (1,063)
Other derivative instruments
Interest rate swaps 22 (949) (42) (1,337)
Cross currency swaps – (2) (2) (12)
Forward foreign currency contracts – (24) – 27
Commodities instruments – – (488) (488)
22 (975) (532) (1,810)
Total 665 (8,697) (710) (6,001)
Analysed as follows:
Current 314 (2,496) (266) (2,351)
Non-current 351 (6,201) (444) (3,650)
665 (8,697) (710) (6,001)
Gains and losses recognised in cash flow hedge reserve (note 32) on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 March 2006 will be
continuously released to the income statement until the bank borrowings are repaid (note 27).
The amount of cash flow hedge reserve due to be released from reserves to the income statement within the next year is £20m, with
the remaining amount due to be released with the same maturity profile as borrowings in note 27.
134 Group Financial Statements
Note 23 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Financial instruments disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2005
The following information for 2005 shows certain of the disclosures required by UK GAAP (FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and other Financial
Instruments: Disclosures’).
Gains and losses on hedges for year ended 31 March 2005
UnrecognisedUnrecognisedUnrecognised Deferred Deferred Deferred
gains losses net gain gains losses net (loss)/gain
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gains/(losses) on hedges at 1 April 2004 430 (326) 104 131 (82) 49
(Gains)/losses arising in previous years recognised in the year (25) 23 (2) (19) 10 (9)
Gains/(losses) arising in previous years not recognised in the year 405 (303) 102 112 (72) 40
Gains/(losses) arising in the year (64) 36 (28) 36 (8) 28
Gains/(losses) on hedges at 31 March 2005 341 (267) 74 148 (80) 68
Of which:
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised within one year 12 (7) 5 25 (14) 11
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised after one year 329 (260) 69 123 (66) 57
Currency and interest rate composition of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March 2005
The currency and interest rate composition of the Group’s financial assets are shown in the table below after taking into account
currency and interest rate swaps:
Fixed rate assets
Weighted
average
Non- Weighted period
interest Variable average for which
Total bearing rate Fixed rate interest rate rate is fixed
£m £m £m £m % years
At 31 March 2005
Sterling 455 – 455 – – –
US dollars 189 – 189 – – –
Other currencies 26 – 26– ––
Cash and investments 670 – 670 – – –
Other financial assets (sterling) 41 – – 41 11.50 4.1
Other financial assets (US dollars) 72 27 9 36 5.18 13.2
783 27 679 77 8.54 8.4
The notional amounts relating to financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency profiles for interest rate swaps and
forward rate agreements, foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps at 31 March 2005 amounted to £7,420m and £8,017m
respectively.
Cash and investments earned interest at local prevailing rates for maturity periods generally not exceeding 12 months, and included
listed investments with a cost of £242m and market value of £245m. Other financial assets at 31 March 2005 related to a net investment
in a finance lease of £41m, fixed asset investments of £36m, forward foreign currency contracts of £9m, equities of £16m and mutual
funds of £11m.
Fixed rate assets
Weighted
average
Weighted period
Variable average for which
Total rate Fixed rate interest rate rate is fixed
£m £m £m % years
At 31 March 2005
Sterling 9,639 6,656 2,983 6.31 9.4
US dollars 4,580 1,814 2,766 6.11 5.3
Borrowings 14,219 8,470 5,749 6.21 7.4
Other financial liabilities (sterling) 61 61– ––
Other financial liabilities (US dollars) 501 479 22 4.11 –
14,781 9,010 5,771 6.20 7.4
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 135
Note 23 (continued) 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Maturity of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March 2005
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are shown in the table below after taking into account currency and
interest rate swaps:
Assets Liabilities
£m £m
Within one year 687 3,328
In more than one year, but not more than two years 12 2,171
In more than two years, but not more than three years 11 618
In more than three years, but not more than four years 12 1,316
In more than four years, but not more than five years 4 1,316
In more than five years 57 6,032
783 14,781
At 31 March 2005 the weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings of £3,256m was 4.6%.
Foreign exchange forward contracts held to manage the currency mix of the Group’s borrowings portfolio comprising a £463m forward 
sale of US dollars have not been adjusted in the table above.
Other sterling financial liabilities at 31 March 2005 comprised onerous leases of £61m.
Other US dollar financial liabilities at 31 March 2005 comprised index-linked energy swap contracts of £327m, purchased power
obligations of £144m, non-equity minority interests of £22m, onerous leases of £6m, forward currency contracts of £2m, and interest
rate swaps of £nil which were shown at fair value as they are no longer considered a hedge.
Substantially all the variable rate borrowings are subject to interest rates which fluctuate with LIBOR for the appropriate currency at
differing premiums or, in the case of certain US companies, are based on the market rate for tax-exempt commercial paper.
In calculating the weighted average number of years for which interest rates are fixed, swaps which are cancellable at the option of the
swap provider are assumed to have a life based on the earliest date at which they can be cancelled.
24. Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 62 60
Work in progress 22 27
Fuel stocks 24 14
108 101
The Group consumed £58m of inventories during the year (2005: £56m). The above table includes £4m provision for obsolescence as
at 31 March 2006 (2005: £5m).
25. Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 838 553
Other receivables 137 67
Prepayments and accrued income 525 573
Asset held for sale 19 –
1,519 1,193
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in sterling £687m and US dollars £832m.
On 22 February 2006 a Group subsidiary undertaking entered into an agreement for the sale of the Group’s interest in a joint venture,
Copperbelt Energy Corporation plc. It is expected that this sale will be completed during 2006/07 and as a result the joint venture investment
has been reclassified as an asset held for sale.
136 Group Financial Statements
Notes 23 (continued), 24 and 25
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 25. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Provision for impairment of receivables
£m
At 1 April 2004 128
Exchange adjustments (3)
Charge for the year 42
Uncollectable amounts written off net of recoveries (34)
At 31 March 2005 133
Exchange adjustments (9)
Charge for the year 24
Uncollectable amounts written off net of recoveries (41)
At 31 March 2006 107
26. Cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 46 100
Short-term deposits 1,406 172
Cash and cash equivalents 1,452 272
Bank overdrafts (3) (18)
Net cash and cash equivalents 1,449 254
Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2006 include £350m held in US dollars and £12m held in euros, converted into sterling at
the Group’s year end exchange rates.
National Grid USA and its public utility subsidiaries, all consolidated subsidiaries of the Group, are subject to restrictions on the payment
of dividends by administrative order and contract. At 31 March 2006 £46m of cash and cash equivalents were restricted.
27. Borrowings
The following table analyses the Group’s total borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts:
2006 2005
£m £m
Current:
Bank loans 717 402
Commercial paper – 1,469
Other bonds 1,983 1,348
Finance leases 14 5
Other loans 125 19
2,839 3,243
Non-current:
Bank loans 550 910
Other bonds 9,598 10,043
Finance leases 115 62
Other loans 24 32
10,287 11,047
Total borrowings 13,126 14,290
2006 2005
£m £m
Total borrowings are repayable as follows:
In one year or less 2,839 3,243
In more than one year, but not more than two years 404 2,004
In more than two years, but not more than three years 1,288 467
In more than three years, but not more than four years 1,090 1,213
In more than four years, but not more than five years 294 1,293
In more than five years: 
by instalments 131 35
other than by instalments 7,080 6,035
13,126 14,290
Charges over property, plant and other assets of the Group were provided as collateral over borrowings totalling £607m at 31 March
2006 (2005: £729m).
The notional amount outstanding of the Group’s debt portfolio at 31 March 2006 was £13,230m (2005: £14,564m).
Included in current bank loans is £240m in respect of cash posted with the Group under collateral agreements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 137
Notes 25 (continued), 26 and 27 27. Borrowings (continued)
The principal items included within Other bonds are listed below. Unless otherwise indicated, these instruments were outstanding 
at both 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005.
Issuer Description of instrument (notional amount)
British Transco Finance (No5) Limited (i) GBP 115 million Floating Rate Instruments due 2006
British Transco Finance Inc. USD 300 million 6.625% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2018
British Transco International Finance BV USD 350 million 7.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2006
British Transco International Finance BV FRF 2,000 million 5.125% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2009
British Transco International Finance BV USD 1,500 million Zero Coupon Bond due 2021
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (i) GBP 240 million 8.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2006
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc EUR 600 million 4.125% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2008
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 250 million 4.75% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2010
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 300 million 2.983% Guaranteed Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2018
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 220 million 3.806% Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2020
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 450 million 5.875% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2024
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 360 million 6.5% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2028
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 70 million 3.589% Limited Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2030
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 50 million 2.817% Guaranteed Limited Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2032
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc GBP 75 million 5.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2035
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (ii) GBP 50 million 2.2280% Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2035
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (ii) GBP 75 million 2.0353% Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2035
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (ii) GBP 50 million 1.8204% Retail Price Index-Linked Instruments due 2035
National Grid plc (i) EUR 200 million Floating Rate Instruments due 2005
National Grid plc (i) EUR 500 million Floating Rate Instruments due 2006
National Grid plc EUR 500 million 3.75% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2008
National Grid plc (ii) EUR 750 million 4.125% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2013
National Grid plc EUR 600 million 5.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2018
National Grid plc EUR 500 million 4.375% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2020
New England Power Company USD 135.85 million Tax Exempt Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, Variable Rate due 2020
New England Power Company USD 106.15 million Tax Exempt Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, Variable Rate due 2022
NGG Finance plc EUR 1,250 million 5.25% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2006
NGG Finance plc EUR 750 million 6.125% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2011
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (i) USD 110 million 6.625% Taxable First Mortgage Bonds due 2005
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (i) USD 400 million 7.625% Senior Notes due 2005
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (i) USD 150 million 9.75% Taxable First Mortgage Bonds due 2005
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation USD 275 million 7.75% Taxable First Mortgage Bonds due 2006
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation USD 200 million 8.875% Senior Notes due 2007
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation USD 600 million 7.75% Senior Notes due 2008
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation USD 115.71 million 7.2% Tax-Exempt First Mortgage Bonds due 2029 (iii)
National Grid Gas Holdings plc GBP 503.078 million Floating Rate Instruments due 2009
National Grid Gas Holdings plc GBP 503.078 million 4.1875% Index-Linked Instruments due 2022
National Grid Gas Holdings plc GBP 503.078 million 7.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2024
National Grid Gas plc EUR 650 million 5.25% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2006
National Grid Gas plc GBP 250 million 6.125% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2006
National Grid Gas plc GBP 300 million 5.625% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2007
National Grid Gas plc GBP 250 million 8.875% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2008
National Grid Gas plc AUD 500 million 7.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2008
National Grid Gas plc GBP 300 million 5.375% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2009
National Grid Gas plc GBP 300 million 6.0% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2017
National Grid Gas plc GBP 275 million 8.75% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2025
National Grid Gas plc GBP 50 million 6.2% Fixed Rate Instruments due 2028
(i) Matured during the year ended 31 March 2006
(ii) Issued during the year ended 31 March 2006
(iii) Refinanced and initially issued in auction rate mode during year ended 31 March 2005
The First Mortgage Bonds are secured against the assets of the Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.
138 Group Financial Statements
Note 27 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 27. Borrowings (continued)
Borrowing facilities
At 31 March 2006, the Group had bilateral committed credit facilities of £1,540m (2005: £1,985m), of which £1,540m (2005: £1,985m)
were undrawn. The Group also had committed credit facilities from syndicates of banks of £1,543m at 31 March 2006 (2005: £1,437m),
of which £1,304m (2005: £1,237m) were undrawn. An analysis of the maturity of these undrawn committed facilities is shown below:
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring:
In one year or less 963 3,165
In more than one year, but not more than two years 200 57
In more than two years 1,681 –
2,844 3,222
Of the unused facilities at 31 March 2006 £2,232m (2005: £2,805m) was held as back-up to commercial paper and similar borrowings.
The remainder was available as additional back-up to commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes.
28. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 1,313 1,111
Commodity contract liabilities 174 153
Social security and other taxes 147 219
Other payables 269 512
Deferred income 192 342
2,095 2,337
Other payables at 31 March 2005 included interest payable of £255m. In 2006, interest payable is included in borrowings in accordance
with IAS 39.
29. Other non-current liabilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Commodity contract liabilities 314 318
Other payables 324 282
Deferred income 1,081 1,829
1,719 2,429
Commodity contract liabilities
Commodity contract liabilities are contracts for the purchase of electricity and gas, or derivative commodity instruments, which are
carried at fair value in the balance sheet. They comprise purchased power obligations, index-linked swap contracts and New York
Mercantile Exchange (‘NYMEX’) gas and electricity futures that do not qualify as hedges of future sales.
Under our rate plans in the US, payments made under these contracts are recovered from customers. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 139
Notes 27 (continued), 28 and 29 30. Provisions
Total
Decommissioning Environmental Emissions Restructuring Other provisions 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 131 428 – 61 93 713
Exchange adjustments (4) (6) – – – (10)
Acquisition of a Group undertaking 1 – – – 8 9
Additions – 107 4 142 7 260
Unwinding of discount 5 9 – – – 14
Unused amounts reversed (2) – – – (4) (6)
Utilised (26) (47) – (113) (3) (189)
At 31 March 2005 105 491 4 90 101 791
Exchange adjustments 9 19 – – – 28
Disposal of Group undertakings – (44) – – (22) (66)
Additions 18 3 19 35 70 145
Reclassification 24 – – – 5 29
Unwinding of discount 3 15 – – – 18
Utilised (32) (55) – (50) (37) (174)
At 31 March 2006 127 429 23 75 117 771
Provisions have been analysed as current and non-current as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Current 235 273
Non-current 536 518
771 791
Decommissioning provision
The decommissioning provision of £127m at 31 March 2006 primarily represents the net present value of the estimated expenditure
(discounted at a nominal rate of 5.5%) expected to be incurred in respect of the decommissioning of certain nuclear generating units. It
also includes £16m relating to the decommissioning of Wireless infrastructure–related analogue signal assets and £8m relating to other
asset retirement obligations. Expenditure is expected to be incurred between 2007 and 2012. Additions in the year include £1m in respect
of a change in the discount rate.
Environmental provision
The environmental provision represents the estimated environmental restoration and remediation costs relating to a number of sites
owned and managed by the Group.
At 31 March 2006, £193m (2005: £262m) of the environmental provision represents the net present value of the estimated statutory
decontamination costs of old gas manufacturing sites in the UK (discounted using a nominal rate of 5.25%). The anticipated timing of
the cash flows for statutory decontamination cannot be predicted with certainty, but they are expected to be incurred over the period
2007 to 2057 with some 69% of the spend projected to be spent over the next five years.
There are a number of uncertainties that affect the calculation of the provision for UK gas site decontamination, including the impact of
regulation, the accuracy of the site surveys, unexpected contaminants, transportation costs, the impact of alternative technologies and
changes in the discount rate. The Group has made its best estimate of the financial effect of these uncertainties in the calculation of the
provision, but future material changes in any of the assumptions could materially impact on the calculation of the provision and hence
the income statement. 
The undiscounted amount of the provision at 31 March 2006 relating to UK gas site decontamination is £239m (2005: £340m), being
the undiscounted best estimate of the liability having regard to the uncertainties referred to above.
The environmental provision at 31 March 2006 also includes £227m (2005: £219m) which represents the net present value of estimated
remediation expenditure in the US that has been discounted at a nominal rate of 5.75%. This expenditure is expected to be incurred
between 2007 and 2043. The uncertainties regarding the calculation of this provision are similar to those considered in respect of UK
gas decontamination. However, unlike the UK, with the exception of immaterial amounts of such costs, this expenditure is recoverable
from rate payers under the terms of the Group’s various rate agreements in the US.
The undiscounted amount of environmental provision relating to the Group’s US-based sites amounts to £333m at 31 March 2006
(2005: £324m). The Group does not have sufficient information to calculate a range of outcomes, but it is expected that any outcome 
of the liability would be recovered from rate payers.
The remainder of the environmental provision of £9m (2005: £10m) relates to the expected cost of remediation of certain other sites 
in the UK. This is calculated on an undiscounted basis and is expected to be utilised within the next five years. 
140 Group Financial Statements
Note 30
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 30. Provisions (continued)
The undiscounted amount of the total Group environmental provision at 31 March 2006 is £581m (2005: £674m).
Emissions provision
The provision for emission costs will be settled using emission allowances granted to the Group which are reported as an intangible asset.
Restructuring provision
At 31 March 2006, £34m of the total restructuring provision (2005: £36m) consists of provisions for the disposal of surplus leasehold
interests and rates payable on surplus properties. The expected payment dates for property restructuring costs remain uncertain. The
remainder of the restructuring provision relates to business reorganisation costs in the UK, to be paid between 2007 and 2016.
Other provisions
Other provisions at 31 March 2006 include £51m (2005: £59m) of estimated liabilities in respect of past events insured by the Group’s
insurance undertakings, including employer liability claims. In accordance with insurance industry practice, these estimates are based 
on experience from previous years and there is, therefore, no identifiable payment date. Other provisions at 31 March 2006 also include
£28m (2005: £nil) in respect of the sales of four UK gas distribution networks and were related to property transfer costs; £11m (2005:
£11m) in respect of obligations associated with the impairment of investments in joint ventures; and £11m (2005: £8m) in National Grid
Wireless principally in respect of radio wave emissions and cost-sharing on broadcast services.
31. Share capital
Allotted, called up 
and fully paid
millions £m
At 31 March 2004 3,088 309
Issued during the year 2–
At 31 March 2005 3,090 309
Issued during the year 81
Effect of share consolidation (i) (378) –
At 31 March 2006 2,720 310
(i) On 29 July 2005, the ordinary share capital was consolidated with 43 new ordinary shares of 11
17
/43 pence each issued for every 49 existing ordinary shares of 10 pence each cancelled.
The total consideration received by the Group and Company in respect of ordinary shares issued during the year ended 31 March 2006
was £28m (2005: £9m).
In June 2005, National Grid issued a Circular to Shareholders, dated 6 June 2005, outlining its £2bn return of cash to shareholders 
by way of a B share scheme. Shareholders were issued one B share (a non-cumulative preference share of 10 pence nominal value 
per share) for every existing ordinary share they held. Shareholders then had choices in respect of the B shares and the return of cash,
details of which were set out in the Circular to Shareholders.
At the same time that the B shares were issued, the ordinary shares were consolidated to reflect the return of cash. Shareholders
received 43 new ordinary shares (of 11
17
/
43
pence nominal value per share) for every 49 existing ordinary shares (of 10 pence nominal
value per share) held on the record date of 29 July 2005. This resulted in the existing 3,091,247,761 issued ordinary shares of 10 pence
each, at 29 July 2005, being replaced by a total of 2,712,727,627 new ordinary shares of 11
17
/
43
pence each. In addition, 3,091,247,761
B shares of 10 pence each were also issued.
To facilitate the above, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from £500m to £815m by the creation of 3,150m 
B shares of 10 pence each.
At 31 March 2006, the authorised share capital of the Group was £815m (4,388m ordinary shares of 11
17
⁄43 pence each and 3,150m 
B shares of 10 pence each).
At 31 March 2005, the authorised share capital of the Group was £500m (5,000m ordinary shares of 10 pence each).
At 31 March 2004, the authorised share capital of the Group was £500m (5,000m ordinary shares of 10 pence each and one £1 special
rights non-voting redeemable preference share). During the year ended 31 March 2005 the one £1 special rights non-voting redeemable
preference share was removed from the authorised share capital of the Group.
The special rights non-voting redeemable preference share of £1 in National Grid plc (‘the Special Share’), held on behalf of the Crown,
was issued by National Grid to the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry on 31 January 2002 as part of a scheme of arrangement. It
was redeemed at par on 5 May 2004 and on 26 July 2004 an ordinary resolution was passed cancelling this share from inclusion in the
authorised share capital of the Company. The Special Share did not carry any rights to vote at general meetings but entitled the holder
to receive notice of and to attend and speak at such meetings. Certain matters, in particular the alteration of certain articles of
association of the Company, required the prior written consent of the holder of the Special Share. The Special Share conferred no right
to participate in the capital or profits of the Company, except that on a winding-up the holder of the Special Share was entitled to
repayment of £1 in priority to other shareholders. Prior to 31 January 2002, the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry held a Special
Share with equivalent rights in National Grid Holdings One plc. A similar Special Share in Lattice Group plc was held at 31 March 2002
by the Crown. This share was redeemed on 21 October 2002 as part of the Merger arrangements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 141
Notes 30 (continued) and 31 31. Share capital (continued)
Share option and award schemes
The Group operates two principal forms of share option scheme. They are an employee Sharesave scheme and an Executive Share
Option Plan (the ‘Executive Plan’). The details given below relate to the schemes operated by the Group and the Sharesave scheme
formerly operated by Lattice. Following the Merger, most Lattice scheme options were converted into 0.375 National Grid plc options.
The remaining Lattice scheme options lapsed on 29 April 2003.
In any 10-year period, the maximum number of shares that may be issued or issuable pursuant to the exercise of options under all 
of the Group’s share option schemes may not exceed the number of shares representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital from
time to time.
The Sharesave scheme is savings-related where, under normal circumstances, share options are exercisable on completion of a 
three- or five-year save-as-you-earn contract. The exercise price of options granted represents 80% of the market price at the date 
the option was granted.
The Executive Plan applies to senior executives, including Executive Directors. Options granted for the 1999/2000 financial year were
subject to the achievement of performance targets related to earnings per share growth over a three-year period and have now vested.
Options granted for the 2000/01 financial year and thereafter are subject to the achievement of performance targets related to total
shareholder returns over a three-year period. The share options are generally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries 
of the date of grant if the relevant performance target is achieved.
The Company also operates a number of share award schemes including a Performance Share Plan (PSP), a Share Matching Plan and
a Transitional Share Award and Special Share Award in relation to former Crown Castle UK employees.
Under the PSP, awards have been made to Executive Directors and approximately 350 senior employees who have significant influence
over the Group’s ability to meet its strategic objectives. Under the PSP , awards are conditional on the Group’s Total Shareholder Return
over a three-year period. Awards are delivered in National Grid plc shares. At 31 March 2006 the number of conditional awards of
ordinary share equivalents outstanding under the PSP was 7,736,972 (2005: 5,864,904) of which nil (2005: nil) were exercisable. The
number of conditional awards during the year ended 31 March 2006 was 2,320,464 (2005: 2,846,546) with lapses/forfeits during the
year of 448,396 (2005: 436,700) and exercises of nil (2005: 2,997).
The Share Matching Plan applies to Executive Directors whereby a predetermined part of each Director’s bonus entitlement is
automatically deferred into National Grid plc shares and a matching award may be made under the Plan after a three-year period
provided the Director is still employed by the Group. At 31 March 2006 the number of conditional awards of ordinary share equivalents
outstanding under the Share Matching Plan was 435,583 (2005: 341,482) of which 45,384 (2005: 28,534) were exercisable. The
number of conditional awards during the year ended 31 March 2006 was 149,232 (2005: 171,460) with lapses during the year of 1,489
(2005: nil) and exercises during the year of 53,642 (2005: 42,163).
The Transitional Share Awards and Special Share Awards were made during the year ended 31 March 2005 to former Crown Castle 
UK employees and have a vesting period of four and two years respectively, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. The
number of awards made during the year ended 31 March 2005 were 188,650 and 45,700 respectively. At 31 March 2006 the number of
conditional awards of ordinary share equivalents outstanding were 121,170 (2005: 188,650) and 11,000 (2005: 45,700) with lapses during
the year of 22,560 (2005: nil) and 16,825 (2005: nil) and exercises during the year of 44,110 (2005: nil) and 17,875 (2005: nil) respectively.
142 Group Financial Statements
Note 31 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 31. Share capital (continued)
Share option and award schemes (continued)
Movement in options to subscribe for ordinary shares under the Group’s various options schemes for the two years ended 31 March
2006 are shown below and include those options related to shares issued to employee benefit trusts:
Sharesave Executive Plan Total
scheme options options options
Weighted Weighted
average average
price price
£ millions £ millions millions
At 31 March 2004 3.32 31.7 4.84 12.0 43.7
Granted 3.83 4.8 – – 4.8
Lapsed – expired 3.36 (1.5) 5.02 (1.1) (2.6)
Exercised 3.37 (3.8) 3.90 (0.5) (4.3)
At 31 March 2005 3.35 31.2 4.86 10.4 41.6
Granted 4.34 5.6 – – 5.6
Lapsed – expired 3.33 (4.1) 4.32 (0.9) (5.0)
Exercised 3.25 (12.8) 4.04 (2.3) (15.1)
At 31 March 2006 3.68 19.9 5.01 7.2 27.1
Included within options outstanding at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 were the following options that were exercisable:
At 31 March 2006 3.24 0.5 5.03 7.1 7.6
At 31 March 2005 3.25 0.3 4.99 6.3 6.6
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options in the employee Sharesave scheme at 31 March 2006 was 2 years and 6
months. These options have exercise prices between £3.15 and £4.57.
The weighted average share price at the exercise dates was as follows:
2006 2005
Sharesave scheme options 5.89 4.49
Executive Plan options 5.50 4.65
Options outstanding and exercisable and their weighted average exercise prices for the respective ranges of exercise prices and years
at 31 March 2006 are as follows:
Weighted average Weighted average
exercise price of Number exercise price of Number Exercise price Normal dates 
exercisable options exercisable outstanding options outstanding per share of exercise
£ millions £ millions pence years
Executive Plan 2.81 0.2 2.81 0.2 258.0 – 280.5 2001 – 2008
3.81 0.3 3.81 0.3 375.8 – 490.0 2002 – 2009
5.50 1.2 5.50 1.2 424.0 – 566.5 2003 – 2010
5.28 0.9 5.28 0.9 526.0 – 623.0 2004 – 2011
5.48 1.9 5.48 1.9 479.5 – 563.0 2005 – 2012
4.72 2.6 4.72 2.6 434.3 – 481.5 2006 – 2013
4.05 – 4.05 0.1 405.0 2007 – 2014
5.03 7.1 5.01 7.2
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 143
Note 31 (continued) 31. Share capital (continued)
Share-based payment charges
Under IFRS, a charge is made to the income statement based on the fair value of grants in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based
Payment’. All share awards are equity settled.
The charge to the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £17m (2005: £16m).
Awards under share option plans
The average share prices at the date of options being granted during each of the two financial years ended 31 March were as follows:
2006 2005
Where the exercise price is less than the market price at the date of grant 569.0p 496.0p
The average exercise prices of the options granted during each of the two financial years ended 31 March were as follows:
2006 2005
Where the exercise price is less than the market price at the date of grant 434.0p 383.0p
The average fair values of the options granted during each of the two financial years ended 31 March were estimated as follows:
2006 2005
Where the exercise price is less than the market price at the date of grant 128.0p 90.4p
The fair values of the options granted were estimated using the following principal assumptions:
2006 2005
Dividend yield (%) 4.5 5.5-5.8
Volatility (%) 15.6-18.9 15.4
Risk-free investment rate (%) 4.2 4.5
Average life (years) 4.3 4.0
The fair values of awards under the Sharesave scheme have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model. This is considered
appropriate given the short exercise window of sharesave options.
Volatility has been derived based on the following:
(i) implied volatility in traded options over the Group’s shares;
(ii) historical volatility of the Group’s shares from October 2002 (the date of the merger of National Grid Group plc and Lattice 
Group plc); and
(iii) implied volatility of comparator companies where options in their shares are traded.
Volatility is assumed to revert from its current implied level to its long run mean, based on historical volatility under (ii) above.
Awards under other share scheme plans
The average share prices and fair values at the date share awards were granted during each of the two financial years ended 31 March 
were as follows:
2006 2005
Average share price 535.6p 431.7p
Average fair value 358.0p 210.6p
The fair values of the awards granted were estimated using the following principal assumptions:
2006 2005
Dividend yield (%) 4.4 5.3-5.7
Volatility (%) 19.9 15.4
Risk-free investment rate (%) 4.1 4.5-5.2
Fair values have been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model for awards with total shareholder return performance conditions.
Fair values of awards with performance conditions based on earnings per share have been calculated using the share price at date of
grant less the present value of dividends foregone during the performance period.
For other share scheme awards, where the primary vesting condition is that employees complete a specified number of years service,
the fair value has been calculated as the share price at date of grant, adjusted to recognise the extent to which participants do not
receive dividends over the vesting period.
Volatility for share awards has been calculated on the same basis as used for share options, as described above.
144 Group Financial Statements
Note 31 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 32. Reconciliation of movements in total equity
Available-
Called-up Share Cash flow for-sale Total
share premium Retained Translation hedge investment Other shareholders’ Minority Total
capital account earnings reserve reserve reserve reserves equity interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2004 309 1,280 4,642 – – – (5,131) 1,100 10 1,110
Net income/(expense) recognised 
directly in equity – – 187 (6) – – – 181 – 181
Profit for the year – – 1,424 – – – – 1,424 – 1,424
Equity dividends – – (628) – – – – (628) – (628)
Issue of ordinary share capital – 9 – – – – – 9 – 9
Movement in shares held by 
employee share trusts – – 5 – – – – 5 – 5
Employee share option scheme 
issues ––16––––16–16
Tax on employee share option 
scheme issues – – 4 – – – – 4 – 4
At 31 March 2005 309 1,289 5,650 (6) – – (5,131) 2,111 10 2,121
Adoption of IAS 39 – – (91) (7) 51 4 – (43) – (43)
At 1 April 2005 309 1,289 5,559 (13) 51 4 (5,131) 2,068 10 2,078
Net income/(expense) recognised 
directly in equity – – 121 140 (14) 2 – 249 1 250
Profit for the year – – 3,848 – – – – 3,848 2 3,850
Equity dividends – – (745) – – – – (745) – (745)
Return of capital to shareholders 
through B share scheme – – (2,009) – – – – (2,009) – (2,009)
Issue of ordinary share capital 1 27 – – – – – 28 – 28
Other movements in minority 
interests – – – – – – – – (2) (2)
Movement in shares held in 
employee share trusts – – 19 – – – – 19 – 19
Employee share option scheme 
issues ––17––––17–17
Tax on employee share option 
scheme issues –– 7–– –– 7– 7
At 31 March 2006 310 1,316 6,817 127 37 6 (5,131) 3,482 11 3,493
As at 31 March 2006 the Group has nil own shares included in retained earnings. As at 31 March 2005, own shares were included in
the retained earnings reserve related to 7m 10p ordinary shares in National Grid plc, held by employee share trusts for the purpose of
satisfying certain obligations under various share option schemes operated by the Group. The carrying value of £29m (market value
£33m) represented the exercise amounts receivable in respect of those shares that were issued at market value by the Company and
the cost in respect of those shares purchased in the open market. Funding was provided to the trusts by Group undertakings. The
trusts waived their rights to dividends on those shares.
Other reserves primarily represent the difference between the carrying value of Group undertakings, investments and their respective
capital structures following the Lattice demerger from BG Group plc and the 1999 Lattice refinancing of £(5,745)m. The reserve also
included merger differences of £221m and £359m together with unrealised gains of £32m on transfer of fixed assets to a former joint
venture which subsequently became a Group undertaking.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 145
Note 32 33. Group cash flow statement
a) Cash flow from operating activities – discontinued operations
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating profit 46 436
Adjustments for:
Exceptional items 15 74
Depreciation and amortisation 13 176
Share-based payment charge 2 4
Changes in working capital and provisions (73) (69)
Cash flow relating to exceptional items (23) (74)
Cash flow relating to discontinued operations (20) 547
b) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2006 2005
£m £m
Movement in cash and cash equivalents 1,181 8
(Decrease)/increase in financial investments (25) 59
Decrease/(increase) in borrowings and derivatives 2,304 (1,052)
Cash paid to shareholders under B share scheme 1,957 –
Net interest paid (i) 704 n/a
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 6,121 (985)
Exchange adjustments (i) – 112
Changes in fair value of financial assets and liabilities and exchange movements (i) (299) n/a
Issue of B shares (2,009) –
Net interest charge (i) (660) n/a
Other non-cash movements (17) (28)
Movement in net debt (net of related derivative financial instruments) in the year 3,136 (901)
Net debt at start of year (13,638) (12,737)
Impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (i) (348) –
Net debt (net of related derivative financial instruments) at end of year (10,850) (13,638)
(i) The adoption of IAS 39 resulted in changes to the carrying value of borrowings and financial investments as at 1 April 2005 as described in note 2. 
c) Analysis of changes in net debt
Other
At 1 April Cash Exchange non-cash At 31 March
2004 flowadjustments movements 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 273 – (1) – 272
Bank overdrafts (26) 8 – – (18)
247 8 (1) – 254
Financial investments 343 59 (4) – 398
Borrowings (13,327) (1,052) 117 (28) (14,290)
(12,737) (985) 112 (28) (13,638)
Impact of
adoption of Fair Other
At 1 April IAS 32 and Cash value gains Issue of Interest non-cash At 31 March
2005 IAS 39 (i) flow and losses B shares charges movements 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 272 – 1,166 14 – – – 1,452
Bank overdrafts (18) – 15 – – – – (3)
254 – 1,181 14 – – – 1,449
Financial investments (ii) 398 3 (155) 3 – 135 – 384
Borrowings (ii) (14,290) (894) 5,037 (207) (2,009) (746) (17) (13,126)
Derivatives (ii) – 543 58 (109) – (49) – 443
(13,638) (348) 6,121 (299) (2,009) (660) (17) (10,850)
(i) There are no comparatives for net debt related derivative assets and liabilities as the Group adopted IAS 39 with effect from 1 April 2005 consistent with the requirements of IFRS 1. 
The adoption of IAS 39 also resulted in changes to the carrying value of borrowings and financial investments as at 1 April 2005 (see note 2).
(ii) Includes interest.
146 Group Financial Statements
Note 33
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 34. Related party transactions
The following information is provided in accordance with IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, as being material transactions with related
parties during the year. These transactions are with joint ventures and a Group pension fund and were in the normal course of business
and are summarised below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Sales: Services supplied to a Group pension fund 4 4
Purchases: Services received from joint ventures 32 24
At 31 March 2006, the Group had amounts receivable and payable amounting to £nil (2005: £1m) and £1m (2005: £1m) respectively
with related parties which are due on normal commercial terms.
Details of investments in principal Group undertakings and joint ventures are disclosed in note 36 and information relating to pension
fund arrangements is disclosed in note 9. Details of Directors and key management remuneration is set out in note 7 and the Directors’
Remuneration Report.
35. Commitments and contingencies
a) Future capital expenditure
2006 2005
£m £m
Contracted for but not provided 1,343 927
b) Lease commitments
Total Group commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
In one year or less 87 99
In more than one year, but not more than two years 80 91
In more than two years, but not more than three years 75 83
In more than three years, but not more than four years 71 79
In more than four years, but not more than five years 67 77
In more than five years 451 501
831 930
c) Power commitments
At 31 March 2006, the Group had obligations to purchase energy under long-term contracts. The following table analyses these
commitments, excluding commodity contracts carried at fair value (notes 28 and 29):
2006 2005
£m £m
In one year or less 1,504 1,058
In more than one year, but not more than two years 935 623
In more than two years, but not more than three years 753 583
In more than three years, but not more than four years 588 567
In more than four years, but not more than five years 94 462
In more than five years 1,579 1,622
5,453 4,915
d) Other commitments, contingencies and guarantees
The value of other Group commitments, contingencies and guarantees at 31 March 2006 amounted to £334m (2005: £349m), including
guarantees amounting to £149m (2005: £189m). 
Details of the guarantees entered into by the Group at 31 March 2006 are shown below:
(i) performance guarantees of £20m relating to certain property obligations of Group undertakings. The bulk of these expire by
December 2025;
(ii) a guarantee of £50m of the obligations of a Group undertaking to make payments in respect of any liabilities under a meter
operating contract that runs until May 2008;
(iii) a performance guarantee relating to the construction of the Victoria to Tasmania Interconnector of 48m Australian dollars (A$48m)
(£20m). This halved on commissioning in April 2006 and expires in November 2006;
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 147
Notes 34 and 35 35. Commitments and contingencies (continued)
(iv) a guarantee of the payment obligations of a Group undertaking in respect of a Power Connection Agreement amounting to an
annual maximum of A$7m, reducing over the term of the contract. This runs until June 2051, but the maximum potential payout 
is estimated at £5m;
(v) a guarantee of the payment obligations of a Group undertaking in respect of a Nitrogen Supply Agreement amounting to 
a maximum potential payout of £14m subject to a cap of £1m per annum. This runs until November 2019;
(vi) a guarantee of the payment obligations of a Group undertaking in respect of a Power Connection Agreement amounting to 
a maximum potential payout of £14m subject to a cap of £7m per annum. This runs until December 2024;
(vii) guarantees in respect of a former associate amounting to £14m, the bulk of which relates to its obligations to supply
telecommunications services. This is open-ended; and
(viii) other guarantees amounting to £12m arising in the normal course of business and entered into on normal commercial terms. These
guarantees run for varying lengths of time.
e) Amounts receivable under sublease arrangements
The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is £26m (2005: £23m).
36. Group undertakings and joint ventures
Principal Group undertakings
The principal Group undertakings included in the Group accounts at 31 March 2006 are listed below. These undertakings are wholly-
owned and, unless otherwise indicated, are incorporated in Great Britain.
Principal activity
National Grid Gas plc (i) Gas transportation
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (i) Transmission of electricity in England and Wales
New England Power Company (Incorporated in the US) (i) Transmission of electricity
Massachusetts Electric Company (Incorporated in the US) (i) Distribution of electricity
The Narragansett Electric Company (Incorporated in the US) (i) Distribution of electricity
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (Incorporated in the US) (i) Distribution and transmission of electricity and gas
National Grid Wireless No 2 Limited (i) Telecommunications infrastructure
National Grid Wireless Limited (i) Telecommunications and broadcast infrastructure
NGG Finance plc (ii) Financing
British Transco International Finance B.V. (Incorporated in The Netherlands) (i) Financing
National Grid Property Limited (i) Property
National Grid Holdings One plc (ii) Holding company
Lattice Group plc (i) Holding company
National Grid USA (Incorporated in the US) (i) Holding company
Niagara Mohawk Holdings Inc. (Incorporated in the US) (i) Holding company
National Grid Commercial Holdings Limited (i) Holding company
National Grid Gas Holdings plc (i) Holding company
National Grid (US) Holdings Limited (ii) Holding company
National Grid Holdings Limited (i) Holding company
(i) Issued ordinary share capital held by Group undertakings.
(ii) Issued ordinary share capital held by National Grid plc.
Principal joint ventures
at 31 March 2006
Country of
incorporation
Group holding and operation Principal activity
Copperbelt Energy Corporation plc (i) 38.5% ordinary shares Zambia Transmission, distribution 
and supply of electricity
(i) 31 December year end.
Investments in joint ventures are held by Group undertakings.
The joint venture investment in Copperbelt Energy Corporation plc has been classified as an asset held for sale and sale completion is
expected during 2006/07.
A full list of all Group and associated undertakings is available from the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
148 Group Financial Statements
Notes 35 (continued) and 36
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles
The Group prepares its consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
EU, which differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (US GAAP). IFRS as adopted by
the EU is materially the same as IFRS published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The most significant difference between IFRS and US GAAP as it relates to the Group is that the business combination of the then
National Grid Group plc (now National Grid plc) and Lattice Group plc was accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) under the
Group’s previous accounting standards, accounting standards generally accepted in the UK (UK GAAP). This transaction and its
resulting account balances were grandfathered at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS (see note 1). Under US GAAP, this
transaction was accounted for as an acquisition (purchase accounting) of Lattice Group plc. Consequently, under IFRS, the accounts
represent the combined accounts of National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group plc on an historical cost basis for all periods presented.
Under US GAAP, the accounts presented include the Lattice Group at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Condensed income statements, statements of comprehensive income and changes in shareholders’ equity, balance sheets and segmental
information in accordance with US GAAP disclosure requirements are presented in note 38. The balance sheets at 31 March 2005 and
31 March 2006 include the impact of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities of Lattice Group plc prepared under US GAAP at
the date of acquisition. The effect of the US GAAP adjustments to profit for the financial year and shareholders’ equity is set out below.
Reconciliation of profit from IFRS to US GAAP
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit that would have been required if US GAAP had been applied instead of
IFRS:
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders under IFRS 3,848 1,424
Adjustments to conform with US GAAP
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (a) (127) (233)
US regulatory accounting (b) (269) (246)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (c) (56) 2
Financial instruments (d) (130) 254
Severance costs (e) (63) 62
Revenue recognition (f) (48) 13
Amortisation of intangibles (h) (2) (2)
Interest on discounted provisions (i) (14) –
Deferred taxation (k) 208 28
Other (l) (3) 2
Discontinued operations – gains on disposal of business (a), (g) (2,196) –
Discontinued operations – pensions and other post-retirement benefits (c) (127) –
Discontinued operations – deferred taxation (k) 286 –
(2,541) (120)
Net income under US GAAP 1,307 1,304
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity from IFRS to US GAAP
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to shareholders’ equity that would have been required if US GAAP had been
applied instead of IFRS:
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Total shareholders’ equity under IFRS 3,482 2,111
Adjustments to conform with US GAAP
Property, plant and equipment (a) 2,162 3,116
Goodwill (g) 2,689 4,027
US regulatory accounting (b) 2,702 2,746
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (c) 886 944
Financial instruments (d) 119 117
Severance liabilities (e) 2 65
Revenue recognition (f) (42) 6
Intangible assets (h) 28 30
Provisions (i) (154) (130)
Non-reversal of impairments (j) (39) (29)
Deferred taxation (k) (2,090) (2,441)
Other (l) 2 29
6,265 8,480
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 9,747 10,591
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 149
Note 37 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
The principal differences between IFRS and US GAAP , as applied in preparing the Group accounts under US GAAP, are set out below:
a) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has not restated any business combinations that occurred prior to 31 March 2004. The Lattice
Group plc business combination has therefore not been adjusted from the amount calculated under the Company’s previous basis of
accounting under UK GAAP . This transaction continues to be accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) under IFRS, but under 
US GAAP the business combination was accounted for using purchase accounting. As a consequence, fair value adjustments have
been recognised under US GAAP in relation to property, plant and equipment, which are being depreciated over the related assets’
useful economic lives. As a result, goodwill arising on the purchase has been recognised for US GAAP.
Fair value adjustments and goodwill associated with the businesses which were disposed during 2005/06 have been recycled to net
income and recognised as a reduction in the gain on disposal recorded under IFRS. These adjustments are reported within discontinued
operations.
b) US regulatory accounting
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 71 ‘Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation’ establishes US GAAP
for utilities whose regulators have the power to approve and/or regulate rates that may be charged to customers. Provided that through
the regulatory process the utility is substantially assured of recovering its allowable costs by the collection of revenue from its customers,
such costs not yet recovered are deferred as regulatory assets. Such recoverable assets, which would be recognised as regulatory
assets under US GAAP, are not recognised as assets under IFRS on the basis that they do not meet the criteria for recognition as an
asset, intangible or other, under IFRS and are therefore expensed.
c) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Under IFRS, the Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in the statement of recognised income and expense in the year in which
they occur. Under US GAAP, amortisation of unrecognised actuarial gains and losses that fall outside a specified corridor are recognised
within the income statement.
In addition, under US GAAP , when a pension plan has an accumulated benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value of the plan assets,
the unfunded amount is recognised as a minimum liability in the balance sheet. In respect of such liabilities, an intangible asset is
recognised up to the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost and a regulatory asset is recognised for such liabilities recoverable
through the regulatory process (see b) above). Thereafter the minimum liability is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Interest costs associated with the pension obligation are presented within finance costs under IFRS as opposed to within net periodic
pension costs under US GAAP .
Under IFRS the curtailment/settlement gain on the sales of the distribution networks is included in full in the income statement. Under
US GAAP, this gain is recognised in the income statement to the extent that it exceeds unrecognised losses.
The net periodic charge for pensions and other post-retirement benefits is as follows:
Other post-retirement 
Pensions benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Service cost 118 135 16 12
Interest cost 804 828 63 56
Expected return on plan assets (849) (860) (41) (40)
Amortisation of prior service cost 5 6 6 3
Amortisation of previously unrecognised actuarial losses 58 45 – 20
136 154 44 51
Release of pension provision (2) (2) – –
134 152 44 51
The additional (gain)/cost incurred in respect of severance cases computed in accordance with SFAS 88 ‘Employers’ Accounting for
Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits’ is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
(Gain)/cost of termination benefits and curtailments (9) 30
150 Group Financial Statements
Note 37 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
c) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
The principal financial assumptions used for the SFAS 87 calculations of net periodic charge, based on a measurement date of
31 March 2005 in respect of the US and UK defined benefit schemes are shown below:
US UK
2006 2005 2006 2005
% % % %
Discount rate 5.8 5.8 5.1 5.5
Expected return on assets 7.0-8.3 8.3 5.8-6.4 6.2-6.7
General salary increases 3.9-4.3 3.3-5.3 3.9 3.9
Pension increases nil nil 3.0 3.0
The assumptions used for other post-retirement costs relate solely to US schemes. These assumptions were that the discount rate used 
would be 5.8% (2005: 5.75%) and that medical costs would increase by 10% (2005: 10%), decreasing to 5% (2005: 5%) by 2011 and
remain at 5% (2005: 5%) thereafter.
A reconciliation of the funded status of the Group pension and other post-retirement schemes to the net accrued benefit liability that
was included in the Group’s balance sheet prepared under US GAAP is as follows:
Other post-retirement 
Pensions benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Projected benefit obligation at 31 March (16,603) (15,758) (1,223) (1,068)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 15,349 14,086 568 488
Excess of projected benefit obligation over plan assets (1,254) (1,672) (655) (580)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 840 1,180 335 316
Unrecognised prior service cost 56 60 69 70
Net accrued benefit liability – before minimum liability adjustment (358) (432) (251) (194)
Additional minimum liability adjustment (472) (811) – –
Net accrued benefit liability (830) (1,243) (251) (194)
At 31 March 2006, as required under SFAS 87, an intangible asset of £56m (2005: £60m) was recognised in relation to the additional
minimum liability, being equal to the unrecognised prior service cost. A regulatory asset of £46m (2005: £133m) was also created. The
remaining additional minimum liability of £370m (2005: £618m) has been included in other comprehensive income.
The net accrued benefit liability above is shown net of a prepaid cost of £196m (2005: £181m) in respect of one Group scheme.
The principal financial assumptions used for the SFAS 87 calculations of the projected benefit obligation, based on a measurement date
of 31 March 2006, in respect of the US and UK defined benefit schemes are shown below:
US UK
2006 2005 2006 2005
% % % %
Discount rate 6.0 5.8 4.9 5.4
General salary increases 4.1 3.9-4.3 3.9 3.9
Pension increases nil nil 2.95 3.0
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 151
Note 37 (continued) 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
c) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
All pension schemes had an additional minimum liability adjustment except the National Grid UK Pension Scheme and the National Grid
Wireless Pension Scheme. The accumulated benefit obligation for pensions was £16,180m at 31 March 2006 (2005: £14,825m). The
Group has followed approach two of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Abstract 88-1 in calculating the accumulated benefit obligation.
Changes in the projected benefit obligation and changes in the fair value of plan assets are shown below:
Other post-retirement 
Pensions benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Projected benefit obligation at start of year 15,758 15,394 1,068 1,002
Service cost 118 135 16 12
Interest cost 804 828 63 56
Plan participants’ contributions 14 17 – –
Plan amendment – prior service cost – 17 – 79
Terminations 49 30 – –
Curtailments (157) – – –
Settlements (619) (1) – –
Actuarial loss 1,301 136 40 5
Benefits paid (775) (783) (59) (52)
Acquisition of Group undertakings – 31 – –
Transfers (17) 1 – –
Exchange adjustments 127 (47) 95 (34)
Projected benefit obligation at end of year 16,603 15,758 1,223 1,068
Fair value of plan assets at start of year 14,086 13,432 488 496
Actual return on assets 2,370 1,248 65 26
Employer contributions 191 184 30 32
Plan participants’ contributions 14 17 – –
Benefits paid (774) (783) (59) (52)
Acquisition of Group undertakings – 21 – –
Settlements (609) (1) – –
Transfers (15) – – –
Exchange adjustments 95 (32) 44 (14)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 15,358 14,086 568 488
As at 31 March 2006 the following benefit payments, which reflect future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
Other
post-
retirement
Pensions benefits
Year ended 31 March £m £m
2007 761 66
2008 774 69
2009 786 71
2010 802 74
2011 821 76
2012–2016 4,547 378
In the UK, the trustees for each plan are responsible for setting the long-term strategy after consultation with the Group and professional
advisers. The trustees’ objectives are to invest in assets of appropriate liquidity, which, together with future contributions from employers
and members, would expect to generate income and capital growth to meet the cost of benefits from the plans; to limit the risk; and
minimise the long-term cost. In the US, the Group manages its pension plan investments to minimise the long-term cost of operating
the plan, with a reasonable level of risk.
Risk tolerance is determined as a result of periodic asset/liability studies that analyse plan liabilities and funded status and results in the
determination of the allocation of assets.
Equity investments, fixed income and index-linked portfolios are broadly diversified. Investments are also held in property, private equity
and timber with the objective of enhancing long-term returns whilst improving diversification. Investment risk and return are reviewed by
investment committees on a quarterly basis.
152 Group Financial Statements
Note 37 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
c) Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Expected subsidy receipts in respect of medical costs are as follows:
£m
2007 4
2008 5
2009 5
2010 5
2011 5
2012–2016 29
d) Financial instruments
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted IAS 39 in its IFRS financial statements and as a consequence derivatives are now recognised in 
the balance sheet at their fair value, similar to the requirements of SFAS 133 ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities’. In accordance with IAS 39, the Group has adopted hedge accounting and has designated hedges as either fair value, cash
flow or foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations. Although similar in nature to SFAS 133 there are differences
between the requirements of IAS 39 and SFAS 133, in particular SFAS 133 does not include the transitional provisions of IAS 39 that
permitted hedges to be recognised as effective on 1 April 2005. Where hedges that meet the requirements of IAS 39 also meet the
requirements of SFAS 133 they are accounted for as hedges under US GAAP , otherwise they are recognised in the US GAAP income
statement and hence are included as reconciling differences with IFRS.
Under US GAAP , as required by SFAS 133, all derivative financial instruments, including derivatives embedded within other contracts, are
required to be recognised in the balance sheet as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. SFAS 133 permits hedge accounting
in specific circumstances, where the hedge is designated and documented as one of three types: fair value; cash flow; or foreign currency
exposures of net investments in foreign operations. Provided that it can be demonstrated that the hedge is highly effective and the relevant
hedging criteria have been met, then in respect of fair value hedges, both the change in fair value of the derivative and hedged item are
reflected in net income in the period of the change. For cash flow hedges and hedges of foreign currency exposures of net investments in
foreign operations, changes in fair value are reflected through other comprehensive income. In the event that the conditions for hedge
accounting are not met, changes in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in net income. 
Prior to 31 March 2005, the Group did not apply hedge accounting for the purposes of SFAS 133 except for certain hedges of net
investments in foreign operations. Excluding the hedges of net investments that were designated and qualified as hedges under SFAS
133, the reconciliation to net income for the year ended 31 March 2005 reflected the changes in fair value of derivative financial
instruments. There was no reconciling adjustment for the hedges of net investments for which the Group had adopted hedge
accounting under SFAS 133, as realised and unrealised gains and losses were taken to other comprehensive income under US GAAP.
Contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales and are designated as such are excluded from the requirements of SFAS
133. The realised gains and losses on these contracts are reflected in the income statement at the contract settlement date.
e) Severance costs
Under IFRS, severance costs in respect of the Group’s voluntary severance arrangements are provided for when it is determined that 
a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a restructuring programme, where it is probable that it will result in the outflow of
economic benefits and the costs involved can be estimated with reasonable accuracy. Under US GAAP, such severance costs are
recognised when the employees accept the severance offer. Accordingly, timing differences between IFRS and US GAAP arise on the
recognition of such costs.
Similarly, under IFRS future costs related to property leases have been accrued for in connection with vacating certain premises. Under
US GAAP a liability was recognised when the ‘cease use’ date was reached, resulting in a timing difference between IFRS and US GAAP
on the recognition of such costs.
f) Revenue recognition
Under US GAAP , revenue is recognised in the period that the service is provided up to the maximum revenue allowed under the terms of
the relevant regulatory regime. Under IFRS, any revenue received or receivable in excess of the maximum revenue allowed for the
period, under the terms of the relevant regulatory regime, is recognised as income, even where prices will be reduced in a future period.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 153
Note 37 (continued) 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued) 
g) Goodwill 
Under IFRS, the business combination of National Grid plc and Lattice Group plc has been accounted for on the same basis as
previous GAAP (UK GAAP) as a merger (pooling of interest) while under US GAAP, this transaction was accounted for as an acquisition
(purchase accounting) of Lattice Group plc.
Under US GAAP, the fair value of net assets acquired is calculated in accordance with US GAAP principles, which differ in certain 
respects from IFRS principles. As acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 were not reopened on transition to IFRS, differences in
measurement between US GAAP and UK GAAP also exist. As a result, the US GAAP fair value of net assets of Group undertakings
acquired differs from the fair value of net assets as determined under IFRS principles. In addition, until 31 March 2004 goodwill was
amortised under previous GAAP (UK GAAP) whereas under US GAAP amortisation of goodwill ceased on adoption of SFAS 141.
h) Intangible assets
Under IFRS, in a business combination, intangible assets that meet certain criteria are recognised as assets, separate from goodwill, at
fair value. Under US GAAP , these criteria are similar, however the creation of the intangibles includes the recognition of notional tax
benefits.
i) Provisions
IAS 37 requires the time value of money to be taken into account when making a provision. US GAAP, however, only permits a provision
to be discounted where the amount of the liability and the timing of payments are fixed or reliably determinable or where the obligation is
a fair value obligation. Amounts associated with the unwinding of discounts on provisions are shown within interest expense under IFRS.
j) Impairments
During the financial year ended 31 March 1990, an impairment provision was recorded in respect of certain property, plant and
equipment. As required under IFRS, part of this impairment provision was subsequently released and shareholders’ equity credited.
Under US GAAP, this partial release is not permitted. During the year an impairment in respect of a joint venture was reversed under
IFRS, whereas under US GAAP such an impairment reversal is not allowed.
k) Deferred taxation
The deferred taxation adjustment principally reflects the tax effect of the other measurement and recognition differences between IFRS
and US GAAP.
The corporate tax charge on continuing operations under US GAAP is analysed between current taxes and deferred taxes as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Current taxes 432 24
Deferred taxes (credit)/charge (84) 279
Tax charge 348 303
The net deferred tax liability under US GAAP is analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred taxation liabilities:
Excess of book value over taxation value of fixed assets 3,778 5,029
Other temporary differences 1,494 1,162
5,272 6,191
Deferred taxation assets:
Other temporary differences (i) (1,252) (900)
4,020 5,291
Analysed as follows:
Current (43) (184)
Non-current 4,063 5,475
4,020 5,291
(i) Deferred taxation assets at 31 March 2006 were stated net of a £530m valuation allowance adjustment in respect of capital losses, non-trade deficits, trading losses and pre-trading
expenditure (2005: £493m).
154 Group Financial Statements
Note 37 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
l) Other
Other differences between IFRS and US GAAP are not individually material and relate to differences arising from the recognition 
of amortisation expense on certain assets and other interest income.
Other US GAAP disclosures
Non-GAAP measures
In preparing the accounts in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS, certain information is presented that would be viewed
as ‘non-GAAP’ under regulations issued by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Group has described
such items and provided disclosure of the effects and reasons for presentation along with a condensed US GAAP income statement
using the format prescribed by the SEC. The disclosure of each of the exceptional items would be prohibited within the Form 20-F if
such exceptional items were not expressly permitted by IAS 1.
Management uses ‘adjusted’ profit measures in considering the performance of the Group’s operating segments and businesses.
References to ‘adjusted operating profit’, ‘adjusted profit before taxation’, ‘adjusted earnings’ or ‘adjusted earnings per share’ are stated
before exceptional items and remeasurements. 
The Directors believe that the use of these adjusted measures better indicates the underlying business performance of the Group than
the unadjusted measures because the exclusion of these items provides a clearer comparison of results from year to year for each of
the years presented. This is because this method of presentation removes the distorting impact of exceptional items and removes the
impact of remeasurements in order to enhance comparability with the reporting practices of other UK companies.
Exceptional items and remeasurements, which are adjusted for in the adjusted measures referred to above, are defined as material items
that derive from events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group, but that require separate disclosure on the grounds of size or
incidence for the accounts to give a true and fair view. Such exceptional items include, for example, material restructuring costs and
impairments. Note 6 on page 113 contains a discussion of the nature of these exceptional items for each year.
Other presentational differences between IFRS and US GAAP
Under IFRS, assets in the balance sheet are presented in ascending order of liquidity and the balance sheet is analysed between net
assets and shareholders’ funds. Under US GAAP , assets are presented in descending order of liquidity and the balance sheet is
analysed between total assets and liabilities and shareholders’ equity as used in the presentation in note 38.
i) Capital contributions – The Group receives capital contributions for certain qualifying construction projects. Under IFRS, these
contributions are recorded as deferred income (within other liabilities), whereas under US GAAP, these contributions are recorded as a
reduction of the asset’s cost.
ii) Debt issuance costs – Under IFRS, direct and incremental costs incurred to issue debt securities are recorded as a reduction in the
carrying value of the related debt instrument and are unwound as a finance charge over the term of the debt. Under US GAAP these
costs are classified as a non-current asset. 
iii) Emission rights – Under IFRS, emission allowances are recorded as intangible assets and a provision is recorded for emission costs
incurred. Under US GAAP, the value of the emission allowances is reclassified to reduce the recorded provision, resulting in a net liability
presentation. 
iv) Cumulative preference shares – These non-equity instruments are presented within borrowings under IFRS, but shown separately from
shareholders’ equity and liabilities under US GAAP.
v) Earnings per share (EPS) – Under US GAAP , earnings per share are required to be adjusted retroactively as a result of the 43 for 49 
share consolidation related to the B share scheme, accounted for as a share consolidation and a return of capital. Under IFRS, the
B share scheme is accounted for as an in-substance share repurchase at fair value, with EPS being impacted prospectively from the
transaction date and no restatement of prior periods, in accordance with IAS 33.
Restricted net assets
National Grid USA and its public utility subsidiaries, all consolidated subsidiaries of the Group, are subject to restrictions on the payment
of dividends by administrative order and contract. Orders by the SEC, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and applicable state
regulatory commissions limit the payment of dividends as follows. The subsidiaries may pay dividends in an amount up to cumulative
retained earnings, including pre-acquisition retained earnings. Other orders by federal and state commissions require National Grid USA
and its public utility subsidiaries to maintain a ratio of at least 30% equity to capital, and debt covenants in effect require that this ratio
be maintained at a level of at least 35%. At 31 March 2006, £2.5bn of net assets were restricted, representing 26% of the Group’s
consolidated net assets under US GAAP at that date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 155
Note 37 (continued) 37. Differences between IFRS and US generally accepted accounting principles (continued)
New US Accounting Standards adopted during 2005/06
FIN 47
FASB Interpretation No. 47 ‘Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations’ (FIN 47) clarifies that the term ‘conditional asset
retirement obligation’, as used in SFAS No. 143 ‘Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligation’ (SFAS 143), refers to a legal obligation to
perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may 
not be within the control of the Group. The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Group accounts.
Recent US pronouncements not yet adopted
SFAS 123(R)
In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004) ‘Share-Based Payment’ (SFAS 123(R)), which is a revision
of FASB Statement No. 123 ‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation’ (SFAS 123). SFAS 123(R) supersedes APB Opinion No. 25
‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees’, and amends FASB Statement No. 95 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Generally, the approach
in SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS 123. However, SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to
employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognised in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma
disclosure is no longer an alternative. The Group expects to adopt SFAS 123(R) as of 1 April 2006.
SFAS 123(R) permits adoption of the requirements using one of two methods: a ‘modified prospective’ method where the requirements
are applied to all share-based payments granted after the effective date of the pronouncement; or a ‘modified retrospective’ method
which allows entities to restate prior periods based on the amounts previously recognised under SFAS 123 for the purposes of pro
forma disclosures. The Group plans to adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective method.
The Group adopted the fair-value based method of accounting for share-based payments using the ‘retroactive restatement method’
described in FASB Statement No. 148 ‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and Disclosure’. Currently, the Group
uses the Black-Scholes European option pricing model to estimate the value of stock options granted to employees and expects to
continue to use this acceptable option valuation model upon the required adoption of SFAS 123(R) on 1 April 2006. The Group does not
anticipate that adoption of SFAS 123(R) will have a material impact on its results of operations or its financial position.
SFAS 151
The FASB issued SFAS No. 151 ‘Inventory Costs – an amendment of ARB No. 43’. SFAS No. 151 clarifies the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) as current period charges. SFAS No. 151 is
effective for fiscal periods beginning after 15 June 2005. The Group does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have a
material effect on its accounts.
SFAS 153
In December 2004, as part of the FASB’s short-term convergence project with the International Accounting Standards Board, the FASB
issued FASB Statement No. 153 ‘Exchanges of Non-Monetary Assets’ (SFAS 153), which is an amendment to APB Opinion No. 29
‘Accounting for Non-Monetary Transactions’ (APB 29). APB 29 provided an exemption to its general principle of measuring such
transactions at fair value where the exchange related to similar productive assets. The exemption permitted the exchange to be valued
at the recorded amount of the assets relinquished. SFAS 153 removes this exemption so that all non-monetary transactions (apart from
those without commercial substance) are recorded at fair value. The Group expects to adopt SFAS 153 prospectively for all transactions
taking place after 1 April 2006. The impact of the adoption of SFAS 153 cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on
whether applicable non-monetary transactions take place after the effective date.
SFAS 154
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 ‘Accounting Changes and Error Corrections – a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and
FASB Statement No. 3’. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application of prior periods’ financial statements for changes in accounting
principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to accounting periods beginning after 15 December 2005. The Group does not believe that the
adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material effect on its accounts.
SFAS 155
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155 ‘Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments – an amendment of SFAS No. 133 
and SFAS No. 140’. SFAS No. 155 provides clarification on specific points related to derivative accounting. It provides a fair value
measurement option for certain hybrid financial instruments that contain embedded derivatives that would otherwise require bifurcation. 
It also requires that beneficial interests in securitised financial assets be analysed to determine whether they are freestanding derivatives
or whether they are hybrid instruments that contain embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation. SFAS No. 155 is effective for fiscal 
years beginning after 15 September 2006. The Group does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 155 will have a material effect 
on its accounts.
156 Group Financial Statements
Note 37 (continued) 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 38. Condensed US GAAP financial information
As described in note 37, the October 2002 business combination of National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group plc continues to be
accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) in the IFRS financial statements and as an acquisition (purchase accounting) under US
GAAP. The different treatments result in the IFRS financial statements being fundamentally different compared with the amounts
presented under US GAAP. Due to these differences, condensed US GAAP financial information is presented to show more clearly the
operating and financial position that would have been reported under US GAAP.
Condensed US GAAP income statement
2006 2006
National 2006 National
Grid US GAAP Grid
(IFRS) adjustments (US GAAP)
£m £m £m
Turnover 9,193 23 9,216
Other operating income 80 (30) 50
Operating costs
Depreciation (895) (122) (1,017)
Payroll and severance costs (892) (41) (933)
Purchases of electricity (1,977) (116) (2,093)
Purchases of gas (566) 3 (563)
Rates and property taxes (443) (2) (445)
Electricity transmission services scheme direct costs (536) – (536)
Provision for doubtful debts (24) – (24)
Other operating charges (1,501) (344) (1,845)
(6,834) (622) (7,456)
Operating profit 2,439 (629) 1,810
Net finance costs (663) (88) (751)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 (3) –
Profit before taxation 1,779 (720) 1,059
Taxation (562) 214 (348)
Profit for the year 1,217 (506) 711
Minority interests (2) (1) (3)
Interest in equity accounted affiliates (net of tax of £nil) 33
Net income from continuing operations 1,215 (504) 711
Net income from discontinued operations (net of tax of £237m credit) 2,633 (2,037) 596
Net income for the year 3,848 (2,541) 1,307
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations 26.2p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations 26.1p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations 131.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations 130.5p
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations 22.0p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations 21.9p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations 110.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations 109.5p
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – total Group 48.2p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – total Group 48.0p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – total Group 241.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – total Group 240.0p
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million) – for basic EPS 2,710
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million) – for diluted EPS 2,724
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 157
Note 38 38. Condensed US GAAP financial information (continued)
Condensed US GAAP income statement (continued)
2005 2005
National 2005 National
Grid US GAAP Grid
(IFRS) adjustments (US GAAP)
£m £m £m
Turnover 7,382 42 7,424
Other operating income 70 (31) 39
Operating costs
Depreciation (774) (191) (965)
Payroll and severance costs (919) 54 (865)
Purchases of electricity (1,496) (182) (1,678)
Purchases of gas (357) – (357)
Rates and property taxes (406) – (406)
Electricity transmission services scheme direct costs (301) – (301)
Provision for doubtful debts (41) – (41)
Other operating charges (1,016) (30) (1,046)
(5,310) (349) (5,659)
Operating profit 2,142 (338) 1,804
Net finance costs (706) 246 (460)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 (3) –
Profit before taxation 1,439 (95) 1,344
Taxation (319) 16 (303)
Profit for the year 1,120 (79) 1,041
Minority interests – (2) (2)
Interest in equity accounted affiliates (net of tax of £2m) (2) (2)
Net income from continuing operations 1,120 (83) 1,037
Net income from discontinued operations (net of tax of £128m charge) 304 (37) 267
Net income for the year 1,424 (120) 1,304
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations (i) 38.3p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations (i) 38.1p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations (i) 191.5p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – continuing operations (i) 190.7p
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations (i) 9.9p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations (i) 9.8p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations (i) 49.5p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – discontinued operations (i) 49.0p
Basic earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – total Group (i) 48.2p
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) – total Group (i) 47.9p
Basic earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – total Group (i) 241.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP (pence) – total Group (i) 239.5p
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million) – for basic EPS (i) 2,705
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million) – for diluted EPS (i) 2,719
(i) Restated as a result of the 43 for 49 share consolidation, related to the return of capital via the B share scheme.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and changes in shareholders’ equity under US GAAP
2006 2005
£m £m
Net income 1,307 1,304
Additional minimum pension liability (net of tax of £82m and £16m) 168 33
Exchange adjustments (i) 368 (80)
Mark-to-market of financial instruments (net of tax of £nil and £43m) 3 111
Comprehensive income 1,846 1,368
Dividends (745) (628)
Other shares issued 28 9
Share options granted 17 16
Return of capital to shareholders through B share scheme (2,009) –
Movement in treasury stock 19 5
Shareholders’ equity at 1 April 10,591 9,821
Shareholders’ equity at 31 March 9,747 10,591
(i) Included within exchange adjustments is £91m relating to losses on net investment hedges during the year.
158 Group Financial Statements
Note 38 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 38. Condensed US GAAP financial information (continued)
Condensed US GAAP balance sheet
2006 2005
£m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (i) 1,466 285
Marketable securities (i) 384 396
Accounts and notes receivable 838 553
Inventories 108 101
Regulatory assets 246 443
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 612 599
Total current assets 3,654 2,377
Property, plant and equipment cost 30,738 34,282
Property, plant and equipment accumulated depreciation (10,503) (10,022)
20,235 24,260
Goodwill cost 4,927 6,156
Goodwill accumulated amortisation and impairments (96) (97)
4,831 6,059
Intangible assets 390 272
Investments 160 152
Regulatory assets 2,805 2,907
Other receivables 212 1,247
Total assets 32,287 37,274
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 3 18
Accounts payable 2,097 1,111
Short-term borrowings 2,612 3,229
Accrued income taxes 419 79
Other accrued liabilities 165 1,416
Total current liabilities 5,296 5,853
Long-term borrowings 9,838 11,475
Post-retirement benefits 1,348 1,515
Deferred income taxes 4,063 5,475
Other liabilities 1,954 2,327
Total liabilities 22,499 26,645
Minority interest – equity 11 10
Cumulative preference stock issued by Group undertakings 30 28
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock (par value £0.1139 per share; shares authorised 4,390m; shares issued 2006: 2,720m; 2005: 3,090m) 310 309
Additional paid in capital 7,837 7,793
Other reserves 359 359
Retained earnings 1,920 3,377
Accumulated comprehensive loss (679) (1,218)
Treasury stock – (29)
Shareholders’ equity 9,747 10,591
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 32,287 37,274
(i) A reclassification of £240m for the comparative period has been made between cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Accumulated comprehensive loss can be analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Cumulative translation adjustment (453) (853)
Additional minimum pension liability (370) (618)
Unrealised gains on derivatives 9 9
Unrealised gains on available-for-sale investments 7 4
Taxation 124 236
Other 4 4
(679) (1,218)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Financial Statements 159
Note 38 (continued) 38. Condensed US GAAP financial information (continued)
Segmental information under US GAAP
Segments have been determined in accordance with SFAS 131 and segmented financial information has been presented in accordance
with US GAAP.
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue by business segment
Continuing operations
UK electricity and gas transmission 2,667 1,937
US electricity transmission 306 283
UK gas distribution 1,217 1,113
US electricity and gas distribution 3,759 3,112
US stranded cost recoveries 556 420
Wireless infrastructure 325 208
Other activities 683 844
Sales between businesses (297) (493)
Group revenue – continuing operations 9,216 7,424
Operating profit by business segment
Continuing operations
UK electricity and gas transmission 710 711
US electricity transmission 121 121
UK gas distribution 360 315
US electricity and gas distribution 371 356
US stranded cost recoveries 124 121
Wireless infrastructure 66 4
Other activities 58 176
Operating profit – continuing operations 1,810 1,804
Revenue and operating profit in the Other activities segment relates primarily to the UK.
Property, plant and equipment
2006 2005
£m £m
Analysis by business segment
UK electricity and gas transmission 7,110 6,642
US electricity transmission 1,339 1,176
UK gas distribution 5,457 10,479
US electricity and gas distribution 3,826 3,401
US stranded cost recoveries – 7
Wireless infrastructure 662 681
Other activities 1,841 1,874
20,235 24,260
Analysis by geographical region
UK 14,667 19,350
US 5,219 4,633
Rest of the World 349 277
20,235 24,260
Goodwill
UK electricity US electricity US stranded
and gas US electricity UK gas and gas cost Wireless Other
transmission transmission distribution distribution recoveries infrastructure activities Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 April 2004 756 348 2,990 1,354 – 83 74 5,605
Exchange adjustments – (11) – (44) – (3) – (58)
Additions – – – – – 512 – 512
1 April 2005 756 337 2,990 1,310 – 592 74 6,059
Exchange adjustments – 29 – 116 – 5 – 150
Disposals – – (1,369) – – – – (1,369)
Adjustments to provisional fair value – – – – – (9) – (9)
31 March 2006 756 366 1,621 1,426 – 588 74 4,831
160 Notes to the Accounts
Note 38 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 39. National Grid Gas plc additional US GAAP disclosures
The following condensed consolidating financial information, comprising income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements, is
given in respect of National Grid Gas plc (Subsidiary guarantor), which became joint full and unconditional guarantor on 11 May 2004 with
National Grid plc (Parent guarantor) of the 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2018 issued in June 1998 by British Transco Finance Inc. (then
known as British Gas Finance Inc.) (Issuer of notes). National Grid Gas plc and British Transco Finance Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries
of National Grid plc.
The following financial information for National Grid plc, National Grid Gas plc and British Transco Finance Inc. on a condensed
consolidating basis is intended to provide investors with meaningful and comparable financial information and is provided pursuant to
Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X in lieu of the separate financial statements of each subsidiary issuer of public debt securities.
In addition, the financial information for National Grid plc is provided pursuant to Rule 4-08(e) of Regulation S-X. This parent company-
only financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and footnotes presented in our 2005/06
Annual Report and Accounts.
Summary income statements are presented, on a consolidating basis, for the two years ended 31 March 2006. Summary income
statements of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc are presented under US GAAP measurement principles, as modified by the
inclusion of the results of subsidiary undertakings on the basis of equity accounting principles.
The summary balance sheets of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc include the investments in subsidiaries recorded under the
equity method for the purposes of presenting condensed consolidating financial information under US GAAP. The US GAAP summary
balance sheets present these investments within ‘Investments’.
The consolidation adjustments column includes the necessary amounts to eliminate the inter-company balances and transactions
between National Grid plc, National Grid Gas plc, British Transco Finance Inc. and other subsidiaries.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Notes to the Accounts 161
Note 39 39. National Grid Gas plc additional US GAAP disclosures (continued)
Summary income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006 – US GAAP
Parent Issuer of Subsidiary
guarantor notes guarantor
National British National National
Grid Transco Grid Gas Other Consolidation Grid
plc Finance Inc. plc subsidiaries adjustments Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 1 – 2,261 7,317 (363) 9,216
Other operating income – – 4 46 – 50
Operating costs
Depreciation – – (492) (525) – (1,017)
Payroll and severance costs – – (282) (651) – (933)
Purchases of electricity – – – (2,093) – (2,093)
Purchases of gas – – (148) (415) – (563)
Rates and property taxes – – (180) (265) – (445)
Electricity transmission services scheme direct costs – – – (536) – (536)
Provision for doubtful debts – – – (24) – (24)
Other operating charges – – (977) (1,663) 795 (1,845)
– – (2,079) (6,172) 795 (7,456)
Operating profit 1 – 186 1,191 432 1,810
Net finance costs (29) – (215) (507) – (751)
Dividends receivable –––310(310)–
Profit before taxation (28) – (29) 994 122 1,059
Taxation 42 – (64) (326) – (348)
Profit for the year 14 – (93) 668 122 711
Minority interests – – – (3) – (3)
Interest in equity accounted affiliates 697 – 452 3 (1,149) 3
Net income from continuing operations 711 – 359 668 (1,027) 711
Net income from discontinued operations 596 – 546 62 (608) 596
Net income for the year 1,307 – 905 730 (1,635) 1,307
Summary income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 – US GAAP
Parent Issuer of Subsidiary
guarantor notes guarantor
National British National National
Grid Transco Grid Gas Other Consolidation Grid
plc Finance Inc. plc subsidiaries adjustments Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 1 – 2,041 5,896 (514) 7,424
Other operating income –– 2 37– 39
Operating costs
Depreciation – – (497) (468) – (965)
Payroll and severance costs (2) – (276) (587) – (865)
Purchases of electricity – – – (1,678) – (1,678)
Purchases of gas – – (85) (272) – (357)
Rates and property taxes – – (160) (246) – (406)
Electricity transmission services scheme direct costs – – – (301) – (301)
Provision for doubtful debts – – 4 (45) – (41)
Other operating charges (29) – (3,276) (1,091) 3,350 (1,046)
(31) – (4,290) (4,688) 3,350 (5,659)
Operating profit (30) – (2,247) 1,245 2,836 1,804
Net finance costs 123 – (443) (146) 6 (460)
Dividends receivable – – – 500 (500) –
Profit before taxation 93 – (2,690) 1,599 2,342 1,344
Taxation (20) – (32) (249) (2) (303)
Profit for the year 73 – (2,722) 1,350 2,340 1,041
Minority interests – – – (2) – (2)
Interest in equity accounted affiliates 1,231 – 2,930 (2) (4,161) (2)
Net income from continuing operations 1,304 – 208 1,346 (1,821) 1,037
Net income from discontinued operations – – 267 – – 267
Net income for the year 1,304 – 475 1,346 (1,821) 1,304
162 Notes to the Accounts
Note 39 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 39. National Grid Gas plc additional US GAAP disclosures (continued)
Balance sheet as at 31 March 2006 – US GAAP
Parent Issuer of Subsidiary
guarantor notes guarantor
National British National National
Grid Transco Grid Gas Other Consolidation Grid
plc Finance Inc. plc subsidiaries adjustments Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,046 1 221 212 (14) 1,466
Marketable securities – – 35 349 – 384
Accounts and notes receivable 16 3 171 648 – 838
Inventories – – 23 85 – 108
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,093 – 5,722 4,529 (17,344) –
Regulatory assets – – – 246 – 246
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 64 – – 548 – 612
Total current assets 8,219 4 6,172 6,617 (17,358) 3,654
Property, plant and equipment – – 8,983 11,287 (35) 20,235
Goodwill – – 2,377 2,454 – 4,831
Intangible assets – – 33 357 – 390
Investments 5,209–5216,323(21,424)160
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – 157 – – (157) –
Regulatory assets – – – 2,805 – 2,805
Other receivables 79 – 3 130 – 212
Total assets 13,507 161 17,620 39,973 (38,974) 32,287
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 14 – – 3 (14) 3
Accounts payable – – 342 1,755 – 2,097
Short-term borrowings 114 4 723 1,771 – 2,612
Accrued income taxes – – 70 349 – 419
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,813 – 920 14,611 (17,344) –
Other accrued liabilities 63 – 83 96 (77) 165
Total current liabilities 2,004 4 2,138 18,585 (17,435) 5,296
Long-term borrowings 1,741 157 1,958 5,982 – 9,838
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – – 157 (157) –
Post-retirement benefits – – – 1,348 – 1,348
Deferred income taxes 15 – 2,151 1,897 – 4,063
Other liabilities – – 172 1,782 – 1,954
Total liabilities 3,760 161 6,419 29,751 (17,592) 22,499
Minority interest – equity –– – 11– 11
Cumulative preference stock issued by Group undertakings – – – 30 – 30
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock 310 – 45 541 (586) 310
Additional paid in capital 7,837 – 9,680 8,072 (17,752) 7,837
Other reserves 359 – – – – 359
Retained earnings 1,920 – 1,476 1,568 (3,044) 1,920
Accumulated comprehensive loss (679) – – – – (679)
Treasury stock – – – – – –
Shareholders’ equity 9,747 – 11,201 10,181 (21,382) 9,747
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 13,507 161 17,620 39,973 (38,974) 32,287
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Notes to the Accounts 163
Note 39 (continued) 39. National Grid Gas plc additional US GAAP disclosures (continued)
Balance sheet as at 31 March 2005 – US GAAP
Parent Issuer of Subsidiary
guarantor notes guarantor
National British National National
Grid Transco Grid Gas Other Consolidation Grid
plc Finance Inc. plc subsidiaries adjustments Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 118 – 4 163 – 285
Marketable securities – – 200 396 (200) 396
Accounts and notes receivable – – 37 516 – 553
Inventories – – 30 71 – 101
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 10,695 – 72 4,529 (15,296) –
Regulatory assets – – – 443 – 443
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 2 – 264 333 – 599
Total current assets 10,815 – 607 6,451 (15,496) 2,377
Property, plant and equipment – – 13,950 10,317 (7) 24,260
Goodwill – – 3,746 2,313 – 6,059
Intangible assets – – – 272 – 272
Investments 3,332–1,60516,314(21,099)152
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 9 178 2,644 840 (3,671) –
Regulatory assets – – – 2,907 – 2,907
Other receivables 226 – 151 870 – 1,247
Total assets 14,382 178 22,703 40,284 (40,273) 37,274
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts – – – 18 – 18
Accounts payable – – 342 769 – 1,111
Short-term borrowings 792 – 1,233 1,204 – 3,229
Accrued income taxes – – 22 57 – 79
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,752 – 2,777 10,695 (15,224) –
Other accrued liabilities 63 – 552 878 (77) 1,416
Total current liabilities 2,607 – 4,926 13,621 (15,301) 5,853
Long-term borrowings 1,168 178 2,811 7,591 (273) 11,475
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 840 2,831 (3,671) –
Post-retirement benefits – – – 1,515 – 1,515
Deferred income taxes 8 – 3,421 2,046 – 5,475
Other liabilities 8 – 158 2,161 – 2,327
Total liabilities 3,791 178 12,156 29,765 (19,245) 26,645
Minority interest – equity –– – 10– 10
Cumulative preference stock issued by Group undertakings – – – 28 – 28
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock 309 – 45 2,191 (2,236) 309
Additional paid in capital 7,793 – 9,680 8,072 (17,752) 7,793
Other reserves 359 – – – – 359
Retained earnings 3,377 – 822 1,357 (2,179) 3,377
Accumulated comprehensive loss (1,218) – – (1,110) 1,110 (1,218)
Treasury stock (29) – – (29) 29 (29)
Shareholders’ equity 10,591 – 10,547 10,481 (21,028) 10,591
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 14,382 178 22,703 40,284 (40,273) 37,274
A reclassification of £240m for 2005 has been made between cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
164 Notes to the Accounts
Note 39 (continued)
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 39. National Grid Gas plc additional US GAAP disclosures (continued)
Cash flow statements – US GAAP
Parent Issuer of Subsidiary
guarantor notes guarantor
National British National National
Grid Transco Grid Gas Other Consolidation Grid
plc Finance Inc. plc subsidiaries adjustments Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 March 2006
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities – continuing operations (9) 1 1,501 1,586 (802) 2,277
Net cash used in operating activities – discontinued operations – – (57) – – (57)
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities (9) 1 1,444 1,586 (802) 2,220
Net cash used in investing activities – continuing operations – – (681) (1,034) – (1,715)
Net cash provided by investing activities – discontinued operations – – 5,635 – – 5,635
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities – – 4,954 (1,034) – 3,920
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities 937 – (6,181) (517) 788 (4,973)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 928 1 217 35 (14) 1,167
Year ended 31 March 2005
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities – continuing operations 1,108 (1) 3,594 1,855 (4,522) 2,034
Net cash provided by operating activities – discontinued operations – – 449 – – 449
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 1,108 (1) 4,043 1,855 (4,522) 2,483
Net cash used in investing activities – continuing operations (273) – (5,126) (1,966) 4,763 (2,602)
Net cash used in investing activities – discontinued operations – – (323) – – (323)
Net cash used in investing activities (273) – (5,449) (1,966) 4,763 (2,925)
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities (723) – 1,336 68 (241) 440
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 112 (1) (70) (43) – (2)
Cash dividends were received by National Grid plc from consolidated subsidiaries amounting to £nil during the year ended 31 March 2006
(2005: £1,139m).
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Notes to the Accounts 165
Note 39 (continued) Company Accounting Policies 
(a) Basis of preparation of Company financial statements
These Company financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with applicable UK accounting and financial reporting
standards and the Companies Act 1985.
The Company financial statements have been prepared on 
a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial
instruments from 1 April 2005 onwards.
These Company financial statements are presented in pounds
sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operates.
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account
as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The
Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow
statement under the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash flow
statements’.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from 
these estimates.
The Company has adopted FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance
Sheet Date’, FRS 23 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates’, FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation’ and FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’.
The Company has also adopted FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosures’, which replaces the disclosure requirements of FRS
25. The impact of the adoption of these standards is shown 
in note 1.
(b) Fixed asset investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any
provisions for impairment. Impairments are calculated such that
the carrying value of the fixed asset investment is the lower of its
cost or recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of
its net realisable value and its value in use.
(c) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full on all material timing
differences, with certain exceptions. No provision for deferred
taxation is made for any timing differences on non-monetary
assets arising from fair value adjustments, except where there is 
a binding agreement to sell the assets concerned. However, no
provision is made where it is more likely than not that any taxable
gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they
are considered recoverable.
Deferred tax balances have not been discounted.
(d) Financial instruments
Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting
all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of
direct issue costs. 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. Trade payables are not interest bearing
and are stated at their nominal value. 
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs plus accrued interest less any
repayments. Prior to 1 April 2005, accrued interest is presented
as part of current liabilities and not combined with the principal
amounts payable.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement in the
period in which they are incurred. 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded as described below.
(e) Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments
The Company enters into derivative financial instruments
(‘derivatives’) in order to manage its interest rate and foreign
currency exposures. The principal derivatives used include
interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps,
forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaptions. 
All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with a
view to providing a commercial hedge of the interest or currency
risks associated with the Group’s underlying business activities
and the financing of those activities. 
With effect from 1 April 2005, derivatives are carried in the
balance sheet at their fair value. 
Prior to 1 April 2005, derivatives used for hedging purposes 
were not recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies were
retranslated at hedged rates instead of closing rates. 
As permitted by the transition provisions of FRS 26, prior year
adjustments have not been made to the balance sheet as at 
31 March 2005 or the profit and loss account for the year 
then ended to reflect the adoption of FRS 26 ‘Financial
Instruments: Measurement’. 
From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting 
is as described below. Disclosures on the impact of implementing
FRS 26 at 1 April 2005 are set out in note 1. 
166 Company Financial Statements
Company Accounting Policies
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows (‘cash
flow hedges’) are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are
subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same
period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are
designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value of assets 
or liabilities (‘fair value hedges’) are recognised in the income
statement. An equal and opposite amount is recorded as an
adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a
corresponding entry in the income statement, to the extent that
the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that the
fair value hedge is effective. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as
they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gains or losses
relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially
retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the income
statement in the same periods in which the previously hedged
item affects net profit or loss. For fair value hedges the cumulative
adjustment recorded to its carrying value at the date hedge
accounting is discontinued is amortised to the income statement
using the effective interest rate method. 
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the
income statement immediately.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised
gains or losses reported in the income statement.
The notional amounts relating to financial instruments held to
manage interest rate and currency profiles for interest rate swaps
and forward rate agreements, foreign currency contracts and
cross currency swaps at 31 March 2006 amounted to £2,926m
and £3,454m respectively.
(f) Parent Company guarantees
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal and
any associated premium and interest on specific loans due from
certain Group undertakings to third parties. As these are
guarantees in the event of default or non-performance by the
subsidiary, the Company accounts for these guarantees as
insurance contracts in accordance with FRS 12.
(g) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain
employees, detailed in the Directors’ Report, the Remuneration
Report and in note 31 to the Group accounts.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value
at the date of grant. The Company has no employees. Equity-
settled share-based payments that are made available to
employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as
increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a
corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in
subsidiaries, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of
shares that will eventually vest. Where payments are subsequently
received from subsidiaries, these are accounted for as a disposal
of investment.
(h) Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the
Company’s shareholders. Final dividends are recognised when
they are approved by shareholders.
Company Financial Statements 167
Company Accounting Policies Company Balance Sheet 
at 31 March 
2005
2006 (restated) (i)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 2 2,428 2,428
2,428 2,428
Current assets
Debtors (amounts falling due within one year) 3 7,109 10,697
Derivative financial instruments (amounts falling due within one year) 64 –
Derivative financial instruments (amounts falling due after more than one year) 79 –
Current asset investments 1,046 118
8,298 10,815
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
Derivative financial instruments (21) –
Borrowings (109) (781)
Other creditors (1,876) (1,764)
4 (2,006) (2,545)
Net current assets 6,292 8,270
Total assets less current liabilities 8,720 10,698
Creditors (amounts falling due after more than one year)
Derivative financial instruments (56) –
Borrowings (1,715) (1,020)
Other creditors – (8)
5 (1,771) (1,028)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred taxation 7 (5) –
Net assets employed 6,944 9,670
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 310 309
Share premium account 9 1,316 1,289
Cash flow hedge reserve 9 7 –
Other reserves 9 74 68
Profit and loss account 9 5,237 8,004
Equity shareholders’ funds 6,944 9,670
(i) During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company adopted FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’. See note 1 to the Company accounts, ‘Changes in accounting policies’ 
on page 169.
Commitments and contingencies are shown in note 10 to the Company accounts on page 171.
The notes on pages 169 to 171 form part of the Company Financial Statements, which were approved by the Board of Directors on 17
May 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir John Parker Chairman
Steve Lucas Group Finance Director
168 Company Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid 1. Changes in accounting policies
During the year, the Company has adopted FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’, FRS 23 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates’, FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’, and FRS
29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’.
FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’
The adoption of FRS 21 has resulted in a change to the timing of recognition of the Company’s proposed final dividend. Previously such
dividends were recorded as a liability in the year in respect of which they were proposed by the Board of Directors for approval by the
shareholders. In accordance with FRS 21, such dividends are not recorded until approved. The adoption of FRS 21 has been reflected 
in the accounts as a prior year adjustment in accordance with FRS 3. This has resulted in an increase in net assets as at 31 March 2005
of £469m and an increase in retained earnings for the year ended 31 March 2005 of £103m.
FRS 23 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’
FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’ 
FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
The adoption of FRS 23, FRS 25, FRS 26 and FRS 29 has resulted in a change to the accounting for the Company’s financial
instruments. Derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale investments are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, whilst
deferred gains and losses relating to items qualifying for hedge accounting are derecognised and instead recorded in equity (for cash
flow hedges and net investment hedges) or by adjusting the carrying value of the hedged financial instrument (for fair value hedges). As
permitted by the transition provisions of FRS 26, prior year adjustments have not been made to the balance sheet at 31 March 2005 or
to the profit and loss account for the year then ended. 
The adoption of FRS 23, FRS 25, FRS 26 and FRS 29 reduced net assets at 1 April 2005 by £15m, as shown below:
£m
Borrowings (213)
Derivative financial instruments 179
Other assets and liabilities 19
Net assets (15)
It is not practical to calculate the impact of the adoption of FRS 23, FRS 25, FRS 26 and FRS 29 on the results for the year ended 
31 March 2006.
2. Fixed asset investments
Group
undertakings
£m
At 1 April 2004 2,275
Additions 296
Disposals (143)
At 31 March 2005 2,428
Additions 6
Disposals (6)
At 31 March 2006 2,428
The names of the principal Group undertakings and joint ventures are included in note 36 to the Group accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Company Financial Statements 169
Notes 1 and 2 
Notes to the Company Accounts 3. Debtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,105 10,695
Prepayments and accrued income 4 2
7,109 10,697
4. Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
2005
2006 (restated) (i)
£m £m
Derivative financial instruments 21 –
Borrowings (note 6) 109 781
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,856 1,752
Other creditors 20 12
2,006 2,545
(i) Restated for adoption of FRS 21 – see note 1 to the Company accounts on page 169.
5. Creditors (amounts falling due after more than one year)
2006 2005
£m £m
Derivative financial instruments 56 –
Borrowings (note 6) 1,715 1,020
Deferred income – 8
1,771 1,028
6. Borrowings
The following table analyses the Company’s total borrowings:
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 27 89
Commercial paper – 158
Other bonds 27 534
Other loans 55 –
109 781
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other bonds 1,715 1,020
1,715 1,020
Total borrowings 1,824 1,801
2006 2005
£m £m
Total borrowings are repayable as follows:
In one year or less 109 781
In more than two years, but not more than three years 348 –
In more than three years, but not more than four years – 298
In more than four years, but not more than five years 37 –
In more than five years, other than by instalments 1,330 722
1,824 1,801
The notional amount of borrowings outstanding as at 31 March 2006 was £1,835m.
170 Company Financial Statements
Notes 3, 4, 5 and 6
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Company Financial Statements 171
Notes 7, 8, 9 and 10
7. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred
taxation
£m
At 31 March 2005 –
First time adoption of FRS 26 19
At 1 April 2005 19
Credited to equity (14)
At 31 March 2006 5
8. Share capital
Allotted and issued Called up and fully paid
number £ millions £m
At 1 April 2004 3,087,603,756 308,760,376 3,088 309
Issued during the year 2,599,199 259,920 2 –
At 31 March 2005 3,090,202,955 309,020,296 3,090 309
Issued during the year 8,016,297 898,906 8 1
Effect of share consolidation (i) (378,520,134) – (378) –
At 31 March 2006 2,719,699,118 309,919,202 2,720 310
(i) On 29 July 2005, the ordinary share capital was consolidated, with 43 new ordinary shares of 11
17
⁄43 pence each issued for every 49 existing ordinary shares of 10 pence each cancelled.
For further details on share capital, see note 31 to the Group accounts.
9. Reserves
Share Cash flow Profit
premium hedge Other and loss
account reserve reserves account
£m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2005 (as originally reported) 1,289 – 68 7,535
Adoption of FRS 21 (i) – – – 469
At 31 March 2005 (restated) 1,289 – 68 8,004
Adoption of FRS 26 – 39 (7) (47)
At 1 April 2005 1,289 39 61 7,957
Exchange adjustments – – 7 –
Net loss transfered from equity in respect of cash flow hedges (net of tax) – (32) – –
Ordinary shares issued during the year 27 – – –
Employee option scheme issues –– 6–
Return of capital to shareholders through B share scheme – – – (2,009)
Retained loss for the year – – – (711)
At 31 March 2006 1,316 7 74 5,237
(i) Restated for the adoption of FRS 21 – see note 1.
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The Company’s
profit after taxation was £34m (2005: profit after tax £2,652m). Of the Company’s profit and loss account reserve of £5,237m at 31 March
2006, £2,581m relating to gains on intra-group transactions was not distributable to shareholders.
10. Commitments and contingencies
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of principal sum, any associated premium and interest on specific loans due from certain
Group undertakings to third parties. At 31 March 2006, the sterling equivalent amounted to £2,082m (2005: £2,019m). The guarantees
are for varying terms between one month and 12 years.
The Company has also guaranteed the lease obligations of a former associate to a Group undertaking, amounting to £31m (2005: £37m). 172 Glossary of Terms Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Glossary of Terms
Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accounts Financial statements
Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting
Allotted Issued
Borrowings Debt
Called up share capital Common stock issued and fully paid
Capital allowances Tax depreciation allowances
Trade payables Accounts payable
Trade receivables Accounts receivable
Finance lease Capital lease
Financial year Fiscal year
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity
Freehold land Land owned
Group financial statements Consolidated financial statements
Joint venture Equity investment
Merger accounting Pooling of interests
Net asset value Book value
Operating profit Net operating income
Pension scheme Pension plan
Profit Income (or earnings)
Profit for the year Net income
Provision for doubtful debts Allowance for bad and doubtful accounts receivable
Provisions Long-term liabilities other than debt and specific accounts payable
Reconciliation of movements in total equity Statement of changes in stockholders’ equity
Equity reserves Stockholders’ equity other than common stock
Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid
Share premium account Additional paid-in capital relating to proceeds of sale of stock in excess 
of par value or paid-in surplus (not distributable) Definitions
References in the Annual Report and Accounts to the ‘Company’,
the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ refer to National Grid and its
subsidiaries.
American Depositary Shares or ADSs
Securities of National Grid listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
each of which represents the right to receive five ordinary shares.
B shares
Non-cumulative preference shares of 10 pence nominal value each.
Combined Code
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as issued by the
Financial Reporting Council.
Corporate Centre
Core Group functions operating from the Group’s head office.
FAS
US Financial Accounting Standard.
FERC
US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
FRS
UK Financial Reporting Standard.
GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles.
GW
Gigawatt, 10
9
watts.
GWh
Gigawatt hours.
HSE
Health and Safety Executive.
IAS
International Accounting Standard.
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standard.
KPI
Key performance indicator.
kV
Kilovolt, 10
3
volts.
kW
Kilowatt, 10
3
watts.
kWh
Kilowatt hours.
Lifetime Allowance
The lifetime allowance is an overall ceiling on the amount of tax
privileged pension savings that any one individual can draw.
LNG
Liquefied natural gas.
Lost time injury or LTI
A work-related injury that causes a person to be away from work
for at least one normal shift after the shift on which the injury
occurs, because the person is unfit to perform his or her duties.
mcm
Million cubic metres.
Merger
The merger of Lattice Group plc and National Grid Group plc
which became effective on 21 October 2002.
MW 
Megawatt, 10
6
watts.
MWh
Megawatt hours.
National Grid
National Grid plc, formerly National Grid Transco plc, or as the
context requires, the holding or main operating company of the
Group at the time.
National Grid Electricity Transmission
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc, formerly National Grid
Company plc.
National Grid Gas
National Grid Gas plc, formerly Transco plc.
National Grid Wireless
National Grid Wireless Limited, formerly Crown Castle UK Limited.
Ofcom
The Office of Communications.
Ofgem
The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets.
Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares of 11
17
/43 pence nominal value each.
Personal Lifetime Allowance
The Lifetime Allowance applicable to individuals who have
registered their pre 6 April 2006 pension benefits for protection.
SEC
US Securities and Exchange Commission.
tonnes CO
2
equivalent
Measure of greenhouse gas emissions in relation to the impact 
of carbon dioxide.
TW
Terawatt, 10
12
watts.
TWh
Terawatt hours.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Definitions 173 Summary Group Financial Information
Financial summary (unaudited)
The financial summary set out below has been derived from the audited consolidated accounts of National Grid for the five financial
years ended 31 March 2006. It should be read in conjunction with the Group accounts and related notes, together with the Operating
and Financial Review. The information presented below for the years ended 31 March 2005 and 2006 has been prepared under IFRS as
adopted by the EU, while the information for the years ended 31 March 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 has been presented under UK
GAAP, as no IFRS information has been prepared prior to the date of adoption of IFRS (1 April 2004).
IFRS As previously measured under UK GAAP
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
Summary income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group revenue 9,193 7,382 8,521 9,033 9,400 7,554
Operating profit
Before exceptional items, remeasurements and goodwill amortisation 2,527 2,443 2,212 2,213 2,148 1,764
Exceptional items and remeasurements (88) (301) (251) (277) (350) (1,327)
Goodwill amortisation n/a n/a (109) (99) (102) (97)
2,439 2,142 1,852 1,837 1,696 340
Profit before tax
Before exceptional items, remeasurements and goodwill amortisation 1,924 1,740 1,429 1,391 1,209 1,107
Exceptional items and remeasurements (145) (301) (168) 45 (480) (1,313)
Goodwill amortisation n/a n/a (109) (99) (102) (97)
1,779 1,439 1,152 1,337 627 (303)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders
Before exceptional items, remeasurements and goodwill amortisation 1,368 1,655 1,106 1,039 833 854
Exceptional items and remeasurements 2,480 (231) (89) 134 (380) (1,097)
Goodwill amortisation n/a n/a (109) (99) (102) (97)
3,848 1,424 908 1,074 351 (340)
Summary statement of net assets
Non-current assets 22,106 25,596 19,897 18,394 18,954 19,582
Current assets 3,818 1,964 4,814 5,003 5,950 6,568
Total assets 25,924 27,560 24,711 23,397 24,904 26,150
Current liabilities (5,683) (5,974) (5,679) (4,147) (4,729) (4,530)
Non-current liabilities (16,748) (19,465) (17,172) (17,613) (18,653) (19,523)
Total liabilities (22,431) (25,439) (22,851) (21,760) (23,382) (24,053)
Net assets 3,493 2,121 1,860 1,637 1,522 2,097
Summary cash flow statement
Cash generated from operations
Continuing operations 3,131 2,911 2,909 2,810 2,826 2,291
Discontinued operations (20) 547 n/a n/a n/a n/a
3,111 3,458 2,909 2,810 2,826 2,291
Tax paid (140) (150) (150) (18) (112) (212)
Net cash inflow from operations 2,971 3,308 2,759 2,792 2,714 2,079
Net cash inflows from/(used in) investing activities 3,922 (2,975) n/a n/a n/a n/a
Dividends received from joint ventures n/a n/a 5 8 11 13
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment n/a n/a (1,262) (1,254) (1,407) (1,483)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow for acquisitions and disposals n/a n/a (1,130) 7 163 (969)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow for the management of liquid resources n/a n/a (54) (48) (138) 347
Net cash flows from financing activities (5,712) (325) n/a n/a n/a n/a
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance n/a n/a (758) (692) (912) (705)
Equity dividends paid n/a n/a (628) (560) (571) (478)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities n/a n/a 1,081 (240) 174 1,218
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (UK GAAP – cash only) 1,181 813133422
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP £m £m £m £m £m
Group revenues 9,216 7,424 7,761 6,741 4,004
Net income/(loss) 1,307 1,304 998 751 (167)
Earnings/(loss) per ADS
Basic 241.0p 241.0p 185.2p 181.8p (62.1)p
Diluted 240.0p 239.5p 184.6p 177.2p (49.6)p
Total assets 32,287 37,274 35,347 36,947 17,727
Net assets employed/total shareholders’ funds 9,788 10,629 9,875 9,515 3,862
Equity shareholders’ funds 9,747 10,591 9,821 9,426 3,759
174 Summary Group Financial Information Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid Shareholder Information
Duplicate accounts
If you received two or more copies of the Annual Report and
Accounts and multiple cheques for each dividend payment, 
you will have more than one shareholder account.
To receive just one Annual Report and Accounts and one cheque
for each dividend payment, please contact Capita Registrars and
ask to amalgamate your accounts.
Dividends
National Grid normally pays dividends twice each year: an interim
dividend in January and a final dividend in August.
Choosing to have dividends paid directly into your chosen bank
or building society account means that: money will be available
on the day of payment; there will be no delay paying cheques into
your account; cheques cannot be lost; and a tax voucher is still
provided for your records.
Over 530,000 National Grid shareholders already choose to have
dividends paid to them directly. To request direct payment of your
dividends, please contact Capita Registrars.
Dividend reinvestment plan
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) has now been introduced
that will allow participating shareholders to use dividend
payments to purchase additional shares in National Grid. The
DRIP will begin operation from the payment of the 2005/06 
final dividend payment in August 2006. Shareholders wishing 
to participate should contact Capita Registrars.
Electronic communication
Instead of receiving bulky paper documents through the post, 
you can choose to receive an email notifying you of the electronic
availability of National Grid’s Annual Report and Accounts.
All shareholders choosing the electronic Annual Report and
Accounts will receive a certificate, recognising their support of
National Grid’s Climate Saver programme managed by The
CarbonNeutral Company.
To apply for electronic documents and to see details of the
Climate Saver programme, please visit the Group website at
www.nationalgrid.com.
Share dealing
A low-cost share dealing service is available from Capita
Registrars, allowing you to buy and sell National Grid shares by
telephone and online. Trading by telephone or online allows you
to know the price of the shares at the time you deal.
For more information, please call 0870 458 4577 (8am – 4.30pm)
or visit www.capitadeal.com.
A postal dealing service is also available. For a postal dealing
form, please call 0870 162 3116.
These details are provided for information only and any action you
take is at your own risk. If you have any doubt as to the action
you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial
advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, accountant or other
independent financial adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
ISAs for National Grid shares are available from Stocktrade.
Options include: National Grid Maxi stocks and shares ISA; and
National Grid Mini stocks and shares ISA. Further information 
may be obtained from the Account Manager: 
Stocktrade, 
81 George Street, 
Edinburgh EH2 3ES
Telephone: 0131 240 0443
Website:
www.stocktrade.co.uk/NGT_Sharedealing/sharedealing_main.htm
You may also consolidate other PEPs and ISAs by transferring
them to your National Grid account.
National Grid cannot advise you on what action, if any, you
should take.
ShareGift
If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be
uneconomical or just not worthwhile to sell them, you could
consider donating your shares to charity.
ShareGift is an independent registered charity (no. 1052686) that
provides a free service for shareholders wishing to give small
holdings of shares to benefit charitable causes. There are no
capital gains tax implications (ie no gain or loss) on gifts of shares
to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Since
its launch in 1996, ShareGift has been able to give millions of
pounds to hundreds of different UK charities.
Further information can be obtained at www.ShareGift.org or from
Capita Registrars.
Shareholder Networking
National Grid continues to operate its Shareholder Networking
Programme allowing shareholders to learn more about the
business by visiting operational sites and meeting Directors,
senior managers and staff.
These visits allow us to explain the business to shareholders 
in person and for shareholders to ask any questions about 
the Group. This year’s visit is planned for early December.
If you would like to take part in this visit, please write to:
Shareholder Networking Organiser,
National Grid House,
Warwick Technology Park,
Gallows Hill,
Warwick CV34 6DA
Participants will be selected from those applying, with priority
given to those who have not previously attended.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Shareholder Information 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
176 Shareholder Information
Queries – ordinary shareholders
Any queries from holders of ordinary shares should be directed to
Capita Registrars:
National Grid Share Register,
Capita Registrars,
Northern House,
Woodsome Park,
Fenay Bridge,
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Telephone: 0870 242 2379 
(from outside the UK +44 20 7098 1198)
Textphone: 18001 0870 242 2379
Fax: 0870 240 1286 
(from outside the UK +44 1484 600 702)
Email: nationalgrid@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.nationalgrid.com/shareholders
Queries – American Depositary Shares
Any queries from holders of American Depositary Shares should
be directed to The Bank of New York:
The Bank of New York,
Shareholders Correspondence,
PO Box 11258,
Church Street Station,
New York NY 10286-1258
Telephone: 1-800-466-7215 
(for international calls +1-212-815-3700)
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com
Website: www.adrbny.com
Share price
The following graph shows the movement of National Grid’s share
prices during the 2005/06 financial year:
Financial calendar
The following dates have been announced or are indicative 
of future dates:
7 June 2006 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
9 June 2006 Ordinary share 2005/06 final dividend record date
12 July 2006 DRIP application deadline 2005/06 final dividend
31 July 2006 2006 Annual General Meeting
7 Aug 2006 B share continuing dividend payment date
8 Aug 2006 Further repurchase of B shares as elected
23 Aug 2006 Ordinary share 2005/06 final dividend payment date 
16 Nov 2006 2006/07 interim results
29 Nov 2006 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
1 Dec 2006 Ordinary share 2006/07 interim dividend record date
8 Dec 2006 DRIP application deadline 2006/07 interim dividend
24 Jan 2007 Ordinary share 2006/07 interim dividend payment date 
May 2007 2006/07 preliminary results
June 2007 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
June 2007 Ordinary share 2006/07 final dividend record date
July 2007 DRIP application deadline 2006/07 final dividend
July 2007 2007 Annual General Meeting
Aug 2007 B share continuing dividend payment date
Aug 2007 Final repurchase of B shares as elected
Aug 2007 Conversion of remaining B shares
Aug 2007 Ordinary shares 2006/07 final dividend payment date 
Website
More information about National Grid is available on the Group
website at www.nationalgrid.com, and includes: current and
historical share price information; previous Annual Reports and
Accounts; and information about each of the Group businesses.
01/04
2005
01/07
2005
01/11
2005
31/03
2006
650
630
610
590
570
550
530
510
490
470
450
60
58
56
54
52
50
48
46
44
42
40
ADS Price (US$) Ordinary Share Price (pence) 
US$    pence Cautionary Statement
This document contains certain statements that are neither reported
financial results nor other historical information. These statements 
are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A 
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Because these
forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and
uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those
expressed in or implied by such statements. Many of these
assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are 
beyond our ability to control or estimate precisely, such as delays in
obtaining, or adverse conditions contained in, regulatory approvals
and contractual consents, including those required to complete 
the announced US acquisitions when or as planned, unseasonable
weather affecting demand for electricity and gas, competition and
industry restructuring, changes in economic conditions, currency
fluctuations, changes in interest and tax rates, changes in energy
market prices, changes in historical weather patterns, changes 
in laws, regulations or regulatory policies, developments in legal 
or public policy doctrines, the impact of changes to accounting
standards and technological developments. Other factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those described in this
document include the ability to integrate the businesses relating to the
announced US acquisitions with the Group and realise the expected
synergies from such integration, the availability of new acquisition
opportunities and the timing and success of future acquisition
opportunities, the impact of the sales of businesses by the Group, 
the failure for any reason to achieve reductions in costs or to achieve
operational efficiencies, the failure to retain key management, the
behaviour of UK electricity market participants on system balancing,
the timing of amendments in prices to shippers in the UK gas market,
the performance of our pension schemes and the regulatory treatment
of pension costs, and any adverse consequences arising from
outages on or otherwise affecting energy networks, including gas
pipelines, which we own or operate. For a more detailed description
of some of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties, together with
any other risk factors, please see our filings with and submissions 
to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (and in particular 
the “Risk Factors” and “Operating and Financial Review” sections 
in our most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F). Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. 
Except as required by law or regulation, National Grid does not
undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these
forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after
the date of this document.
The paper in this document contains a mixture of recycled pulps and fibre 
from FSC certified forests.
The paper was produced at a mill with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and
FSC accreditation.
Designed and produced by Corporate Edge
Printed by St Ives  National Grid plc
1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH, United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales No. 4031152
UK Shareholder enquiries: 0870 242 2379
US Shareholder enquiries: 1-800-466-7215
www.nationalgrid.com
  Safety Reliability
Efficiency Responsibility
Annual Review 2005/06 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Group Chief Executive’s Review
06 Business Review
06 What we do
08 Where we are
09 Our history
10 Safety
12 Reliability
14 Efficiency
16 Responsibility
18 Board of Directors
20 Summary Operating and 
Financial Review
22 Summary Corporate Governance
22 Summary Directors’ 
Remuneration Report 
26 Summary Group Income Statement
27 Summary Group Balance Sheet
27 Note to Summary Financial Statement
28 Basis of Preparation and 
Accounting Policies
28 Independent Auditors’ Statement to 
the Members of National Grid plc
28 Independent Verifier’s Statement on 
Corporate Responsibility
29 Shareholder Information
Dear shareholder
We are delighted to report a strong financial performance for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Adjusted operating profit* is up 3%, with adjusted profit before tax* and adjusted earnings per
share* up 11% and 10% respectively. These results reflect our continued commitment to driving 
our strategy forward together with careful investment in both our assets and the development 
of our people. 
The Group’s operational performance has also been strong and we continue to build on our
reputation for world-leading standards of service for reliability in energy delivery. Managing our
networks to the highest standards of safety is at the core of everything we do. We continue to
improve our safety performance while constantly striving to be world class. As a Group, we also
recognise the importance of acting responsibly in all that we do. 
Our core skills lie in the design, development, safe operation and maintenance of large and complex
networks. We will continue to invest and focus on organic growth in our existing networks while
making appropriate acquisitions of network-related businesses that complement our current
portfolio. Indeed, the two acquisitions that we are making in the US embody this strategy.
We also appreciate that our success is due to the talented and diverse individuals whom we
employ. To secure, grow and retain the very best employees available, we are committed to
investing in developing our people’s futures throughout all levels of our organisation.
This is the first year that we are reporting as National Grid plc following shareholder approval of
the Group name change for our principal businesses. Our drive and determination, coupled with our
substantial investment programmes, emphasise our Group-wide commitment to being the world’s
premier network utility by creating value from our existing businesses and identifying new
opportunities both at home and abroad.
Sir John Parker Roger Urwin 
Chairman Group Chief Executive Highlights 01 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Financial highlights
†
Group revenue
£9,193m
2004/05: £7,382m
up 25%
Adjusted operating profit*
£2,527m
2004/05: £2,443m
up 3%
Operating profit
£2,439m
2004/05: £2,142m
up 14%
Cash generated 
from operations
£3,131m
2004/05: £2,911m
up 8%
Ordinary dividends
26.1p
2004/05: 23.7p
up 10%
Adjusted earnings per share*
46.7p
2004/05: 42.3p
up 10%
Earnings per share
42.8p
2004/05: 36.3p
up 18%
Operating highlights
We agreed to acquire KeySpan Corporation, a
northeastern US gas and electricity distribution company,
for $7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) plus assumed debt of
approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion). 
Grain LNG commenced commercial operations in July
2005 and Phase II expansion is under way.
Over the last 12 months, a 27% reduction in lost time
injuries has been reported across the Group.
£200 million London infrastructure tunnel project
connecting Hertfordshire to North London completed 
in September 2005.
Proposed acquisition announced of Southern Union
Company’s Rhode Island gas distribution business for
cash consideration of $498 million (£286 million) and
assumed debt of $77 million (£44 million).
£2 billion return of value to shareholders – 65 pence 
per share – made in August 2005. 
Construction of Basslink complete, with commercial
operations having commenced in April 2006. 
†
Continuing operations
* Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements
Important Notice
This Summary Financial Statement, as extracted from the full
Annual Report and Accounts, does not contain sufficient
information to allow for a full understanding of the results of
the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the
Group as would be provided by the full Annual Report and
Accounts.
The Auditors’ Report on the full financial statements for the
year ended 31 March 2006 was unqualified and did not
contain a statement concerning accounting records or failure
to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information may
obtain a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
and request any future full Annual Report and Accounts by
contacting Capita Registrars, whose details are on the back
cover.
This document contains certain statements that are neither
reported financial results nor other historical information. These
statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. For a description of factors that could affect future
results, reference should be made to the full ‘Cautionary
Statement’ on the back cover. 
Highlights 02 Chairman’s Statement Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Chairman’s Statement
I would like to thank the Executive team for its strong leadership 
and all our employees for their individual contributions to our 
continued success during the past year.
Board
As a Board, we are conscious that we
oversee the activities of the business in the
interests of all our stakeholders. In order to
achieve this, we must ensure that we have
the very best people for the task. To ensure
this, we carry out a rigorous review of
Board performance annually and regularly
examine senior management succession
very carefully.
Roger Urwin, Group Chief Executive,
intends to retire from National Grid at the
end of this calendar year. Roger has led
National Grid through transformational
change and delivered an outstanding track
record of success and value creation. It has
been my privilege to have worked closely
with Roger since the merger of National
Grid Group and Lattice Group in 2002. At
the Board’s request, Roger agreed to defer
his retirement to enable a smooth transition 
to his successor, ensuring that operating
performance momentum is maintained,
together with management continuity through
this year’s Transmission Price Review. 
To find a suitable replacement for Roger,
the Non-executive Directors undertook 
an extensive process of evaluating both
internal and external candidates. We are
delighted to report that Steve Holliday will
succeed Roger and was appointed Deputy
Group Chief Executive from the beginning
of National Grid’s 2006/07 financial year.
Since joining National Grid in 2001, Steve
has led the UK transmission and the UK
gas distribution businesses to world-
leading performance. All the Directors 
and I are confident of the future of the
Group under Steve’s leadership and wish
him every success.
This year will also see John Grant stepping
down from his Non-executive Directorship.
John joined National Grid in November 1995.
He has made an outstanding contribution to
the Board and our Committees over the past
10
1
⁄2 years. He has also been a major
contributor to all our key debates and we
shall miss his wisdom and insight.
Governance
The Board of National Grid continues to 
be committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. It also seeks to
ensure that our values and internal processes
lead to the effective management of risk
and the equitable treatment of all our
stakeholders and employees. We recognise
the significant benefit of management
leadership within a robust governance
framework that embodies strong financial
control and sound administration.
In a climate where the governance
arrangements in large companies are
increasingly under scrutiny, the Board has
implemented a transparent approach. This
is driven by our Framework for Responsible
Business, underpinned by a suite of policies,
procedures, public position statements and
well-defined internal control processes.
Employee engagement 
In May 2006, we undertook our second
Group-wide employee opinion survey. The
first survey was undertaken in July 2004.
One initiative that resulted from the previous
survey was the promotion of ‘Managers as
Communicators’ to enhance dialogue and
feedback among the workforce. 
Following the 2004 employee opinion survey,
the Executive identified a number of areas
for improvement. These included improving
opportunities for dialogue across the
Group, ensuring understanding of strategy
amongst employees, managing change
better, managing individual performance
effectively, demonstrating our values in all
26.1p
Ordinary dividends
46.7p
Adjusted earnings 
per share*
* Excludes the impact of exceptional
items and remeasurements Chairman’s Statement 03 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
that we do and continuing to progress our
inclusion and diversity policy. 
The re-branding programme provided 
a platform this year to demonstrate 
our improvement in a number of these
areas and to introduce new approaches.
Across the Group we have also refined 
our employee briefing processes and our
national employee publications. For the first
time this year, we have introduced a Group-
wide publication, ‘National Grid World’, to
provide employees with a broader view of
Group activities.
Community investment 
National Grid continues to support its
customers and communities through its
community investment activities. The areas
that we support are closely aligned to our
business priorities: Education & Skills,
Environment & Energy and Community
Development. 
Both our US and UK operations have
programmes to support domestic consumers
who have difficulty with energy payments.
In the US, approximately 215,000 National
Grid customers are supported through our
Low Income Discount Rates, which reduce
fuel bills by up to 25%. National Grid also
administers grants in the US to allow
customers to install energy efficiency
measures. Through the Gas Efficiency
Programme, which was initiated at the end
of 2005, low-income customers are able 
to receive support from a fund of $5 million.
In addition, National Grid in the US
sponsors assistance programmes run by
charitable organisations to support those
who are not able to pay their energy bills. 
In the UK, National Grid has supported 
the fuel poor through its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’. Since it was established in
1999, the programme has assisted
377,841 homes. One of its key elements 
is the support for the Warm Zones concept.
National Grid currently supports four Warm
Zones working with Government and social
housing providers and integrating sources
of funding to tackle the issue of fuel poverty
in a concentrated and systematic manner. 
We have also continued to lead on the
‘Young Offender Into Work Programme’.
With the involvement now of over 50 FTSE
companies, we have seen 400 young
people secure a new future with a significant
reduction in the re-offending rate.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 26.1p per ordinary share – an increase of
10%. This increase reflects our confidence
in the Group’s longer-term prospects based
on this year’s good results and our strategic
commitment to invest in the growth of our
businesses.
Going forward, we continue to target annual
increases of 7% to March 2008.
Outlook
Given the opportunities across the Group
for capital investment and revenue growth
with the continuing drive for cost
efficiencies, the Board continues to have 
full confidence in the Group’s ability to
generate future earnings growth. The 
Group will also continue to maintain its
disciplined approach to both organic
growth and strategic investment.
Sir John Parker
Chairman
377,841
The number of homes
that National Grid 
has assisted through
its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’
400
The number of young
people securing new
futures from National
Grid’s ‘Into Work
Programme’
The new name for our
principal businesses 04 Group Chief Executive’s Review Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Our aim to be the world’s premier network utility, 
and the delivery of our strategy, are both at the heart 
of our day-to-day activities. 
Strategy
As an infrastructure-based network
provider, it is essential that we deliver high
standards of service and reliability as well
as outperforming our benchmarks and
regulatory targets. We need to continue
managing our regulatory relationships
successfully to benefit both our customers
and shareholders. Our disciplined approach
to capital management remains paramount. 
Progress
Delivering our strategy involves the
continued focus on our key strengths of
operational excellence, our ability to exceed
our efficiency targets and our prudent 
use of capital. Investment in our current
businesses and strategic opportunities are
made only where we believe we can create
shareholder value. 
Our regulatory controls provide significant
incentives towards improving operational
efficiency by permitting the sharing of the
benefits of increased efficiencies between
energy users and shareholders. This year
we added to National Grid’s impressive
cost-efficiency track record when UK gas
distribution achieved its cost-efficiency
target one year early.
Investment
†
Investment in our networks remains a
priority for the Group. Total investment
reached £2 billion this year, up by one third
over last year’s £1.5 billion. We project a
further rise to around £2.5 billion per annum
over the next five years. Investment is rising
across the Group with the largest increases
in our UK regulated businesses.
New investment in UK electricity
transmission is being driven largely by 
asset replacement which reflects the age
and condition of the network. UK gas
transmission investment is also increasing,
but here it is primarily due to new
infrastructure required to meet the changing
gas supply pattern as the UK becomes a net
importer of gas. This includes our largest
ever project, connecting the new liquefied
natural gas (LNG) terminals currently being
built at Milford Haven. This will require
investment of more than £750 million over
the next two years. 
Our disciplined approach to capital
management is also reflected in the strategic
moves we made during the year. On 1 June
2005, we completed the sales of four of
our regional gas distribution networks for 
a total cash consideration of £5.8 billion. 
This creates what is in effect a new gas
distribution market in the UK. We have
retained four of the networks, which together
represent the largest of the UK gas
distribution businesses. We look forward to
setting new levels of efficiency for the benefit
of both our customers and shareholders.
The network sales led directly to the
£2 billion return of value to shareholders, 
at 65 pence per share, which we made in
August. This was one of the largest returns
of value ever for a UK company.
This year we also commissioned Phase I 
of our LNG import terminal at the Isle of
Grain in Kent. The facility has the capability
to import and process 3.3 million tonnes 
of LNG per year. Construction of Phase II 
is now under way, which will triple capacity
by the end of 2008. When complete, our
total investment will be around £500 million
and the facility will have the capacity to
import around 13% of the current UK annual
gas demand.
In February 2006, we announced the
agreed acquisition of KeySpan Corporation,
a major US energy delivery company, for
$7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) plus assumed debt
of approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion). 
£2,527m 
Adjusted operating
profit*
Adjusted operating profit* 
by business £m
 844 UK electricity and gas transmission
 127 US electricity transmission
 483 UK gas distribution
 364 US electricity and gas distribution
 489 US stranded cost recoveries
 75 Wireless infrastructure
 145 Other activities
844
127
483
364
489
75
145
†
Continuing operations
* Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements Group Chief Executive’s Review 05 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
It is the largest distributor of natural gas 
in the northeastern US with approximately
2.6 million customers. In the same month,
we announced the acquisition of gas
distribution assets from the Southern Union
Company for cash consideration of
$498 million (£286 million) and assumed
debt of $77 million (£44 million).
Both acquisitions have an excellent
strategic, operational and geographic fit.
They are a natural extension of our business
and will expand the Group’s growth
platform as well as creating substantial
opportunities for new cost savings. 
Financial performance
†
The Group’s financial performance for
2005/06 has been strong. Adjusted 
profit before tax* and adjusted earnings 
per share* were 11% and 10% higher
respectively than last year while operating
cash flows were more than £3 billion.
The performance of all our individual
businesses has been encouraging. UK
transmission has entered an investment-led
growth phase. During the year, the Group
invested £584 million in new electricity and
gas infrastructure and a further £265 million
replacing assets that were nearing the end
of their useful technical life. The increased
investment, as well as the write-off of certain
assets, led to an increase in depreciation
and amortisation. This increase was
partially offset by successful capacity
auctions resulting in adjusted operating
profit* of £844 million compared with 
£859 million last year. US electricity
transmission had another good year with
adjusted operating profit* of £127 million.
UK gas distribution results were particularly
strong as adjusted operating profit* was 
up 14% at £483 million compared with
£424 million last year. This performance is
primarily due to the reduction in operating
expenditure (excluding shrinkage), which
was down £52 million, as a result of our
‘Way Ahead’ programme. Controllable
costs have been cut by 35% in real terms
since March 2002.
Adjusted operating profit* for US electricity
and gas distribution was down 3% at
£364 million, primarily due to timing
differences related to pension charges and
commodity costs. The majority of these costs
will be recovered in future periods. Adjusting
for these items, profits were broadly flat,
since weather-normalised residential
volume growth of 1.7% was offset by
higher depreciation and amortisation.
The enlarged Wireless infrastructure
business had a strong first full year as a
member of the Group. Adjusted operating
profit* was £75 million and the business
met its £18 million annualised cash 
synergy target. Growth from broadcast
was particularly strong reflecting the
successful launch of three new channels.
We are expecting double-digit organic
operating profit growth over the medium term.
Other activities contributed £145 million to
adjusted operating profit*, a decrease of
£7 million from 2004/05. National Grid
Metering has delivered strong performance,
with adjusted operating profit* up £28 million.
The business made good progress in driving
operational efficiency, which together with
growth in our competitive metering business,
more than offset a decline in regulated
metering revenue. Adjusted operating profit*
from National Grid Property at £88 million
was £14 million less than last year. National
Grid Grain, our new LNG import terminal,
contributed £6 million of adjusted operating
profit* after coming on line in July.
Safety
Safety is at the centre of everything we 
do. Over the past 12 months we have 
maintained an encouraging improvement in
our safety performance across the Group.
Against these very significant improvements
over the past three years, it is all the more
tragic that one of our colleagues was
overcome by gas and died while re-laying
a gas service pipe in our UK gas
distribution business. 
This very sad incident underlines the
fundamental importance of safety in all 
that we do. It serves as a stark reminder 
to ensure that we continue to develop and
implement ever safer ways of working for
the protection of ourselves, our colleagues,
our contractors and members of the public. 
Outlook
The environment in which National Grid
operates is ever more challenging and
complex. However, I am confident that 
we have a strong and clear strategy that
underpins everything we do and that will
benefit all our stakeholders. Our growth is
expected to be driven by new investments,
new efficiencies and selected expansion 
in our current businesses. 
You will have seen from Sir John’s
statement that I intend to retire at the end
of 2006. It has been my privilege to lead
National Grid through a series of major
changes. Our success is built on the talent,
commitment and effort of everyone in
National Grid. With that continuing support
and his outstanding record leading UK
transmission and UK distribution, I am
confident that Steve Holliday will lead 
the Group to new levels of success.
Roger Urwin 
Group Chief Executive 06 Business Review
What we do
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
What we do
National Grid is dedicated to becoming the world’s premier network utility. 
Our core skills are in the management of large and complex networks. 
Our businesses are primarily concerned with energy delivery and other 
infrastructure and related services where we can exploit our core skills 
to create value.
UK electricity 
and gas transmission
Area of operation
We own and operate the electricity
transmission system in England and Wales.
This is the high-voltage network that runs
across both countries. We operate (but do
not own) the electricity transmission system
in Scotland. We also own and operate the
gas transmission network in Great Britain.
This is the high pressure gas pipeline
network that runs across the country.
2005/06 highlights
On 1 April 2005, we became responsible 
for operating the Great Britain electricity
transmission system, setting charges and
maintaining the charging statements for 
all transmission users in Great Britain.
The winter of 2005/06 saw demand from 
the electricity transmission network in
England and Wales hit a peak of 53.73 GW
(gigawatt). This compares with the previous
year’s peak of 53.29 GW.
Size and scope
4,500 miles of overhead line 
415 miles of underground cable
337 electricity substations
4,300 miles of high pressure gas pipeline 
US electricity 
transmission
Area of operation 
We own and operate an electricity
transmission network of approximately 
9,000 miles. We are the largest electricity
transmission service provider in the
northeastern US by reference to the length
of our high-voltage transmission line. We
also own and operate a 139-mile direct
current transmission line that is a key section
of an interconnector between New England
and Canada.
2005/06 highlights
Capital investment in the replacement,
reinforcement and extension of the US
electricity transmission networks in 2005/06
was £91 million, compared with £74 million in
2004/05.
Size and scope
8,900 miles of overhead line
94 miles of underground cable
496 substations
UK gas distribution
Area of operation 
Our UK gas distribution business comprises
almost half of Great Britain’s gas distribution
system. This system comprises the gas
pipelines that service homes and businesses.
Our gas distribution business remains the
largest in the country.
We continue to operate the UK national gas
emergency number for our networks, the
sold networks and other gas transporters.
2005/06 highlights
On 1 June 2005, we successfully completed
the sales of four gas distribution networks 
for £5.8 billion.
We achieved our 35% controllable cost-
reduction target one year early.
Size and scope
Distributes gas to 11 million homes 
and businesses
82,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline Business Review 07
What we do
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
US electricity and 
gas distribution
Area of operation
Our US electricity and gas distribution
business serves approximately 3.4 million
electricity customers in Massachusetts, 
New Hampshire, New York and Rhode
Island, and around 569,000 gas customers
in New York.
2005/06 highlights
We launched the multi-year ‘Reliability
Enhancement Programme’ that utilises 
new information technologies to identify
problem areas together with a combination
of asset replacement, increased maintenance
and inspections, and other actions to
improve reliability cost effectively.
The Nantucket Island cable project was
completed (at a cost of more than $40 million)
to deliver electricity to the island with
enhanced capacity and reliability. 
Size and scope
72,000 circuit miles of electricity
distribution network
8,600 miles of gas pipeline forming the 
gas distribution network
Wireless infrastructure
Area of operation
In the UK, we are the leading independent
provider of network infrastructure, such 
as towers, to mobile telephone operators 
and one of two providers of transmission
networks to television and radio
broadcasters. Our US business provides
communications infrastructure and related
network services to wireless and fixed
network operators in the northeastern US.
2005/06 highlights
During 2005/06, we completed the process
of integrating the UK operations of Crown
Castle International Corp. that we acquired
for £1.1 billion in 2004/05.
In November, we concluded an agreement
with the BBC, the UK-based public service
broadcaster, to extend the provision of
analogue television until 2012, and AM 
and FM radio until 2013. 
Size and scope
5,500 active sites used for mobile
communications
750 purpose-built broadcast towers for
radio and television broadcasting
Other businesses
National Grid Metering provides regulated
gas metering and meter-reading services on
behalf of our UK gas distribution business.
OnStream provides gas and electricity
metering and meter-reading services to the
competitive market.
National Grid Australia provides the 224-mile
interconnector linking the electricity network
on the island of Tasmania to mainland
Australia – the longest such cable in the world.
National Grid Grain is a liquefied natural gas
(LNG) import terminal and storage facility
constructed and operated in the UK. 
National Grid Property is responsible for 
the management of all our major occupied
property in the UK and the management,
clean up and disposal of surplus properties.
Fulcrum Connections provides gas
connections and associated design services
on behalf of gas distribution networks 
in the UK.
Advantica is a consultancy business providing
engineering and software services to enhance
safety and performance in the gas, oil,
electricity and water sectors. 08 Business Review
Where we are
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
National Grid’s main operations are based in the UK 
and the US. The maps below show where we operate 
in each country. 
Where we are
Maine
Vermont
New 
Hampshire
New 
Hampshire
Pennsylvania
Connecticut Connecticut
New 
Jersey
Rhode
Island
Maine
Vermont
Massachusetts
New York
Canada
Massachusetts
New York
Canada
Pennsylvania
New 
Jersey
Rhode Island
Transmission network
US electricity 
transmission
US electricity and 
gas distribution
UK electricity 
transmission
UK gas 
distribution
UK gas 
transmission
Wireless
infrastructure
Theddlethorpe
Isle of Grain
Easington
Bacton
Barrow
Burton 
Point
To Northern
Ireland
To the Republic 
of Ireland
Teesside
St Fergus
Transmission system (Scotland)
Transmission system (England & Wales)
Interconnector
National Grid 
operating area
Reception terminals
Transmission system
Interconnector
Main transmitting 
stations
To/from
Belgium
To/from
France Business Review 09
Our history
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
National Grid’s original UK businesses were
created by the restructuring of the UK gas
industry in 1986 and the UK electricity
industry in 1990. We entered the US energy
delivery market in 2000 and substantially
expanded our UK wireless infrastructure
activities in 2004. This is a history of our
development.
Our history
August 1986 British Gas incorporated as a 
public limited company
March 1990 Electricity transmission network in England
and Wales transferred to National Grid on
electricity privatisation (National Grid owned
by 12 Regional Electricity Companies) 
December 1995 National Grid listed on the 
London Stock Exchange 
February 1997 Centrica demerged from British Gas
which was renamed BG
December 1997 Energis demerged from National Grid 
December 1999 BG became BG Group 
March 2000 New England Electric System acquired by
National Grid 
April 2000 Eastern Utilities Associates acquired by
National Grid 
October 2000 Lattice Group demerged from BG Group
January 2002 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
merged with National Grid’s US operations 
October 2002 Merger of National Grid and Lattice Group
to form National Grid Transco
August 2004 Acquisition of UK wireless infrastructure
network from Crown Castle International
Corp.
June 2005 Sales of four UK gas distribution networks
July 2005 Adoption of National Grid as single name 
for principal businesses
February 2006 Agreements to acquire KeySpan Corporation
and Southern Union Company’s gas
distribution network in Rhode Island
Our brand
promise
Our brand promise defines the way
we approach the delivery of all our
services in all the communities in
which we operate.
Safety
Nothing we do is more important 
than the safety of our employees,
contractors, customers and the
general public. A sustainable business
must operate to the highest safety
standards.
Reliability
Our society depends on the reliable
transmission and distribution of
electricity and gas. National Grid is
focused on the highest levels of
reliability, developing our networks 
and other businesses to meet the
changing patterns of supply and
demand. 
Efficiency
We aim to deliver world-class
operational and financial 
performance, while improving
continuously against demanding
targets for safety, reliability and
customer service.
Responsibility
We are committed to operating our
business in a responsible way, having
due regard for the impacts we have
on society. In all our activities we
operate within our Framework for
Responsible Business.
SAFETY        RELIABILITY
EFFICIENCY        RESPONSIBILITY  10 Business Review
Safety
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Safety
“I believe safety is core to the business. We must all
recognise the responsibility each one of us has to
ensure our own safety, the safety of our colleagues
and those who work with us or who are affected by
our operations.”
STEVE HOLLIDAY, DEPUTY GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
0800 111 999
Retention of the 0800 number
and re-branding
Following the sales of four of 
our gas distribution networks, we
are operating the four remaining
networks as one, now known as
National Grid Gas. Its operating
area is shown on page 8.
We continue to operate the UK
national gas emergency number
(0800 111 999) for our own
network, the sold networks and
other gas transporters. During
2005/06, we handled approximately
2.5 million calls to the national gas
emergency number.
We again exceeded our targets on
safety-related standards of service
for our gas distribution network. 
More than 97% of ‘uncontrolled’
gas escapes (where the gas leak
cannot be stopped by turning the
gas supply off at the meter) were
attended within one hour. More
than 98% of ‘controlled’ gas
escapes (where the gas leak can
be stopped at the meter) were
attended within two hours. Business Review 11
Safety
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Road safety initiative
Our National Grid Property site at Ward
Street, Bilston was one of the first to
incorporate a road safety initiative as part 
of the clean up programme. The site is
situated close to a residential area and
within 500 yards of a primary school. During
the 31-week project, 5,800 lorry movements
were anticipated with up to 290 per week 
at the busiest times. The safety initiative
included a school assembly briefing about
road safety and the dangers of construction
sites. To support this, we produced posters,
wrote to parents and guardians, produced a
driver road safety briefing pack for hauliers,
thoroughly briefed the school crossing patrol
and worked closely with the local authority.
The campaign minimised risk to the public
and educated both the local community and
our contractors. This initiative is now being
replicated at other sites around the UK.
Avoiding overhead electricity cables
in the US
In 2005, National Grid launched
‘DangerZone’, a comprehensive public
safety awareness campaign in the US.
DangerZone consists of multilingual billboard
advertising, videos, brochures and posters
to alert contractors, construction workers
and homeowners to the danger of contacting
overhead electrical lines with ladders,
scaffolding, vehicles, heavy machinery and
equipment. In the first year of DangerZone,
contacts with overhead electricity cables
were reduced significantly. We will be
expanding the campaign this year to include
underground safety and the importance 
of the public calling a freephone number 
to check on the presence of underground
lines and pipes before digging. Additionally,
teachers in elementary and secondary
schools within National Grid’s US service
territory requested and received more than
420,000 student booklets and 4,500 safety
videos designed to increase safety
awareness among children.
Golden Rules for safety – UK gas 
and electricity businesses
National Grid’s Golden Rules are a
framework to help everyone in the UK gas
and electricity businesses to be safe in
everything they do. The Rules apply as
much to working in offices as they do to
working on site.
The Golden Rules are a fundamental
building block for ‘Road to Zero’, our 
five-year programme to reach the target 
of zero injuries.
The Golden Rules do not introduce new
policies and procedures. They reinforce
what we should be doing all the time,
setting the standards for good safety
behaviours and continuing to develop a
culture whereby safety becomes second
nature. They will also be used to identify 
areas in which we can make our working
practices and behaviours even safer.
Sharing best practice between the 
UK and US businesses
There is an ongoing programme of
exchange of best practice between the 
US transmission line services and UK
transmission line construction and
maintenance groups. Phase I was
completed when US staff visited the UK,
which resulted in the implementation within
transmission line services of the double-
lanyard fall protection system.
The double-lanyard system ensures
enhanced fall protection by allowing at 
least one lanyard to be securely clipped 
to the structure at all times while ascending
to and descending from heights. The UK
transmission groups visited the US in 
April 2006 to demonstrate various tools,
equipment and procedures such as the
hook ladder and insulator replacement
techniques for possible implementation in
the US. These tools and techniques enable
workers to perform their transmission
construction tasks better, while reducing 
the potential risk for injury and providing 
for increased work efficiencies.
Metering
National Grid Metering and OnStream 
place great importance upon safety
performance not only internally but within
our service provider network.
During 2005/06, over 6.3 million jobs were
completed by the businesses with only two
employee lost time injuries and three
contractor lost time injuries, both representing
over a 40% improvement on 2004/05. 
Going forward, both companies will 
continue to work closely with service
providers to identify joint initiatives to
improve safety performance further.
27
%
Reduction in 
lost time injuries
Safety will always be at
the centre of everything
we do. During 2005/06,
117 of our employees
received injuries that
resulted in them taking
time off work, a 27%
reduction compared on 
a like-for-like basis with
2004/05. 
The employee lost time
injury frequency rate
provides a more accurate
indicator of year-on-year
performance by taking
into account the changes
in employee numbers
that result from
acquisitions and
disposals. The number 
of employee lost time
injuries per 100,000 hours
worked in 2005/06 fell to
0.28, a 24% improvement
when compared with the
previous year.
There has also been a
significant reduction in
the number of contractor
lost time injuries across
the Group, falling from
146 in 2004/05 to 119 
in 2005/06, an 18.5%
decrease.  12 Business Review
Reliability
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Reliability Enhancement
Programme
The US electricity business has
launched a five-year programme 
to address its ageing system and
strengthen its infrastructure to
reduce the number and duration 
of outages. 
National Grid’s ‘Reliability
Enhancement Programme’ utilises
data gleaned from geographic
information systems and other
technologies in which the Company
has invested that enable better
identification of problem areas and
the steps necessary to fix them. 
The key focus areas for the next
three years include significant
increases in vegetation
management, improving protection
of the system from animal
contacts and lightning, and
‘hardening’ of circuits. Hardening
improves the ability of a circuit 
to withstand exposure to the 
elements through targeted
replacement of deteriorated
components and equipment. 
The Reliability Enhancement
Programme also includes ongoing
condition assessment of the
distribution system as well as
increased inspection and
maintenance programmes and
substation refurbishments,
expansions and rebuilds.
Reliability
“The reliability of our operations is borne out 
by our ability to deliver our services 24 hours 
a day, 365 days a year.”
MIKE JESANIS, GROUP DIRECTOR Business Review 13
Reliability
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Nantucket Island cable project
Located off the Massachusetts coast, 
the island of Nantucket is a popular travel
destination and place to own property that,
over the past few years, has seen growth in
demand for electricity rise dramatically.
As a result, National Grid has installed a
second submarine cable system at a cost of
more than $40 million to deliver electricity to
the island. Nantucket was previously served
by a single 46 kilovolt, 26-mile underground
and submarine distribution cable connected
to the regional transmission grid on Cape
Cod. This cable went into service in late
1996, replacing diesel generating units and
ushering in a new era of reliable electric
service for customers on the island. 
The second cable system consists of a new
connection to the regional transmission 
grid, more than five miles of underground
cable on the mainland and the island, and
roughly 27 miles of submarine cable that
traverse Nantucket Sound at a depth of
approximately eight feet below the seabed. 
Improvements and upgrades
National Grid has undertaken major expansion
projects at its Ward Hill and Wachusett
substations in northeastern and central
Massachusetts respectively. Both projects,
which include the addition of new
transmission equipment and upgrades 
of existing transmission lines, as well as
distribution improvements at Ward Hill, 
will greatly enhance the reliability of New
England’s bulk transmission system. They will
also improve local service for our customers.
Sharing best practice
UK gas distribution uses, where possible,
no-dig pipe-laying techniques to replace old
cast iron pipe with new plastic pipe. One 
of these methods is known as ‘live main
insertion’ which enables the replacement 
of mains under live gas conditions and
avoids the need to dig long trenches.
Instead, construction crews excavate small
sections at two ends of a length of cast iron
pipe and insert the plastic replacement pipe
into the iron pipe. This avoids the need to 
interrupt supply to customers and reduces
construction costs with significantly less
excavation of roads, driveways and 
gardens. Consequently, this reduces
inconvenience to the public and customers
from construction work. 
This process has been shared and adopted
by our colleagues in the US and received
the 2005 Technology Project of the Year
Award from the Technology Alliance of
Central New York.
Last year, UK gas distribution invested
£444 million in the reinforcement, extension
and replacement of the UK gas distribution
network compared with £359 million in
2004/05 (this excludes the investment in the
four regional gas distribution networks that
were sold on 1 June 2005). Replacement
expenditure increased from £239 million in
2004/05 to £295 million in 2005/06 in line
with the planned increase in the long-term
cast iron mains replacement programme
agreed with the Health and Safety Executive.
This enabled us to decommission over
1,710 km (1,063 miles) of old gas pipe 
in 2005/06 compared with 1,458 km 
(906 miles) in 2004/05.
Ensuring the integrity of Great
Britain’s gas transmission network
Operating from a newly established control
facility, the Gas National Control Centre
(GNCC) is responsible for operating Great
Britain’s gas transmission network safely,
reliably and efficiently, managing the flow 
of gas from suppliers to customers. 
We ensure that all gas entering the gas
transmission network meets the appropriate
quality standards. We operate the system 
in accordance with appropriate legislation 
and the Health and Safety Executive 
safety case, while facilitating equitable and
transparent access to all market participants.
GNCC operates 4,300 miles of high
pressure transmission pipeline across 
Great Britain, facilitating the transportation 
of around 100 billion cubic metres of gas
per year to power stations, industrial and
commercial customers and approximately
20 million domestic customers.
National Grid Grain 
owns and operates the
liquefied natural gas
(LNG) import facility
located at the Isle of
Grain, in Kent. 
Commercial operations
commenced on 15 July
2005. As at 31 March
2006, on the instruction
of its customer
BP/Sonatrach, 19 gas
shipments had been
received and around 
16.1 TWh (terawatt hours)
of gas delivered into the
gas network. The facility
currently has the
capacity to import and
process 3.3 million
tonnes of LNG per year. 
The business is
incentivised to maintain
plant availability and
reliability and was
available for 99% of 
the Winter period.
Securing an alternative
energy source 14 Business Review
Efficiency
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
London connection
In September 2005, National Grid
completed its £200 million London
infrastructure tunnel project that
links Elstree in Hertfordshire to 
St John’s Wood, North London.
This 12-mile tunnel houses the
longest 400 kilovolt (kV) cross-
linked polyethylene (XLPE) cable
circuit in Europe. XLPE cable is
insulated and cooled without the
use of oil and hence is more
environmentally friendly than
traditional oil-cooled cables.
This project represents a major
investment by National Grid to
reinforce the transmission system.
The new 400 kV circuit will enable
us to continue to meet London’s
demand for electricity. By
constructing a tunnel, most of the
works carried out underground
were invisible, inaudible at 
ground level and minimised 
traffic disruption.
Since works started in March 2000, 
in addition to the 12-mile tunnel,
seven head house buildings and
two new 400 kV substations have
been constructed at existing
National Grid sites at Elstree and 
St John’s Wood. 
Efficiency
“I believe we can continue to improve our
efficiency and profitability, without compromising
the reliability and integrity of our operations, for
the benefit of all our stakeholders.”
NICK WINSER, GROUP DIRECTOR Business Review 15
Efficiency
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Way Ahead
Following completion of the ‘Way Ahead’
restructuring programme in UK gas
distribution, a series of strategic development
initiatives has been successfully delivered in
support of our aim to be the most efficient
UK gas distribution network. Centralisation
of many key processes has enabled us to
place increased emphasis on safety and
efficiency while sharing best practice across
the organisation and delivering our office 
rationalisation programme. Having
completed the Way Ahead transformation,
we are now concentrating on continuous
improvement techniques to refine our
existing business processes.
Strategic review of estate
management
Throughout the year, we have continued to
derive further value from the procurement 
of property services for the UK businesses.
This has been achieved by aggregating our
business needs which in turn has enabled
us to leverage better value from our supply
chain. In addition, we continue to share best
practice across the whole portfolio thus
enabling us to maximise efficiencies in the
delivery and administration of property
services, while providing optimal service
levels to occupiers.
Work and Asset Management project 
Work and Asset Management (WAM) aims
to reshape the way the Company manages
its electricity transmission system assets in
the UK.
WAM is about finding a smarter way of
doing things. The changes to business
processes supported by WAM and the
implementation of new information systems
will enable us to be smarter in capital
planning, target investment more effectively
and gain procurement efficiencies.
MWork rollout – access to data from
crew cabs
‘MWork’ is National Grid’s new mobile 
work management system in the US that
automates the way work and work-related
information are scheduled, received and
reported in the field. MWork enhances the
process of dispatching and managing work
in the field ultimately to provide better
customer service through cost-efficient and
consistent work practices throughout
National Grid’s US service territory. 
All metering services and certain operations
field workers and supervisors who use
MWork will have computers in their vehicles
that provide real-time information online 
and right at their fingertips to help them
serve customers more efficiently and
effectively. MWork provides optimised
routing assignments and all of the information
necessary to perform and report work,
including allocating work orders from the
Customer Service and Operations systems,
real-time work status and job closeouts – 
all delivered via the wireless computer 
in vehicles. 
National Grid’s UK electricity transmission
business uses a similar version of this
technology called ‘Office in the Hand’, and
our UK gas distribution business uses
another version called ‘Quarterback5’.
Automated meter reading
Available to businesses via their gas
suppliers, our UK National Grid Metering
business is now installing smart meter 
units for monthly and six-monthly read 
gas meters. The new technology logs data
remotely and uses either SMS text message 
or GPRS to send the meter reading data 
to the customer.
Without any disruption to supply, a bolt-on
device is connected to the frequency output
of the meter and counts the number of
pulses as gas passes through it, converts
them into a reading and then transmits 
the data to a digital hub using mobile
communications. This accurate information
is then forwarded to gas suppliers to 
provide consumption profiles at regular
intervals. Benefits to commercial users
include synchronised billing for multiple
sites, identification of energy wastage and
better management of cost.
Supporting the 2012 Olympics
National Grid is working to assist the
successful delivery of the London 2012
Olympic Games and Paralympic Games
through a range of activities. We are working
with the London Development Agency and
the Olympic Delivery Authority, primarily in
the undergrounding of the power lines
crossing the Olympic Park site in the Lower
Lea Valley, to ensure continued security 
of electricity and gas supplies to the 
area. National Grid is also one of the two
infrastructure providers for the UK digital
switchover, due to take place by 2012.
National Grid Wireless 
has a strong position 
in the growing digital
television market. We
hold two of the six 
UK digital terrestrial
television licences and
provide infrastructure
services to all Freeview
channels including the
BBC and BSkyB. 
During the year, the
business successfully
increased capacity on 
its multiplexes (used 
for digital broadcasting)
to launch three new
channels. This was 
made possible by 
taking advantage of
improvements in
infrastructure technology
and maximising the value
of scarce digital capacity.
This has allowed viewers
of the Freeview service to
have a greater variety of
channels to choose from.
Digital television 16 Business Review
Responsibility
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
“It is important that we promote and maintain our reputation
as a company that manages its business in a responsible
way and contributes to all the societies in which we operate.”
EDWARD ASTLE, GROUP DIRECTOR
Environmental considerations
As part of National Grid Australia’s
environmental approvals for 
the Basslink Project and our
commitment to the environmental
integrity of the Gippsland region,
Victoria, we took responsibility 
for 280 hectares of run-down
agricultural property to return it 
to its native state. 
In doing this work, National Grid
Australia will provide a minimum 
of 30,000 new large and medium-
sized trees to replace the 1,000
native trees removed to build the 
overhead transmission line. 
The native trees selected for 
the project are being grown 
from seed collected from the
nearby Mullundung Forest and
nearby regions to ensure they are
similar to what would have grown
there originally. In the Spring 
(September to November) of 
2005, 90 hectares of derelict
agricultural land was replanted
with seed and 50 hectares of
scrubland was protected to 
assist in natural regeneration. 
The remaining 140 hectares of 
land will be planted with 40
different species in the Spring 
of 2006.
Greening Australia has been
contracted to National Grid
Australia to undertake this work.
They have more than 20 years’
experience with replanting and
rehabilitation works. National Grid
Australia is keen to build good
working relationships with farmers
and landowners alike.
Responsibility Business Review 17
Responsibility
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Group awarded top grade for
apprentice scheme 
National Grid has been ranked among the
top 10% of UK employers for its engineering
apprenticeship scheme. The Company has
been awarded Grade 1 – one of the few 
UK energy organisations to achieve the 
top mark – for outstanding leadership and
management of its scheme by the Adult
Learning Inspectorate, the Government
body that monitors the standards of industry
education and training. The grade recognises
National Grid’s standards in a range of
areas, including attraction and recruitment,
learning plans for apprentices and contractual
requirements set out by the Learning and
Skills Council.
National Grid’s apprentices are on a three-
year scheme and receive practical on- and 
off-the-job training through our training
centre at Eakring. They are trained in
emergency and maintenance operations 
and in a range of electricity and gas roles,
from electrical craftsperson to technician.
Inclusion and diversity
‘Women in Networks’ is a network for 
women in the UK and the US that provides
an opportunity to come together for
employees who share a common interest in
making National Grid a great place to work.
Its aim is to allow employees to share and
explore some of the issues affecting women
in the workplace.
Women in Networks was launched on
29 November 2005 with a live cross-Atlantic
link. The UK event took place at the
Heritage Motor Museum in Warwick,
attended by about 200 people. The US held
events at four locations – Buffalo, Albany,
Syracuse and Westborough – at the same
time for a similar number of people. Deputy
Group Chief Executive Steve Holliday
launched the UK event and Mike Jesanis,
Chief Executive of National Grid in the US,
did the same in the US via a link to the four
American locations.
Electric and magnetic fields
Electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) can be
generated from a wide variety of sources,
including our distribution and transmission
power lines and wireless infrastructure.
National Grid recognises that there is some
scientific evidence suggesting that certain
adverse health effects are linked to EMFs. 
We take these issues very seriously and
continually assess the scientific evidence 
in this area, determine any implications for
the way in which we conduct our business,
and explain to society what the science is
telling us.
In all our operations, as a minimum we
comply with EMF regulations, guidelines or
practices in force where we operate.
Responding to national emergencies
In the US, National Grid sends crews
whenever possible to assist other utilities
that have been hit hard by major storms that
cause large-scale power outages. In Autumn
2005, National Grid sent crews to Florida in
the wake of Hurricane Wilma to help restore
power to 1.1 million customers. It marked the
fifth time in a 13-month period that National
Grid crews were dispatched to Florida and
the Gulf Coast. 
Nearly 550 National Grid workers logged
tens of thousands of hours in those efforts.
The Edison Electric Institute recognised
National Grid with an Emergency Assistance
Award for its contributions following
Hurricane Wilma.
Energy delivery and climate change
Our Framework for Responsible Business
includes a commitment to make a
contribution to minimising climate change.
The Board agreed our long-term strategy,
mapping out how we will achieve this as
well as contributing to the UK Government’s
long-term emission reduction targets. 
During 2005/06, our direct and indirect
emissions of greenhouse gases amounted 
to some 10.2 million tonnes CO
2
equivalent,
the same as 2004/05 if the sold networks
are excluded.
Compared with our verified baseline, we
have already reduced our climate change
impact in the UK by 14% – achieving both
the Kyoto 12.5% obligation in the UK 
and what would have been an 8% Kyoto
obligation in the US ahead of time.
National Grid continues its leadership in 
the US in the area of energy efficiency. 
The Company’s cumulative investment in
energy efficiency programmes has topped
$1 billion, participating customers having
saved $2.1 billion.
Administrative staff
retraining in UK 
gas distribution
Two of our female
administrative staff
recently took up new
roles as emergency gas
engineers. They help to
provide 24-hour cover for
the country’s domestic
gas infrastructure and
their duties include
attending emergency 
gas leaks reported in
people’s homes. 
The moves followed the
closure of the Bolton
office (as part of the
rationalisation of office
premises under the 
Way Ahead programme,
see page 15) and 
the centralisation of
many administrative 
roles to Hinckley and
Northampton. The two
assistants have been
equipped with the
required personal
protection equipment
and vehicles and are
studying for the required
qualification – SNVQ
Core Gas Safety.  18 Board of Directors Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Board of Directors
01 Sir John Parker 
Chairman
(appointed October 2002) (Age 64) N (ch)
Sir John Parker became Chairman of the
Group following the merger of National Grid
Group plc and Lattice Group plc. He had
been Chairman of Lattice Group plc since its
demerger from BG Group plc in 2000. He
had previously been a Non-executive
Director of BG plc from 1997. Sir John’s
career has encompassed the engineering,
shipbuilding and defence industries. He is
Chairman of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam
Navigation Company, a Non-executive
Director of Carnival plc and Carnival
Corporation, Inc. and Senior Non-executive
Director of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir John is a former Chairman of RMC
Group plc, a former Chairman and Chief
Executive of Harland & Wolff plc and
Babcock International Group PLC and a
former Non-executive Director of Brambles
Industries plc, GKN plc and British Coal
Corporation. He is a Fellow of the Royal
Academy of Engineering.
02 Roger Urwin
Group Chief Executive
(appointed November 1995) (Age 60) 
E (ch), F
Roger Urwin became Group Chief Executive
in October 2002 following the merger 
of National Grid Group plc and Lattice 
Group plc. Prior to the merger he had been
appointed Group Chief Executive of 
National Grid Group plc in April 2001, 
where he played a key role in establishing
the Company’s international strategy and 
its successful expansion into the US. He
joined the Group in 1995, initially as CEO 
of the Company’s UK transmission business.
Previously, Roger was Managing Director
and Chief Executive of London Electricity
from 1990 to 1995. He is also a Non-
executive Director of Utilico Investment Trust
plc and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of
Engineering. He has announced his intention
to retire from National Grid at the end of
2006.
03 Steve Holliday 
Deputy Group Chief Executive
(appointed March 2001) (Age 49) E
Steve Holliday joined National Grid Group plc
as Group Director, UK and Europe in March
2001. Immediately following the merger of
National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group
plc in October 2002, he was responsible for
the Group’s electricity and gas transmission
businesses. He was appointed as Group
Director responsible for UK Gas Distribution
and Business Services in April 2003. He was
formerly an Executive Director of British
Borneo Oil and Gas. Previously, he spent 
19 years with the Exxon Group, where he
held senior positions in the international gas
business and managed major operational
areas such as refining and shipping. Steve’s
international experience includes a four-year
spell in the US. He has also developed
business opportunities in countries as diverse
as China, Australia, Japan, Brazil and the
former Soviet Union. He is a Non-executive
Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Following the announcement of Roger Urwin’s
retirement he was appointed Group Chief
Executive designate, becoming Deputy
Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2006.
04 Steve Lucas
Group Finance Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 52) E, F
Steve Lucas joined the Board following the
merger of National Grid Group plc and
Lattice Group plc in October 2002. He had
been Executive Director, Finance of Lattice
Group plc since its demerger from BG
Group plc in 2000. Previously, he was
Treasurer of BG Group plc having joined
British Gas plc in 1994. A Chartered
Accountant, he worked in private practice 
in the City of London until 1983. He then
joined Shell International Petroleum
Company, occupying a number of finance
management positions and treasury roles,
including seven years in Africa and the Far
East. Steve is also a Non-executive Director
of Compass Group PLC.
05 Nick Winser
Group Director
(appointed April 2003) (Age 45) E
Nick Winser joined the Board in April 2003
as Group Director responsible for UK and
US Transmission operations. He was
previously Chief Operating Officer of US
Transmission for National Grid Transco plc.
He joined National Grid Company plc in
1993, becoming Director of Engineering in
2001. Prior to this, he had been with
Powergen since 1991 as principal negotiator
on commercial matters, having joined the
Central Electricity Generating Board in 1983
where he served in a variety of technical
engineering roles.
06 Mike Jesanis
Group Director
(appointed July 2004) (Age 49) E
Mike Jesanis joined the Board in July 2004,
becoming Group Director responsible for 
US Distribution. He became President of
National Grid USA in November 2003,
having been its Chief Operating Officer and
responsible for day-to-day operations since
January 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer
of National Grid USA and New England
Electric System (NEES) between March
1998 and January 2001, having joined
NEES in July 1983. Mike is also Chairman 
of the Board of Trustees of Becker College
(Worcester, Massachusetts) and a member
of the Board of Trustees of Clarkson
University (Potsdam, New York). He is a
Director of the Massachusetts Taxpayers
Foundation, Jobs for Massachusetts, Inc.
and of the Boston Chamber of Commerce.
07 Edward Astle
Group Director
(appointed September 2001) (Age 52) E
Edward Astle joined the Board as Group
Director, Telecommunications in September
2001 and is now Group Director responsible
for Non-regulated Business and leads the
Group’s Business Development. He was
Managing Director of BICC Communications
from 1997 to 1999, and between 1989 
and 1997 he held a variety of positions with
Cable & Wireless. He was Regional Director
Europe, CEO of its global networks and
marine divisions, and in 1995 joined the
Cable & Wireless board as Executive
Director Global Businesses.
01 02 03 04
05 06 07
Committee membership
A Audit
E Executive
F Finance
N Nominations
R Remuneration
R&R Risk & Responsibility
(ch) denotes Committee chairman Board of Directors 19 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
08 Ken Harvey
Non-executive Director and
Senior Independent Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 65) 
N, R, R&R
Ken Harvey joined the Board following the
merger of National Grid Group plc and
Lattice Group plc, having been appointed 
to the Lattice Group plc board in September
2000. He was appointed Senior Independent
Director in October 2004. He is Chairman 
of Pennon Group plc. A Chartered Engineer,
Ken is a former Chairman and Chief
Executive of Norweb plc, and a former
Chairman of Comax Holdings Ltd, The
Intercare Group plc and Beaufort
International Group plc.
09 John Allan
Non-executive Director 
(appointed May 2005) (Age 57) 
A, R (ch)
John Allan was appointed to the Board in
May 2005. He is a member of the
Management Board of Deutsche Post,
having been appointed following its
acquisition of Exel plc in December 2005
where he had been Chief Executive since
September 1994. John started his career 
in marketing, at Lever Brothers, moving to
Bristol-Myers Company Limited and then
Fine Fare Limited. He joined BET plc in 1985
and was appointed to the board in 1987. He
is a member of the CBI’s Presidents’
Committee, the International Advisory
Council of the Singapore Economic
Development Board and the University of
Edinburgh Campaign Board. John was
previously a Non-executive Director of PHS
Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc and
Connell plc.
10 John Grant
Non-executive Director 
(appointed November 1995) (Age 60) 
A, N, R
John Grant was appointed a Director of the
Group in November 1995. He is Chairman of
Torotrak plc and Hasgo Group Limited and a
Non-executive Director of Corac Group Plc,
and The Royal Automobile Club Limited. 
He was Chief Executive of Ascot Plc from
1997 to 2000 and Finance Director of Lucas
Industries plc from 1992 to 1996. He
previously held a number of senior executive
positions during 25 years with Ford Motor
Company. John will retire from National Grid
with effect from the close of the 2006 Annual
General Meeting.
11 Paul Joskow
Non-executive Director
(appointed March 2000) (Age 58) 
F (ch), N
Paul Joskow was appointed a Director 
of the Group in March 2000 following the
acquisition of New England Electric System
(NEES). He served as a Director of NEES
between 1987 and its acquisition. He is a
Professor of Economics and Management at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT), a Director of the MIT Center for Energy
and Environmental Policy Research, a
Research Associate of the US National
Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow
of the Econometric Society and of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Paul is also an independent Trustee of the
Putnam Mutual Funds and an independent
Non-executive Director of TransCanada. 
12 Stephen Pettit
Non-executive Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 55) 
F , R, R&R (ch)
Stephen Pettit was appointed to the Board
following the merger of National Grid Group
plc and Lattice Group plc, having been
appointed to the Lattice Group plc board 
in 2001. He is a Non-executive Director of
National Air Traffic Services, Halma plc and 
is Chairman of ROK Property Solutions plc.
Stephen is also a member of BT plc’s
Equality of Access Board. He is a former
Executive Director of Cable & Wireless plc.
Before joining Cable & Wireless, he was
Chief Executive, Petrochemicals at British
Petroleum. Stephen was previously a 
Non-executive Director of KBC Advanced
Technologies plc and Norwood Systems
Limited.
13 Maria Richter
Non-executive Director 
(appointed October 2003) (Age 51) 
A, F , R&R
Maria Richter was appointed to the Board in
October 2003. Maria worked for Morgan
Stanley between 1993 and 2002, most
recently as Managing Director of its
Corporate Finance Retail Group. Prior to this,
she was Managing Director of Investment
Banking in the Southern Cone of Latin
America, and Executive Director and Head
of Independent Power and Structured
Finance Business. Previous appointments
include Vice President of Independent Power
Group for Salomon Brothers, and Vice
President of Prudential Capital Corporation
and Power Funding Associates. Maria is a
Director of Pro Mujer International, an
international microfinance organisation, 
and was, until April 2006, a Director of the
Western Electricity Co-ordinating Council.
14 George Rose
Non-executive Director
(appointed October 2002) (Age 54) 
A (ch), N, R
George Rose was appointed to the Board
following the merger of National Grid Group
plc and Lattice Group plc, having been
appointed to the Lattice Group plc board in
September 2000. He has been Finance
Director of BAE Systems plc (formerly British
Aerospace plc) since 1998, having joined the
company in 1992. He is a member of the
shareholder committee of Airbus SAS and is
also a Non-executive Director of SAAB AB
and a member of the Financial Reporting
Review Panel. George is also a former 
Non-executive Director of Orange plc.
*
Helen Mahy
Group Company Secretary 
and General Counsel 
(appointed October 2002) (Age 45) E
Helen Mahy was appointed as Group
Company Secretary following the merger of
National Grid Group plc and Lattice Group
plc, having been Company Secretary at
Lattice Group plc since March 2002. She
was additionally appointed as General
Counsel from October 2003. Previously, she
was Group General Counsel and Company
Secretary at Babcock International Group
PLC. Helen was appointed a Non-executive
Director of Aga Foodservice Group plc in
March 2003. She is a barrister, member of
the Bar Council and an Associate of the
Chartered Insurance Institute. 
08
12
09 11
13
10
14
* Summary Operating and Financial Review
Financial performance
2006 2005
Years ended 31 March £m £m
Group revenue 9,193 7,382
Other operating income 80 70
Operating costs excluding
exceptional items and remeasurements (6,746) (5,009)
Adjusted operating profit 2,527 2,443
Exceptional items and remeasurements (88) (301)
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142
Net finance costs excluding
exceptional items and remeasurements (606) (706)
Exceptional items and remeasurements (57) –
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 3
Profit before taxation 1,779 1,439
Taxation (562) (319)
Profit from continuing operations 1,217 1,120
Profit from discontinued operations 2,633 304
Profit for the year 3,850 1,424
The results for 2005/06 have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the first time
this year, and so the comparative results for 2004/05 are different
from the results reported last year under UK GAAP . As permitted,
the comparatives were not changed on the adoption of new
accounting policies on accounting for financial instruments in
accordance with IAS 39 on 1 April 2005. 
Revenue, operating costs and operating profit
The movements in the year in revenue and other operating
income, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised
as follows:
Revenue
and other
operating Operating Operating
income costs profit
£m £m £m
2004/05 results 7,452 (5,310) 2,142
Add back 2004/05 exceptional
items and remeasurements – 301 301
2004/05 adjusted results 7,452 (5,009) 2,443
Exchange on US operations 169 (125) 44
2004/05 constant currency results 7,621 (5,134) 2,487
UK electricity and gas transmission 715 (730) (15)
US electricity transmission 13 (18) (5)
UK gas distribution 113 (54) 59
US electricity and gas distribution 488 (516) (28)
US stranded cost recoveries 84 (81) 3
Wireless infrastructure 114 (81) 33
Other activities (26) 19 (7)
Sales between businesses 151 (151) –
2005/06 adjusted results 9,273 (6,746) 2,527
2005/06 exceptional items
and remeasurements – (88) (88)
2005/06 results 9,273 (6,834) 2,439
Adjusted operating profit was up £40 million on a constant
currency basis. This was driven by favourable results from 
UK capacity auctions in liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage 
and the French Interconnector, a continued focus on efficiencies,
particularly in UK gas distribution, sustained volume growth in 
the US and a full-year contribution from the enlarged and growing
wireless infrastructure business.
These factors more than offset an increase in depreciation
charges in UK electricity and gas transmission, lower system
operator incentive profits, also in UK electricity and gas
transmission, and the timing of the recovery of certain pass-
through costs in the US.
Net operating exceptional charges of £39 million for 2005/06
consisted of £60 million of restructuring costs, primarily cost-
reduction programmes in UK gas distribution, and £21 million of
gains relating to the disposals of joint venture investments. This
compared with charges of £263 million in 2004/05, comprising
£121 million in restructuring costs, £41 million in exceptional
pension charges in the US and £101 million of increases in
environmental provisions.
Operating remeasurements of £49 million (2004/05: £38 million)
relate to changes in the value of commodity contracts in the US
carried in the balance sheet at fair value arising from movements
in energy prices.
Net finance costs
Excluding exceptional items and remeasurements, net finance costs
have reduced by £100 million. This was principally as a consequence
of lower levels of debt following the gas network sales.
Financial exceptional items and remeasurements comprised
£49 million in debt redemption costs and B share issue costs,
and net losses on derivative financial instruments and the financial
element of commodity contract revaluations of £8 million.
Profit before taxation
The items described above have combined to deliver an 11%
improvement in adjusted profit before tax from £1,740 million 
to £1,924 million and a 24% increase in profit before tax from
£1,439 million to £1,779 million.
Taxation
Excluding the effect of net tax credits on exceptional items and
remeasurements, the effective tax rate for 2005/06 and 2004/05
was 31% and 25% respectively, compared with a standard UK
corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
Earnings per share from continuing operations
After reflecting the impact of the share consolidation in August
2005, adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations are
up 10% from 42.3p to 46.7p.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased from
36.3p to 42.8p.
20 Summary Operating and Financial Review Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations primarily comprise the four regional gas
distribution networks we sold on 1 June 2005 and include gains
on the sales of £2,605 million.
Discontinued revenues, operating costs before exceptional 
items and adjusted operating profit from these networks were
£168 million, £107 million and £61 million respectively in 2005/06,
substantially lower than the respective results for 2004/05 of
£1,102 million, £592 million and £510 million, as they relate to 
a two-month period rather than a full year. In addition, revenue 
for those two months is proportionally lower due to seasonality.
An exceptional charge of £15 million in 2005/06 arose from the
payment of a fine relating to one of the sold networks.
Dividends
The proposed total ordinary dividend for 2005/06 amounts to
£709 million or 26.1 pence per ordinary share. This represents 
an increase of 10% over the previous year’s ordinary dividend per
share of 23.7 pence (£731 million). The above amounts exclude
the return of £2 billion to shareholders through the B share scheme.
The final dividend proposed to shareholders for 2005/06 of 
15.9 pence per share, amounting to £433 million, will be reported
in the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2007.
Dividend policy
The Board has confirmed that its dividend policy, which is to aim
to increase dividends per ordinary share, expressed in sterling, by
7% nominal in each financial year to 31 March 2008, remains its
policy.
Cash flow
Cash generated from continuing operations was £3,131 million 
in 2005/06 compared with £2,911 million in 2004/05. This
includes cash outflows relating to exceptional items of
£118 million and £120 million respectively. After reflecting cash
flows relating to discontinued operations and tax paid, net cash
inflow from operating activities was £2,971 million compared with
£3,308 million in 2004/05. 
Cash outflows from continuing operations investing activities fell
from £2,652 million in 2004/05 to £1,713 million in 2005/06 as
2004/05 included £1,122 million in respect of the acquisition of the
UK operations of Crown Castle International Corp. (£1,109 million)
and a US telecommunications tower operation (£13 million). Cash
flows relating to discontinued operations included £5,750 million
of disposal proceeds and £115 million of cash outflows from
investing activities, compared with £323 million in 2004/05.
Net cash used in financing activities of £5,712 million in 2005/06
(compared with £325 million in 2004/05) included £1,957 million
in respect of the £2 billion return of value to shareholders.
Net debt and gearing
Net debt decreased by £2.7 billion from £13.6 billion at 31 March
2005 to £10.9 billion at 31 March 2006, primarily as a result of
debt repayments following the disposals of the four regional gas
networks for £5.8 billion, partially offset by the £2 billion return 
of value to shareholders and an increase of £0.4 billion relating 
to the adoption of IAS 39 on financial instruments.
Treasury policy
The funding and treasury risk management of the Group is
carried out by a central department operating under policies and
guidelines approved by the Board. The Finance Committee, a
committee of the Board, is responsible for regular review and
monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific
transactions, the authority for which may be delegated. The
Group has a Treasury function that raises all the funding for the
Group and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. 
The Group has separate financing programmes for each of the
main Group companies. The Finance Committee of the Board
and the Finance Committee of the appropriate Group undertaking
approve all funding programmes.
The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre. Debt and
treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative manner,
such that all transactions in financial instruments or products are
matched to an underlying current or anticipated business
requirement. The use of derivative financial instruments is
controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board. Derivatives
entered into in respect of gas and electricity commodities are
used in support of the business’s operational requirements.
Going concern
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business
for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
US GAAP
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with IFRS,
which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP .
Net income for 2005/06 under US GAAP was £1,307 million
compared with £1,304 million in 2004/05. This compared with
the profit for the year under IFRS for 2005/06 and 2004/05 of
£3,850 million and £1,424 million respectively.
Equity shareholders’ funds under US GAAP at 31 March 2006
and 31 March 2005 were £9,747 million and £10,591 million
respectively, compared with corresponding numbers under IFRS
of £3,482 million and £2,111 million.
The principal adjustments from net income and equity shareholders’
funds under IFRS to their equivalents under US GAAP mainly
relate to adjustments arising from differences in accounting for
regulatory assets in our US operations, the treatment of the
business combination with Lattice Group plc as an acquisition
instead of as a merger, accounting for pension scheme
arrangements, derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
Summary Operating and Financial Review 21 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid Summary Corporate
Governance
Summary Directors’
Remuneration Report
The Board is committed to good governance. This commitment is
based on compliance with the Combined Code and both established
and emerging best practice. Documents relating to National
Grid’s governance (eg Board Committee terms of reference,
codes of conduct and position statements) can be found on the
Group website at www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/about+us.
The Board of National Grid currently consists of 14 Directors, 
comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors and seven Non-
executive Directors (including the Senior Independent Director). 
The effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each
individual Director is vital to the overall success of the Group. The
Board has a well established process to evaluate performance,
which consists of questionnaires sent to each Director and certain
Board Committee attendees and one-to-one meetings between
the Chairman and each Director. The questionnaires consider the
operation and performance of the Board and Board Committees
and the performance of the Chairman and Committee chairmen,
and the one-to-one meetings include discussions of individual
performance and any knowledge gaps requiring training. The
Non-executive Directors also meet separately under the
chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director to consider the
performance of the Chairman and to provide him with feedback.
During the year, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance
Director held regular meetings with institutional investors, fund
managers and analysts to discuss information made public by the
Group. In addition, the Chairman reminds major shareholders, in
writing, of his availability (along with that of the Senior Independent
Director or Non-executive Directors where required) should there
be issues that shareholders wish to raise. To ensure that the
Board is effectively informed of shareholder views, it receives bi-
annual feedback from the Company’s brokers supplemented by
the Group Head of Investor Relations. This ensures that all Board
members, including the Non-executive Directors, are aware of the
current views of major shareholders and of any outstanding issues
they may have.
The principal method of communicating with the majority of
shareholders is through the Annual Review. Shareholders may
also attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting where they
have the opportunity to question Directors on any issues relating
to the management of the Company. The Group also runs a very
successful Shareholder Networking Programme, which allows a
small number of shareholders to visit operational sites and meet
senior managers, Directors and the Chairman. More details of the
Shareholder Networking Programme are on page 29.
Corporate governance practices: differences from New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards. A statement in respect
of the differences between the Group’s governance practices 
and those required by the NYSE can be found on the Group
website at www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/about+us.
We are pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for
2005/06. Our policy of relating pay to the performance of the
Group continues to be a strong principle underlying the
Remuneration Committee’s consideration of executive
remuneration.
Last year we thoroughly reviewed our remuneration policies. As a
result, we have established revised performance criteria for the
Performance Share Plan (our long-term incentive plan) and
introduced a Deferred Share Plan as part of the annual bonus
plan. We no longer operate the Share Matching Plan. We believe
this reflects best practice and aligns executive incentive plans as
closely as possible with the Group’s strategic objectives and our
shareholders’ interests generally. 
Our main focus in 2005/06 has been to review pension
arrangements to take account of UK legislative changes effective
from April 2006. The modifications to pension provision are
outlined below. 
Overall, we believe that salary levels and the mix between fixed
and variable compensation are appropriate and we will continue
to review the remuneration package to ensure it remains so.
We are confident that our approach continues to align Executive
Directors’ remuneration with the interests of shareholders
generally, while maintaining the motivation and engagement 
of the team leading the Group.
Joint statement from chairmen, Remuneration Committee
John Grant John Allan 
(1 April 2005 to 28 February 2006) (From 1 March 2006) 
Role of Remuneration Committee and its 
terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing
Group policy on the Executive Directors’ remuneration and that 
of other senior employees of the Group, and provides direction
over the operation of the Group’s share plans. The Remuneration
Committee operates within terms of reference agreed by the Board,
which are available on the Group’s website or on request from the
Group. The Board has accepted all the recommendations made
by the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee determines remuneration policies
and practices with the aim of attracting, motivating and retaining
high calibre Executive Directors and other senior employees to
deliver value for shareholders and high levels of customer service,
safety and reliability in an efficient and responsible manner. The
Remuneration Committee sets remuneration policies and
practices in line with best practice in the markets in which the
Group operates. Remuneration policies are framed around the
following key principles:
total rewards should be set at levels that are competitive 
in the relevant market;
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
22 Summary Corporate Governance and Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report a significant proportion of the Executive Directors’ total
rewards will be performance based. These will be earned
through the achievement of demanding targets for short-term
business performance and personal performance, and long-
term shareholder value creation; and 
incentive plans, performance measures and targets should be
structured to operate soundly throughout the business cycle.
They should be prudent and aligned as closely as possible
with shareholders’ interests.
Executive Directors’ remuneration
Remuneration packages for Executive Directors consist of salary,
the annual bonus including the Deferred Share Plan, the
Performance Share Plan (long-term incentive), all-employee share
plans, pension contributions and non-cash benefits.
Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually and targeted broadly at the median
position against the relevant market. In determining the relevant
market, the Remuneration Committee takes account of the
regulated nature of the majority of the Group’s operating activities
along with the size, complexity and international scope of the
business. In setting individual salary levels, the Remuneration
Committee takes into account business performance, the
individual’s experience in the role and salary practices prevailing
for other employees in the Group.
Annual bonus including the Deferred Share Plan
Annual bonuses are based on achievement of a combination 
of demanding Group, individual and, where applicable, divisional
targets. The principal measures of Group performance are
adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and cash flow; the main
divisional measures are divisional operating profit and divisional
cash flow. Individual targets are set in relation to key operating
and strategic objectives and include overriding measures of 
safety and customer service performance. The Remuneration
Committee may use its discretion to reduce payments to take
account of significant safety or service standard incidents, or
increase them in the event of exceptional value creation.
In 2005/06, all Executive Directors participated in the annual
bonus arrangements with a maximum bonus opportunity of 
100% of base salary. One half of any bonus earned is automatically
deferred into National Grid shares (ADSs for the US-based
Executive Director) through the Deferred Share Plan. The shares
(or ADSs) are held in trust for three years before release. During
this time they are not owned by the Executive Directors and
therefore no dividends are paid. The Remuneration Committee
may, at the time of release of the shares, use its discretion to pay
a cash amount equivalent to the value of the dividends that would
have accumulated on the deferred shares.
The Remuneration Committee believes that requiring Executive
Directors to invest a substantial amount of their bonus in National
Grid shares ensures that Executive Directors share a significant
level of personal risk with the Group’s shareholders.
In line with US market practice, the US-based Executive
Director’s bonus is pensionable. Mike Jesanis also participates 
in the USA Goals Program, a bonus plan covering a large number
of US-based employees that can pay up to 5.7% of salary on the
achievement of certain earnings and performance targets.
Long-term Incentive
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Executive Directors receive an award over shares which will 
vest subject to the achievement of performance conditions set 
by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant. The value
of shares constituting an award is subject to a maximum, for
Executive Directors, of 125% of salary. Awards were made at the
maximum percentage to Executive Directors in the year 2005/06.
Shares vest after three years, subject to the satisfaction of the
relevant performance criteria. Vested shares must then be held for
a further year (the retention period) after which they are released.
During the retention period, the Remuneration Committee has
discretion to pay an amount, equivalent in cash or shares, to the
dividend which would have been paid on the vested shares. 
Awards made in June 2003 and June 2004 were based on 
the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a
three-year period relative to the TSR performance of a group of
comparator companies which included companies in the energy
distribution sector including UK and international utilities. The
performance condition for the June 2005 award was amended,
following consultation with our major shareholders, so that 50%
of any award is based on the Group’s TSR performance when
compared to the FTSE 100 (as at 27 June 2005) and 50% 
is based on the annualised growth of the Group’s EPS.
In calculating TSR for the 2005 award, it is assumed that all
dividends are reinvested. No shares will be released under the
TSR part of the award if the Group’s TSR over the three-year
performance period, when ranked against that of the FTSE 100
comparator group, falls below the median. For TSR at the median,
30% of those shares will be released; 100% will be released for
upper target performance where National Grid’s TSR performance
is 7.5% above that of the median company in the FTSE 100.
The EPS measure is calculated by reference to National Grid’s
real EPS growth. Where annualised EPS growth exceeds RPI 
(the general index of retail prices for all items) by 3% (threshold
performance), 30% will be released; 100% where EPS growth
exceeds RPI growth by 6%. For performance for either target
between threshold and upper target, the number of shares
released is calculated on a straight-line basis. 
Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 23 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid No re-testing of performance is permitted for any of the PSP awards
that do not vest after the three-year performance period. If the
Remuneration Committee considers, in its absolute discretion, 
the underlying financial performance of the Group does not justify
the vesting of awards, it can declare that some or all of the award
lapses.
All-employee share plans
Sharesave: Employees resident in the UK, including Executive
Directors, are eligible to participate in HM Revenue and
Customs approved all-employee Sharesave schemes.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP): UK-based Executive Directors are
eligible to participate in the SIP . 
US Incentive Thrift Plan: The US-based Executive Director is
eligible to participate in the Thrift Plan, a tax-advantaged
savings plan (commonly referred to as a 401(k) plan) provided
for employees of National Grid’s US companies.
Pensions 
Current UK-based Executive Directors are provided with final
salary pension benefits. The pension provisions for the UK-based
Executive Directors are designed to provide a pension of one
thirtieth of final salary at age 60 for each year of service subject 
to a maximum of two thirds of final salary, including any pension
rights earned in previous employment. Within the pension
schemes, the pensionable salary is normally the base salary in 
the 12 months prior to leaving the Company. Life assurance
provision of four times pensionable salary and a spouse’s pension
equal to two thirds of the Executive Director’s pension are
provided on death.
UK-based Executive Directors who joined the Company after
31 May 1989 have been able to participate in an unfunded
scheme in respect of those benefits earned on pay above the 
HM Revenue and Customs Earnings Cap. An appropriate
provision in respect of the unfunded scheme has been made 
in the Company’s balance sheet.
In response to the new pensions taxation legislation which came
into force on 6 April 2006 (A Day), the Remuneration Committee
ensured the pension policy post A Day did not provide the
Executive Directors with additional benefit accrual as a result of
the change in pensions taxation. The current UK-based Executive
Directors have elected to participate in the unfunded scheme in
respect of any benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance or
their Personal Lifetime Allowance. These Executive Directors are
able to cease accrual in the pension schemes and take a 30%
cash allowance in lieu of pension if they so wish in the future.
These choices are in line with those offered to current senior
employees in the Company, except the cash allowance varies
depending upon organisational grade.
Mike Jesanis participates in a qualified pension plan and an
executive supplemental retirement plan provided through National
Grid’s US companies. These plans are non-contributory defined
benefit arrangements. Benefits are calculated using a formula
based on years of service and highest average compensation over
five consecutive years. In line with many US plans, the calculation
of benefits under the arrangements takes into account salary,
bonuses and incentive share awards (the Deferred Share Plan)
but not share options or the PSP awards. The normal retirement
age under the qualified pension plan is 65.
Non-cash benefits
The Group provides competitive benefits to Executive Directors,
such as a fully expensed car or a cash alternative in lieu of car
and fuel, use of a driver when required, private medical insurance
and life assurance. UK-based Executive Directors with fewer than
five years’ continuous service, who were previously Executive
Directors of National Grid Group plc, are provided with long-term
ill-health insurance. Business expenses incurred are reimbursed in
such a way as to give rise to no benefit to the Director.
Flexible Benefits Plan
Additional benefits (eg healthcare and insurance products) may
be purchased under the Flexible Benefits Plan (the Plan). In the
UK, the Plan operates by way of salary sacrifice; the participants’
salaries are reduced by the monetary value used to purchase
benefits under the Plan. One Executive Director, Steve Lucas,
participates in this Plan and details of the impact on his salary 
are shown in Table 1. 
A similar plan is offered to US-based employees. However, it is
not a salary sacrifice plan and therefore does not affect salary
values. Mike Jesanis participates in this plan. 
Share ownership guidelines
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up and retain 
a shareholding of at least 100% of annual salary. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Service contracts for all Executive Directors provide for one 
year’s notice by either party. The Remuneration Committee
operates a policy of mitigation of losses in the event of an
Executive Director’s employment being terminated by the 
Group. If this occurs, the departing Executive Director would 
be expected to mitigate any losses incurred as a result of the
termination. Therefore, entitlement to the payment of 12 months’
remuneration on early termination is not automatic, but based on
the circumstances of the termination.
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees are determined by the Executive
Directors. Non-executive Directors’ remuneration comprises an
annual fee (£35,000) and a fee for each Board meeting attended
(£1,500) with a higher fee for meetings held outside the Non-
executive Director’s country of residence (£3,000). An additional
fee is payable for chairmanship of a Board Committee and for
holding the position of Senior Independent Director (£12,500).
The Audit Committee chairman receives a chairmanship 
fee of £15,000 to recognise the additional responsibilities
commensurate with this role. The Chairman is covered by 
the Company’s personal accident and private medical insurance
24 Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid schemes and the Company provides him with life assurance
cover, a car (with driver when appropriate) and fuel expenses.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus
plan or in any long-term incentive scheme, nor do they receive
any pension benefits from the Group.
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Chairman’s letter of appointment provides for a period of six
months’ notice to give the Group reasonable security with regard to
his service. The terms of engagement of Non-executive Directors
other than the Chairman are also set out in letters of appointment.
For all Non-executive Directors, their initial appointment and any
subsequent reappointment is subject to election by shareholders.
Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate amount of emoluments paid to or receivable by
Directors in respect of qualifying services in the year to 
31 March 2006 was £6,534,000.
Year 
ended
31 March
Table 1: Executive Directors Year ended 31 March 2006 2005
Benefits Benefits
Annual in kind in kind
Salary bonus (cash) (i) (non-cash) Total Total
£000s £000s £000s £000s £000s £000s
R Urwin (ii) (iii) 765 734 – 19 1,518 1,125
S Holliday (ii) (iv) (v) 425 425 – 20 870 660
S Lucas (ii) (vi) (vii) (viii) 417 407 – 24 848 648
N Winser (ii) (ix) 385 366 – 20 771 531
M Jesanis (ii) (x) (xi) (xii) 469 385 7 13 874 446
E Astle (ii) (xiii) 400 336 12 11 759 622
Total 2,861 2,653 19 107 5,640 4,032
(i) Benefits in kind comprise benefits such as a fully expensed car, driver, private medical
insurance and life assurance.
(ii) Each of the Executive Directors is accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit
pension arrangement. No Executive Director except Mike Jesanis participates in any
money purchase pension arrangement through the Group (see (xii) below).
(iii) Roger Urwin exercised four Share Match awards over 17,425 shares. The market
price at the date of exercise was 528p and he was required to pay 100p per award.
He also received £15,704 in respect of a cash payment in lieu of dividends on
exercise of these Share Match awards.
(iv) Steve Holliday’s salary was increased to £600,000 on 1 April 2006, on appointment
to Deputy Group Chief Executive.
(v) The total for 2005 for Steve Holliday includes, as disclosed last year, an additional ex
gratia bonus of £80,000 paid on completion of the sales of four of the UK gas
distribution networks.
(vi) Steve Lucas participates in the Flexible Benefits Plan which operates by way of salary
sacrifice, therefore his salary is reduced by the value of the benefits he has purchased.
The value of these benefits (£3,050) is included in the benefits in kind (non-cash) figure.
(vii) Steve Lucas exercised a Sharesave option granted at 350p over 2,700 shares. The
market price at the date of exercise was 603p.
(viii) In November 2005 101,057 shares, at a market price of 511.53p were automatically
released at no cost to Steve Lucas under the Lattice Long Term Incentive Scheme.
(ix) Nick Winser exercised a Share Match award over 2,509 shares. The market price at
the date of exercise was 598p and he was required to pay 100p in total. He also
received £1,976 in respect of a cash payment in lieu of dividends on exercise of the
Share Match award. Nick Winser also exercised Executive Share Option awards as
follows: 10,633 shares with an exercise price of 375.75p and market price on
exercise of 610.5p; 47,236 shares with an exercise price of 455.25p and market
price on exercise of 610.5p; and 37,383 shares with an exercise price of 481.5p and
market price on exercise of 598p.
(x) Mike Jesanis’s values use an exchange rate averaged over the year 1 April 2005 to
31 March 2006, of US$1.79:£1. The exchange rate for the previous year was US$1.87:£1.
(xi) Mike Jesanis’s bonus includes a payment worth £4,787 in respect of his participation 
in the USA Goals Program (described on page 23).
(xii) The Group made contributions in the US worth £6,058 to a money purchase pension
arrangement in respect of Mike Jesanis’s Thrift Plan participation. The exchange rate
used, as at 31 March 2006, was US$1.74:£1.
(xiii) Edward Astle exercised an Executive Share Option over 74,841 shares with an
exercise price of 434.25p and market price on exercise of 594.5p. He also exercised
a Sharesave option granted at 397p over 2,392 shares. The market price at the date
of exercise was 527p.
Year
ended
31 March
Table 2: Non-executive Directors Year ended 31 March 2006 2005
Other
emolu-
Fees ments Total Total
£000s £000s £000s £000s
Sir J Parker (i) 400 45 445 406
K Harvey 67 – 67 58
J Allan (ii) 45 – 45 –
J Grant 67 – 67 65
P Joskow 74 – 74 73
S Pettit 68 – 68 58
M Richter 61 – 61 66
G Rose 67 – 67 61
Total 849 45 894 787
(i) Sir John Parker’s other emoluments comprise benefits in kind such as a fully
expensed car, driver, private medical insurance and life assurance.
(ii) John Allan’s appointment to the Board was effective from 1 May 2005 and he
became chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2006.
Performance graph
The graph below represents the comparative TSR performance 
of the Group from 31 March 2001 to 31 March 2006. For the
period before the merger of National Grid Group plc and Lattice
Group plc, the TSR shown is that of National Grid Group plc.
This graph represents the Group’s performance against the
performance of the FTSE 100 index, which is considered suitable
for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index of which
National Grid is a constituent. This graph has been produced in
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985.
In drawing this graph it has been assumed that all dividends have
been reinvested. The TSR level shown at 31 March each year is
the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30-day period
up to and including that date.
31/03
2001
31/03
2002
31/03
2003
31/03
2004
31/03
2005
31/03
2006
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
National Grid plc/National Grid Group plc FTSE 100 
Source: Datastream
National Grid plc/National Grid Group plc
TSR v FTSE 100      TSR%
Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 25 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid Summary Group Income Statement
for the years ended 31 March
2006 2005 (i)
£m £m
Group revenue 9,193 7,382
Other operating income 80 70
Operating costs (6,834) (5,310)
Operating profit
– Before exceptional items and remeasurements 2,527 2,443
– Exceptional items and remeasurements (88) (301)
Total operating profit 2,439 2,142
Interest income and similar income 1,038 946
Interest expense and other finance costs
– Before exceptional items and remeasurements (1,644) (1,652)
– Exceptional items and remeasurements (57) –
(1,701) (1,652)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 3 3
Profit before taxation
– Before exceptional items and remeasurements 1,924 1,740
– Exceptional items and remeasurements (145) (301)
Total profit before taxation 1,779 1,439
Taxation
– Before exceptional items and remeasurements (597) (437)
– Exceptional items and remeasurements 35 118
Total taxation (562) (319)
Profit from continuing operations after taxation
– Before exceptional items and remeasurements 1,327 1,303
– Exceptional items and remeasurements (110) (183)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,217 1,120
Profit for the year from discontinued operations
– Before exceptional items 43 352
– Exceptional items 2,590 (48)
2,633 304
Profit for the year 3,850 1,424
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of parent company 3,848 1,424
– Minority interests 2 –
3,850 1,424
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– Basic 42.8p 36.3p
– Diluted 42.6p 36.2p
Earnings per share
– Basic 135.6p 46.2p
– Diluted 135.0p 46.0p
Dividends per ordinary share: paid during the year 25.4p 20.4p
Dividends per ordinary share: approved or proposed to be paid 26.1p 23.7p
(i) Refer to Basis of Preparation and Accounting Policies on page 28 for the basis of preparation of comparatives under International Financial
Reporting Standards.
26 Summary Financial Statement Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Exceptional items and
remeasurements
Material non-recurring items
and certain remeasurement
gains or losses arising from
movements in the carrying
value of commodity contracts
and financial instruments.
Profit for the year from
discontinued operations
The profit on disposal and
results of four UK gas
distribution networks sold on
1 June 2005 and Citelec, an
Argentinian joint venture, sold
in August 2004.
Earnings per share
Basic – profit attributable to
equity shareholders divided by
the weighted average number
of ordinary shares in issue
during the year. 
Diluted – as per the basic
calculation but assuming that
new ordinary shares have been
issued on the exercise of share
options that have been granted.
Dividends per ordinary share
Paid during the year –
represents cash paid to
shareholders during the year
ended 31 March.
Approved or proposed to be
paid – represents the interim
dividend paid and final dividend
proposed in respect of the year
ended 31 March.
Other operating income
Other operating income
represents income on disposal
of property, plant and
equipment, principally
properties disposed of by the
Group’s property management
business. Summary Group Balance Sheet
at 31 March
Summary Financial Statement 27
2006 2005 (i)
£m £m
Non-current assets 22,106 25,596
Current assets 3,818 1,964
Total assets 25,924 27,560
Current liabilities (5,683) (5,974)
Non-current liabilities (16,748) (19,465)
Total liabilities (22,431) (25,439)
Net assets 3,493 2,121
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity 3,482 2,111
Minority interests 11 10
Total equity 3,493 2,121
(i) Refer to Basis of Preparation and Accounting Policies on page 28 for the basis of preparation of comparatives under International Financial
Reporting Standards.
This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2006 and was
signed on its behalf by:
Sir John Parker Chairman
Steve Lucas Group Finance Director
Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Total assets
Includes goodwill and other
intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment,
investment in joint ventures,
inventories, trade and other
receivables, deferred tax assets,
financial investments, derivative
financial assets, cash and 
cash equivalents.
Total liabilities
Includes borrowings and
overdrafts, derivative financial
liabilities, trade and other
payables, tax liabilities,
provisions and pensions and
other post-retirement benefit
obligations.
2006 2005
Net income £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to
equity shareholders under IFRS 3,848 1,424
Adjustments to conform with US GAAP
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (127) (233)
US regulatory accounting (269) (246)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (56) 2
Financial instruments (130) 254
Severance costs (63) 62
Revenue recognition (48) 13
Amortisation of intangibles (2) (2)
Interest on discounted provisions (14) –
Deferred taxation 208 28
Discontinued operations (2,037) –
Other (3) 2
Total US GAAP adjustments (2,541) (120)
Net income under US GAAP 1,307 1,304
Basic earnings per share 48.2p 48.2p
Diluted earnings per share 48.0p 47.9p
2006 2005
Total shareholders’ equity £m £m
Total shareholders’ equity under IFRS 3,482 2,111
Adjustments to conform with US GAAP
Property, plant and equipment fair value 
adjustments 2,162 3,116
Goodwill 2,689 4,027
US regulatory accounting 2,702 2,746
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 886 944
Financial instruments 119 117
Severance liabilities 2 65
Revenue recognition (42) 6
Intangible assets 28 30
Provisions (154) (130)
Non-reversal of impairments (39) (29)
Deferred taxation (2,090) (2,441)
Other 2 29
Total US GAAP adjustments 6,265 8,480
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 9,747 10,591
Note to Summary Financial Statement
Difference between IFRS and US accounting principles
The Group prepares its accounts in accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP . The significant adjustments
necessary to restate net income and equity shareholders’ funds in accordance with US GAAP are set out below:
Minority interests
Minority shareholders in certain
of the Group’s subsidiary
undertakings. 28 Basis of Preparation and Accounting Policies, Auditors’ Statement and Independent Verifier’s Statement Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Basis of Preparation 
and Accounting Policies
The Summary Financial Statement represents an abridged version
of the financial statements in the National Grid Annual Report and
Accounts 2005/06, which are prepared on the basis of
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by
the European Union (EU). A reconciliation of net income and
equity shareholders’ funds from IFRS to US GAAP is shown in the
note to the Summary Financial Statement.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards
With effect from 1 April 2005, National Grid plc is required to
report its consolidated financial statements in accordance with
IFRS. The tables below present the impact of conversion from UK
generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) to IFRS on
profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 and net assets at
31 March 2005.
For the year ended 31 March 2005 £m
Profit for the year before minority interests 
under UK GAAP 907
IFRS measurement adjustments
Replacement expenditure 236
Derecognition of regulatory assets 151
Goodwill amortisation 109
Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill (4)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 41
Deferred taxation (11)
Other adjustments (6)
516
IFRS presentation adjustments
Non-equity minority interests (2)
Share of results of joint ventures 3
1
Profit for the year under IFRS 1,424
Less: profit for the year under IFRS – discontinued operations (304)
Profit for the year under IFRS – continuing operations 1,120
At 31 March 2005 £m
Net assets under UK GAAP 1,391
IFRS measurement adjustments
Replacement expenditure 3,014
Derecognition of regulatory assets (1,587)
Goodwill 28
Intangible assets other than goodwill 99
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (1,149)
Deferred taxation (95)
Proposed final dividend 469
Other adjustments (27)
752
IFRS presentation adjustments
Non-equity minority interests (22)
Net assets under IFRS 2,121
Amounts shown above are net of any related deferred tax on the
underlying IFRS adjustment.
Explanations of the UK GAAP to IFRS adjustments have been
provided in the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06,
available on the Group’s website on www.nationalgrid.com.
Independent Auditors’
Statement to the Members
of National Grid plc
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of National
Grid plc, which comprises the Summary Group Income
Statement, Summary Group Balance Sheet, Summary Directors’
Report and Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors:
The Directors are responsible for preparing the summarised
Annual Review in accordance with applicable law. Our responsibility
is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary
Financial Statement within the summarised Annual Review with
the annual financial statements, the Directors’ Report and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the
relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom
Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder. 
We also read the other information contained in the summarised
Annual Review and consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement. This
statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for, and 
only for, the Company’s members in accordance with Section 251
of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion:
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6, ‘The
auditors’ statement on the summary financial statement’, issued
by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion:
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent
with the annual financial statements, the Directors’ Report and
the Directors’ Remuneration Report of National Grid plc for the
year ended 31 March 2006 and complies with the applicable
requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies
Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, 17 May 2006
Independent Verifier’s
Statement on Corporate
Responsibility 
National Grid has asked URS Verification Ltd (URSVL) to
undertake third party assurance of the corporate responsibility
elements of the Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06 and
Annual Review 2005/06. Information on the scope of URSVL’s
assurance activities and its opinion may be found on page 90 
of the Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06 and on the Group’s
website, www.nationalgrid.com/corporate/Our+Responsibility/
Assurance.
Belinda Howell, Director
For and on behalf of URS Verification Ltd
London, May 2006 Shareholder Information 29 Annual Review 2005/06
National Grid
Annual Report and Accounts
National Grid shareholders will receive an Annual Review each
year unless they have requested the Annual Report and
Accounts. If you wish to receive the Annual Report and Accounts,
a larger document containing the full accounts and notes to the
accounts and more detailed information on the business, you
should contact Capita Registrars.
For the assistance of visually impaired shareholders, audio tape,
braille and large print versions of the Annual Review are available. 
If you wish to receive any of these documents, please contact
Capita Registrars.
Duplicate accounts
If you received two or more copies of the Annual Review and
multiple cheques for each dividend payment, you will have more
than one shareholder account.
To receive just one Annual Review and one cheque for each
dividend payment, please contact Capita Registrars and ask 
to amalgamate your accounts.
Dividends
National Grid normally pays dividends twice each year: an interim
dividend in January and a final dividend in August.
Choosing to have dividends paid directly into your chosen bank
or building society account means that: money will be available
on the day of payment; there will be no delay paying cheques into
your account; cheques cannot be lost; and a tax voucher is still
provided for your records.
Over 530,000 National Grid shareholders already choose to have
dividends paid to them directly. To request direct payment of your
dividends, please contact Capita Registrars.
Dividend reinvestment plan
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) has now been introduced
that will allow participating shareholders to use dividend
payments to purchase additional shares in National Grid. 
The DRIP will begin operation from the payment of the 2005/06
final dividend payment in August 2006. Shareholders wishing to
participate should contact Capita Registrars.
Share dealing
A low-cost share dealing service is available from Capita
Registrars, allowing you to buy and sell National Grid shares by
telephone and online. Trading by telephone or online allows you
to know the price of the shares at the time you deal.
For more information, please call 0870 458 4577 (8am – 4.30pm)
or visit www.capitadeal.com.
A postal dealing service is also available. For a postal dealing
form, please call 0870 162 3116.
These details are provided for information only and any action you
take is at your own risk. If you have any doubt as to the action
you should take, you are recommended to seek your own
financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, accountant
or other independent financial adviser authorised pursuant to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
ISAs for National Grid shares are available from Stocktrade.
Options include: National Grid Maxi stocks and shares ISA; 
and National Grid Mini stocks and shares ISA. Further information
may be obtained from the Account Manager: 
Stocktrade, 
81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES
Telephone: 0131 240 0443
Website:
www.stocktrade.co.uk/NGT_Sharedealing/sharedealing_main.htm
You may also consolidate other PEPs and ISAs by transferring
them to your National Grid account. National Grid cannot advise
you on what action, if any, you should take.
ShareGift
If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be
uneconomical or just not worthwhile to sell them, you could
consider donating your shares to charity.
ShareGift is an independent registered charity (no. 1052686) that
provides a free service for shareholders wishing to give small
holdings of shares to benefit charitable causes. There are no
capital gains tax implications (ie no gain or loss) on gifts of shares
to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Since
its launch in 1996, ShareGift has been able to give millions of
pounds to hundreds of different UK charities.
Further information can be obtained at www.ShareGift.org or from
Capita Registrars.
Shareholder Networking
National Grid continues to operate its Shareholder Networking
Programme allowing shareholders to learn more about the
business by visiting operational sites and meeting Directors,
senior managers and staff.
These visits allow us to explain the business to shareholders in
person and for shareholders to ask any questions about the
Group. This year’s visit is planned for early December.
If you would like to take part in this visit, please write to:
Shareholder Networking Organiser,
National Grid House, Warwick Technology Park, Gallows Hill,
Warwick CV34 6DA
Participants will be selected from those applying, with priority
given to those who have not previously attended.
Website
More information about National Grid is available on the Group
website at www.nationalgrid.com, and includes: current and
historical share price information; previous Annual Reports and
Accounts; and information about each of the Group businesses.
Shareholder Information Financial calendar
The following dates have been announced or are indicative 
of future dates:
7 June 2006 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
9 June 2006 Ordinary share 2005/06 final dividend record date
12 July 2006 DRIP application deadline 2005/06 final dividend
31 July 2006 2006 Annual General Meeting
7 Aug 2006 B share continuing dividend payment date
8 Aug 2006 Further repurchase of B shares as elected
23 Aug 2006 Ordinary share 2005/06 final dividend payment date 
16 Nov 2006 2006/07 interim results
29 Nov 2006 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
1 Dec 2006 Ordinary share 2006/07 interim dividend record date
8 Dec 2006 DRIP application deadline 2006/07 interim dividend
24 Jan 2007 Ordinary share 2006/07 interim dividend payment date 
May 2007 2006/07 preliminary results
June 2007 Ordinary shares ex-dividend
June 2007 Ordinary share 2006/07 final dividend record date
July 2007 DRIP application deadline 2006/07 final dividend
July 2007 2007 Annual General Meeting
Aug 2007 B share continuing dividend payment date
Aug 2007 Final repurchase of B shares as elected
Aug 2007 Conversion of remaining B shares
Aug 2007 Ordinary shares 2006/07 final dividend payment date 
Queries – ordinary shareholders
Any queries from holders of ordinary shares should be directed to
Capita Registrars:
National Grid Share Register,
Capita Registrars,
Northern House,
Woodsome Park,
Fenay Bridge,
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Telephone: 0870 242 2379 
(from outside the UK +44 20 7098 1198)
Textphone: 18001 0870 242 2379
Fax: 0870 240 1286 
(from outside the UK +44 1484 600 702)
Email: nationalgrid@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.nationalgrid.com/shareholders
Queries – American Depositary Shares
Any queries from holders of American Depositary Shares should
be directed to The Bank of New York:
The Bank of New York,
Shareholders Correspondence,
PO Box 11258,
Church Street Station,
New York NY 10286-1258
Telephone: 1-800-466-7215 
(for international calls +1-212-815-3700)
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com
Website: www.adrbny.com
Cautionary Statement
This document contains certain statements
that are neither reported financial results nor
other historical information. These statements
are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. Because these forward-looking
statements are subject to assumptions, risks
and uncertainties, actual future results may
differ materially from those expressed in or
implied by such statements. Many of these
assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate
to factors that are beyond our ability to control
or estimate precisely, such as delays in
obtaining, or adverse conditions contained
in, regulatory approvals and contractual
consents, including those required to
complete the announced US acquisitions
when or as planned, unseasonable weather
affecting demand for electricity and gas,
competition and industry restructuring,
changes in economic conditions, currency
fluctuations, changes in interest and tax
rates, changes in energy market prices,
changes in historical weather patterns,
changes in laws, regulations or regulatory
policies, developments in legal or public
policy doctrines, the impact of changes 
to accounting standards and technological
developments. Other factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from
those described in this document include 
the ability to integrate the businesses relating
to the announced US acquisitions with the
Group and realise the expected synergies
from such integration, the availability of new
acquisition opportunities and the timing and
success of future acquisition opportunities,
the impact of the sales of businesses by 
the Group, the failure for any reason to
achieve reductions in costs or to achieve
operational efficiencies, the failure to retain
key management, the behaviour of UK
electricity market participants on system
balancing, the timing of amendments in
prices to shippers in the UK gas market, 
the performance of our pension schemes 
and the regulatory treatment of pension
costs, and any adverse consequences
arising from outages on or otherwise affecting
energy networks, including gas pipelines,
which we own or operate. For a more detailed
description of some of these assumptions,
risks and uncertainties, together with any
other risk factors, please see our filings with
and submissions to the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (and in particular the
‘Risk Factors’ and ‘Operating and Financial
Review’ sections in our most recent Annual
Report on Form 20-F). Readers are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on these forward-
looking statements, which speak only as 
of the date of this document. Except as
required by law or regulation, National Grid
does not undertake any obligation to release
publicly any revisions to these forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances
after the date of this document.
The paper in this document contains a mixture
of fibre from FSC certified forests and recycled pulps.
Both the paper mill and the printer involved in its
production are certified with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Corporate Edge
Printed by St Ives 
National Grid plc
1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH, United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales No. 4031152
UK Shareholder enquiries: 0870 242 2379
US Shareholder enquiries: 1-800-466-7215
www.nationalgrid.com
Email: nationalgrid@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.nationalgrid.com/shareholders
Telephone: 0870 242 2379 
(from outside the UK +44 20 7098 1198)
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com
Website: www.adrbny.com
Telephone: 1-800-466-7215 
(for international calls +1-212-815-3700)
Capita Registrars The Bank of New York
