 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Building for
the future  MacBook Pro
Stay up-to-date at  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report
01 Financial Highlights
02 National Express Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement 
06 Group Chief Executive’s Review
11 Market overview 
13 Investment case 
14 Our business model and strategy 
16 Strategy in Action 
19 Managing our relationships and resources 
24 Risk and Risk Management 
26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
28 Group Finance Director’s Review
32 Spain 
36 North America
40 UK Bus
44 UK Coach
48 Rail
Corporate Governance 
53 Chairman’s Introduction
54 Board of Directors
56 Governance Report
64 Board Committees
68 Directors’ Remuneration Report
88 Other Statutory Information
92 Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
Financial Statements
93 Auditor’s Report
97 Group Income Statement
98 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
99 Group Balance Sheet
100 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
101 Group Statement of Cash Flows
102 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
157 Company Balance Sheet
158 Notes to the Company Accounts
Additional Information
168 Shareholder Information
169 Dividends and Financial Calendar
170 Glossary
172 Five Year Summary
IBC Corporate Information
National Express Group is a 
leading public transport provider 
delivering services in the UK,  
North America, Spain, Germany  
and Morocco. 
Our vision is to earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers by 
consistently delivering frequent, high 
performing public transport services 
which offer excellent value. 
Unless otherwise stated, all operating margin and EPS data refer to normalised results, which can be found on the face of the Group Income Statement in the first column.  
The definition of normalised profit is as follows: IFRS result found in the third column, excluding intangible asset amortisation, loss on disposal of business, exceptional items  
and tax relief thereon. The Board believes that the normalised result gives a better indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying revenue compares the current year with prior year on a consistent basis, after adjusting for the impact of currency, acquisitions, disposals and rail franchises  
no longer operated.
Like-for-like revenue measures underlying revenue after adjusting for increases or decreases in miles operated, typically used as a metric in urban bus operations.
‘Core non-rail’ businesses are UK Bus, UK Coach, Spain (including Morocco) and North America (including Transit). It excludes the German Coach start-up.
Operating margin is the ratio of normalised operating profit to revenue.
‘Return on capital employed’ (‘ROCE’) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible and intangible assets for the core non-rail businesses.
‘Return on assets’ (‘ROA’) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible assets.
Operating cash flow is intended to be the cash flow equivalent of normalised operating profit. Free cash flow is intended to be the cash flow equivalent of normalised profit after tax. 
A reconciliation is set out in the table within the Finance Director’s review.
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents (cash overnight deposits and other short-term deposits), and other debt receivables, offset by borrowings (loan notes, bank loans 
and finance lease obligations) and other debt payable (excluding accrued interest).
EPS generated by the Rail business is the normalised operating profit of the Rail division, taxed at the UK tax rate, divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
The annual punctuality measure for c2c is the moving annual average (MAA) public performance measure (PPM) to 4 January 2014.
Safety Incidents measure those for which the Group is responsible and is based on the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries Index used in the UK Rail industry. EPS generated by the  
Rail business is the normalised operating profit of the Rail division, taxed at the UK tax rate, divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
EBITDA is ‘Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation’. It is calculated by taking normalised operating profit and adding back depreciation, fixed asset grant  
amortisation, normalised profit on disposal of non-current assets and share-based payments. It is defined in line with the Group’s banking documentation. Strategic Report:
Financial Highlights
A strong performance in 2013
• Group revenue increased 3% to £1.89 billion (2012: 
£1.83 billion), with 7% growth in total non-rail revenue
• Normalised operating profit from core non-rail businesses 
reached a record £185.5 million
• Group operating margin of 10.2% reflects lower rail profits 
and headwinds in Spain and the UK
• Full year proposed dividend of 10.0 pence,  
up 3% year-on-year
• Free cash flow of £182.8 million, over £30 million  
ahead of target
• Core non-rail ROCE increased to 1 1. 1% through focus  
on capital deployment and targeted investment
Summary of results 2013
Normalised Basis IFRS Basis
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Revenue 1,891.3 1,831.2 1,891.3 1,831.2
Operating profit 192.9 211.9 117.9 117.6
Profit before tax 143.7 164.1 64.4 69.8
Profit for the year 111.2 131.4 58.3 61.3
Basic earnings per share (pence) 21.5 25.5 11.1 11.8
Net debt 746.1 828.2 n/a n/a
Core non-rail operating profit
£185.5
m
2013 £185.5m
£185.2m
£181.8m
2012
2011
Group revenue
£1,891.3
m
2013 £1,891.3m
£1,831.2m
£2,238.0m
2012
2011
Operating margin
10.2
%
2013 10.2%
11.6%
10.1%
2012
2011
Dividend per share
10.0
p
2013 10.0p
9.75p
9.5p
2012
2011
2013 £182.8m
£140.8m
£98.4m
2012
2011
Free cash flow
£182.8
m
Core non-rail ROCE
11.1
%
2013 11.1%
10.6%
10.6%
2012
2011
01 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 A leading public transport provider 
We deliver services in the UK, North America, Spain, Germany 
and Morocco. Every year more than 800 million journeys  
are made on our buses, trains, light rail services and coaches.
Strategic Report: 
National Express Group at a glance
Spain: Bus and Coach
• ALSA
ALSA is the leading company in the Spanish 
road passenger transport sector, and was 
acquired by National Express in 2005. 
With over 100 years’ experience, it operates 
long distance, regional and urban bus  
and coach services across Spain and  
in Morocco. 
Apart from its bus and coach services,  
the business also operates service areas  
and other transport-related businesses,  
such as fuel distribution.
North America: Bus 
• Durham School Services 
• Stock Transportation 
• Petermann 
• National Express Transit
Our business in North America has two  
areas of activity; student transportation  
and transit services. 
We operate in 36 US states and four 
Canadian provinces. 
The student transportation business  
operates through medium-term contracts 
awarded by local school boards to provide 
safe and reliable transport for students,  
and is the second largest private operator  
in North America. 
Our transit business is growing the number  
of transit and para-transit contracts we 
operate in the US.
UK: Bus
• National Express West Midlands 
• National Express Coventry 
• National Express Dundee 
• Midland Metro
National Express is the market leader  
in the UK’s largest urban bus market outside 
of London. Services are operated from nine 
garages across the West Midlands. We also 
run bus services in the cities of Coventry 
and Dundee. 
In addition, we operate the Midland Metro 
light rail service between Birmingham and 
Wolverhampton. An extension of the route  
is due to be completed in 2015.
Revenue
£564.6
m
2012: £535.0m
Operating profit
£81.5
m
2012: £83.8m
Revenue
£645.0
m
2012: £578.3m
Operating profit
£62.6
m
2012: £59.1m
Revenue
£273.4
m
2012: £269.0m
Operating profit
£31.2
m
2012: £34.1m
Read more p32 Read more p36 Read more p40
02 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 UK: Coach 
• National Express 
• Eurolines 
• The Kings Ferry
National Express is the largest operator of 
scheduled coach services in the UK. The 
business operates high frequency services 
linking around 1,000 destinations across  
the country. 
We are the UK partner in the Eurolines 
network which serves over 500 destinations 
across Europe and North Africa. 
The Kings Ferry is also part of the UK Coach 
business and is a long established provider 
of commuter coach travel services in London 
and the south of England.
Rail
• c2c
National Express operates the industry-
leading c2c franchise which serves London 
and South Essex. 
It is an important commuter route serving  
25 stations on the line out of Fenchurch 
Street Station, London. The Group will  
start to operate contracted rail services  
in Germany from December 2015.
Revenue
£263.5
m
2012: £255.1m
Operating profit
£24.5
m
2012: £20.6m
Revenue
£143.0
m
2012: £195.1m
Operating profit
£9.8
m
2012: £26.7m
National Express Group
The Group operates in the UK, North 
America, Spain, Germany and Morocco and 
at the end of the year we employed 42,000 
people and operated over 25,000 vehicles. 
Passengers made more than 800 million 
journeys on our services in 2013. 
The National Express name first appeared  
on UK coaches in 1972, and the Company 
was listed on the London Stock Exchange  
in 1992.
* Excludes corporate and German Coach. * Excludes German Coach.
New markets
• city2city 
We operate scheduled coach services 
between a number of major cities in 
Germany through our city2city business. 
The business was launched in April 
2013 and operates services between 
major cities including Frankfurt, Cologne, 
Dusseldorf and Munich.
• German rail
During 2013 we were awarded two 
contracts to serve cities including Cologne 
and Frankfurt in Germany’s most populous 
region, North Rhine-Westphalia and these 
will start operating in December 2015. 
• International
We have invested in a bid team to explore 
selected opportunities which leverage  
our skills in international bus, coach 
and rail markets.
Read more p44 Read more p48
Group operating proﬁt by end market
*
Spain  £81.5m 38.9%
North America  £62.6m 29.9%
UK Bus  £31.2m 14.9%
UK Coach  £24.5m 11.7%
Rail  £9.8m 4.6%
Group revenue by end market*
Spain  £564.6m 29.9%
North America  £645.0m 34.1%
UK Bus  £273.4m 14.5%
UK Coach  £263.5m 13.9%
Rail  £143.0m 7.6%
03 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Chairman’s statement 
Building a sustainable business 
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to report that National Express 
has delivered another year of good financial 
and operational performance. Our core non-rail 
businesses have continued to make progress, 
achieving a record normalised operating profit 
and producing excellent free cash flow. 
Delivering our strategy
Our portfolio of bus and coach operations in 
different geographies is a key strength. First,  
our services deliver excellent value for customers, 
meeting the needs of the challenging economic 
environment – National Express companies play 
an essential role in getting passengers to work, 
to school and to see family and friends. Second, 
our approach to operational excellence, which 
we are embedding across all of our operations, 
is delivering great customer service, efficiency 
and safety. 
The balance of our portfolio means that we 
have been able to grow in UK Coach and 
North America School Bus, while we have 
mitigated much of the impact of recession and 
government austerity in Spain and UK Bus. 
At the same time, we continue to operate the 
best performing rail franchise in the UK. This 
has helped us to pre-qualify for three UK rail 
franchises currently out to tender. It has also 
provided the platform to win our first contracts 
in the German regional rail market from 2015 
and pre-qualify for more.
I am excited by the further opportunities which 
we see, in both existing and new markets. 
During our Board visit to Morocco in 2013, we 
were able to experience the success that this 
market has become for National Express. Not 
only have we now started our third domestic 
bus concession, in Tangiers, but it is also 
a strong credential for other international 
opportunities, where the development and 
liberalisation of public transport are common 
themes. I believe these opportunities can  
add further to the shareholder returns that  
we generate from our core businesses.
2013 results
In 2013 we delivered a normalised profit before 
tax of £143.7 million and a statutory profit for the 
year of £58.3 million. We generated over £180 
million of free cash flow, which we have used to 
reduce net debt, fund ongoing investment in our 
fleet and invest in new business development. 
Our Board policy is to maintain debt gearing 
between 2 and 2.5 times EBITDA and we 
continue to achieve this. I am pleased to see 
that total shareholder return of 41% for the year 
has reflected the performance and progress  
we have delivered.
Dividend
We have a clear, sustainable dividend policy –  
to pay a dividend that is covered approximately 
twice by our non-rail earnings. The Board  
is recommending that the final dividend  
is increased to 6.75 pence, which, when  
added to the interim dividend of 3.25 pence, 
represents an increase of 3% for the year as  
a whole. Subject to approval by shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014  
to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014. 
Board
Optimising the skills, diversity and experience of 
the Board is key. Thus I am delighted to welcome 
Jane Kingston as a Non-Executive Director. 
Jane is Group Human Resources Director 
at Compass Group and will make a strong 
contribution to Board and people matters. 
At the same time, Tim Score has stepped  
down from the Board after serving for nine years. 
I would like to thank Tim for his commitment 
and contribution over that period, acting as 
Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Audit 
Committee and, at one point, Interim Chairman. 
Jackie Hunt will take over as Chair of the Audit 
Committee and as Senior Independent Director. 
I greatly value Sir Andrew Foster’s support and 
guidance and welcome his decision to take up 
the offer to remain as a Director until the 2015 
Annual General Meeting to ensure continuity  
on the Board. 
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
27 February 2014
04 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our values and employees
At National Express, we have a set of values 
that are at the heart of everything we do. 
Operational Excellence now sits alongside 
Safety, Customers, People and Community. 
These values are demonstrated every day by 
our 42,000 committed employees, reflected  
in the high levels of employee engagement  
I have seen in the UK, US and other locations 
around the Group. 
The Board strongly believes that it has the 
right systems of governance in place to ensure 
that National Express is delivering on its Vision 
and Values and thereby has a sustainable 
and profitable future in its selected transport 
markets. We are determined to build on the 
good progress that we are already making 
in every area and will continue to monitor 
development on a regular basis. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our employees for their hard work during 
2013 and their ongoing commitment to  
National Express. 
I look forward to 2014 with confidence.  
We have a sound strategy and strong market 
positions, and a range of business development 
opportunities that can deliver additional growth 
and improved shareholder returns.
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
27 February 2014
Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently 
delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer 
excellent value.
Safety
We only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour
Customers
We place them at the heart of our business and relentlessly meet  
their expectations
People
We develop the talents, reward the exceptional performance and 
respect the rights of all our employees
Community
We are active in the communities we serve to generate economic, 
social and environmental value
Excellence 
We constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do
“ T otal shareholder return of 41 % 
for the year has reflected the 
performance and progress  
we have delivered.”
05 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Operational excellence lies at the heart 
of everything we do
Overview of 2013
National Express has delivered a strong 
financial performance in 2013. Normalised 
Group profit before tax was £143.7 million, 
ahead of our target, with a fourth consecutive 
record year for operating profit in our core  
non-rail business. Total Group revenue grew  
3% and we secured £1.8 billion of future revenue 
from markets where we didn’t operate just  
two years ago. We generated over £180 million  
of free cash flow and reduced our net debt  
by over £80 million.
This reflects the good progress we have made 
in 2013 against each of our three strategic 
goals. First, in our core markets we grew both 
revenue and non-rail profit. This is part of our 
‘Operational Excellence’ programme, with  
each division committed to delivering better 
customer service and lower costs. Second,  
we have delivered excellent cash flow, which  
we have used to reinvest in the business,  
pay an increased dividend to shareholders 
and pay down debt. Third, we have generated 
growth in new markets, which offer future 
revenue and profit potential to supplement  
our existing businesses. 
We have exceeded our profit and cash 
generation expectations. At the start of 2013, 
we recognised the challenging headwinds 
we faced – a total of £39 million of fuel price 
inflation, ongoing impacts from government 
austerity cuts in the UK, North America and 
Spain, pension accounting changes, and the 
loss of contribution from the National Express 
East Anglia (NXEA) rail franchise which ended 
during 2012. We have delivered £21 million in 
profit from revenue growth and £30 million in 
cost savings and synergy. Whilst the reduction 
in rail profits led to 2013 Group profit before 
tax declining to £143.7 million (2012: £164. 1m), 
normalised operating profit from our core  
non-rail businesses reached a record level  
of £185.5 million (2012: £185.2m).
Our core businesses, in diversified international 
bus and coach markets, are providing a strong 
platform for growth. Group revenue increased by 
3% to £1.89 billion (2012: £1.83bn), with revenue 
growth in every division except rail. UK Coach 
was the standout success, as it bounced back 
from the impact of the previous withdrawal of 
senior citizen concession funding. Excluding 
one-off Olympics profits in 2012, UK Coach 
profit increased by 30% year-on-year. The key 
was to give customers what they wanted – 
easy access to lower fares, more frequent and 
punctual services and investment in our third 
party operated fleet of modern coaches.
Excellent customer service also drove success 
in the North America business. 97% contract 
retention in School Bus led to a record operating 
profit in 2013, supported by the second year 
of a programme to improve operating margin 
and return on capital by contract. Conditions 
were challenging for our other divisions – UK 
Bus increased profit contribution through cost 
efficiency and fleet investment, but overall profit 
fell due to pension accounting changes and 
the reduction in government fuel duty rebate 
from 2012. Spain suffered a 7% reduction in 
operating profit, reflecting a challenging trading 
environment in the face of economic recession 
and the Eurozone crisis. Improved customer 
service, reduced costs and winning new 
contracts, such as Guadalajara and Tangiers, 
were key to offsetting these headwinds. 
For our investors, we are backing our revenue 
and profit performance with strong cash 
generation and an improving return on capital 
employed. At the beginning of 2013, we set 
ourselves the targets of delivering £125 to  
£150 million of free cash flow and increasing  
our pre-tax return on capital from our core  
non-rail business (‘ROCE’). We achieved 
over £180 million of free cash flow in 2013 
and increased ROCE to 1 1. 1% (2012: 10.6%). 
Net debt reduced to £7 46. 1 million (2012: 
£828.2m). We continue to invest in our fleet 
but are using capital more efficiently, reflecting 
economic conditions in Spain and our margin 
improvement programme in North America. 
Our reputation, operational expertise and 
contracting know-how in the UK, Spain and 
North America is being leveraged to create  
new business opportunities in selected markets 
and geographies. Over the last two years we 
have invested to build business development 
teams with the skills and experience to deliver 
success in target contract and concession 
markets and are currently working on a 
pipeline of opportunities worth over £10 billion 
of revenue. In 2013, this produced sizeable 
contract wins and new business opportunities, 
securing £1.8 billion of future revenue from new 
markets. In Germany we won our first two rail 
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014
External view – Safety 
“Driving Out Harm is an exemplar safety 
improvement programme, and has led to  
a 50% reduction in harm in just two years. 
The leadership of safety from the Group 
Chief Executive is as strong and effective as 
we’ve seen anywhere and is transforming 
the culture of safety throughout the Group.”
Richard Clarke, 
Director, Arthur D Little
06 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 contracts and launched coach services in  
the newly liberalised domestic market. In US 
Transit we have won five new contracts, taking 
annual revenue to $80 million in just 18 months.  
Building on our operational excellence in c2c, 
the UK’s best performing and customer rated 
rail franchise, we have submitted strong bids for 
the Essex Thameside and Crossrail contracts 
and successfully prequalified for the ScotRail bid. 
In total, we invested £25.7 million in exceptional 
costs to drive new business development,  
cost efficiency and acquisition integration.
Highlights
Highlights of 2013 included:
• The Group delivered 7% growth in total 
non-rail revenue, increasing core non-rail 
business operating profit for the fourth year in 
succession and delivering non-rail normalised 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) of 20. 1 pence.  
With a robust policy to cover regular 
dividends approximately two times from  
non-rail earnings, the full year proposed 
dividend has increased 3% to 10.0 pence. 
Free cash flow beat the enhanced target  
set in July 2013 by over £30 million.
• UK Coach grew total revenue 3%, with 
express passenger revenue 7% higher and 
volume growth in all core segments. Driven 
by better pricing, improved punctuality and 
new distribution agreements, operating 
margin exceeded 9% for this capital-light 
business which generated over £30 million  
in operating cash.
• North America grew total revenue by 10%, 
successfully completing the integration of  
the Petermann school bus acquisition from 
2012 and winning new transit contracts.  
97% contract retention, conversion bid 
success and a focus on investing only in 
contracts generating adequate returns led  
to a five percentage point improvement  
in pre-tax return on assets (‘ROA’) to 22%,  
and operating cash generation of almost 
US$200 million in 2013.
• UK Bus grew commercial revenue by 2%, 
launched commercial smartcards in the  
West Midlands and signed a ground-
breaking agreement with Centro, the West 
Midlands Integrated Transport Authority,  
to jointly develop new bus opportunities.  
Cost efficiency and new fleet increased profit 
contribution before pension accounting and 
BSOG fuel duty impacts.
• Spain saw profit fall due to the impact of 
recession and rail competition on intercity 
coach patronage, but nevertheless delivered 
a normalised operating profit of €96 million, 
with its flexible operating model resulting 
in reduced kilometres operated and urban 
growth in Spain and Morocco. ALSA’s third 
contract in Morocco – Tangiers – started  
in November.
• In Rail, c2c continued its excellent 
performance, remaining the best UK 
franchise for punctuality throughout 2013.  
It received 5-star quality accreditation  
and in May secured a franchise extension  
to September 2014.
Strategy
In 201 1 I set out our strategy for National 
Express. We have delivered a step change  
in our non-rail businesses, improving margins, 
generating cash and driving returns. Our portfolio 
today comprises well established businesses, 
operating in stable markets, effectively run by 
experienced management teams and which 
give access to attractive growth opportunities. 
Our three part strategy is successfully building 
shareholder value by delivering consistent 
progress in our core divisions, generating 
superior cash and returns, and creating  
profits from new, capital-light markets.
1. Delivering operational excellence
Our objective is to provide safe, punctual and 
frequent public transport services at excellent 
prices. To achieve this, our businesses each 
focus on delivering operational excellence, 
comprising:
• consistent service performance for our 
customers, leading to revenue growth;
• continuous cost efficiency improvement, 
leading to better margins and returns;  
and living our core values every day,  
leading to a sustainable business. 
Revenue growth
We have seen revenue growth in every business 
in 2013, after adjusting for the end of the NXEA 
franchise. Total revenue in the core bus and 
coach operations has grown by 7% through 
service improvement, contract wins and 
selective acquisitions. In Spain we grew total 
revenue by 1% as new contracts and growth in 
urban bus concessions offset lower passenger 
demand in the recession-hit intercity coach 
sector. Total revenue in North America grew by 
10%. We retained all the customers transferred 
through the Petermann acquisition, achieved 
97% contract retention in our existing school 
bus business and increased the price we 
achieved on contract renewal, as we focused 
on more sustainable, relationship-based 
contracts generating better capital returns, 
where service quality is valued by the customer.
In the UK, lower fares on our express coach 
network resulted in 7% revenue growth through 
increased passenger volume; this created 
a better load factor per coach, which, with 
improved yield management, significantly 
increased profit for the division. Bus grew  
like-for-like commercial revenue by 2% –  
we carried almost a million more commercial 
passenger journeys and more customers 
bought travelcards, which lower travel costs 
whilst encouraging loyalty to National Express 
services. Rail revenue at c2c rose by 4% as  
we carried more passengers. 
Delivering revenue growth through better 
customer service requires us to understand  
our customers’ needs better; build partnerships 
with our stakeholders; tackle the root causes  
of poor service delivery; and be agile on pricing.
We work hard to understand and meet  
our customers’ needs. Customer surveys, 
panels and focus groups inform our actions  
and customer satisfaction is strong across  
the Group:
• ALSA was rated the best transport 
company in Spain for customer excellence. 
It successfully retained its urban contract 
in Palencia on renewal and was awarded 
new contracts in Tangiers and Guadalajara. 
Against the backdrop of a tough economic 
environment, our customer recommendation 
rate increased by five percentage points  
to 87%.
• North America School Bus achieved 92% 
customer satisfaction, up from 85% in 2012, 
reaping the benefits of our local focus on 
service delivery and improved key account 
management. 
• Both UK Bus and UK Coach deployed 
customer technology in response to 
changing customer expectations. Over 
100,000 people have now downloaded the 
National Express West Midlands app, whilst 
coach travellers can follow their services real 
time. Coach customers can now buy tickets 
through a host of new distribution channels, 
including Ryanair and the Post Office.
• c2c has now been the best performing 
operator in the UK rail industry for a record-
breaking two years continuously, with an 
annual punctuality measure of 96.9% at  
year end. 
• We invested over £80 million in net capital 
expenditure in 2013, adding nearly 900 new 
vehicles across our operations in UK Bus, 
Spain and North America.
We have built constructive partnerships with 
our key stakeholders. UK Bus has a partnership 
with Centro to ‘Transform Bus Travel’ in 
the West Midlands. This embraces a good 
relationship with our principal local authority, 
committing both sides to investment in fleet 
and road prioritisation, fair pricing, provision of 
customer real-time information and roll out of 
smartcards. Our town centre turnaround vehicle 
cleaning programme has driven customer 
satisfaction well above the network average.
Where our performance fails to meet customer 
expectations, we have embedded structured 
solutions. UK Bus implemented automatic 
07 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
vehicle location to improve the consistency 
of services. Punctuality improved by 7% 
and our high frequency services in the Black 
Country are amongst the most punctual in 
the UK. Bus customer complaints are down 
a fifth. UK Coach created a programme to 
empower customer service staff at coach 
stations to resolve customer issues there and 
then, ensuring the customer gets safely to their 
destination in the event of service problems. 
In Morocco, we analysed the Agadir network 
which we started up in 2010 and identified 
significant improvements which have better  
met customer needs and driven a 32%  
increase in total ridership.
We deliver great value for money in our fares 
for passengers. UK Coach cut prices in 2012 
and drove a 6% increase in volume. In 2013 
we cut prices again, delivering a further 9% 
growth in passengers. In Spain, high speed 
rail, a competitor on 20% of our intercity coach 
routes, introduced substantial discounts in 
2013. We have responded by discounting 
coach fares and in 2014 we will invest further 
in yield management to improve the value we 
deliver. In UK Bus, our roll out of smartcard 
products allows customers to get even better 
value services.
Cost efficiency
We have grown core non-rail operating profit to 
£185.5 million in 2013 through revenue growth 
and cost efficiency. We have delivered £30 
million of cost efficiency and synergy, a 2% 
reduction in our cost base, which was delivered 
through a structured review of all controllable 
costs. In future we will target to reduce annual 
costs by 1% in real terms; drive down costs 
through synergy, productivity and use of 
technology; reconfigure networks to deliver 
efficiency; and secure procurement savings.  
In 2013, achievements included:
• In North America we completed the 
successful integration of Petermann, securing 
annualised saving of $10 million through 
procurement, insurance and overhead 
savings. Our GPS-based ‘Compass’ system 
has matched driving time to payroll and 
customer invoicing, delivering $3 million of 
efficiencies. We are standardising processes 
at each customer service centre (CSC) to 
improve quality and efficiency and have 
centralised ‘back office’ processes. 
• ALSA reduced network kilometres in Spain 
by 3% in 2013, showing the flexibility of the 
intercity coach model to reduce capacity 
to match lower passenger demand. In 
our Bilbao acquisition, completed in 2012, 
improvements in scheduling, employee 
management and stakeholder relations  
have delivered a significant turnaround  
in performance. 
• UK Bus delivered £9 million of efficiency 
savings to help mitigate headwinds from 
fuel prices, lower fuel duty rebates and the 
impact of pension accounting changes. This 
included reducing lost mileage by managing 
congestion using realtime location information, 
together with savings in engineering, 
procurement and overhead costs. 
• Alongside strong revenue growth, UK Coach 
delivered £7 million of cost savings, with an 
overhaul of the route network, consolidating 
routes and reducing some frequencies, whilst 
expanding new services such as at Luton 
Airport. Productivity in owned operations 
improved with the closure of the Crawley 
depot, whilst streamlining of third party 
operations produced efficiency gains for  
both ourselves and our partners.
To strengthen operational excellence, we 
are implementing structured processes in 
each business using a recognised quality 
management framework. These frameworks 
also help us replicate our success in our existing 
businesses in new market opportunities. In 
2013, c2c was awarded the maximum 5 star 
rating by the European Foundation for Quality 
Management (EFQM). This has been a key 
component of our success in delivering the UK’s 
best performing franchise, whilst also being 
recognised in our German and UK rail bids. 
Our values
We continue to support operational excellence 
through our focus on our core values – safety, 
customers, people and community. Employee 
engagement is strong across the Group, 
supported by formal training programmes  
such as ‘Master Driver’, which accredits  
drivers to key standards and provides non-
monetary rewards for exceptional performance. 
North America reported a record level of 89% 
employee satisfaction, up for the third year in 
a row. I would personally like to acknowledge 
the efforts and commitment of our employees 
in helping to achieve our customer service and 
safety improvements. I am also delighted with 
the progress of our Community programmes, 
including 2,400 young people helped by our 
UK initiative to support the further education 
of disadvantaged students and a US$4 million 
commitment to community support in North 
America. We are proud to be the first company 
to sign the UK Government’s Corporate 
Covenant that supports Armed Forces 
personnel, including helping their return  
to private sector employment.
Safety remains the first priority in all our 
operations. Three years ago we introduced  
our ‘Driving Out Harm’ programme and we 
have made good progress in improving the 
Group’s safety culture and incident rate. Over 
two years we have halved safety incidents  
External view – Customers 
“In mountain regions like La Alpujarra,  
with small and scattered communities  
and very difficult communications, the 
service provided by ALSA coaches is vital. 
Our transport routes provide daily access 
for inhabitants to health and educational 
services with complete ease. And they  
are particularly convenient for the elderly  
and young people living in our region.”
María Teresa Blanco
Mayor of Órgiva, Granada
08 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 External view – People 
“VaLUENTiS works with National Express 
to conduct its annual employee surveys in 
the UK. National Express has been diligent 
in the timing and consistency of approach, 
with significant attention paid to results 
and follow-up. In 2013, National Express 
recorded one of the highest engagement 
scores registered, with ‘best in class’ scores 
in two business units.”
Graeme Cohen, 
Graeme Cohen, Director, VaLUENTiS Ltd 
for which we are responsible. As we strive to 
improve our performance further, 2013 success 
has included: 
• recognition by the American National 
Standards Institute for safety in our School 
Bus business, the first industry operator  
to achieve this;
• record-breaking low levels of employee lost 
time injuries (LTIs) for the Group, including  
a 38% reduction in UK Bus;
• a 34% reduction in Signals Passed at Danger 
(SPAD) at c2c;
• a major reduction in passenger incident 
claims, down 40% year-on-year in Coach 
and 9% in Spain; and
• over £1 million in insurance premium savings 
during the year. 
2. Superior cash and returns
National Express is focused on cash 
generation. Our free cash flow pays dividends to 
shareholders, funds future growth and reduces 
debt. A strong cash flow and improving return 
on the capital we invest in the business will drive 
better returns for our shareholders. Maintaining 
a strong and flexible balance sheet gives us 
choices for the future. 
At the start of 2013 we set out our goals to  
drive superior cash and returns:
• to generate £125-150 million of free cash  
flow in 2013;
• to maintain our gearing ratio at between  
2 and 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA over  
the medium term, but to reduce our gearing 
to around 2 times at the end of 2014;
• to improve our core non-rail ROCE from 
10.6% that we achieved in 2012; and
• to achieve a 20% pre-tax return on assets 
(‘ROA’) in North America.
We have been successful in 2013 in delivering 
against these goals. Our free cash flow 
was over £180 million. The Group has now 
generated almost £600 million of free cash flow 
in the last four years. Working capital reduced 
by £31 million in 2013, as we further reduced 
contract receivables in Spain and North 
America. Group operating cash conversion  
was 129% of operating profit with the stand  
out performer North America, generating 
almost $200 million of operating cash flow, 
equivalent to repaying the cash cost of the 
Petermann acquisition in just a year. 
We reduced net debt in 2013 by £82 million 
to £7 46 million, a gearing ratio of 2.5 times 
EBITDA, with lower debt offsetting the loss of 
NXEA earnings in 2012. We continue to target 
a gearing ratio of around two times at the end 
of 2014.
We increased the Group’s core non-rail ROCE 
to 1 1. 1% in 2013. We invested over £80 million 
in net capital expenditure, mostly in new fleet. 
We are targeting where we invest carefully – 
we are renewing the UK Bus fleet, investing 
over one and a half times depreciation in 
2013 to introduce over 130 buses, leading to 
more passengers travelling with us. Our North 
American School Bus business is implementing 
a programme to use capital more efficiently, 
targeting lower capital ‘conversion’ contracts, 
not renewing existing contracts which don’t 
cover their cost of capital and reducing the 
number of spare vehicles required through 
more effective preventative maintenance,  
which saw the spare ratio fall to 1 1% (2012: 
12%). As a result of this, this division now  
has a 22% ROA (2012: 17%). 
In Spain we invested £44 million in net capital 
expenditure, broadly in line with depreciation. 
We are benefiting from negotiating extensions 
to fleet lives in urban bus contracts to help our 
austerity-impacted city council customers. 
Growth in our capital-light businesses – UK 
Coach, Germany, UK Rail and US Transit – are 
an integral part of driving higher Group returns.
3. Creating new business 
opportunities
Our unique portfolio of international bus, coach 
and rail businesses gives National Express  
a significant opportunity to grow in selected 
new markets. In particular we have identified 
markets that are capital-light in nature, allowing 
us to drive future profitable growth, offering  
the prospect of exciting additional returns  
to shareholders.
In addition to organic growth in our existing UK, 
Spain and North America businesses, in 2013 
we secured £1.8 billion of revenue from future 
market opportunities. We are currently working 
on a pipeline of opportunities worth over £10 
billion revenue, including UK Rail, German Rail 
and US Transit, as well as exploring interesting 
international markets and developing regular 
coach services in Germany.
09 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 During 2013 we developed the following  
new opportunities:
• Germany: we are now well established 
in the German rail bidding market, with an 
experienced local team in place. We are 
targeting capital-light regional ‘revenue 
risk’ and ‘gross cost’ contracts with pro-
competition regional authorities. In 2013 we 
won two 15-year contracts to run the Rhine 
Munsterland Express, expected to generate 
€70 million of annual revenue from the end 
of 2015. Mobilisation is now well underway. 
Using this successful credential and building 
on our record of delivering high quality 
service in c2c, we have prequalified for the 
prestigious Berlin Ringbahn tender later in 
2014, as part of a bid pipeline of 18 contracts 
with annual revenue of €1 billion. Our rail 
operations are being supplemented by  
our launch of ‘city2city’, a coach operation  
in Germany. We are using the UK Coach  
model of working with local coach partners  
to serve Munich, Stuttgart, Cologne, Frankfurt 
and Hamburg. Our start-up in 2013 saw  
a normalised operating loss of £2.4 million  
as we invest in marketing and promotion  
to develop this newly liberalised market. 
• US Transit: Within 18 months, we have 
built US$80 million of annual revenue 
and are currently working on a revenue 
pipeline of over US$200 million. Focused 
on the Paratransit, Shuttle and Fixed Route 
segments, we have won five contracts 
targeted in smaller, lower risk markets.  
The industry is typically capital-light,  
with publicly funded fleet investment.
• UK Rail: having secured the extension of 
c2c to September 2014, we are bidding 
selectively within a programme of significant 
rail refranchising in the UK. As the UK’s 
best performing franchise operator, we 
are pleased that quality is a factor in bid 
evaluation. Having prequalified for three 
tenders during the year, we have now 
submitted the Essex Thameside and 
Crossrail bids and expect to submit our 
ScotRail bid in April 2014. 
• International opportunities: we expect 
public transport to grow significantly in the 
medium term, through liberalisation and the 
development of infrastructure in emerging 
economies. Building on ALSA’s success 
developing the Moroccan market, we have 
invested in a bid team to explore selected 
opportunities which leverage National 
Express’ strengths in international bus, coach 
and rail markets, where the risk is appropriate 
and capital requirements generally light. 
Outlook
We intend to grow profit across all of our non-
rail businesses and develop our rail business 
by winning new franchises. We will continue 
to make progress against our three strategic 
goals. Focused on delivering operational 
excellence, our coach services in UK and Spain 
will benefit from continued development of yield 
management and greater retail distribution.  
Bus will benefit from our focus on service 
quality, network improvements and greater 
use of technology in the UK and further new 
contract opportunities in Spain and Morocco. 
North America School Bus will continue 
to improve its contract portfolio, driving 
capital returns and selectively adding bolt-on 
acquisitions and conversion opportunities. 
All businesses will deliver a minimum 1% real 
reduction in costs, supported by unchanged 
hedged fuel prices, driving margin progress 
across the Group.
With our focus on superior cash generation, 
we have a robust financial platform which 
has underpinned an increased dividend to 
shareholders. In 2014 we are targeting further 
free cash flow of £150 million. Our strong cash 
generation and targeted capital deployment 
will further reduce net debt, improve returns 
to shareholders and fund our new business 
development programme. In the last three 
months alone, we have submitted two rail 
tenders, successfully bid for two bolt-on 
acquisitions, begun bus operations in Tangiers 
and submitted contract tenders in Spain 
and North America Transit. We expect good 
progress from our £10 billion pipeline of capital-
light bid opportunities, securing new contracts, 
concessions and business opportunities  
to enhance shareholder value.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014 
External view – Community 
“I am grateful to National Express for 
being the first company to sign up to the 
Corporate Covenant. It is a great British 
company recognising the significant 
contribution and sacrifice of our Armed 
Forces and their families.”
Mark Francois MP 
Minister of State for the Armed Forces 
Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
10 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Understanding our markets
The key drivers for the Group’s strategy include mobility, 
economic activity, liberalisation and urbanisation. These 
are explained in this section.
Strategic Report: 
Market overview 
Group 
The National Express Group is a 
leading operator in the global public 
transportation market. Growth in these 
markets is mainly driven by economic 
activity, increasing social mobility and 
the outsourcing of public provision 
of services. The forecast trend is for 
ongoing liberalisation in both developed 
and developing economies.
■  Urbanisation and  
increased mobility
Source: KPMG
■  Gr e en fi e l d  
projects 
■  Deregulation and  
liberalisation
Economic activity
The propensity to travel is generally 
affected by levels of economic activity, 
as represented by GDP growth. 
Although absolute levels of transport 
and mobility remain stable through 
the economic cycle, periods of GDP 
growth generate additional volume 
demand and pricing benefit.
 
Real GDP Growth 
-6%
-4%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
United Kingdom
United States
Spain
Germany
Morocco Source: EIU
11 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Market overview continued
Deregulation, liberalisation and outsourcing
Our markets have been created when state provision of 
public transport is transferred to the private sector. There 
are different models for this, with examples ranging from 
the deregulated markets of our UK Bus and UK Coach 
divisions, through the concessions and franchises of 
Spain and Rail, to the school board and transit contracts 
of North America. 
This is supported by a trend towards market liberalisation, 
such as European Union directives focused on opening 
up rail networks. Cost saving is increasingly a factor too, 
through recognition of the superior efficiency of privately 
operated services.
The current size of the European public transport market  
is estimated to be approximately €150 billion*, of which 
around €50 billion is at present outsourced.
Urbanisation
Our services benefit from increasing urbanisation around  
the world, in particular driving demand for bus operations. 
Existing towns and cities are expanding, in addition to 
the creation of new centres of population. Often this is 
accompanied by significant investment in infrastructure.  
This in turn requires additional transportation services,  
both within and between locations, so our bus, coach  
and rail operations are increasingly in demand.
Modal shift 
Modal shift is the move by individuals from one form of 
transport to another. For National Express, the relevant move 
is from the private car to bus, coach and rail travel. The biggest 
reason for this is an increase in the cost of motoring, such 
as rising fuel and insurance prices, although other factors 
such as environmental concerns and congestion can also 
be important. In Spain, we have seen additional support for 
demand in long distance coach services as air travel has  
either become more expensive or capacity has reduced. 
Environment and congestion
Bus, coach and rail services are significantly more 
environmentally friendly forms of transport than the private car 
or air travel, reducing both the level of carbon emissions per 
person travelling and travel congestion. Society as a whole 
and individuals are becoming increasingly concerned about 
the effect of emissions on the environment and are explicitly 
choosing public transport as an alternative.
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Other
Europe
South
Europe
East
Europe
North
Europe
Benelux UK/
Ireland
France Germany
8
19
4
6
2
3
4
3
15
1
7
20
4
25
3
22
€27bn €27bn €16bn €10bn €7bn €5bn €29bn €25bn
Closed *Source: OECD Open
2010 Public Transportation Market
T otal Transport Market: €150bn
Share of global population living in cities %
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
2050 2010 1950
51 70
30
49
29
71
Rural areas Source: OECD Urban areas
12 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3. Well balanced portfolio
Divisional split by revenue
Modal split by revenue
A sound proposition for investors
Strategic Report: 
Investment case 
1. A best in class public transport operator*
Margin  
%
Best in  
class %
Spain 14.4 NX
North America 9.7 NX
UK Bus 11.4 15
UK Coach 9.3 NX
Rail 6.9 NX
Group 10.2 NX
*By margin
Delivering operational excellence
• Best in class Group margin of 10.2%
• Revenue growth of 3%
• £4.6 billion of long term contracted or  
concessionary revenues
• Sustainable long term earnings: Core non-rail profit growth 
to £185.5 million
Generating superior cash and returns
• Free cash flow of over £180 million
• Operating cash conversion of 129%
• Net debt reduced by over £80 million in 2013
• Core non-rail ROCE increased by 50bps to 1 1. 1%
2. A sound strategy in place 
4.  Stable long term finance in place and 
commitment to investment grade rating
Gearing ratios 2013 2012 Covenant
Net debt/EBITDA 2.5x 2.5x <3.5x
Interest cover 6.1x 6.7x >3.5x
Ratings Grade Outlook
Moodys Baa3 Positive
Fitch BBB- Stable
Strong debt maturity profile
5.  Dividend policy based on sustainable non-rail 
earnings basis
2013  
p
2012  
p
Basic EPS Non-rail 20.1 21.6
Rail 1.4 3.9
Group 21.5 25.5
Dividend 10.0 9.75
Bus
School Bus/Transit
Coach
Rail
Excludes German Coach
Spain
North America
UK Bus
UK Coach
Rail
Excludes German Coach
34 26 19 11
227
64
383
410
17
21 20 19 18 17 16 15
Drawn
14
Available
13 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51
Pipeline of substantial capital-light growth 
opportunities starting to deliver
• Over £1.8 billion of new contracts won during the year:
• German rail – won Rhine Munsterland Express contract ending  
in November 2030; prequalified for Berlin Ringbahn
• T ransit – 5 contracts won; annualised T ransit revenue  
now $80 million
• Rail – Bids submitted for Essex Thameside and Crossrail; 
prequalified for ScotRail
Read more p14 Operational
excellence
Safety,
Customer Service,
Operational Efﬁciency
Economic returns
Increasing numbers
of passengers and
contracts, organic
revenue and proﬁt
growth, cash
generation, increasing
return on capital
employed
Our markets
Bus, Coach,
School Bus, Rail
Resources and
relationships
Customers, Employees,
Government, Communities,
 Know-How
Shareholder
value creation
Our business model
Delivering operational excellence
Delivering new opportunities
Generating superior cash and returns
Our strategy 
Customers
People
Safety
Excellence 
Community 
Delivering long term shareholder value
Strategic Report: 
Our business model and strategy 
Our business model 
The Group uses its operational expertise, experience and accumulated 
know-how to provide best in class transport services. Our customers 
value our safe, punctual and frequent services that are available at 
excellent prices.
Private transport operators can provide a higher standard of service 
and better value for money than public or state management.  
National Express is able to leverage this expertise across different 
modes of transport and different geographies. Our focus on 
operational excellence will allow us to target long term sustainable 
growth of the business: 
• Through the constant improvement of high standards in  
customer service we will grow revenue by increasing passenger  
and contract volumes as well as providing the credentials for  
growth in new markets. 
• We are driving cost efficiencies across the Group to protect  
and grow margins. 
• Most of all, we will ensure that our customers and employees  
are safe at all times.
The Group has a relatively decentralised management structure,  
with a strong degree of autonomy of each division’s leadership, 
working within our framework of operational and financial strategic 
objectives. There are some economies of scale in procurement, 
insurance, overhead costs and financing.
The structurally cash-generative nature of the business enables  
us to combine sustainable investment in existing operations with  
the opportunity to build value through high-return growth and  
capital returns to shareholders.
14 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our strategy 2013 performance Measuring our performance
Delivering operational 
excellence 
Driving revenue growth and margin 
progression in our core divisions by 
delivering excellent customer service 
and cost efficiency 
Customer service
• ALSA the top rated transport company  
in Spain; passenger growth of 15%  
in Morocco
• 92% customer satisfaction and 97% 
retention rate in School Bus
• Core passenger growth of 9% in UK Coach
• Record-breaking performance at c2c
Cost efficiency
• Non-rail profit increased to £185.5 million
• Group margin best in class at 10.2% reflects 
smaller rail business
• Four out of five divisions have best  
in class margins
• £30 million of cost savings across the Group
Generating superior cash 
and returns
A strong cash flow and improving return 
on the capital we invest will drive better 
returns for our shareholders 
• Operating cash flow increased by  
£38 million to £248.0 million
• 129% of Group operating profit converted 
into cash
• Free cash flow of £183 million
• Non-rail return on capital improved by 
50bps to 1 1. 1% 
Delivering new opportunities
Our unique portfolio of international bus, 
coach and rail businesses gives National 
Express a significant opportunity to grow 
in selected new markets
• Won our first rail contracts in Germany
• Built over $80 million of annual revenue  
in US Transit 
• Won Tangiers and Guadalajara urban  
bus contracts in ALSA
• Launched German coach operations
• Bid submitted for Essex Thameside and 
Crossrail; prequalified for ScotRail in the UK
Local currency  
Rail revenue growth is adjusted for the handover of NXEA in 2012.
-5
0
5
10
15
20
Metric: Revenue growth %
Spain North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
Rail
12 13 13 13 13 13 12 12 12 12
Metric: Margin %
0
5
10
15
20
Spain North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
Rail
12 13 13 13 13 13 12 12 12 12
Metric: Operating cash conversion %
0
50
100
150
200
Spain North
America
UK
Bus
UK
Coach
Rail
12 13 13 13 13 13 12 12 12 12
Metric: Contract wins by value (£m)
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
Spain North
America
UK
Coach
Rail
12 13 13 13 13 12 12 12
15 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategy in Action 
Delivering operational  
excellence  
c2c is the UK’s  
top performing  
rail franchise
National Express has been the UK’s top performing 
franchise for punctuality for the last two years, 
delivering an average annual punctuality measure 
of 96.9% at the end of 2013. We are also the most 
popular franchise in London and the South East,  
as recognised in the Autumn 2013 National 
Passenger Survey results.
16 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Generating superior  
cash and returns
School Bus business  
drives $196 million of  
operating cash flow
We have had great success in 2013 with our 
increased focus on cash generation and returns. 
In School Bus, our most capital intensive division, 
we have converted 200% of operating profit into 
cash and increased Return on Assets to 22%.  
We worked with our customers to extend vehicle 
lives, cascaded buses around the fleet according 
to demand and kept our spares ratio low at 1 1%.
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 17 Strategy in Action 
Pipeline of substantial  
capital-light growth  
opportunities  
T angiers win adds to  
our Moroccan footprint
The Group has unique access to international 
passenger transport markets. This year we started 
to operate city bus services in Tangiers, adding 
to our existing Marrakech and Agadir contracts. 
Our track record of high quality operations and 
investment in fleet gives us a key advantage in 
securing similar opportunities.
18 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Living our Values 
Strategic Report: 
Managing our relationships and resources
Our Vision and Values were launched three 
years ago as a fundamental statement of who 
we are as a business and how we operate.
They originate from the conviction of the Company 
that National Express wants to be. Rather 
than the potential ‘gloss’ of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, the way we act as a business 
embodies these Vision and Values. In National 
Express’ view being a good and successful 
company should be – and are – synonymous.
Since their introduction their relevance has 
become ever more important. In difficult 
economic times our Vision ‘to earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers by consistently 
delivering frequent, high performing public 
transport services which offer excellent  
value’ has helped to ensure we carried  
more passengers in 2013 than in 201 1.*
Underpinned by our Values of Safety, Customers, 
People and Community, the Vision and Values 
have guided how we operate as a business 
and prioritised what we have focused on.
This year we have refreshed the Values to 
include a fifth: Excellence. By being excellent 
in all that we do we will meet customer 
expectations, deliver industry-leading services 
and act as a willing and constructive partner. 
We will be reporting on our achievements under 
the new Excellence Value in future years.
Ultimately, National Express firmly believes 
that these Vision and Values help us to deliver 
excellent services and drive growth in  
our business.
Safety
Safety is our priority. We have made significant 
progress in recent years but are aware there is 
always more to do. For us safety is ‘relentless’, 
it requires a continual focus on our processes 
and our practices.
We have robust processes in place to manage 
performance, with ultimate responsibility lying 
with Dean Finch, the Group Chief Executive.  
We review our health and safety strategy  
every three years, with objectives and targets 
set for each of our divisions – reflecting the 
fact that each business has its own unique 
challenges, each divisional head is responsible 
for developing and managing appropriate  
health and safety management systems.
We have seen significant progress since 
we launched the ‘Driving Out Harm’ safety 
programme across the Group in 201 1. ‘Driving 
Out Harm’ sets out global safety standards for 
all our businesses and employees to follow. 
The programme is reviewed annually by 
independent assessors from Arthur D 
Little. Their 2013 review found significant 
progress in safety performance and the 
further strengthening of safety leadership and 
upgrading of processes for controlling key risks.
This progress is borne out by our performance. 
Compared with 2010, across the Group 
responsible major injuries have fallen by 48%. 
Total employee injuries are down by 39% and 
preventable accidents have reduced by 21%.
* Normalised, without National Express East Anglia.
Safety performance
2013 2010 % Change
Responsible major injuries 37 71 48% reduction
Preventable accidents 578 729 21% reduction
Total employee injuries 1,571 2,568 39% reduction
We have continued to promote our ‘Driving 
Out Harm’ safety campaign, including 
reinforcing the Golden Rules
Our Vision
To earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers 
by consistently delivering frequent, high 
performing public transport services which 
offer excellent value
Our Values
Excellence
Safety
Customers 
People
Community
19 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Managing our relationships and resources continued
Customers
Customers are at the heart of everything we 
do. We continue to work to achieve their lifetime 
loyalty through delivering excellent services.  
Our five Customer Golden Rules set out  
a Group-wide standard which all employees  
are required to follow.
This approach is leading to some significant 
achievements. For example, c2c is currently 
the most popular commuter train operator in 
London and the South East according to the 
National Passenger Survey. c2c also has the 
highest UK performance statistics in four of 
the survey’s key categories: satisfaction with 
the train (92%), punctuality (94%), transport 
connections (88%) and information provided  
at stations (88%). And in Spain, an external 
survey by PriceWaterhouseCoopers has  
ranked ALSA as one of the top customer 
service providers in the country.
We measure customer satisfaction across 
all businesses. These measures are used to 
set strategy and improve services in line with 
customers’ expectations. Our businesses are 
aligning their own internal KPIs with those our 
customers tell us are most important to them.
People
Delivering on our Vision and for our customers 
is only possible if National Express is a good 
place to work. National Express recognises that 
our workforce is our greatest asset and we want 
each of our 42,000 employees to reach their full 
potential and to give their best. 
A renewed Group-wide people strategy has 
been developed to further build employee 
engagement and to develop management 
capability to ensure we have the skill sets in 
place to drive operational excellence. This new 
strategy will be rolled out during 2014, and will 
include a common employee benefits package 
making it easier for our employees to take 
advantage of discounts and offers.
This renewed strategy builds on encouraging 
results in recent years. Each business runs 
an employee survey to measure engagement 
and gauge opinion on issues such as safety, 
employee morale and relationships with 
managers. These results are used to guide our 
businesses’ actions and strategies to ensure 
we are doing all that we can to ensure National 
Express is a good place to work.
Our UK employee surveys are carried out by 
the same firm, VaLUENTiS, which is widely 
used as an employee survey provider by the UK 
transport industry. We are able to benchmark 
our engagement against the broader industry.
Our results for 2013 demonstrate that we have 
been making important strides forward. The 
result for corporate employees is amongst the 
highest engagement score for any business 
or part of a business in VaLUENTiS’ database. 
c2c’s engagement score is the highest of any 
train company in VaLUENTiS’ database. And  
UK Coach has registered the highest score in the 
UK Bus/Coach section of VaLUENTiS’ database.
Again we see that this is delivering results.  
In the last three years, improvements have  
been achieved in four of the five main businesses, 
with only UK Coach seeing a slight reduction 
in customer satisfaction. This was mainly due 
to a higher number of roadworks and delays 
on major roads in the last year, impacting 
on performance. We are also embracing 
new technology to improve the customer 
experience. Across the business we are using 
mobile apps, Twitter and Facebook to provide 
real-time travel information for customers and 
new ways for them to interact with us. 
We have also established an annual Customer 
Service Week, with all senior managers across 
the business working with operational staff and 
serving customers. We believe this first-hand 
experience across the business is crucial as 
we deliver on our Vision of earning the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers.
Overall customer satisfaction
Coach Bus c2c ALSA
North 
America
2011 83% 80% 91% 74% 86%
2012 84% 82% 91% 77% 85%
2013 82% 83% 92% 77% 92%
Businesses across the Group took part in 
Customer Service Week in 2013
As part of the Customer Service Week 
activities, Michael Hampson, General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, met 
drivers at Baltimore
The Deputy Prime Minister, the Rt Hon Nick 
Clegg MP , visited our Birmingham Central 
bus garage to highlight the importance of 
apprenticeships
20 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our North American School Bus survey 
continues to produce strong scores. In the  
latest survey, 89% of employees say they  
enjoy working for the business.
National Express has a number of policies in 
place to protect and promote employee welfare, 
such as the workplace rights and human rights 
policies, as well as disability, equal opportunities 
and whistleblowing policies. Any alleged 
breaches of these policies are fully investigated 
by the Company and appropriate action taken 
where necessary. Wherever our employees 
choose to be represented by unions, National 
Express actively seeks to maintain relationships 
based on mutual respect and transparency.
We are also committed to widening 
employment opportunities for young people. 
We were delighted when this was recognised 
by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Rt Hon Nick 
Clegg MP , with a visit in November to meet 
engineering apprentices at our Birmingham 
Central bus garage. The UK Bus training team 
have also worked with the Department for Work 
and Pensions to develop the first Sector-based 
Work Academy for driving skills. These initiatives 
form part of our Routes to Work programme 
which is creating 1,700 job opportunities over 
a three-year period.
Another example, from Spain, is the launch of 
the Muevete programme providing 80 trainees 
with work experience in ALSA, placing them  
in a stronger position to apply for jobs.
The Armed Forces provide a valuable source 
of skilled recruits to our UK businesses. 
Recognising the importance of this pool 
of talent, we were proud to be the first UK 
company to sign the Government’s Corporate 
Covenant. Among other benefits, this provides 
all suitably qualified ex-service personnel with 
a guaranteed interview. Our leadership here 
has been recognised by the UK Government, 
including the Prime Minister, the Rt Hon David 
Cameron MP .
Community
As a transport company, we don’t just move 
vehicles. We are proud to play a vital part in our 
communities – whether that’s getting people to 
work, taking them to see loved ones, effectively 
managing our environmental impact or, above 
all, taking children safely to and from school.
Both directly through the services we offer and 
through the jobs we provide and more widely, 
we are making a difference in our communities. 
We believe we have made significant strides  
in the last year. 
The National Express Foundation continued 
into its second year, making more awards to 
community groups and providing bursaries 
for students with challenging financial 
circumstances. Since its launch, the foundation 
has helped around 2,400 young people through 
supporting students at 6 further or higher 
education institutions and 15 community groups. 
A third round of grants will be made shortly.
Following its success in the UK, work has 
progressed to establish the National Express 
Giving Foundation in the US. As in the UK, this 
new foundation is supporting students and 
community groups, but also has the remit to 
support employees who are suffering hardship.
In addition to the foundations, each business 
continues to progress its own community 
initiatives.
In Spain, 6,000 employees participated in the 
Kilos y Kilometres initiative in September which 
collected 10 tonnes of foodstuffs through 
50 collection points across the country. The 
donations supported the work of food banks 
across Spain.
The partnership between UK Bus and Transaid 
expanded with the visit of two engineers to 
Tanzania to assess training needs of local staff 
at the National Institute of Transport. This was 
in addition to training inputs from four Driver 
Trainers in building the capability of local staff to 
deliver professional driver training.
The Special Olympics continue to be the main 
charitable cause in North America. We provided 
the transportation at a number of Special 
Olympics events throughout the US. 
In the UK, the Employee Charity Panel made 
donations of almost £17 ,000 to 50 different 
charities and community groups. The Panel 
only supports groups where an employee is 
personally involved in fundraising or volunteering, 
and the awards it makes generate a huge 
amount of goodwill in the local community.
Across the Group, charitable donations totalling 
£356,000 were made during the year.
Employee, senior management 
and director numbers by gender 
at end 2013
Male Female
Directors 9* 1*
Senior Managers 53 15
All employees 25,065 17,459
*  The gender split of the Board changed with the 
appointment of Jane Kingston as an independent 
Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2014, and  
the resignation of Tim Score on 25 February 2014.
Newman University, in Birmingham, was 
one of the successful recipients of National 
Express Foundation funding in 2013
21 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Managing our relationships and resources continued
Managing our  
environmental impacts 
An important component of our Community 
Value is ensuring we meet our environmental 
responsibilities. Our Group Property and 
Environment Director works with the responsible 
director from each division to ensure we comply 
with relevant legislation, set ambitious targets 
and deliver against them. 
2013 was a year of strong environmental 
performance at National Express. In the UK, 
we set three-year targets in 2010 which we 
achieved by the end of 2012, a year earlier than 
planned. These targets were exceeded in 2013. 
We improved our position in the UK Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Efficiency Scheme 
league table to become the best performing 
public transport company (and are now ranked 
21st of all companies reporting in the UK). We 
have also delivered energy reductions at our 
sites in Spain. We are determined to build on 
these achievements and consistently deliver 
excellence in our environmental performance 
and reporting. 
February 2014 saw National Express achieve 
full compliance in the CRC Energy Efficiency 
Scheme (formerly known as the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment), which provides  
a clear demonstration that we are actively 
responding to the climate change agenda  
in our development and drive of energy  
and carbon management strategies.
We are fully engaged with the Carbon 
Disclosure Project and it is helping us manage 
carbon usage and our impacts on climate 
change. You can find out more about our  
work in this area on our Group website.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2013 (tCO
2
e) UK greenhouse gas emissions 
(tCO
2
e)
For 2013 we are reporting our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions for the whole Group for the first 
time. In the UK we have already made significant 
progress in reducing our emissions. Since 2010, 
our UK businesses have seen a 43% reduction 
in emissions. See panel on page 23 for more  
detail on how we report GHG emissions.
We have delivered these improvements through 
improved management and investment. For 
example, we have rolled out telematics widely 
across our bus and coach fleets. Through the 
review of driving styles and vehicle efficiencies 
we have delivered the 5% reduction target in 
fuel consumption a year early.
We have invested in a renewables programme. 
New solar panels generated, on average, 7% of 
site energy at the six locations where they are 
installed. In total 244,540 KWh of renewable 
energy was generated in 2013. This amount 
would be sufficient to power the Milton Keynes 
coach station all year.
We have also achieved the energy reduction 
targets through the use of energy efficient 
heating, cooling, lighting and voltage 
optimisation technology.
We have made considerable progress with 
recycling waste across the Group. c2c has 
performed particularly strongly. 91.25% of all 
waste produced at our stations was recycled, 
with many locations achieving 100% across 
the year.
The Board’s Safety & Environment Committee 
reviews and monitors our environmental 
systems and processes, and makes 
recommendations on specific issues. Further 
information on its role and responsibilities can 
be found on page 67 . The Committee will set 
new Group-wide targets for 2014-2017 in the 
coming months. A priority for the Group has 
been to improve its environmental reporting  
and these new targets will fully incorporate  
our Spanish and North American businesses 
for the first time.
Performance area
KPI target by end 2013 On target
Fuel 5% reduction in UK fleet  
consumption (MWh)
Exceeded  
6.9% reduction
Site energy 10% reduction in UK site electricity, gas 
and oil consumption
Exceeded 
1 1.28% reduction
Waste 40% reduction in UK non-hazardous waste 
going to landfill
Exceeded 
93% reduction
All KPIS from 2010 baseline
10 11 12 13
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0
Coach (owned and 3rd party) 107,174
Bus (incl. Metro) 140,773
Trains (c2c) 42,816
Leased vehicles and 
business travel (UK) 611
ALSA 302,683 
North America 237,957
13%
17%
5%
29%
36%
22 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 External view
“Our Transforming Bus Travel partnership 
with National Express is genuinely industry 
leading. It sets tough targets that make sure 
both organisations work together to achieve 
the best deal for bus passengers and deliver 
the quality of service customers expect. This 
is only possible because of the strength of 
our relationship.”
Geoff Inskip
Chief Executive, Centro
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2013
Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2013
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities (GHG Protocol Scope 1) 765,526
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use  
(GHG Protocol Scope 2)
61,808
Other upstream emissions (GHG Protocol Scope 3) 7,158
Total 834,492
Intensity metric (tonnes CO
2
e/£million revenue) 441
Building strong relationships
National Express believes that building  
strong relationships is crucial to our ability both 
to deliver our Vision of consistently excellent 
services for our customers and win new 
contracts in our existing and new markets.  
But as our Community Value makes clear, 
seeking to forge strong relationships is also  
an important part of who we are as a business. 
Public transport services require many 
institutions and organisations to work closely 
together to ensure their delivery. This is why 
we seek to build genuine partnerships to help 
ensure we can deliver our Vision.
Our ability to deliver excellent rail services 
requires a strong relationship with Network Rail 
– that is why we were the first Rail company to 
form an ‘alliance’ with Network Rail and have a 
Joint Control Centre in Upminster. We believe 
this partnership approach has been crucial in 
delivering c2c’s industry-leading performance.
Our ability to deliver excellent bus and coach 
services and grow patronage requires a strong 
relationship with the relevant authorities. That is 
why, for example, we have signed the industry-
leading Transforming Bus Travel 3 agreement 
with Centro (see right). As the majority of our 
UK Coach journeys are on the Strategic Road 
Network, we are working in partnership with the 
Highways Agency to help deliver our punctuality 
and reliability ambitions. 
Our aim is to provide safe, excellent North 
America School Bus services that meet the 
needs of children and parents, but also the 
local school boards. We look to forge close 
relationships with local boards to create 
partnerships that deliver the services we all 
want to see. That is why we are so proud of  
our customer service scores and testimonials 
such as that from the school board at Racine 
(below right).
This is an approach that we are taking into new 
markets as well. We have worked very closely 
with the relevant authorities in North Rhine 
Westphalia as we prepare for the start of our 
services there next year. 
Being an active partner in the areas we 
serve also means looking beyond day-to-
day business activity and playing a broader 
community role. That is why we launched the 
National Express Foundation. We recognised 
that as Birmingham’s largest employer we had 
a responsibility to the community we served. 
We were proud to be the first company to sign 
up to the UK Government’s Military Corporate 
Covenant. (See External View – Community on 
page 10). Our North American business has 
supported the Special Olympics for a number of 
years. And we are active supporters of projects 
run by UNICEF in Morocco and Transaid in 
Tanzania. There are many other examples of 
partnership and support. 
Being a trusted partner is good business. But 
as with our Vision and Values, National Express 
believes that being a good partner is the sign of 
a good business.
GHG reporting methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. These sources fall 
within our consolidated financial statement. We do not 
have responsibility for any emission sources that are not 
included in our consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions 
is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition), together with 
the latest emission factors from recognised public 
sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the 
International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information 
Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency 
and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
We have used a materiality threshold of 5% and have 
accounted for all material sources of greenhouse  
gas emissions. 
Analysis of our GHG emissions is carried out externally 
by Ecometrica. 
External view
“We have worked in partnership with 
Durham School Services since 2000 and 
the level of safety, delivery, and customer 
service we have received is outstanding.  
The team is knowledgeable, responsive  
and customer service driven, consistently 
looking for ways to provide efficient and 
reliable service.”
Patrick Starken
Transportation Supervisor 
Racine Unified School District, Wisconsin
23 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Committed to managing  
risk effectively and robustly 
Strategic Report: 
Risk and Risk Management 
The Group has a well established governance 
structure with internal control and risk 
management systems. The risk management 
process:
• provides a framework to identify, assess 
and manage risks, both positive and 
negative, to the Group’s overall strategy 
and the contribution of its individual 
component divisions;
• gives business unit management formal 
tools to identify and manage risks in their 
day-to-day operations;
• allows Group Executive management to 
identify and manage the risks that are likely 
to have a more significant impact on the 
financial results and strategy and share 
common issues and solutions across 
the Group; and
• allows the Board to fulfil its governance 
responsibilities by making a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the 
operation of the risk management process 
and its outputs.
Responsibilities and actions
The Board:
• has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness;
• has a mandate to define the Group’s risk 
culture and to determine its appetite for risk  
in order to deliver the strategic objectives;
• maintains full control and direction over 
appropriate strategic, financial, operational 
and compliance issues; and
• has put in place an organisational structure 
with formally defined lines of responsibility, 
delegated authorities and clear operating 
processes.
The Audit Committee: 
• has specific responsibility for reviewing  
and validating the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control and risk  
management systems;
• is responsible for the identification, 
assessment and management of risk, 
including actions taken and processes 
adopted to do so;
• reviews and approves all financial information 
published by the Group; and
• reviews the internal audit programme, 
considers major findings of the internal audit 
investigations and reviews management’s 
financial reporting and risk management.
Risk assessment
Each division, plus the Group function, is 
required to make a formal review of all risks to 
their business objectives, assess the impact 
and likelihood of the risk occurring and put in 
place appropriate mitigating actions, processes 
and systems to manage the risk.
Identify
Identify risks to business objectives on a bottom 
up basis: risks are described and categorised 
into Operational, Strategic and Financial risks 
in order to help define their precise nature and 
potential impact on the business.
Assess 
Assess and quantify the potential impact 
on business objectives and determine the 
likelihood of the risk occurring. This is done on 
a ‘before’ and ‘after’ basis, where the impact of 
management controls is assessed in relation to 
the probability and severity of a risk.
Mitigating actions
Take mitigating actions and implement systems 
to manage the likelihood and impact of the  
risk. Identify an individual with responsibility  
for each risk.
Review
Risks are considered on a monthly basis at 
divisional level and formally updated twice a year. 
These risks are documented on a divisional risk 
register. Management is encouraged to review 
the risk registers from other divisions to identify 
common issues and potential solutions.
Each divisional register, including the Group 
function register, is consolidated into a Group 
Risk Register.
The Group Executive Committee reviews the 
Group Risk Register twice a year, followed 
by the Group Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee reports in turn to the main Board. 
Internal audit
The internal audit function has responsibility 
for the monitoring of the risk management and 
internal control systems. Internal Audit reports  
to management and the Audit Committee 
on the extent to which internal controls are 
adequately designed and implemented.
Risk assessment review 
Risk assessment 
Identify 
Assess 
Mitigating actions
Review 
Group Executive Committee 
Audit Committee
PLC Board 
Review
24 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 During 2013 the Group focused on the following key areas of risk: 
Risk Change Why? Responsible
Concession and contract 
renewal
Significant increase in bidding activity Group Chief Executive and 
divisional Managing Directors
Economic conditions 
and austerity
Tight public budgets in persistently weak 
economic conditions
Divisional Managing Directors
Political and regulatory Ongoing regulatory changes in Spain,  
North America and UK
Group Chief Executive and 
divisional Managing Directors
Contract management Ongoing inherent risk in contract businesses Divisional Managing Directors
The following are ongoing risks within the business: 
Fuel cost Changes in the price of fuel will continue to be 
a risk
Group Finance Director
 Insurance and claims Continuing claims management and safety 
systems in place
Group Finance Director
Credit risk Payment terms and cash collection better  
in North America and Spain
Divisional Finance Directors
Currency Lessening threat of major disruption  
in Eurozone
Group Finance Director
25 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: 
Concession and contract renewal
Risks
Much of the Group’s business is secured 
through winning contracts and concessions, 
particularly in its North American School Bus 
and Transit business, in Spain and in Rail.
2014 sees some significant bidding activity, 
such as the Essex Thameside (c2c) Rail 
franchise and the expected start of bidding  
to renew coach concessions in Spain.
Assessment 
Approximately 65% of the Group’s total 
revenue is either contract or concession 
based. These contracts vary in length and 
are typically awarded for between 12 months 
and 20 years.
Essex Thameside is the Group’s last 
remaining Rail franchise and so represents 
all of the current rail revenue. The Group has 
secured its participation in the rail industry 
in future by winning contracts to operate 
services in Germany until 2030.
The concession renewal process in Spain 
is undergoing regulatory change, with the 
most significant difference the removal of 
the incumbent advantage. ALSA currently 
expects about 20% of its national coach 
concessions to be bid in 2014 and 2015.
Management 
A reputation for high quality services helps 
to win and retain contracts. The Group has 
a good record of retaining contracts on a 
historic basis: no national coach concession 
in Spain has been lost before and retention 
rates in School Bus are typically very high 
(97% in 2013).
National Express has now submitted its bids 
for Essex Thameside and Crossrail. It has 
also prequalified to tender for ScotRail during 
2014. Further rail contracts are being bid  
in Germany.
ALSA is well prepared to submit high quality 
bids on its own and other concessions as 
and when they are called to tender.
Potential  
impact
High 
Economic conditions and austerity
Risks
Uncertain economic conditions currently 
exist in Europe and North America. Whilst 
some of the Group’s businesses have 
naturally defensive characteristics, some of 
the more discretionary parts of the business 
may be adversely affected by reduced 
economic activity.
Assessment 
Revenues in the Bus, Coach and Rail 
businesses in the UK and Spain may be 
affected by lower passenger demand; there 
is also some positive risk that the Group 
would benefit from the prospect of modal 
shift towards its forms of transport. In North 
America for example, school boards may 
reduce their transportation budgets, or look 
to shift provision to contractors like National 
Express. In Spain, the division may be 
affected by the effects of austerity and low 
GDP growth. However, they may benefit  
from the outsourcing of further urban  
bus operations.
Management 
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks 
through proactive cost control, revenue 
management systems, the careful economic 
modelling of new and existing contracts, 
including sensitivities around expected 
growth rates, and through sharing risk  
with contracting parties.
Potential  
impact
High 
Political and regulatory
Risks
The Group’s businesses are subject to 
numerous laws in the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, regulating the operation of 
concessions, safety procedures, equipment 
specifications, employment requirements, 
environmental procedures and other 
operating issues.
Assessment 
Changes in political and regulatory 
environments can have a significant impact 
on regulated public transport operators, 
from adding significant cost to changing the 
fundamental nature of a market. For example:
Changes in UK Government policy resulted in 
material decreases in subsidies paid in 2012 
and 2013 for senior citizen discounts and  
fuel rebates.
The UK Department for Transport is 
introducing reforms in the franchising  
process and has recently restarted the 
tendering process. 
The Spanish Government has agreed the 
imposition of a fee on new concessions and 
the removal of a 5% incumbency advantage 
on new national intercity concessions.
Management 
The risk is reduced by maintaining close 
relationships with key stakeholders and 
ensuring that the economic advantages of 
our business models are fully understood  
and considered.
In the longer term, the Group can mitigate  
risk by diversifying its operations into  
other geographies.
Potential  
impact
Medium
26 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contract management
Risks
As noted above, the Group has a significant 
proportion of its revenue that is won through 
contract and concession tenders.
Assessment 
An inherent risk in contract bidding is that  
bid assumptions might prove to be incorrect. 
If the Group’s significant bid assumptions 
prove to be incorrect, this could have an 
adverse effect on results of the operations 
and the Group’s financial condition.
Management 
The Group seeks to mitigate the risk through 
careful economic modelling of new contracts, 
and by sharing revenue risk with the awarding 
body; for example with the DfT in Rail.
Proper mobilisation is a key part of ensuring 
that risk of divergence from bid assumptions 
is minimised. 
Potential  
impact
Medium
The following are ongoing risks within the business:
Fuel cost
Risks
All of the Group’s businesses are exposed 
to fuel costs – primarily diesel for buses and 
coaches. Fuel prices are subject to significant 
volatility due to economic, political and 
climate circumstances.
Assessment 
Fuel costs constitute approximately 10% of 
the Group’s costs and, consequently, to the 
extent that price increases cannot be passed 
on to customers, increases in fuel costs will 
affect profitability.
Management 
The Group seeks to mitigate risks of 
increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel 
swaps and forward purchase contracts  
in line with the Group’s hedging strategy 
discussed on page 30. We have hedge 
protection into 2016.
Potential  
impact
Medium
Insurance and claims
Risks
The Group’s policy is to self-insure a number 
of potential claims within its business.
Assessment 
There is a risk that a successful claim  
or series of successful claims may result  
in substantially higher charges to profit  
and cash outflow than expected.
Management 
Throughout the business, a strong safety 
culture prevails, led by the Board Safety and 
Environmental Committee. Where claims 
arise, they are managed by experienced 
claims handlers and professional advice is 
obtained in order to evaluate and minimise 
costs to the Group. It has also reduced 
self-insurance values and increased external 
market coverage.
Potential  
impact
Medium
Credit risk
Risks
As contractual operations, the North 
American and Spanish urban businesses  
are exposed to the risk that customers are 
either late or unable to pay sums owed  
to the Group.
Assessment 
Payment terms and cash collections in 
North America are extremely good. In Spain 
the level of outstanding debt is in line with 
historic levels. In 2012 and 2013 all long term 
outstanding amounts were settled through 
a Federal Government credit facility and the 
level of outstanding debt is back to normal 
levels and continues to fall.
Management 
Receivables in each business are closely 
monitored, based on robust and thorough 
documentation; provisions are then made 
where appropriate on a prudent basis for 
a certain level of non-collection. Additional 
contractual terms for interest accrual and 
repayment of outstanding balances have 
been agreed with overdue debtors  
where necessary. 
Potential  
impact
Low
Currency
Risks
The Group’s exposure to overseas earnings 
through its Spanish and North American 
operations creates a risk that movement 
in exchange rates may adversely impact 
translation of profit and cash flows together 
with Group gearing.
Assessment 
Foreign currency movements impact  
the profit, balance sheet and cash flows  
of the Group. During 2013 both the Euro  
and US dollar appreciated against Sterling. 
The Group holds Euro-denominated debt 
and US dollar finance leases. 
Management 
The Group uses currency debt and currency 
swaps to reduce the impact and mitigate the 
risk. In addition, management has flexibility  
to adjust Group capital allocation. 
The Board has tested for the impact of  
a break-up of the Eurozone or sovereign  
debt default on the Group’s ability to fund  
and operate, and has identified plans for  
such scenarios.
Potential  
impact
Low
27 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
Group Finance Director’s Review
Outstanding cash generation
Presentation
We present our financial data on two bases. 
Normalised results show the performance 
of the business before exceptional items, 
loss on disposal of a business and intangible 
amortisation, since the Board believes this gives 
the reader a clearer understanding of existing 
business performance. IFRS results include 
these items to give the statutory results. 
Revenue
Group revenue in 2013 was £1,891.3 million 
(2012: £1,831.2m), increasing by 3% overall as 
underlying revenue growth and new contracts 
offset the handover during 2012 of the NXEA 
rail franchise. On a constant currency basis and 
adjusted for the rail handover, revenue grew by 
over 4%, as shown in the table below:
£m
2012 revenue 1,831
NXEA handover (57)
2012 revenue adjusted for 
NXEA handover 1,774
Acquisitions and disposals 51
Organic growth 31
2013 revenue at constant 
currency 1,856
Impact of currency translation 35
2013 reported revenue 1,891
We have delivered growth in four out of our  
five divisions, through pricing, volume and  
new business. 
Normalised profit
Group normalised operating profit decreased 
to £192.9 million (2012: £21 1.9m), reflecting the 
loss of rail earnings from NXEA. Normalised 
operating profit performance has been robust 
in our core non-rail business, increasing to a 
record level of £185.5 million (2012: £185.2m). 
Normalised operating profit increased by 19% 
in UK Coach and 6% in Sterling terms in North 
America (4% in local currency). In Spain profit 
reduced by 3% in Sterling terms (7% in local 
currency), a resilient performance in challenging 
economic conditions. In UK Bus profit was 
9% lower due to a reduction in fuel duty rebate 
(BSOG, £1.2 million) and pension accounting 
changes (£2.5 million). Rail profit reduced by 
63% following the end of the NXEA franchise  
in February 2012.
Operating profit (£m) 2013 2012
Spain 81.5 83.8
North America 62.6 59.1
UK Bus 31.2 34.1
UK Coach 24.5 20.6
Centre (14.3) (12.4)
Core non-rail profit 185.5 185.2
German Coach  
start-up (2.4) –
Rail 9.8 26.7
Group 192.9 211.9
We have successfully offset both economic and 
regulatory changes in 2013. Organic revenue 
growth added £21 million of profit growth, with 
volume growth in North America, UK Bus, UK 
Coach and Rail, supported by pricing in Spain, 
UK Bus, North America and Rail. Synergies 
from the Petermann acquisition, together with 
cost efficiency benefits from our operational 
excellence programmes across the Group, 
added £30 million, helping offset underlying 
cost inflation pressures of £34 million and fuel 
prices £12 million higher than 2012. Fuel prices 
peaked in 2013 with hedged prices for 2014 
unchanged and lower into 2015 and 2016.
£m
2012 normalised operating profit 212
NXEA handover (17)
Government subsidy change (2)
Pension accounting (4)
Cost inflation (34)
Fuel price inflation (12)
Reduction in discretionary  
US routes (4)
Acquisitions and disposals 3
New business start-up (2)
Olympics (2)
Organic growth 21
Synergy & cost savings 30
Impact of currency translation 5
Other (1)
2013 normalised operating profit 193
Jez Maiden
Group Finance Director  
27 February 2014
28 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group operating margin of 10.2% (2012: 1 1.6%) 
reflected lower rail profits, as well as economic 
and regulatory headwinds in Spain and the UK. 
Four of the five divisions continued to achieve 
industry-leading margins.
Net finance costs remained broadly flat at 
£49.8 million (2012: £49.2m), reflecting higher 
year-on-year debt in the first four months due 
to the Petermann acquisition, partly offset by 
the progressive benefit during the year of lower 
debt from our cash generation programme 
and lower interest margin payable on our bank 
facility renewed in July 2013. Normalised profit 
before tax was £143.7 million (2012: £164. 1m).
The normalised tax charge was £32.5 million 
(2012: £32.7m), an effective normalised tax rate 
of 22.6% (2012: 19.9%). This marks a return 
to our expected normalised tax rate range of 
22 to 25%, following a one-off benefit in 2012. 
Normalised profit for the year was £1 1 1.2 million 
(2012: £131.4m), giving a basic EPS of 21.5 
pence (2012: 25.5p), of which non-rail EPS was 
20. 1 pence (2012: 21.6p).
IFRS results
Exceptional costs for the year reduced to 
£25.7 million (2012: £42.6m). Firstly, we are 
investing to develop our pipeline of new 
business opportunities. Business development 
costs totalled £15.7 million – our rail bidding 
activity cost £9.3 million, including work on 
prequalification and full bid submissions for 
the Essex Thameside, Crossrail and ScotRail 
franchises in the UK, together with German rail. 
Our other business development activity cost 
£6.4 million, including pre-start-up costs  
to develop German Coach and investment  
in a bid team to explore selected opportunities 
in new international bus, coach and rail markets  
to drive future revenue and profit.
The Group’s accounting policy for business 
development costs is to charge development 
costs for new businesses in new markets to 
exceptional items until such time as a revenue 
stream has been created, from which time the 
business bears its own development costs 
as part of normalised profit. Hence business 
development costs in North America School 
Bus and Transit, UK Bus and Coach, Spain 
and Morocco are all charged to normalised 
profit. UK Rail bidding costs are charged to 
exceptional items as the scale of the bidding 
costs is material relative to the profit generated 
by the Group’s only rail franchise, c2c.
Exceptional costs also included North  
America acquisition and integration costs of 
£4.6 million, primarily relating to completing the 
integration of the 2012 Petermann acquisition, 
and restructuring and rationalisation costs 
of £5.4 million to deliver cost efficiency 
improvements as part of our operational 
excellence programme. Activities in the latter 
included closing the Crawley depot and 
relocating the customer contact centre in UK 
Coach, closing the UK Bus call centre and 
significant headcount efficiencies delivered 
across the Group. Restructuring costs are 
not expected to continue, once the Group’s 
operational excellence initiative is fully embedded.
A loss of £4.3 million (2012: £nil) was incurred 
on disposal of a business as part of the North 
America programme to improve contract 
returns. Intangible asset amortisation decreased 
to £49.3 million (2012: £51.7m) and relates 
principally to the Group’s concessions in Spain 
and contracts in North America. Group IFRS 
profit for the year was £58.3 million (2012: 
£61.3m). IFRS basic earnings per share were 
1 1. 1 pence (2012: 1 1.8p).
Cash management
Operating cash flow
Cash generation is core to our strategy, 
representing a key driver of shareholder value. 
Firstly, we focus on converting operating profit 
into operating cash flow in each division, except 
where capital investment in excess of the rate 
of depreciation is required to expand our fleet. 
In 2013, National Express converted 129% 
(2012: 99%) of its normalised operating profit 
into operating cash flow (the cash equivalent 
of operating profit). Overall, operating cash 
flow grew by £38.4 million to £248.0 million 
(2012: £209.6m).
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Normalised operating 
profit 192.9 211.9
Depreciation 107.3 109.8
Grant amortisation, 
profit on disposal & 
share-based payment 0.9 (0.5)
EBITDA 301.1 321.2
Net maintenance 
capital expenditure (74.9) (108.6)
Working capital 
movement 30.5 6.7
Pension contributions 
above normal charge (8.7) (9.7)
Operating cash flow 248.0 209.6
As outlined in our strategy, we have brought 
increased focus to improving our return on 
capital. During this year maintenance capital 
expenditure reduced by £34 million to 70%  
of depreciation (2012: 99%). Capital deployed 
into fleet in North America was limited as part  
of the contract improvement programme. 
Capital efficiency in Spain will also improve, 
reflecting the agreement to longer fleet ages  
in urban bus. We continue to invest in improving 
the fleet and driving patronage in UK Bus. 
We remain well invested in each area with an 
average vehicle age of 7 .2 years (2012: 7 .0yrs). 
We anticipate that our lower investment 
programme will be sustained in 2014, before 
returning to more typical levels, around 1. 1  
to 1.2 times depreciation from 2015. 
Normalised profit: Growth and cost efficiency have offset inflation
(£17m)
£212m
(£6m)
(£4m)
(£34m)
(£12m)
(£4m) £3m
£21m
£30m
£5m
(£1m)
£193m
2012
 operating proﬁt
NXEA exit
Gov’t subsidy/
pension accounting
Start-up/
Olympics
Cost inﬂation
Fuel price
Discretionary
US routes
M&A
Organic growth
Synergy and
cost savings
FX
Other
2013
 operating proﬁt 29 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Working capital again improved, by 
£30.5 million in 2013, as we sustained our tight 
control over receivables in the North American 
and Spanish contract businesses. Outstanding 
net receivables from public bodies in Spain 
reduced by a further €16 million in 2013 and 
remain in excellent control.
2013 
£m
2012 
 £m
Operating cash flow 248.0 209.6
Payments to associates 
and minorities (0.5) (8.2)
Net interest (48.4) (47.3)
Taxation paid (16.3) (13.3)
Free cash flow 182.8 140.8
UK rail franchise exit 
outflow (3.6) (87.0)
Cash flow after rail 
handover 179.2 53.8
With little year-on-year change in interest and 
tax, the improvement in operating cash flow 
was carried through to free cash flow. Free  
cash flow increased in 2013 by £42.0 million  
and reached £182.8 million (2012: £140.8m). 
This was an excellent cash performance,  
nearly £60 million ahead of our initial target  
set in February 2013. The prior year rail cash 
outflow related primarily to the handover of  
the NXEA franchise. 
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Cash flow after rail 
handover 179.2 53.8
Net growth capital 
expenditure (7.7) (16.8)
Financial investments  
and shares (2.8) (0.8)
Exceptional cash flow (22.9) (40.7)
Acquisitions and disposals (9.5) (157.8)
Cash flow on the maturity 
of foreign exchange 
contracts (1.1) 8.9
Foreign exchange 
and other non-cash 
movements (2.8) 8.2
Dividends paid (50.3) (49.3)
Net funds flow 82.1 (194.5)
Growth capital investment was limited,  
reflecting our focus on capital discipline and 
driving growth in capital-light opportunities.  
For example, in our new contract in Tangiers, 
we have initially redeployed fleet previously used 
in Spain. Exceptional cash flow reflected our 
investment in developing growth opportunities. 
Acquisitions and disposals related primarily 
to the purchase of two ‘bolt-on’ school bus 
businesses in North America, giving us local 
scale and greater access to higher return 
business. The dividend grew by 2%. As a result 
of this strong cash performance, Group net 
debt reduced by £82. 1 million to £7 46. 1 million 
at 31 December 2013 (2012: £828.2m). 
Capital returns
The Group’s objective is to maximise long 
term shareholder returns through the 
disciplined deployment of its funds. Our 
portfolio of assets has a mix of attributes that 
reflect stable profitability, organic growth and 
exciting strategic opportunities. In 2013 we 
strengthened our focus on capital deployment 
to target improved pre-tax return on capital 
employed by only investing where returns are 
significantly in excess of our cost of capital, by 
improving the redeployment of surplus fleet and 
through our capital-light business development 
opportunities. We have set a minimum hurdle 
of 12% pre-tax ROCE for investments, based 
on our estimated post-tax weighted average 
cost of capital of 7 .5%. As a consequence of 
this focus, the Group’s core non-rail ROCE 
increased by 50 basis points in 2013 to 1 1. 1% 
(2012: 10.6%). 
Treasury management
Funding sources
The Group has a strong funding platform that 
underpins the delivery of its strategy. Core 
funding is provided from non-bank sources, 
to provide improved certainty and maturity 
of funding. At the end of 2013, the Group 
had committed funding of £768 million (2012: 
£787m) from non-bank sources. This included 
two public bonds – a 2017-dated £350 million 
bond at 6.25% and a 2020-dated £225 million 
bond at 6.625% – which are investment grade 
rated, at BBB- with Fitch (Stable outlook) 
and Baa3 from Moodys (Positive outlook). 
The Board is committed to maintaining an 
investment grade rating. The Group also has 
in place a private placement note purchase 
agreement for €78 million at 4.55%, due in 
2021, and finance leases of £133 million that 
provide a low cost means to purchase vehicles, 
primarily in North America. 
Additional committed bank funding of £410 
million, to meet seasonal working capital needs 
and to provide sufficient funding headroom, 
is provided under the Group’s unsecured 
Revolving Credit Facility (‘RCF’) which was 
renewed in July 2013 and matures in 2018. 
Following strong demand from our banking 
group, the margin on the new RCF was 
reduced to 1. 1% over LIBOR (the previous 
facility was priced at an average margin of 
1.45%). At 31 December 2013 the Group 
had drawn €20 million on the RCF and had 
cash and committed undrawn facilities of 
£434 million. 
Financial ratios
The Board has a prudent approach to covenant 
compliance on its banking debt which is to 
maintain its debt gearing ratio at between 2.0 
and 2.5 times EBITDA. At 31 December 2013  
its financial ratios were as follows:
• Debt gearing ratio (net debt to EBITDA): 
2.5 times (2012: 2.5 times), covenant not  
to exceed 3.5 times
• Interest cover (EBITDA to net interest): 
6. 1 times (2012: 6.7 times), covenant not  
to be less than 3.5 times.
Interest rate and currency hedging
The Group hedges its exposure to interest rate 
movements to maintain a balance between 
fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings. 
To achieve the desired fixed to floating ratio the 
Group has entered into a series of interest rate 
swaps that have the effect of converting fixed 
rates into floating rate debt. The net effect of 
these transactions was that, at 31 December 
2013, the proportion of Group net debt at 
floating rates was 33% (2012: 37%).
The Group’s exposure to foreign exchange is 
limited to translation of its earnings and assets, 
as its overseas activities are naturally hedged 
by earning revenue and incurring costs in local 
currencies. In order to hedge its exposure to 
currency fluctuations with regards to its financial 
ratios, the Group held, at 31 December 2013, 
Euro debt of €269 million and US dollar debt 
of $308 million. These correspond to 2.0 times 
Euro-generated EBITDA and 2.2 times US 
dollar-generated EBITDA in 2013. 
Strategic Report:
Group Finance Director’s Review continued
30 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Fuel risk management
The Group consumes approximately 245 million 
litres of diesel and gasoline each year for which 
it is at risk (ie there is no direct fuel escalator in 
the contract or concession price). This relates 
to the non-rail divisions and represented a total 
cost (including delivery and taxes) to the Group 
in 2013 of £172 million (10% of related revenue), 
at an average fuel component cost of 49 pence 
per litre. The Group has adopted a forward fuel 
buying policy in order to secure a degree of 
certainty in its planning. This policy is to hedge 
fully a minimum of 15 months addressable 
consumption against movements in price of the 
underlying commodity, together with at least 
50% of the next nine months’ consumption  
in the contract businesses. Currently, the Group 
is 100% fixed for 2014 at an average price of  
49 pence per litre (excluding delivery and tax), 
90% fixed for 2015 at an average price of 47p 
and 50% fixed for 2016 at 44p.
Where businesses have freedom to price 
services, this hedge provides sufficient 
protection to recover fuel price increases 
through the fare basket. In contract businesses, 
where price escalation may be restricted by  
a formula independent of fuel costs, extended 
cover, up to the life of the contract, may be 
taken, subject to availability and liquidity in the 
hedging market. The latter is rarely available 
beyond three years from the trade date.
Pensions
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension 
schemes are all in the UK. At 31 December 
2013 these schemes had a combined deficit 
under IAS19 of £30. 1 million, an increase 
from the deficit position of £19.3 million at 
31 December 2012, primarily due to lower 
asset returns and higher inflation. The National 
Express Group Staff Pension Plan (‘UK Coach 
plan’) is now closed to all future accrual.  
A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to 
self sufficiency was agreed with the trustees in 
2010; National Express contributes £4.2 million 
per annum to this scheme. In 201 1 UK Bus 
agreed a £5.5 million annual deficit repayment 
plan with the trustees of the West Midlands 
Passenger Transport Authority Pension Fund 
(‘WM plan’). The WM plan remains open to 
accrual for existing active members only. 
This scheme was further de-risked during 
2012 by securing future payments for existing 
pensioners in a £272 million insurance buy-in to 
the scheme. The Group expects to contribute 
around £10 million per annum in total deficit 
contributions to its defined benefit schemes 
until 2017.
The IAS19 valuations at 31 December 2013 
were as follows:
• UK Bus (under the WM plan and the 
Tayside Transport Superannuation Fund): 
£40.8 million deficit (2012: £32.9m deficit);
• UK Coach plan: £12.6 million surplus 
(2012: £16.6 million surplus); and
• UK Rail/other: £1.9 million deficit (2012: £3.0m 
deficit). The Group’s rail business participates 
in the Railways Pension Scheme. This 
exposure transfers to an incoming operator  
in the event of a franchise termination.
During the year the Group adopted the revised 
IAS19 pension accounting standard. This 
replaced the interest cost and expected return 
on plan assets with a net interest charge on the 
net defined benefit liability. The full year impact 
on Group profit was a reduction of £4. 1 million, 
which mainly affected the UK Bus business.  
No adjustment has been made to the prior year 
on the grounds of materiality. There was no 
cash impact from this change.
Jez Maiden
Group Finance Director 
27 February 2014
31 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
Spain
Growing revenue and 
underpinning profit
Overview of 2013
ALSA saw normalised operating profit fall 
in 2013 by 7% in local currency due to the 
impact of recession and rail competition on 
intercity coach patronage, coupled with higher 
fuel costs. Despite the challenging economic 
conditions, overall revenue grew, with contract 
wins in the urban business in Spain and 
growth in Morocco, while the intercity business 
partly mitigated lower revenue by reducing its 
mileage through its flexible operating model. 
As economic signs improve in Spain, better 
revenue management, continued efficiency 
and contract wins should allow ALSA to 
respond to pressure from austerity, rail and 
concession renewal, whilst providing a valuable 
platform from which to develop new growth 
opportunities across the Group.
Total revenue for the year in local currency 
grew by 1% to €665.0 million (2012: €659. 1m) 
and by 6% in Sterling terms to £564.6 million 
(2012: £535.0m). Underlying revenue in intercity 
coach decreased by 1%, reflecting reduced 
consumer discretionary spend, but showed 
an improving trend through the year, delivering 
positive growth at the end of 2013. Urban bus 
revenue in Spain increased by 10% in total, 
benefiting from new concessions in Bilbao and 
Guadalajara. Like-for-like growth from existing 
concessions was unchanged on 2012 – the 
urban business operates under contract to city 
councils and does not generally take passenger 
revenue risk. It is also a platform for growth 
in Morocco, which saw underlying revenue 
increase by 14% and a new concession secured.
Underlying 
growth 
%
Intercity – passenger revenue (1)
Urban (Spain) – like-for-like growth 0
Urban (Morocco) – like-for-like growth 5
Normalised operating profit in local currency 
was €96.0 million (2012: €103.3m) and 
£81.5 million in Sterling terms (2012: £83.8m). 
Intercity profit fell due to lower passenger 
volume, particularly impacting services from 
Madrid with discounting by high speed rail 
exacerbating weakness in the domestic 
economy, partly offset by lower mileage,  
fleet and overhead cost efficiencies. Urban 
profit grew, with the benefit of volume growth 
in Morocco. The operating margin of 14.4% 
(2012: 15.7%) remains best in class for a 
Spanish bus and coach operator.
Operational excellence
ALSA is recognised as an excellent operator 
in public transport. In 2013 it was voted best 
transport company in Spain for customer 
excellence, ahead of coach, airline and rail 
Our business model 
How our business works
The intercity coach market in Spain is regulated and supported by long term 
concession agreements provided to operators in exchange for public service 
obligations. Concessions typically run for 10 to 15 years. Public transport is seen 
as an essential service in Spain. Concessions are operated exclusively, resulting  
in competition being primarily intermodal, ie with rail, low cost airlines and the car,  
rather than other coach and bus operators (where competition is at point of tender). 
ALSA also operates urban buses on a 10 to 20 year contract basis in Spain  
and Morocco.
How we build long term value
ALSA is the largest private operator of coaches in Spain. Its portfolio provides  
a balance between: long distance coach operations, which receive no subsidy  
and take revenue risk in return for flexibility over the number of services operated 
and a regulated maximum fare; and regional coach operations, which may be 
partly subsidised by the autonomous Governments. 
We carry out urban bus operations in a number of smaller regional Spanish cities 
and on suburban routes in Madrid, where we are paid to fulfil defined service 
obligations. In Morocco we operate in three cities, taking revenue risk that  
is supported by high passenger demand. ALSA has won a number of new 
contracts in both countries in recent years.
Key risks to manage
• Intercity concession renewal
• Rail competition
• Austerity impact on urban budgets.
Javier Carbajo
Chief Executive, ALSA
Year ended 31 December 2013
m
2012
m
Revenue £564.6 £535.0
Normalised operating profit £81.5 £83.8
Revenue €665.0 €659.1
Normalised operating profit €96.0 €103.3
Operating margin 14.4% 15.7%
32 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Read more p26 Putting our markets into context
Market size 
€3.5
bn
Regulated bus and intercity coach market.
Composition
ALSA has the leading position in a highly fragmented market.
Trends
Slight decline in bus and coach market passenger volumes since  
mid 2012, reflecting resilience in public transport trends compared  
with other modes of transport and wider austerity impact in Spain. 
Passenger growth in Morocco.
Features
Regulated and highly segmented market, with three levels of 
Government regulation: national (long distance coach), regional 
(regional coach) and city (urban bus). Each concession is exclusive to 
the operator, based on compliance with the public service obligation. 
Flexibility required to meet changing demand.
Customers
Urban: all ages, work and study, multiple trips per week.
Intercity: mostly young people, few trips per year; for leisure,  
visiting family; on regional services also work and study.
Competition
Intercity competition from state-backed rail and low cost airlines  
(cutting capacity in 2013). Bus and coach concessions are awarded 
through competitive public tender, typically every ten years.
Concessions
193
ALSA has 159 intercity coach concessions, 32 urban bus contracts  
and two other concessions.
Labour
Historically less flexible labour market reflecting domestic practices; 
unionised. Austerity measures driving positive reform.
Growth
New business growth from concession renewal, urban contract wins  
in Spain and Morocco.
ALSA revenue by market
Intercity coach concessions 
Urban bus contracts 
Other concessions 
ALSA revenue split 
Passenger
Contract
Subsidy
Other
Strategic Report pp01-51
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 33 Strategic Report:
Spain 
Measuring our performance – KPIs
Superior cash and returns
Operating cash conversion
110
%
Safety
Lost time injuries (per 1,000 FTE)
23.6
Operational excellence
Passenger journeys
250.2
m
Operational excellence
Mileage
179.6
m
Operational excellence
Revenue growth – total
1
%
Operational excellence
Margin
14.4
%
Why we measure
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to maximise the cash  
generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market  
and operating model.
2013 performance
Reflects continued fleet investment balanced against inflows from 
strong working capital management.
Why we measure 
Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective 
of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel 
secure. This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs 
(maintenance, insurance, claims). 
2013 performance
Stable progress in initiatives in Spain. Good improvement in Morocco 
– 12% better.
Why we measure
Passenger journeys are reflective of underlying demand for bus and 
coach travel. National Express is targeting increased passenger 
ridership as a long term driver of sustainable value.
2013 performance
Continued high growth in new routes and contracts in Morocco. 
Intercity coach passengers down 3% reflecting economic conditions.
Why we measure
Mileage is a both a key cost management tool and also an indicator 
of organic growth. The ALSA model allows for flexibility in kilometres 
operated to match demand.
2013 performance
Mileage reduced by 3% in intercity and urban to protect profitability. 
Increase in Morocco to meet demand.
Why we measure
Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as  
a core driver of value.
2013 performance
Underlying reduction in intercity and urban services, offset by new 
contracts and strong Morocco demand.
Why we measure
Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies 
and cost control.
2013 performance
Efficiency and savings not enough to offset fuel price, economic 
conditions and the impact of rail competition.
2011
2012
2013
1
4
4
2011
2012
2013
23.6
23.1
42.8
2011
2012
2013
14.4
15.7
16.4
2011
2012
2013
179.6
181.7
169.9
2011
2012
2013
250.2
242.3
207.5
2011
2012
2013
110
119
54
34 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 competition. Our customer recommendation 
rate increased by five percentage points to 87%, 
despite the background of more demanding 
times. This success was also reflected in 
concession renewal and wins. ALSA renewed 
its urban bus contract in Palencia and was 
awarded new contracts in Guadalajara, Palma, 
San Sebastian, Tarrega and Tangiers; the 
latter is the third concession to be awarded 
to ALSA in Morocco, building on the success 
of Marrakech and Agadir. We were able to 
meet our local stakeholder’s need to start the 
concession early, by deploying fleet from Spain.
Through our operational excellence programme, 
we are responding better to customer needs. In 
intercity coach operations, we saw substantial 
discounts introduced by the state-owned high 
speed rail operator, which significantly impacted 
our volume on the 20% of competed intercity 
services. We responded through selective 
discounting and will invest further in yield 
management, utilising our experience in the 
UK. In Agadir a major network improvement 
programme has boosted passengers by 33% 
and we see additional ridership opportunities 
in 2014. 
Cost efficiency of €6 million was achieved and 
has been key to protecting profit from the impact 
of lower revenue and higher fuel prices. Network 
mileage was reduced by 3% to match lower 
demand. Procurement and overhead savings 
were delivered to help offset a fuel impact of 
€5 million and a reduction of €3 million in quality 
bonus payments available in urban bus. ALSA’s 
2012 Bilbao acquisition has seen improved 
scheduling, better employee management and 
stronger stakeholder relations which have seen 
a significant turnaround in performance from 
this previously loss-making acquisition.
€m
2012 normalised operating profit 103
Net impact of changes in  
fares & services
–
Fuel cost (5)
Cost inflation (6)
Cost efficiencies 6
Other (2)
2013 normalised operating profit 96
Our focus on safety through the ‘Driving Out 
Harm’ programme has benefited customers, 
financial performance and our bidding 
credentials. Passenger injuries decreased 
in Morocco by 60% and by 10% in Spain, 
passenger claims in Spain were down 9% 
and in Morocco employee lost time injuries 
decreased 12%, with good progress in a 
challenging operating environment.
Cash and returns
In 2013 ALSA converted 1 10% of operating 
profit into operating cash. Working capital 
continued to improve – strong management 
of receivables saw the balance owing from 
public bodies (primarily city councils) fall to an 
exceptionally low €19 million (2012: €35m). 
Our capital investment approach is disciplined. 
In 2013 we spent £44 million, including over 
250 new buses and coaches, broadly in line 
with depreciation. In the urban bus business, 
we have agreed to reduce mileage operated in 
return for extending asset lives, lowering future 
investment. The cascading of spare fleet from 
Spain to Tangiers has also deferred capital 
expenditure to 2015. More targeted capital 
deployment will help ALSA offset profit  
pressure and retain its strong ROA. 
Creating new opportunities
ALSA’s diversified bus and coach portfolio, 
operating within a regulated concessionary 
framework, provides a platform for the growth 
of the Group in liberalising international markets. 
We have utilised ALSA’s skills and systems to 
start-up coach operations in Germany and 
2014 is likely to bring opportunities through 
liberalisation of the bus market in Portugal. Our 
success in Morocco has led to discussions with 
potential partners and customers internationally. 
We also remain interested in future prospects 
for private sector development in the domestic 
rail market. 
We expect to see further opportunities in 
Morocco, where we have, over the past 13 
years, established a reputation for innovation 
and excellence in operations. We commenced 
our second contract in Agadir in 2010, where 
revenue grew 25% in 2013 to over €13 million, 
and are already carrying 50,000 passengers  
a day on 65 buses in the Tangiers operation  
we started in November 2013, which we expect 
to grow during 2014. We expect to see further 
urban contract opportunities and potential 
intercity coach services benefiting from good 
road infrastructure. 
Our customer recommendation rate in ALSA 
increased by five percentage points to 87%
In 2014, we expect a slowly improving 
consumer economy in Spain to continue 
the improving outlook for intercity coach. 
Investment in yield management will help 
mitigate sustained competition from rail and 
selected low cost airline activity, with coach 
travel continuing to deliver excellent value to 
cash-constrained customers. The national 
coach concession renewal programme has 
been delayed into 2014 and the removal of 
the incumbent advantage is expected to be 
confirmed on publication of the first tenders. 
However, we do not expect a material impact 
on performance in 2014 and, as the best in 
class operator, we expect our high quality  
bids to maximise retention and present  
new concession opportunities in a highly 
competitive market. 
We will seek to protect urban services during 
the current period of council spending austerity 
and support our capital return through greater 
fleet efficiency. Cost efficiency will underpin 
profitability, supported by unchanged hedged 
fuel costs in 2014 and reduced cost in 2015.
35 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
North America
Driving capital return and  
customer service
Overview of 2013
Our North America business had a successful 
2013, exceeding US$1 billion of revenue for the 
first time, growing profit by 4% in local currency, 
generating nearly US$200 million of operating 
cash flow and improving ROA to 22%. This 
reflects our strategy to reshape the School 
Bus business, by driving incremental return 
on capital, and to grow the Transit business 
established in 2012. This performance was 
achieved despite a significant fuel cost increase 
and a reduction in discretionary school routes. 
We have created a strong position from which 
to increase School Bus returns and expand  
the Transit operation.
Total revenue in local currency grew by 10%  
to US$1,009.4 million (2012: US$919.4m) as we 
completed integration of the Petermann school 
bus business acquired in May 2012. Underlying 
revenue grew by 3%, with improved pricing on 
school bus contract renewal, an increase in 
the number of school buses operated from the 
previous bid season and US$20 million of new 
contract revenue secured in Transit. Charter 
and field trip revenue increased by 9% and is a 
key focus for added value development in 2014. 
We have a current order book of US$1.5 billion.
Normalised operating profit increased to 
US$97 .9 million (2012: US$94.0m). Revenue 
growth and further synergy benefits from  
the integration of Petermann helped offset  
a US$7 million increase in the price of fuel  
and investment in bid development resource  
in Transit. Operating margin decreased by  
50 basis points to 9.7%. As we grow the Transit 
business, this will generally be at lower margin 
than School Bus, reflecting the former’s  
capital-light nature. 
Operational excellence
Our North America School Bus operation 
already delivers best in class margin, 
following successful completion of our margin 
improvement programme between 2010 and 
2012. Traditionally, the school bus industry is a 
capital intensive, low cash generation business. 
In 2013 our focus has been to increase the 
return on capital across our portfolio of 500 
contracts and generate a strong cash flow. 
By focusing on contracts which generate 
adequate capital returns, we have more 
defensible, relationship-based contracts where 
our service quality is valued by the customer. 
Where we are not able to obtain financial  
returns above our minimum criteria, we have 
exited the contract – in the 2013/14 school 
year bid season we relinquished 16 contracts, 
leading to a reduction, net of bid wins,  
of 200 buses operated.
Our business model 
How our business works
In North American School Bus, the Group’s operations are carried out by 
our subsidiaries, Durham School Services (US), Petermann (US) and Stock 
Transportation (Canada). The outsourced (private operator) market is only around 
one third of the total, with the remainder being in-sourced; that is, owned and run 
by the school boards themselves. Contracts typically run from three to five years. 
Once secured, contracts have low revenue risk over the contract life. 
National Express Transit is focused primarily on the Paratransit segment of the 
market, where it operates services on behalf of municipalities to fulfil federally 
mandated social mobility obligations. Contracts also typically last for three to five 
years, with a mix of revenue risk and gross cost contracts. Vehicles are generally 
provided by the federal or local authorities. 
How we build long term value
We are the second largest School Bus private operator in North America with high 
contract retention and a focus on customer service. Management of capital is key 
as asset utilisation is low, due to the part time usage of these specialised vehicles. 
Scale is beneficial but not overarching – economies can be achieved through 
procurement, centralisation of administration and business development.
The Group acquired its initial Paratransit contracts as part of the Petermann school 
bus purchase in 2012. Since then the National Express Transit business has won 
a further five contracts using its credentials as an excellent operator of relevant 
transport services. We continue to bid on a substantial pipeline of opportunities.
Key risks to manage
• Further healthcare and social security taxes
• External labour pressure
• Severe weather
• Transit contract churn.
David Duke
Chief Executive, National 
Express Corporation
Year ended 31 December 2013
m
2012
m
Revenue £645.0 £578.3
Operating profit £62.6 £59.1
Revenue US$1,009.4 US$919.4
Operating profit US$97.9 US$94.0
Operating margin 9.7% 10.2%
Read more p26
36 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Putting our markets into context
Market size 
$24
bn
Total school bus market in North America, represented by 530,000  
route buses.
32% is outsourced; 68% in-house.
Market share
14% of outsourced school bus market.
National Express operates 20,000 school buses.
Composition
Top four players operate approximately 90,000 routes.
40 companies operate 200+ buses; rest of outsourced market split 
between 4,000 operators.
Trends
Growth traditionally inflation and population driven; recent increase  
in outsource conversion due to public funding pressures.
Features
Local relationship and service delivery important.
Customers
Local school boards, funded largely by local property taxation.
Transport is a significant part of local education spending.
Competition
Bigger players have access to capital, geographical reach and some 
scale advantages.
Potential for some market consolidation.
Labour
Traditionally part time workforce.
Over 30% of National Express staff unionised.
Growth
Securing price increases to meet required return on capital from existing 
customer base and winning contracts in the school bidding season, 
primarily through outsourcing/conversion as well as market share shift. 
New Transit business has a pipeline of contracts being targeted.
Market share
National Express Group
Others
Revenue split
Passenger
Contract
Subsidy
Other
Strategic Report pp01-51
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 37 Measuring our performance – KPIs
Strategic Report:  
North America
Why we measure
School bus operations have low asset utilisation compared  
with other bus and coach businesses. Our strategy is now focused  
on improvement in operating returns.
2013 performance
Capital discipline and improving quality of the contract portfolio.
Superior cash and returns
Return on assets
21.7
%
Safety
Total injuries (per 200,000 hrs)
5.76
Why we measure
Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective 
of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel 
secure. This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs 
(maintenance, insurance, claims). 
2013 performance
18% decrease in total injuries since 201 1, through training, 
consultation, process improvement.
Operational excellence
Retention rate
97
%
Why we measure
As a contracting business, retention rate is a key measure of success 
in retaining contracts.
2013 performance
High retention rate maintained through excellent customer 
relationships and account management.
Superior cash and returns
Operating cash conversion
200
%
Why we measure
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to maximise the cash  
generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market  
and operating model.
2013 performance
Higher fleet utilisation and productivity improvement significantly 
reducing expenditure on vehicles.
Operational excellence
Revenue growth – total
10
%
Why we measure
Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as  
a core driver of value.
2013 performance
Underlying growth of 3%, supplemented by Petermann acquisition.
Operational excellence
Margin
9.7
%
Why we measure
Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies 
and cost control.
2013 performance
Reduced due to fuel price increase of $7m.
2011
2012
2013
5.76
5.49
7.06
2011
2012
2013
9.7
10.2
10.0
2011
2012
2013
97
97
98
2011
2012
2013
21.7
17.2
16.0
2011
2012
2013
10
19
8
2011
2012
2013
200
69
41
38 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our superior service delivery was reflected in 
our high contract retention rate, achieving 97% 
during the last School Bus bidding season,  
and 100% for acquired Petermann customers. 
Over 92% of school customers would 
recommend us. We have invested in a new 
‘Master Driver’ programme to enhance 
driver skills and achieved 89% employee 
satisfaction, a record performance. A new key 
account management programme is helping 
our focus on contract retention, whilst we 
continue to target school board outsourcing, 
or ‘conversion’, contracts, which require lower 
capital and give better returns. We secured  
13 new conversion contracts in 2013. 
The market remains highly competitive and 
delivering cost efficiencies is crucial. In 2013 
we achieved US$13 million of efficiency and 
synergy. Our approach focuses on simplification 
and standardisation across our 230 field 
locations, utilising technology and continuously 
improving safety performance. Following  
a successful pilot in 2013, we are now rolling 
out standardised processes and management 
systems to bring cost savings and a greater 
degree of control. This will support our GPS-
based ‘Compass’ system which was fully 
implemented during 2013 – it integrates driver 
hours to payroll and customer invoicing, and 
has generated savings of $3 million through 
scheduling and fuel improvements. Compass 
also supports our safety programme, ‘Driving 
Out Harm’, by recording details of the inspection 
before and after every journey. We have also 
achieved further reductions in accident rates – 
over three years preventable street accidents 
fell by 19% and total accidents by 25% – and 
reduced insurance premiums. 
US$m
2012 normalised operating profit 94
Annualisation of Petermann acquisition 5
Net impact of changes in pricing  
& contracts 7
Reduction in discretionary routes  
in School Bus (7)
Fuel cost (7)
Cost inflation (10)
Synergies & cost efficiencies 13
Other 3
2013 normalised operating profit 98
Cash and returns
Operating cash flow represented a conversion 
of 200% of operating profit, the equivalent of 
paying for the Petermann acquisition in one 
year. Working capital collection at the traditional 
times of school and calendar year-ends was 
very strong. In addition, the programme to 
improve contract capital returns has led to 
lower capital investment requirements. This 
has been supported by negotiated extension 
to vehicle lives, redeploying vehicles that were 
surplus fleet (the spare vehicle ratio has been 
reduced to 1 1% from 18% three years ago) 
and cascading fleet from exited contracts. In 
addition, conversion contracts tend to require 
less initial capital expenditure. We expect capital 
requirements in 2014 to remain suppressed as 
the contract return improvement programme 
continues, before returning to a constant fleet 
replacement rate in 2015 and 2016. The fleet 
remains well invested with an average age of 
7 . 1 years (2012: 6.9 years).
Improved profitability and more efficient capital 
deployment have combined to increase ROA 
to 21.7% from 17 .2% in 2012. During the year, 
we also acquired two small ‘bolt-on’ School 
Bus operations in Canada, adding scale and 
capabilities to existing local operations at 
attractive values, and sold a low return business 
in Boston.
The North American Transit business provides an exciting capital-light business development opportunity
Creating new opportunities
The North America Transit business provides 
an exciting capital-light business development 
opportunity in a growing market. Within 18 
months we have built US$80 million of annual 
revenue in the disabled transport (‘Paratransit’), 
Shuttle and Fixed Route (bus) segments. 
Building on our three seed acquisitions 
in 2012, we have now won five contracts 
targeted in smaller, lower risk markets. Using 
our operational expertise and track record 
of service delivery, we are bidding an active 
current pipeline of $200m in annual revenue.  
In most bids, vehicles are funded by the Federal 
Government or the customer. Margins therefore 
tend to be lower than school bus but return on 
capital is high. 
In School Bus, we expect to maintain capital 
returns above 20% as we improve the contract 
portfolio. A continued focus on cost efficiency 
and the benefit of hedged fuel costs at or below 
2013 levels through to 2016 should also support 
margin growth and offset rising welfare and 
medical taxes. Market pricing is likely to remain 
highly competitive; we will be selective in targeting 
new contracts, focusing on conversion and high 
service contracts, such as special education. 
39 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
UK Bus
Delivering better  
customer service
Overview of 2013
After a strong turnaround in profits between 
2010 and 2012, UK Bus experienced a decline 
in 2013 due to a change in pension accounting 
standard and reduced government fuel duty 
rebate (‘BSOG’). Like-for-like commercial 
revenue growth, up 3% in the second half of  
the year, together with cost efficiency, more 
than offset other headwinds which included 
higher fuel costs. Passenger growth reflected 
our investment in fleet, service and technology. 
Total revenue grew by 2% to £273.4 million 
(2012: £269.0m). Like-for-like commercial 
revenue increased by 2% for the full year and 
4% in the second half, following a weather-
impacted first quarter. Commercial passenger 
journeys rose 1% in the year and concession 
income increased by 2% during the second half 
of the year. 
Growth  
%
Like-for-like commercial revenue 2
Mileage (increase)/reduction –
Underlying commercial revenue 2
Concession revenue – 
Total revenue 2
Normalised operating profit for the year reduced 
by £2.9 million to £31.2 million (2012: £34. 1m), 
an operating margin of 1 1.4% (2012: 12.7%). 
Pension accounting and BSOG changes cost 
£3.7 million, more than accounting for the lower 
profit. Revenue growth and £9 million of cost 
efficiencies mitigated the impact of cost inflation 
and a £3 million increase in fuel prices.
Operational excellence
Customer service delivery is vital to achieving 
profitable growth. In 2013 we improved our 
offering, introduced technology and increased 
punctuality, resulting in better customer 
satisfaction and improved efficiency. We 
improved punctuality by 7% and reduced 
customer complaints by 12%. Customer 
satisfaction rose to 83%. Our network 
improvements have driven patronage growth – 
by over 10% in North Birmingham, supported 
by new buses, high profile marketing and strong 
branding on key corridors. Passenger volumes 
rose by up to 5% in both Wolverhampton and 
Coventry following network reviews. Overall we 
increased our network mileage, for example 
working closely with Jaguar Land Rover and 
the Merry Hill shopping centre to meet new 
demand. Over 130 new buses were added to 
the network and new programmes, such as 
city centre vehicle turnaround cleaning, have 
been well received. New services have been 
introduced and 2013 saw our best ever Boxing 
Day revenue performance, reflecting changes  
to traditional demand patterns.
“ We improved our offering, 
introduced technology and 
increased punctuality, resulting 
in better customer satisfaction 
and improved efficiency.”
Our business model 
How our business works
National Express West Midlands is the market leader in the largest single urban 
network in the UK deregulated market. The deregulated model allows for total 
flexibility in both fares and service. The business also receives a government-
funded subsidy for senior citizen travel. The business has a high regional market 
share, with strong competition from multiple operators on specific routes. Modal 
competition is principally from private cars. 
How we build long term value
Revenue and profitability are driven by the scale of operations delivering frequent, 
reliable and affordable services across a broad network. Passenger growth is 
supported by sustainable investment in a high quality fleet, ticketing and operational 
technology. We have a market-leading initiative to improve bus travel in the West 
Midlands in partnership with Centro, our local Passenger Transport Executive. 
Key risks to manage
• Regional economic recovery remains fragile
• Local authority funding risk to concessions
• Student and college funding.
Peter Coates
Managing Director, UK Bus
Year ended 31 December 2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 273.4 269.0
Operating profit 31.2 34.1
Operating margin 11.4% 12.7%
Read more p26
40 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Putting our markets into context
Market size 
£4.8
bn
(UK excluding London).
97% is privatised.
Market share
1,660 buses operated in the fleet.
Focused on the West Midlands and Dundee markets.
Composition
Largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK  
deregulated market.
Remainder made up of a large number of private operators. 
Trends
Short term economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment.
Longer term economic regeneration and environmentally driven public 
transport growth opportunities over the car.
Features
Primarily deregulated market; vehicle/regulatory oversight.
Low barriers to entry – flexibility and scale of operations is key.
Customers
Over 90% of West Midlands network is commercial; remainder mostly 
public service tenders.
Around 75% of revenue from passengers, balance concessionary.
Competition
Active competition from national and local bus operators, as well as 
private car and rail.
Labour
Primarily unionised with good industrial relations. 
Growth
Growth strategy is focused on increasing passenger volumes through 
investment in vehicles, technology and our people, as well as delivering 
high quality services.
Customers
Passenger fares
Concessions
Revenue split
Passenger
Contract
Subsidy
Other
41 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Measuring our performance – KPIs
Strategic Report:  
UK Bus
Why we measure
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to maximise the cash  
generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market  
and operating model.
2013 performance
Broadly flat from prior year due to sustained investment in the fleet 
above depreciation level.
Superior cash and returns
Operating cash conversion
61
%
Safety
Lost time injuries (per 1,000 FTE)
12.6
Why we measure
Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective 
of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel 
secure. This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs 
(maintenance, insurance, claims). 
2013 performance
Safety significantly improved as safety culture, processes and  
systems become embedded, supported by investment in facilities  
and safety equipment.
Operational excellence
Passenger journeys
270.9
m
Why we measure
Passenger journeys are reflective of underlying demand for bus travel. 
National Express is targeting increased passenger ridership as a long 
term driver of sustainable value.
2013 performance
Good commercial passenger growth, but lower concessionary 
passengers in the first half of the year due to exceptionally  
poor weather.
Operational excellence
Mileage
68.9
m
Why we measure
Mileage is both a key cost management tool and also an indicator  
of organic growth.
2013 performance
Small decrease from network reviews and reduced unprofitable 
frequencies.
Operational excellence
Revenue growth – like-for-like commercial
2
%
Why we measure
Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as  
a core driver of value.
2013 performance
Increase driven by balanced rise in passenger journeys (+ 1%)  
and yield improvement (+ 1%).
Operational excellence
Margin
11.4
%
Why we measure
Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies 
and cost control.
2013 performance
Margin affected by pension accounting changes, lower fuel duty 
rebate and higher fuel price, despite good cost efficiency savings.
2011
2012
2013
12.6
22.8
41.4
2011
2012
2013
11.4
12.7
12.4
2011
2012
2013
270.9
271.6
273.6
2011
2012
2013
61
59
103
2011
2012
2013
2
4
6
2011
2012
2013
68.9
69.2
69.8
42 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operational performance improvement was 
driven through technology. Our central control 
centre uses automatic vehicle location (‘AVL ’) to 
manage frequencies and to adapt timetables to 
traffic patterns, driving better punctuality. In turn, 
this information is fed to the network’s bus stops 
as real-time information for passengers. Over 
100,000 mobile users also downloaded our 
West Midlands bus app. 
We also expanded the ways in which 
customers can buy tickets to travel. Travelcards 
have been increasingly popular – these reduce 
cost to the passenger and increase loyalty to 
National Express services. We also introduced 
smartcards to the West Midlands, with 100,000 
journeys already taken in Coventry, Dundee  
and the West Midlands. 
We are seeking to drive margins nearer best 
in class through cost efficiency. In 2014 we 
will be seeking to improve structural cost 
efficiency in driving and engineering. Changes 
in maintenance practice have produced 
improved fleet reliability. Safety improvements 
are also driving cost savings, with annual claims 
costs down £2.5 million since 201 1. Employee 
lost time injuries have improved by 38% and 
passenger injuries were 23% better.
£m
2012 normalised operating profit 34
Fuel cost (3)
Fuel duty (BSOG) reduction (1)
Changes to pension accounting (3)
Cost inflation (8)
Net impact from revenue growth 4
Cost efficiencies 9
Other (1)
2013 normalised operating profit 31
Cash and returns
The UK Bus business generates an excellent 
return on capital, delivering good asset 
utilisation and profitable returns on investment. 
We believe that investing in new fleet and 
technology to drive passenger growth is vital. 
Capital expenditure during the year was  
£27 million, representing 1.7 times depreciation. 
We are well invested in the fleet and vehicle 
age continues to reduce, now at 8.5 years 
(2012: 8.8yrs). As a result of the investment 
programme, operating cash flow was 61%  
of profit. ROA for the division remains strong.
Creating new opportunities
UK Bus is a stable, strong return on capital 
business, with opportunity for revenue 
growth and margin improvement within its 
existing footprint. Through investment in fleet, 
technology and structural cost reduction,  
we are seeking to improve passenger volume 
growth. Stable hedged fuel prices and no 
further planned austerity measures will help 
in 2014. However, the regional economies in 
which we operate remain fragile and longer  
term funding pressures on concession 
arrangements remain.
Our ground-breaking ‘Transforming Bus Travel’ 
partnership with Centro is important for the 
medium term. We have jointly committed to  
a range of initiatives and investments to enhance 
bus services in the West Midlands. These 
include sustainable fares, reliable and punctual 
services, investment in 300 new, environmentally 
friendly vehicles, promoting bus ridership 
through real-time information, 350 new bus 
shelters, refurbished bus stations and bus road 
priority schemes. We will also be introducing 
new, longer trams in 2014. We believe the 
partnership leads the UK industry in stakeholder 
relations. As the largest single commercial 
network in the UK, together with Spain and 
Morocco, this is also a powerful credential  
as we explore international opportunities.
Our central control centre uses automatic vehicle location (AVL) to manage frequencies and drive punctuality
Our network improvements have driven  
patronage growth
43 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
UK Coach
Strong year growing revenue  
and profit 
Overview of 2013
UK Coach has delivered a strong turnaround 
performance, recovering from the previous 
withdrawal of senior citizen concession funding. 
The business has re-established a solid financial 
and operational foundation from which to 
drive continued revenue growth and margin 
improvement, generating momentum for  
the future.
Total revenue increased by 3% to £263.5 
million (2012: £255. 1m). Core express revenue 
increased by 7%, with dynamic pricing, network 
improvements and new distribution agreements 
achieving passenger volume growth of 9%. 
This was supported by good performances in 
Eurolines, Airlinks and The Kings Ferry, with only 
Rail Replacement significantly lower following 
the handback of the NXEA rail franchise in 2012. 
Growth 
%
Passenger yield (2)
Passenger volume 9
Change in core express revenue 7
Other revenues (primarily Rail 
Replacement)
(6)
Total revenue 3
Normalised operating profit increased by 
£3.9 million to £24.5 million (2012: £20.6m) 
and operating margin was 9.3% (2012: 8. 1%). 
Excluding the one-off profit in 2012 from 
Olympics contracts, the underlying profit 
improvement was over £6 million, an increase 
of 30% year-on-year. Giving passengers easy 
access to lower fares, more frequent and 
punctual services, investment in new coaches 
and greater cost efficiency all contributed to  
this progress.
£m
2012 normalised operating profit 21
Cost inflation (11)
Impact of government rebate changes (1)
Net impact of growth and new contracts 13
Olympic contracts (2)
Cost efficiencies & network changes 7
Other (2)
2013 normalised operating profit 25
“ We re-established a solid 
financial and operational 
foundation from which to drive 
continued revenue growth and 
margin improvement.”
Our business model 
How our business works
‘National Express’ is the national coach network operator in the UK, offering  
great value and accessible travel to all. It operates the only scheduled national  
UK coach network and the largest in Europe, in a deregulated market where  
we have flexibility over pricing and supply. Competition is modal, against rail  
and private car. National Express runs 500 coaches a day serving around  
1,000 domestic destinations. 
How we build long term value
National Express has a flexible, outsourced business model, where third  
party providers supply 80% of the coaches and responsibility for sales lies  
with the Company. With 90% brand recognition, the National Express coach 
business benefits from its integrated network and scale, offering breadth  
and interconnectivity, where competitors offer only point-to-point services  
with limited infrastructure.
Key risks to manage
• Competition – rail.
T om Stables
Managing Director, UK Coach
Year ended 31 December 2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 263.5 255.1
Operating profit 24.5 20.6
Operating margin 9.3% 8.1%
Read more p26
44 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Putting our markets into context
Market size 
£300
m
Market size 
£300m of contested revenues in the scheduled coach market.
Market share
Around 1,000 destinations served.
National Express is the UK scheduled coach market leader.
Composition
National Express has the only nationwide network of services.
Other competitors tend to focus on specific regions or corridors.
Trends
Core revenue growth, reflecting value and convenience of coach.
Price competition from rail through discounted fares.
Features
Highly deregulated market.
Customer safety and disability access supported by regulation.
Operators able to compete flexibly on selected routes.
Customers
Customer satisfaction important in driving longer term loyalty.
Attracted by fare discount to rail, increasing cost of private motoring  
and environmental friendliness.
Competition
Selective competition from rail, large bus operators and  
localised services.
Labour
Outsourced model; 80% operated by third-party partners on  
long term contract.
Consistent service and behaviour standards across all operators.
Growth
Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better distribution channels 
and greater understanding of our customers and their needs. In the 
longer term we will implement improved retailing systems.
Operations
Third party operators
Owned operations
Revenue split
Passenger
Contract
Subsidy
Other
Strategic Report pp01-51
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 45 Measuring our performance – KPIs
Strategic Report:  
UK Coach
Why we measure
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to maximise the cash  
generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market  
and operating model.
2013 performance
Lower vehicle acquisitions in the owned fleet, plus a move to using 
more operating leases to match fleet life. 
Superior cash and returns
Operating cash conversion
140
%
Safety
Lost time injuries (per 1,000 FTE)
14.0
Why we measure
Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective 
of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel 
secure. This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs 
(maintenance, insurance, claims). 
2013 performance
Accident rate broadly stable and a significant two-year improvement.
Operational excellence
Passenger journeys
18.0
m
Why we measure
Passenger journeys are reflective of underlying demand for travel. 
National Express is targeting increased passenger ridership as a long 
term driver of sustainable value.
2013 performance
Introduction of faster routes and new distribution channels  
(Ryanair, Post Office).
Operational excellence
Mileage
84.2
m
Why we measure
Mileage is both a key cost management tool and also an indicator  
of organic growth.
2013 performance
We reduced mileage to drive faster journey times, removing stops  
in smaller locations and selecting more direct routes.
Operational excellence
Revenue growth – core network
7
%
Why we measure
Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as  
a core driver of value.
2013 performance
Strong recovery in core business after loss of concession income  
in 2012.
Operational excellence
Margin
9.3
%
Why we measure
Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies 
and cost control.
2013 performance
Increase from cost control and profitable revenue growth.
2011
2012
2013
14.0
13.2
35.3
2011
2012
2013
9.3
8.1
13.5
2011
2012
2013
18.0
16.5
16.8
2011
2012
2013
140
101
70
2011
2012
2013
7
2
4
2011
2012
2013
84.2
85.0
82.2
46 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operational excellence
Our customer service strategy has focused on 
providing frequent coach services at low prices. 
Firstly, network changes have shortened journey 
times – for example, along the M4 corridor 
between the West Country and Heathrow and 
London. Supported by technology through real 
time coach monitoring, punctuality improved 
by over one percentage point. Secondly, lower 
prices, which were reduced during 2012, have 
been sustained, whilst better yield management 
has allowed us to encourage travellers by flexing 
pricing in line with market conditions. This has 
been supported by enhanced products, such 
as the senior citizen coach card.
Ease of access to fares has been improved 
by broadening retail distribution with particular 
focus on target customer segments. This has 
resulted in distribution agreements with the Post 
Office, where we access customers through 
1 1,000 branches, and Ryanair, via their website 
during the inbound passenger booking process. 
We have also focused on building on our 
contract capabilities, commencing operations 
to serve Luton Airport from London 70 times 
a day, extending airport work at Gatwick and 
carrying a record number of passengers to the 
Glastonbury Festival. Distribution through Wizz 
Air, a key Luton Airport carrier, was added at 
the end of 2013. The Kings Ferry expanded 
its popular commuter operation with a new 
service serving North Somerset and Bristol. 
We operated express coach services linking 
ten cities with London, Heathrow and Gatwick 
on Christmas Day for the first time; all but one 
service was sold out.
As a result of this strategy, all express segments 
have seen increased patronage, with airport 
routes particularly popular. This has driven 
efficiency through better load factors per 
coach. Coupled with streamlining of our third 
party network and cost efficiency in our owned 
operations with the closure of the Crawley 
depot, in total saving over £7 million, this has 
driven significant margin improvement. Safety 
improvements saw customer injury frequency 
down 40% and vehicle collisions 8% lower. 
Cash and returns
The UK Coach business model has particularly 
strong return on capital and cash generation, 
outsourcing the majority of fleet provision and 
services to its partner operators in a capital-light 
model. Operating cash conversion was 140% 
of profit in 2013. Capital expenditure is primarily 
focused on technology and retail systems.
Creating new opportunities
Attractive pricing, alongside improved yield 
management, will allow the division to continue 
to grow volume, improving load factors and 
profitability. Distribution channels to customers 
will be expanded, alongside a continued focus 
on operational efficiency. Remaining competitive 
against our key competitor , rail, will be a key focus.
The unique UK Coach model with its low price, 
modern, frequent services is well placed to 
continue to grow both revenue and margin. 
The concept is also applicable to developing 
international markets as a template for capital-
light growth – for example, we have adopted  
the partner model to develop our German 
coach operation, mitigating significant 
investment cost in new markets. Coach 
services were launched in Germany in April 
2013 with three initial services, expanded to 
five in July, linking Munich, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, 
Cologne, Dusseldorf and Hamburg. During this 
start-up period revenue has been €2.4 million 
and normalised operating loss €2.8 million,  
the latter reflecting significant marketing 
investment. We expect the loss to be similar  
in 2014 as market development continues.
New distribution agreements with airlines and the Post Office have improved ease of access to tickets
Better yield management has allowed us to 
encourage travellers by flexing pricing in line with 
market conditions
47 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report:
Rail 
International growth builds from  
c2c success 
Overview of 2013
2013 saw National Express secure new 
long term contracts in Rail. Building on the 
performance of c2c as the UK’s top performing 
franchise, we secured two new contracts 
in Germany to run until 2030. With the c2c 
franchise extended until September 2014, 
our focus is on the significant bid pipeline 
of opportunities in the UK, where we are 
shortlisted for three contracts, and in Germany.
Total revenue in 2013 was £143.0 million (2012: 
£195. 1m), the year-on-year reduction reflecting 
the end of the NXEA franchise during 2012.  
The c2c franchise increased underlying revenue 
by 4%. Normalised operating profit was £9.8 
million (2012: £26.7m) leading to an operating 
margin of 6.9% (2012: 13.7%). The c2c franchise 
was extended by the Department for Transport 
(‘DfT’) in May 2013 and was in 100% profit 
share to the DfT at the end of 2013 (this is  
reset for 2014 until the expiry of the franchise  
in September).
Operational excellence
The Rail division is at the forefront of the Group’s 
drive for operational excellence. In December, 
c2c was awarded a 5-star rating by the 
European Foundation for Quality Management, 
the highest level attainable. This is an important 
credential for bidding in rail. c2c’s customer 
service is evident – it has been the top rated 
performer of all UK rail franchises throughout 
2012 and 2013, with an annual average 
punctuality of 96.9%. Customer satisfaction 
and National Passenger Survey results are also 
industry leading, with the latter recording a 92% 
score, making c2c the best DfT franchise. 
Our offering to customers continues to expand. 
In August we were selected by the DfT to trial a 
flagship paperless flexible ticketing system using 
smartcards. This follows the addition of 14,000 
extra seats per week in the new May timetable. 
Safety performance also improved with its 
lowest ever rate of employee accidents. 
Cash and returns
Rail offers a capital-light model with lower 
margins but high returns. In 2013 c2c converted 
150% of normalised operating profit into 
operating cash. In the event that National 
Express did not retain the c2c franchise in 
September 2014, the cash outflow associated 
with the franchise handover would be around 
£22 million.
“ c2c was awarded a 5-star 
rating by the European 
Foundation for Quality 
Management, the highest  
level attainable.”
Our business model 
How our business works
National Express has a strong operational skills base in Rail, one of the few 
privatised systems in Europe. The Rail industry comprises franchises awarded 
on an exclusive operation basis to private operators. Prices are predominantly 
regulated and costs are substantially fixed around track access, rolling stock and 
franchise payments. Franchisees therefore primarily target passenger volume 
growth, whilst fulfilling their service obligations. 
How we build long term value
c2c is the UK’s best performing franchise for both punctuality and passenger 
approval, which is an excellent credential to drive value in the UK and overseas. 
The Group is now starting to exploit its rail expertise in deregulating markets 
outside the UK, particularly in Germany where it has been selected to run its  
first two contracts. National Express is currently bidding for Essex Thameside, 
Crossrail and ScotRail in the UK, and the Berlin S-bahn in Germany.
Key risks to manage
• Loss of c2c.
Andrew Chivers
Managing Director, Rail 
Year ended 31 December 2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 143.0 195.1
Operating profit 9.8 26.7
Operating margin 6.9% 13.7%
Read more p26
48 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Putting our markets into context
Market size 
£8.5
bn
£8.5bn of UK franchise revenues over next five years  
(based on proposed DfT pipeline).
€6bn currently accessible German regional rail market.
Market share
One franchise currently: c2c (Essex Thameside).
Composition
Market share broadly dispersed between UK private train operators  
and overseas state market participants.
Trends
Growth over the past decade driven by passenger volumes.
Dependent on GDP and employment, particularly central London 
employment for c2c.
Regulated fares likely to increase by 0%-1% in real terms over next  
two years.
Liberalising German rail market.
Features
Regulated environment.
New framework for future franchises: likely to settle between 7 -15 year 
duration with introduction of quality element alongside pricing.
Highly regulated qualification and operational processes.
Customers
Steady growth in passenger volume over last 20 years.
Competition
Increased international competition in UK franchise bidding.
Labour
Relationships are managed within each franchise, with high  
union representation.
Growth
Successful bid to retain c2c and bidding for other UK franchises.  
Further bid wins in Germany.
Strategic Report pp01-51
www.nationalexpressgroup.com 49 Measuring our performance – KPIs*
* All KPIs refer to c2c only, except margin which is total Rail division.
Strategic Report:  
Rail 
Why we measure
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to maximise the cash  
generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market  
and operating model.
2013 performance
High natural cash conversion in rail franchises. c2c only in 2013.
Superior cash and returns
Operating cash conversion
154
%
Safety
Lost time injuries (per 1,000 FTE)
1.7
Why we measure
Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective 
of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel 
secure. This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs 
(maintenance, insurance, claims). 
2013 performance
Excellent performance in safety improvement.
Operational excellence
Passenger journeys
37.5
m
Why we measure
Passenger journeys are reflective of underlying demand for travel. 
National Express is targeting increased passenger ridership as a long 
term driver of sustainable value.
2013 performance
Increase in journeys led by operational quality and marketing/off-peak 
initiatives.
Operational excellence
Public performance measure
96.9
%
Why we measure
This is the rail industry standard measurement of performance.  
It also enables franchises to be benchmarked against each other.
2013 performance
Record-breaking performance: continuous period of two years  
as UK top performing franchise.
Operational excellence
Revenue growth 
4
%
Why we measure
Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as  
a core driver of value.
2013 performance
Revenue growth driven by fare increases and incremental passenger 
volume growth.
Operational excellence
Margin
6.9
%
Why we measure
Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies 
and cost control.
2013 performance
Lower margin as NXEA franchise-end effects finish. Profit share 
mechanism on contract extension.
2011
2012
2013
1.7
8.2
12.7
2011
2012
2013
6.9
13.7
6.3
2011
2012
2013
37.5
37.2
35.6
2011
2012
2013
154
126
108
2011
2012
2013
4
7
7
2011
2012
2013
96.9
97.5
96.7
50 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Creating new opportunities
Leveraging our UK rail experience and the 
operational performance credentials of c2c, our 
strategy in Rail is to secure a number of smaller, 
lower risk UK and German rail franchises where 
the franchise risk is acceptable. Other markets 
may liberalise and be attractive in due course 
(for example, Spain). 
In 2013 we won two rail contracts to provide 
services to the Nord Rhine Westphalia regional 
government in Germany. These contracts, 
operating as the ‘Rhine Munsterland Express’, 
will generate €70 million of revenue per year 
and will run for 15 years from December 2015, 
securing our participation in rail until 2030. 
The mobilisation is underway, with the first of 
35 trains procured on behalf of the regional 
authority from Bombardier due to be delivered 
in June 2014. We have also prequalified for the 
Berlin Ringbahn contract, due to be bid later this 
year, and are looking at other suitable contracts 
in Germany, as well as in the neighbouring 
Czech Republic. We are currently working on  
18 opportunities with annual revenue of £1 billion.
In the UK, we have a skilled and experienced 
bid team and have submitted bids to the DfT 
for Essex Thameside, where we are the current 
operator as c2c, and to Transport for London 
for Crossrail. We have also been selected by 
Transport Scotland to bid for the ScotRail 
franchise in April.
c2c has been the top rated performer of all UK rail franchises throughout 2012 and 2013
We were selected by the DfT to pilot a new smartcard 
ticketing system
Our 2013 Strategic Report, from page 01 
to page 51, has been reviewed and 
approved by the Board of directors 
on 27 February 2014.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014
“ In 2013 we won two rail contracts  
to provide services to the  
Nord Rhine Westphalia regional 
government in Germany.”
51 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Corporate Governance  
Contents 
53 Chairman’s Introduction
54 Board of Directors
56 Governance Report
64 Board Committees
68 Directors’ Remuneration Report
88 Other Statutory Information
92 Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
52 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 What does good governance 
mean to National Express?
Corporate Governance
Chairman’s Introduction 
Dear shareholder,
As a listed company in the UK, National Express 
is subject to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’). The Code encourages me to 
report personally on how the principles relating 
to the role and effectiveness of the Board have 
been applied, and I am happy to do so.
The Board believes that maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance is essential 
to protecting shareholder value and the 
sustainable growth of the Group. We do not see 
governance as a box ticking exercise but as an 
integral part of ensuring we do the right things in 
the right way and that is fully embraced by all of 
our employees across the Group.
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 
explains the various aspects of the governance 
of the Company, including reports from our 
Board Committees on their work in 2013.
The role of the Board is to provide leadership 
of the Company with myself as Chairman 
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring 
its effectiveness. It is therefore important that 
the Board has the correct balance of skills 
and experience and that Board members 
work together effectively. During the year 
under review I was appointed as Chairman 
taking over from John Devaney, while more 
recently Jane Kingston has been appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director. On 25 February 
2014 Tim Score stepped down from the Board 
and Jackie Hunt became Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee from 
26 February 2014. I would like to thank Tim for 
his significant contribution to the Company over 
the past nine years. In view of these changes 
and to ensure continuity, I asked Sir Andrew 
Foster to remain on the Board even though he 
has served for more than nine years. Sir Andrew 
brings a wealth of knowledge and experience 
and I greatly value Andrew’s support and 
guidance and welcome his decision to take up 
the offer to remain as a Director until the 2015 
Annual General Meeting.
National Express supports diversity throughout 
the Group as well as in the Boardroom. 
While our existing policy is to select the best 
available candidate for any role irrespective 
of race, gender, disability or age, we have 
set the aspirational target that by 2015, 30% 
of the Board will be women, in line with the 
recommendation of the Davies Report on 
Boardroom Diversity. We are making good 
progress towards our target and with the recent 
appointment of Jane Kingston, 20% of our 
Board are now women.
In 2013 the review of the performance of 
the Board was carried out internally via a 
questionnaire circulated to all Directors. The 
review confirmed that the Board continued  
to operate effectively. More details are set out  
on page 61.
There have been a number of changes in 
reporting requirements introduced this year by 
the September 2012 edition of the Code and 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’). The most 
significant reporting changes have been to our 
Directors’ Remuneration Report as a result 
of the Regulations with the introduction of the 
binding vote on our remuneration policy and 
the way we are required to report on some 
elements of remuneration. 
This year our Annual General Meeting will be 
held at 2.00 pm on 14 May 2014 at Hall 5, 
International Convention Centre, Broad Street, 
Birmingham B1 2EA and I would encourage 
you to attend to meet me and the Board. 
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
27 February 2014
Corporate Governance pp52-92
53 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
The right mix of skills and experience 
delivering effective oversight 
Sir John Armitt, Chairman (68)
Committee membership: 
Nomination (Chair) 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 1 January 2013 and as 
Chairman on 1 February 2013
Experience: Sir John Armitt is currently 
Deputy Chairman of Berkeley Group Holdings 
PLC, Chairman of City and Guilds, Chairman of 
the Olympic Delivery Authority and a member 
of the Transport for London Board. Sir John 
was Chairman of the Engineering and Physical 
Science Research Council until 31 March 2012. 
From 2001 to 2007 he was Chief Executive of 
Network Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack. 
In 1997 he was appointed as Chief Executive 
of Costain Group PLC, a position he held until 
2001. Before this Sir John was Chief Executive 
of Union Railways, the company responsible 
for the development of the high speed Channel 
Tunnel Rail Link. This followed a 27-year career 
at John Laing PLC.
Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive (47)
Committee membership:
N/A
Appointment: 15 February 2010
Experience: Prior to joining National Express, 
Dean Finch was Group Chief Executive of Tube 
Lines from June 2009. Before that he worked 
for over 10 years in senior roles within FirstGroup 
PLC. He joined FirstGroup in 1999 having 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, 
where he worked for 12 years specialising 
in Corporate Transaction Support Services, 
including working for the Office of Passenger Rail 
Franchising on the privatisation of train operating 
companies. At FirstGroup, he was Managing 
Director of the Rail Division from 2000-2004 and 
then was appointed to the main board as Group 
Commercial Director in 2004, before being made 
Group Finance Director . With the completion of the 
Laidlaw acquisition he became Chief Operating 
Officer in North America before returning to the 
UK as Group Chief Operating Officer.
Tim Score, Senior Independent Director 
(until 25 February 2014) (53)
Committee membership:
Audit (Chair until 25 February 2014) 
Remuneration  
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 21 February 2005  
(resigned 25 February 2014)
Experience: Tim Score was appointed to  
the Board in February 2005 and acted as 
Interim Chairman between December 2008 
and April 2009. He is Chief Financial Officer 
at ARM Holdings PLC. Before joining ARM he 
worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group 
Limited which he joined in 1999. Between 
1997 and 1999, he was Group Finance 
Director of William Baird PLC, which he joined 
from LucasVarity PLC. He is a chartered 
accountant. As announced on 28 January 
2014, Tim Score stepped down from the 
Board on 25 February 2014.
Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director (52)
Committee membership:
N/A
Appointment: 17 November 2008
Experience: Jez Maiden was formerly Chief 
Finance Officer at Northern Foods PLC. Prior 
to that, he was Group Finance Director of 
British Vita PLC, Director of Finance of Britannia 
Building Society and Group Finance Director 
of Hickson International PLC. He is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of Synthomer PLC 
and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Jorge Cosmen, Deputy Chairman (45)
Committee membership:
Nomination  
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 1 December 2005
Experience: Jorge Cosmen was appointed to 
the Board at the time of the ALSA transaction. 
He was appointed Deputy Chairman in October 
2008. He was Corporate Manager for the 
ALSA Group from 1995, becoming Chairman 
in 1999. Between 1986 and 1995, he worked 
in sales, distribution and banking. He is a 
Business Administration graduate and has an 
International MBA from the Instituto de Empresa 
in Madrid. He is Non-Executive Director of 
Bankia, as well as of other private companies.
Jackie Hunt, Independent Non-Executive 
Director (appointed Senior Independent 
Director from 26 February 2014) (45)
Committee membership:
Audit (Chair from 26 February 2014) 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 13 September 2012
Experience: Jackie Hunt was appointed 
Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe in 
September 2013. She joined Prudential from 
Standard Life where she was Chief Financial 
Officer. Prior to this, Jackie held a number 
of senior financial management positions in 
companies including Norwich Union Insurance, 
Aviva, Hibernian Group, Royal & SunAlliance 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Jackie was 
also Chair of the Association of British Insurers’ 
Prudential Financial and Taxation Committee. 
Jackie was appointed Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee from 
26 February 2014.
54 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chris Muntwyler, Independent  
Non-Executive Director (61)
Committee membership:
Audit  
Safety & Environment (Chair)
Appointment: 1 1 May 201 1
Experience: Chris Muntwyler is CEO  
and Chairman of the Swiss Management 
Consulting company Conlogic Ltd. He is also 
Non-Executive Director of Panalpina World 
Transport (Holding) Ltd (Switzerland) and the 
Austrian Post Ltd (Austria). During his 27 years 
at Swissair he held top executive positions 
in Switzerland, Sweden and North America. 
In 1999 he joined DHL Express serving as 
Managing Director of Switzerland, Germany 
and Central Europe and from 2005 to 2008 as 
CEO of DHL Express (UK) Ltd based in London.
Joaquín Ayuso, Independent  
Non-Executive Director (58)
Committee membership:
Nomination 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 1 June 201 1
Experience: Joaquín Ayuso is Board Vice 
Chairman for Ferrovial, the €12 billion Spanish 
transport infrastructure and services group 
that employs over 70,000 people worldwide. 
He has been with Ferrovial since 1981 and 
was appointed CEO in 2002 and held that 
position until October 2009. During this period 
Ferrovial expanded internationally with business 
interests in the UK, US, Canada, Latin America 
and Europe. He is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of Bankia, Chairman of the Board  
of Ausol in Spain and Senior Advisor to  
AT Kearney in Spain and Portugal.
Lee Sander, Independent Non-Executive 
Director (57)
Committee membership:
Remuneration 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 1 June 201 1
Experience: Elliot (Lee) Sander is President 
and Chief Executive Officer of the HAKS Group, 
Inc. An American citizen, he was recently 
Executive Director and CEO for the New York 
Metropolitan Transportation Authority and 
has served as Commissioner for the New 
York City Department of Transportation. Lee 
is Chairman of the Regional Plan Association, 
a prominent NGO based in New York that 
has played a highly influential role in driving 
public policy and investments in the New York 
Metropolitan area over the last 80 years. He has 
also played a very active role on the National 
Surface Transportation Infrastructure Finance 
Commission, having been appointed by the 
United States Congress in 2006.
Sir Andrew Foster,  
Non-Executive Director (69)
Committee membership:
Audit 
Nomination 
Remuneration (Chair) 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 1 August 2004
Experience: Sir Andrew Foster has had 
an extensive career in the public sector, 
having served as Chief Executive of the Audit 
Commission for England and Wales between 
1992 and 2003. Before this, he was Deputy 
Chief Executive of the NHS and Regional CEO 
for Yorkshire. He currently works for Royal Bank 
of Canada and is Chairman of Commonwealth 
Games England. He is also Non-Executive 
Director at PruHealth. Sir Andrew has conducted 
independent reviews for the Government into the 
Intercity Express Project, the Building Colleges 
for the Future programme, and previously into 
Further Education and the Future of Athletics.
Jane Kingston, Independent  
Non-Executive Director (56)
Committee membership:
Remuneration 
Safety & Environment
Appointment: 26 February 2014
Experience: Jane Kingston is currently Group 
Human Resources Director at Compass 
Group PLC and was previously Group Human 
Resources Director at BPB PLC. Prior to 
this Jane has worked in a variety of sectors 
including roles in Blue Circle Industries PLC, 
Enodis PLC and Coats Viyella PLC.
Michael Hampson, General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Committee membership:
N/A
Appointment: 30 January 2012
Experience: Prior to joining National Express, 
Michael Hampson held the position of General 
Counsel and Company Secretary at Whitbread 
PLC, RMC Group PLC and Charter International 
PLC; he was also the Director of Corporate 
Development at Anglian Water Group PLC. He 
is currently Chairman of the Royal Society for 
the Prevention of Accidents and is a barrister 
and Chartered Secretary. 
Corporate Governance pp52-92
55 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance
Governance Report
Key matters reserved for Board approval 
 
Group strategy and risk management
• Formulation and approval of long term objectives
• Approval of changes to capital structure
• Approval of major changes to management and control structures
• Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or geographical areas
 
Financial and internal controls
• Oversight of risk management and internal control framework
• Approval of financial statements and results announcements
• Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and notices of meetings
• Approval of the auditor’s remuneration and recommendations for their  
appointment/removal
• Recommendation and declaration of dividends
• Monitoring the Group’s businesses against plan and budget
• Approval of major capital expenditure projects
• Approval of material contracts
 
Board membership and Committees
• Appointment of Directors
• Approval of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
• Setting of Board Committees’ terms of reference
• Approval of new share incentive plans
 
Corporate governance
• Undertaking formal performance reviews of the Board, Committees and individual Directors
• Determining the independence of Directors
• Receiving reports from the Company’s major shareholders
 
Policies
• Review and approval of Group policies, for example: 
• health and safety
• risk management strategy
• environment
• charitable and political donations
• workplace rights
• human rights
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
The Governance Report set out below is 
designed to provide shareholders with a 
summary of the Group’s governance policies 
and practices and an explanation of how the 
Company has applied the main principles  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’) as relevant for the Company in 2013. 
The Directors believe that the Company has 
complied with the provisions set out in the  
Code during 2013 save as described below.  
A printed copy of the Code can be obtained 
free of charge from FRC Publications by 
telephone (+44 (0)20 8247 1264), email  
(cch@wolterskluwer.co.uk) and online at www.
frcpublications.com.
As part of the Board’s succession plans and 
in order to ensure there was continuity, it was 
decided to ask Sir Andrew Foster to remain a 
Director until the 2015 Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’). With effect from 1 August 2013, Sir 
Andrew has served on the Board for more 
than nine years and is no longer deemed 
independent under the Code; however, it was 
felt important that with his significant experience 
he remain the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of both the 
Nomination and Audit Committees. The 
intention is that Sir Andrew will continue to be a 
member of these Committees until he stands 
down at the 2015 AGM; the composition of the 
Committees will then be brought into line with 
the Code requirements.
56 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group 
Board 
Remuneration Committee  
Nomination Committee  
 
 
 
Audit Committee 
Safety & Environment Committee 
Group Executive Committee 
 
UK Executive 
 
Spanish Executive North American Executive 
Board Committee Executive Committee
Leadership
The Role of the Board
The Board provides leadership of the Group 
and direction for management. It is collectively 
responsible and accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for the long term success of 
the Group and for ensuring the appropriate 
management and operation of the Group in 
pursuit of its objectives. 
The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s 
strategy, values and standards and ensuring the 
necessary controls and resources are in place 
to deliver it. To help discharge its responsibilities, 
the Board has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for its decision, which 
form the core of the Board’s agenda. The 
Board has also delegated certain aspects of 
its responsibilities to the following Committees: 
the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and 
the Safety & Environment Committee. More 
details about these Committees can be found 
in this report.
The Board and its Committees have regular 
scheduled meetings and hold additional 
meetings as and when required. Directors are 
expected, where possible, to attend all Board 
meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the 
AGM and any General meetings. The core 
activities of the Board and its Committees are 
documented and planned on an annual basis 
and a list of matters arising from each meeting 
is maintained and followed up at subsequent 
meetings. The timeline on page 59 shows the 
main items of business addressed by the Board 
during the year. The Non-Executive Directors 
also meet during the year without the Executive 
Directors being present.
The Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are held separately and the division 
of responsibilities between these roles is clearly 
established as shown below. The Chairman is 
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring 
its effectiveness. The Group Chief Executive 
is responsible for running the business of the 
Group and implementation of the strategy and 
policies adopted by the Board. 
Chairman’s responsibilities 
• Chairing and managing the business  
of the Board;
• Together with the Group Chief Executive, 
leading the Board in developing the 
strategy of the business and ensuring its 
effective implementation by the Executive 
management team;
• Ensuring effective dialogue with investors 
concerning mutual understanding of 
objectives;
• In conjunction with the Nomination 
Committee, taking responsibility for the 
composition and replenishment of the Board;
• Periodically reviewing with the Board its 
working practices and performance; and
• Ensuring there is an effective contribution 
from the Non-Executive Directors and a 
constructive relationship between Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman’s other significant commitments 
are detailed in his biography on page 54.
Reporting framework
Corporate Governance pp52-92
57 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Chief Executive’s responsibilities
• Communicating a shared purpose and the 
culture, vision and values of the Group;
• The development and implementation of 
management strategy;
• The day-to-day management of the Group;
• Managing the Executive management team;
• Fostering relationships with key stakeholders;
• Leading the Group Executive Committee;
• In conjunction with the Group Finance 
Director, communicating the Group’s financial 
performance to investors and analysts; and
• Liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective 
dialogue with investors and stakeholders.
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors constructively 
challenge and scrutinise the performance of 
management and help develop proposals 
on strategy. The terms and conditions of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
are available for inspection at each AGM, on 
the Company’s website and at its registered 
office during normal business hours. The 
Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board 
their other significant commitments. The 
procedure adopted by the Company in relation 
to Directors’ conflicts of interest is detailed on 
page 88.
Senior Independent Director
Tim Score was the Senior Independent 
Director (‘SID’) of the Company during 2013. 
As announced on 28 January 2014, Tim Score 
stepped down from the Board on 25 February 
2014 and Jackie Hunt became the SID from  
26 February 2014. As well as being available  
to shareholders whose concerns have not  
been resolved through normal channels or 
when such channels would be inappropriate, 
the SID provides a sounding board for the 
Chairman and serves as an intermediary for 
the other Directors, where necessary. The SID 
also has responsibility for leading the annual 
appraisal of the Chairman’s performance.
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors are responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the Group’s 
businesses, implementation of its strategy, 
policies and budgets and its financial 
performance. Executive management meetings 
comprise the Executive Directors and senior 
management from the divisions and are held 
regularly to discuss current issues.
Principal committees of the Board
The main Committees established by the Board 
are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and 
the Safety & Environment Committee. Each 
Committee operates within defined terms  
of reference, the full versions of which can  
be found on the Company’s website at  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. Each 
Committee reports its proceedings to the  
Board through the submission of reports  
and minutes as appropriate. 
All Board Committees are authorised to obtain 
legal or other professional advice as necessary, 
to secure the attendance of external advisors at 
their meetings and to seek information required 
from any employee of the Group in order to 
perform their duties. 
Reports of each of the Committees are 
provided on pages 64 to 87 , and include 
information on each Committee’s membership, 
duties and work throughout the year.
The Group Chief Executive heads the Group 
Executive Committee which meets on a 
monthly basis and is tasked with approving 
operational business matters. In addition, the 
UK, Spanish and North American Executives 
meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with 
at these meetings are reported to the Group 
Executive Committee.
The reporting framework of the Board 
Committees and of the Group Executive 
Committee and its sub-committees is shown 
on page 57 .
The table below sets out the number of 
meetings of the Board and its Committees 
during the year and individual attendance  
by the Board and Committee members  
at these meetings.
During the year the Chairman met on several 
occasions with the Non-Executives without the 
Executive Directors present to allow informal 
discussions on a variety of issues.
Corporate Governance 
Governance Report continued 
Number of Board meetings
Board meetings
The Board 
of Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety & Environment 
Committee
Total meetings in 2013 7 3 1 4 3
Executive Directors
Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 7 – – – –
Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director 7 – – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Sir John Armitt 7 – 1 – 3
Joaquín Ayuso 7 – 1 – 2
Jorge Cosmen 7 – 1 – 2
John Devaney
1
0 (1) – – – –
Sir Andrew Foster 6 2 1 4 1
Jackie Hunt 6 3 – – 3
Chris Muntwyler 6 2 – – 3
Lee Sander 7 – – 3 3
Tim Score 7 3 – 3 3
Company Secretary Michael Hampson also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1
 Resigned from the Board on 31 January 2013. Maximum possible meetings shown in brackets.
58 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board activity throughout the year (excluding standing items)
January 2013 • Review of the Group Strategic Plan for 2013-2017
• Capital investment
• German rail bids update
February 2013 • Capital investment
• Treasury funding update
• Approval of the Preliminary Results Announcement, Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2012 and Notice of Annual General Meeting
• Recommendation of the final dividend for financial year 2012
May 2013 • Approval of the establishment of the National Express Giving Foundation 
in North America
• Approval of the international bid strategy
• Update on UK and German Coach businesses
June 2013 • Broker feedback
• Presentation on the UK Bus business
• Rail bids update
• Capital investment
• Approval of the new Revolving Credit Facility
July 2013 • Review of the North American HR strategy
• Capital investment
• Approval of the Half Year Results Announcement and interim dividend
October 2013 • Presentation on the Spanish and Moroccan businesses
• Presentation on the results of the Executive Committee’s Strategic Away Day
• Capital investment
November 2013 • Presentation on rail franchising by the Department of Transport
• Approval of the Essex Thameside rail bid
• Approval of the 2014 budget
• Presentation on Group succession planning
• Review of the results of the 2013 Board performance evaluation
• Presentation on the work of the National Express Foundation
Corporate Governance pp52-92
59 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Board oversight 
and benchmarking
• The Board regularly and rigorously  
reviews and benchmarks operational  
and functional performance.
• At each Board meeting the Board 
receives a report from the Group Chief 
Executive on operational performance, 
and from the Group Finance Director on 
the financial performance of the Group 
as a whole and each of the Group’s 
businesses individually.
• The Board normally receives 
presentations at each of its meetings from 
either a business Managing Director or  
a functional head.
Corporate Governance 
Governance Report continued 
Effectiveness 
Composition of the Board
The Board consists of an appropriate balance 
of Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
who collectively bring a strong and in-depth 
mix of business skills and experience and 
considerable knowledge to assist with Board 
decisions. 
During 2013, at least half of the Board, 
excluding the Chairman, comprised 
independent Non-Executive Directors in 
accordance with the Code. 
A list of the individual Directors, their biographies 
and Committee memberships as at the date  
of this report are set out on pages 54 to 55.
Independence
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent other than Jorge 
Cosmen, Sir Andrew Foster and Tim Score. Sir 
John Armitt was considered to be independent 
prior to his appointment as Chairman. 
Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be 
independent by the Board due to his close 
links with the ALSA business and significant 
interests in the shares of the Company which 
are held through European Express Enterprises 
Limited. Despite his non-independence, the 
Board feels that it benefits greatly from Jorge 
Cosmen’s extensive local market knowledge 
and experience. 
As at 1 August 2013, Sir Andrew Foster had 
served on the Board as a Director for more than 
nine years, having been appointed on 1 August 
2004. Sir Andrew has agreed to remain on 
the Board until the 2015 AGM and the Board 
believe that it is in the best interests of the 
Company and shareholders that he should do 
so given his wealth of experience and to ensure 
continuity following the recent changes to the 
Board’s composition.
As at 21 February 2014, Tim Score had 
served for more than nine years on the Board 
meaning that for a short period of time until the 
appointment of Jane Kingston on 26 February 
2014 the composition of the Board did not  
meet the requirements under provision B. 1.2  
of the Code. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in 
any of the Company’s share option or bonus 
schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Induction of new Directors
On appointment, Directors are offered training 
as appropriate and are thereafter encouraged 
to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties 
as a Director and to attend training courses 
relevant to their role. 
An induction process is in place for new 
Directors, the aim of which is to:
• build an understanding of the nature of the 
Group, its businesses and the markets in 
which it operates;
• establish a link with the Group’s employees; 
and
• build an understanding of the Group’s main 
relationships including stakeholders and 
customers.
The following information is provided as part 
of the induction and ongoing training and 
development of Board Directors.
On appointment 
• Governance information in relation to the 
Group, including the terms of reference  
of the Board and its Committees;
• Guidance for Directors of British public 
companies generally including under  
the law, the Code and the rules of the  
UK Listing Authority;
• Board minutes covering the previous  
year; and
• Information on key Group policies.
Following appointment 
• Business briefing meetings with the 
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive  
and the Group Finance Director;
• Meeting with the Company Secretary to 
discuss the Group structure, the Company’s 
constitution and Board procedures and terms 
of reference of the Board and its Committees;
• Meetings with senior management in the  
five divisions;
• Meeting with the Director of Safety for an 
overview of the Group’s health and safety 
policy and safety record; and
• Meeting with the Group’s auditor.
Information and support
Reports from the Executive Directors, which 
include in-depth financial information, are 
circulated to Board members prior to every 
Board meeting. Senior management and 
advisers make presentations to the Board  
on significant matters during the year. Every  
effort is made to ensure that information 
reported to the Board is of high quality in 
terms of accuracy, quality, appropriateness, 
comprehensiveness and currency. Directors  
are able to seek clarification or amplification 
from management where necessary. 
All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary who 
is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
compliance with the Board procedures. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for 
advising the Board, through the Chairman, on 
all governance matters. Under the direction of 
the Chairman, the Company Secretary’s role 
includes ensuring good information flows within 
the Board and its Committees, and between 
senior management and Non-Executive 
Directors, as well as facilitating induction 
and assisting with professional development 
as required. The Company Secretary acts 
as secretary to the Board and each of its 
Committees. The appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as 
a whole. As well as the support of the Company 
Secretary, there is a procedure in place for 
any Director to take independent professional 
advice where considered necessary.
60 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance evaluation
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board 
and its Committees is conducted annually. 
In 201 1 an external evaluation of the Board’s 
performance was led by Geoffrey Shepheard 
of ICSA Board Evaluation, who had no other 
connection with the Company. In accordance 
with the Code it is the Board’s intention that 
the Board evaluation in 2014 will be externally 
facilitated.
In 2012 and 2013, internal evaluations of 
Board effectiveness were conducted by 
Stephen Connock, Group HR Adviser, via a 
questionnaire circulated to all the Directors. 
Actions implemented from the 2012 evaluation 
are detailed below. 
2012 recommendations Actions
Increase focus on 
action plans arising 
from Board decisions 
with clear 
responsibilities and 
timescales for 
resulting actions
A list of matters arising 
from each Board and 
Committee meeting 
is maintained with 
clear responsibilities 
and deadlines for 
completion and 
followed up at 
subsequent meetings, 
with actions remaining 
on the list until they  
are completed
Further development 
of Board succession 
planning including an 
analysis of the future 
composition 
of the Board
Changes have 
been made to the 
composition of the 
Board in 2013
The results of the 2013 internal evaluation were 
discussed at the November Board meeting.  
The Board’s discussions highlighted a number 
of areas of strength and it was felt that the 
Board continued to work well. Areas identified 
for action from the 2013 evaluation include  
the following: 
2013 evaluation – areas for action
Improve timing of 
delivery of Board 
papers to Directors
Changes will be 
considered when 
preparing the 2015 
Board calendar to 
ensure there is more 
time between delivery 
of the Board papers 
and the actual meetings
Allow sufficient time 
for discussion of 
complex issues
When producing 
agendas, more time will 
be allocated to such 
agenda items
Ensure the Board 
has the right balance 
of skills
This was addressed 
through the current 
NED search process 
that resulted in the 
appointment of Jane 
Kingston
Provide the Board with 
greater contact with 
senior management
The Board meet the 
North American and 
Spanish management 
teams once a year 
and opportunities will 
be provided to give 
the Board increased 
exposure to the UK 
based management 
teams
Outcomes arising from this evaluation process 
will be further reported on in next year’s  
Annual Report.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, and the Code, all Directors of 
the Company will offer themselves for either 
election or re-election at this year’s AGM. Non-
Executive Directors are appointed for specific 
terms, subject to re-election. Non-Executive 
Directors will only be put forward for re-election 
if, following performance evaluation, the Board 
believes the Director’s performance continues 
to be effective and demonstrates commitment 
to the role. 
Accountability
Internal control statement
The Board’s responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. The Board 
maintains full control and direction over 
appropriate strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues and has put in place an 
organisational structure with formally defined 
lines of responsibility, delegated authorities 
and clear operating processes. The systems 
that the Board has established are designed to 
safeguard both the shareholders’ investment 
and the assets of the Group, and are described 
as follows: 
Key elements of the control framework
Financial reporting process – Management 
and specialists within the Finance Department 
are responsible for ensuring the appropriate 
maintenance of financial records and processes 
to ensure that all information is relevant, reliable 
and in accordance with the applicable laws 
and regulations, and distributed both internally 
and externally in a timely manner. A review of 
the consolidation and financial statements is 
completed by management to ensure that the 
financial position and results of the Group are 
appropriately reflected. All financial information 
published by the Group is subject to the 
approval of the Audit Committee.
Performance management – The 
performance of each division and operating 
company against its plan is closely monitored  
by a formal monthly reporting process and by  
the attendance of the relevant Executive Directors  
at monthly divisional Executive meetings.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
61 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance 
Governance Report continued 
Annual fitness check process – Group 
internal audit undertake an annual review 
at each operating company to assess the 
integrity of the balance sheet and to check the 
effective operation of key financial reporting and 
information systems controls. The results of the 
reviews are presented to both divisional and 
Group finance with any required actions agreed 
with the relevant divisional Finance Director.
Strategic and financial planning – An 
annual budgeting and strategic planning 
process has been established whereby each 
division and constituent operating company 
assesses its competitive position and goals, 
taking account of the strategic risks faced. This 
strategy is translated into a financial plan with 
clear milestones and performance indicators.
Capital investment – A clear process is in 
place for the approval of capital expenditure, 
which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits 
of the proposed investment and any associated 
key risks. Material capital expenditure requires 
Board approval.
Health and safety – Health and safety 
standards and benchmarks have been 
established in all of our businesses and the 
performance of operating companies in 
meeting these standards is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process – 
Each division and operating company evaluates 
its internal control environment and key risks, 
and the results are reviewed at management 
level and passed to the Audit Committee before 
being presented to the Board. This process 
is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the 
validity and relevance of the key risks included 
in reports. The review covers strategic, financial, 
compliance and risk management controls. 
These procedures are mandated and designed 
to manage the risk in order to ensure that the 
operations achieve their business objectives.
Internal audit – The internal control system is 
independently monitored and supported by a 
Group internal audit function. The Group internal 
audit function reports to management and the 
Audit Committee on the Group’s financial and 
operational controls, and monitors and reviews 
the extent to which its recommendations have 
been implemented.
Board-level reporting on internal control – 
During the year the Audit Committee reviews 
regular reports from the internal audit 
function, the external auditor and Group 
Executive management on matters relating 
to internal control, financial reporting and risk 
management. The Audit Committee provides 
the Board with an independent assessment of 
the Group’s financial position, accounting affairs 
and control systems. In addition, the Board 
receives regular reports on how specific risks 
that are assessed as material to the Group  
are being managed.
Review of internal control effectiveness
The system of internal control and risk 
management, described above, has been 
in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of this Annual Report 
and Accounts. Such a system is designed 
to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks 
inherent in achieving the Group’s business 
objectives, and can therefore provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The effectiveness 
of this system has been regularly reviewed 
by the Directors in line with the Guidance on 
Audit Committees, published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in December 2010. Where 
significant control failings or weaknesses have 
been identified, appropriate corrective action 
has been taken.
Anti-bribery policy
A Group anti-bribery policy has been 
established and issued to all Group companies 
and is also available on the Group’s website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. The policy 
prohibits any inducement which results in  
a personal gain or advantage to the recipient 
or any person or body associated with them, 
and which is intended to influence them to take 
action which may not be solely in the interests  
of the Group or of the person or body 
employing them or which they represent. The 
prevention, detection and reporting of bribery 
is the responsibility of all employees throughout 
the Group. Employees can report confidentially 
any suspicion of bribery via an externally 
facilitated whistleblower helpline.
Whistleblowing policy
‘Whistleblowing’ policies are in place in  
each of the Group’s businesses and are  
also available on the Group’s website,  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. The Board 
supports the highest standards of corporate 
governance and ethical practices within all 
its operations and continues to review its 
policies on an ongoing basis. The Board has 
endorsed a set of principles which establish 
the framework for how its businesses operate. 
Key to these is working in an open and honest 
manner. The Group is committed to the highest 
standards of quality, honesty, openness and 
accountability. Employees are encouraged to 
raise genuine concerns under the policy either 
by contacting their line manager or telephoning 
a dedicated external helpline. Any concerns 
raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly 
to assess what action, if any, should be taken 
and confidential records are maintained.  
The Company Secretary reports any matters  
of significance to the appropriate committee.  
In 2013 there have been no cases relating  
to fraud or financial misconduct.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Group 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 6 to 10 and 
the Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 
28 to 31. In addition, note 30 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; 
its financial risk management objectives; 
details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposure to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has a formalised process of 
budgeting, reporting and review, which provides 
information to the Directors which is used to 
ensure the adequacy of resources available  
for the Group to meet its business objectives.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for a period of at least 12 months from 
the date of signing the accounts. Accordingly 
they continue to adopt the going concern  
basis of accounting in preparing the annual 
financial statements.
62 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including 
details of remuneration policy and service 
contracts, is set out on pages 68 to 87 .
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of 
maintaining good communications with the 
Company’s shareholders to ensure mutual 
understanding of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, governance and performance.
During the year shareholders are kept informed 
of the progress of the Group through regular 
corporate communications: the Preliminary 
Results Announcement, the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the Half Year Results Announcement, 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Interim 
Management Statements and press releases 
regarding any other significant developments, 
as well as the dissemination of regulated 
information. Such communications are made 
available to the London Stock Exchange and 
are simultaneously available on the Company’s 
website, www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
The Company’s website houses a wide range 
of information about the Group, including the 
Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, 
share price data and links to subsidiary 
company websites.
From time to time the Company invites 
research analysts and institutional investors to 
presentations and site visits that are designed 
to provide more understanding of the strengths 
and capabilities of its business operations  
and strategy. 
Shareholders can receive documentation 
such as the Annual Report and Accounts 
electronically and are also able to cast their 
votes by proxy electronically. The Company  
also has an electronic proxy appointment 
service for CREST members.
Institutional shareholders
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director have held a number 
of meetings with existing and prospective 
institutional shareholders during the year  
as well as given presentations following the 
full year and half year results. They have also 
met and given presentations to research 
analysts and stockbrokers’ sales teams. The 
Company’s appointed brokers and investor 
relations advisors in turn have provided regular 
confidential feedback to the Company on the 
views of the major institutions. 
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and 
other Non-Executive Directors are also given the 
opportunity to meet institutional shareholders 
and are available by contact through the normal 
channels. During 2013 the Chairman met with 
major shareholders to discuss the governance 
and direction of the Company.
The Board is provided with regular updates on 
the views and issues raised by the Company’s 
investors. During the year the Board received 
external presentations from advisors on 
shareholder and market perception of the 
Group’s performance and strategy. Formal 
written responses are given to correspondence 
received from shareholders, as well as 
bilateral engagement through the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director and the 
Company’s investor relations function.
Analyst coverage
The Company is aware of 15 analysts who 
have published equity research notes covering 
National Express Group PLC during 2013 and 
we provide names and contact numbers of  
their firms on our website.
Private shareholders
We welcome contact from our private 
shareholders and are pleased to answer their 
queries. We encourage our shareholders to 
make use of our website to access Company 
reports, Notices of meeting and general 
shareholder and dividend information. The 
website also provides a direct link to Shareview 
(www.shareview.co.uk) which enables 
shareholders to view and manage their 
shareholder account online.
Annual General Meeting
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and 
related papers are sent to shareholders at  
least 20 working days before the meeting.  
Last year’s Annual General Meeting included  
a presentation by the Group Chief Executive  
on the progress of the business and an 
opportunity for shareholders to ask questions. 
All of our Directors were available formally to 
answer questions during the meeting and  
many circulated and talked to shareholders 
informally afterwards. Voting on the resolutions 
was conducted by poll. Some 80% of 
the shares in issue were voted and all the 
resolutions were passed. 
The results were published on the Group’s 
website shortly after the meeting. We look 
forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2014 
Annual General Meeting and updating them on 
the progress of the business this year.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
63 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance 
Board Committees
Audit Committee 
overview
Dear shareholder,
The Audit Committee plays a key role  
in the governance of the Company and  
I am pleased to report to you on the  
work undertaken by the Committee 
during 2013.
Composition
The individuals who served on the Committee 
during 2013 are set out below:
Name of Director Position
Tim Score Committee Chair  
(until 25 February 2014)
Sir Andrew 
Foster
Non-Executive Director
Jackie Hunt Independent Non-Executive 
Director (appointed Committee 
Chair from 26 February 2014)
Chris 
Muntwyler
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Both myself and Jackie Hunt are considered by 
the Board to meet the requirements of the Code 
that at least one Committee member has recent 
and relevant financial experience.
On 25 February 2014, I stepped down from the 
Board and Jackie Hunt took on the role of Chair 
of the Committee from 26 February 2014.
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee’s primary responsibilities 
comprise the duties and tasks delegated to it  
by the Board and include the following:
• overseeing the process for selecting the 
external auditor, assessing the continuing 
independence of the external auditor and 
recommending approval of the audit fee  
to the Board;
• responsibility for ensuring that provision  
of non-audit services does not impair  
the external auditor’s independence  
or objectivity;
• liaising with the external auditor on matters 
relating to the nature and scope of the audit 
and any issues or concerns arising from the 
audit process;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control and risk management 
systems, including the internal audit 
programme and major findings identified from 
internal audit investigations and reviews; and
• reviewing the half-year and annual financial 
statements including accounting judgements 
and policies.
The Audit Committee routinely considers a 
number of standing items during the year such 
as consideration of the internal and external 
audit reports, review of the Annual Report and 
Accounts, review of the Preliminary and Half 
Year Results Announcements, and review  
of the Governance Report.
Meetings
Three Committee meetings were held in 2013. 
Details of attendance at these meetings can 
be found on page 58. Outside of the meeting 
process the Committee Chair has regular 
contact with the Executive Directors, other 
Committee members and the auditor on a 
variety of topics. The Committee itself meets 
with both the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditor at least once a year without  
the Executive Directors being present.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as 
appropriate to the matters under discussion, 
meetings may be attended by the Executive 
Directors and internal and external auditors.  
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the 
matters considered and decisions taken by  
the Committee.
Main activities during the year 
During the year, the Committee considered  
the following: 
• review of compliance with Code;
• review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function and internal controls 
and approval of the internal audit plan for 
2013;
• review of the Group Risk Register;
• review of the Group’s IT strategy;
• approval of the updated Group Treasury 
Counterparty Risk Policy;
• review and approval of the Audit and  
Non-Audit services and fees;
• consideration of the results of internal  
audit compliance testing of financial  
controls (Annual Fitness Checks) within  
the subsidiaries;
• review of the effectiveness of the external 
audit process and the independence of  
the external auditor;
• consideration and recommendation to  
the Board of the re-appointment of the 
external auditor;
• approval of the 2013 external audit plan  
and fees;
• undertook a self assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Committee and 
concluded that it continued to operate 
effectively;
• review of the Company’s Preliminary Results, 
full year and half year financial statements 
and accounting policies;
• review of the operation of the Group’s 
whistleblowing and anti-bribery and 
corruption policies;
• review and approval of the Committee’s 
report for inclusion in the Annual Report; and
• consideration and recommendation to 
the Board for approval of the updated 
Committee’s terms of reference.
Significant issues
The significant issues considered in the year are 
detailed below:
• Goodwill impairment – As it is required to 
do annually, the Committee considered 
whether the carrying value of goodwill 
and intangible assets held by the Group 
should be impaired. The judgements largely 
related to the assumptions applied in 
calculating the value in use of the Spanish 
Coach and Bus and the North American 
School Bus businesses when testing for 
impairment. The key considerations were 
the underlying cash flows, the discount rates 
and the future growth rates. The Committee 
received a detailed report on the outcome 
of the impairment reviews performed by 
management and took into account the 
views of the external auditor. The Committee 
concluded that the goodwill and intangible 
assets of the Spanish Coach and Bus and the 
North American School Bus businesses were 
not impaired and it approved the disclosures 
included in the 2013 Financial Statements.
64 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 • Insurance and other claims – The Committee 
considered the adequacy of the provisions 
associated with insurance and other claims 
risks particularly in North America. The 
assessment focused on the advice received 
from a third party actuary in connection with 
the Group’s exposure to auto and general 
liability and workers’ compensation insurance 
claims. Consideration was also given to the 
most likely outcome, and associated financial 
effect, of other claims and exposures facing 
the Group. The Committee received a report 
from management on North American 
insurance and other claims and considered 
the views of the external auditor. The 
Committee concluded that the insurance and 
other claims provision was fairly stated.
• Spanish receivables – The Committee 
considered the assessment of the 
recoverability of the Spanish Coach and Bus 
net trade receivables. Considerations were 
given to the nature of overdue balances and 
the ageing of trade receivables along with 
the associated provisions. The Committee 
received a report on the analysis of the net 
aged receivables from management and took 
into account the views of the external auditor. 
The Committee concluded that the Spanish 
Coach and Bus net trade receivables were 
fairly stated.
• Other matters – The Committee also 
considered the key assumptions 
underpinning the Group’s defined benefit 
pension obligations as well as the adequacy 
of the liabilities arising from uncertain tax 
positions. The Committee received reports 
from management and considered the views 
of the auditor on the appropriateness of the 
defined benefit pension assumptions with 
reference to the latest market assumptions 
and employee pension benefits. Similarly 
reports were received from management 
and the auditor on the taxation charge and 
the adequacy of the taxation liabilities in the 
context of uncertain tax positions. Following 
consideration, the Committee concluded 
that the defined benefit pension assumptions 
were reasonable and the taxation liabilities 
were fairly stated.
Risk management and  
internal control
The Committee continued to monitor the 
Group’s internal financial controls and risk 
management systems.
Further details of the internal controls are set 
out on pages 61 to 62. A summary of the 
Company’s risk management framework and 
an overview of its principal risks are detailed  
on pages 24 to 27 .
Internal Audit
The performance of the Group internal audit 
function itself continues to be assessed on  
an ongoing basis and we believe it is effective  
in the role it carries out.
Audit tendering
The Committee currently has no set policy 
on the tendering frequency of the external 
auditor or the tenure of the external auditor. 
The Committee is aware of the introduction 
of the audit tendering provisions in the Code 
and regularly considers the marketplace, 
benchmarking the current level of audit services 
that the Company receives along with the 
fees it pays and the value being delivered. The 
Company last put its external audit contract out 
to tender in 201 1, following which Deloitte LLP 
were appointed as the Company’s auditor.
Effectiveness and independence  
of external auditor 
The Audit Committee assesses and reviews 
on a regular basis the independence and 
effectiveness of the external auditor. As part 
of their determination the Audit Committee 
considers a report by the external auditor on 
the firm’s independence which is required in 
order to carry out their professional duties and 
responsibilities as auditor. 
We believe the auditor has performed 
satisfactorily in 2013, that the audit process they 
implemented was effective and they remain 
independent.
Re-appointment of auditor
The auditor is re-appointed on an annual basis. 
Based on Deloitte’s work during the year, the 
Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with their performance and we were happy 
to recommend to the Board that they be put 
forward to be re-appointed at the 2014 AGM. 
Non-audit services
The Committee has an approved policy on  
the provision of non-audit services by its auditor 
for the following types of service:
• services that are considered to have ‘general 
pre-approval’ by the Audit Committee, by 
virtue of the approval of the policy;
• services that require ‘specific pre-approval’, 
on a case-by-case basis, before any work 
can commence; and
• services that cannot be supplied by the 
external auditor (prohibited services).
The services that have general pre-approval are 
tax, transaction investigation and advisory and 
corporate finance services. The fees for these 
services are pre-approved up to £50,000 for each 
non-audit assignment undertaken and subject to 
an overall limit of 75% of the total fees paid to the 
external auditor. For services exceeding this limit 
specific pre-approval is required.
In deciding whether or not to grant approval for 
the provision of specific services by the external 
auditor, the Audit Committee includes in its 
consideration the following factors:
(i) whether the external auditor is best placed 
to provide an effective and efficient service, 
given its knowledge and understanding of  
the Company’s processes, systems and 
people; and
(ii) the level of non-audit fees paid to the external 
auditor in the year as a proportion of the 
annual external audit fee.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken 
by the external auditor during the year relates 
to advice in respect of tax advisory and other 
regulatory services. 
The split between audit and non-audit fees for 
the year ended 31 December 2013 appears  
in note 6 to the Consolidated Accounts.
 
Tim Score
Audit Committee Chair  
25 February 2014
Corporate Governance pp52-92
65 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Diversity
Our goal at National Express is for our people to 
reach their full potential and to give their best as 
individuals and in teams. In this context, we are 
committed to never discriminate on the grounds 
of race, colour, creed, disability, religion, ethnic 
origin, sex, sexual orientation or age. While 
maintaining our existing policy of selecting the 
best available candidate for any position, National 
Express has set the aspirational target that by 
2015, 30% of the Board will be women, in line 
with the recommendations of the Davies Report 
on Boardroom Diversity. We are making good 
progress towards our target and with the recent 
appointment of Jane Kingston, 20% of our Board 
are now women.
Sir John Armitt
Nomination Committee Chair 
27 February 2014
Nomination Committee 
overview
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to report to you on the  
work undertaken by the Committee 
during 2013.
Composition
The individuals who served on the Committee 
during 2013 are set out below:
 Name of Director Position
Sir John Armitt Committee Chair (appointed 
a Committee member on 
1 January 2013 and as 
Committee Chair on 1 February 
2013)
Joaquín Ayuso Independent Non-Executive 
Director (appointed 26 February 
2013)
Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman
John Devaney Company Chairman (resigned 
31 January 2013)
Sir Andrew 
Foster
Non-Executive Director
Responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee are summarised below:
• responsibility for identifying and nominating, 
for the approval of the Board, candidates to 
fill Board vacancies as and when they arise;
• giving full consideration to succession 
planning, and keeping under review the 
leadership needs of the organisation, both 
Executive and Non-Executive;
• reviewing the time required from and spent 
by a Non-Executive Director in fulfilling his or 
her duties; and
• leading the process for Board appointments 
and making recommendations to the Board; 
and preparing a description of the role and 
requirements for any particular appointment 
based on its evaluation of the Board  
as a whole.
Meetings
One Committee meeting was held in 2013. 
Details of attendance at this meeting can be 
found on page 58. 
At the invitation of the Committee, and as 
appropriate to the matters under discussion, 
meetings may be attended by the Executive 
Directors and external advisers. Full minutes are 
kept by the Secretary of the matters considered 
and decisions taken by the Committee. 
Main activities during the year
During the year the Committee: 
• evaluated the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, diversity and knowledge on 
the Board and then prepared a description 
of the role and capabilities required for the 
recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director;
• appointed search consultants, JCA Group 
(who have no other connection with the 
Company), to identify a shortlist of candidates 
for the role of Non-Executive Director and 
interviewed candidates following which 
the appointment of Jane Kingston was 
recommended to the Board; and
• reviewed succession plans across the Group.
Corporate Governance 
Board Committees continued
66 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Safety & Environment  
Committee overview
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to report that in 2013 
we continued to make good progress 
in our safety performance and in 
the management of the Company’s 
environmental responsibilities.
Composition
The individuals who served on the Committee 
during 2013 are set out below: 
Name of Director Position
Chris 
Muntwyler
Committee Chair 
Sir John Armitt Company Chairman 
(appointed 1 January 2013)
Joaquín Ayuso Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman
Sir Andrew 
Foster
Non-Executive Director
Jackie Hunt Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Lee Sander Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Tim Score Senior Independent Director 
(resigned 25 February 2014)
Jane Kingston was appointed a member of the 
Committee on 26 February 2014. 
Responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are 
as below:
• responsibility for reviewing and challenging 
constructively the structure, content and 
operation of the safety management 
arrangements put in place by members of 
the Executive management of the Group’s 
operating companies;
• reporting periodically to the Board on its 
observations on the safety management 
arrangements in place and reviewing and 
making recommendations to the Board 
on any specific safety management issues 
relating to the Company or any subsidiary 
company; and
• reviewing and monitoring the Company’s 
environmental performance and targets.
Meetings
Three meetings were held in 2013. Details of 
attendance at these meetings can be found on 
page 58. 
At the invitation of the Committee, and as 
appropriate to the matters under discussion, 
meetings may be attended by the Executive 
Directors, senior management responsible for 
Safety and Environmental matters, and external 
advisers. Full minutes are kept by the Secretary 
of the matters considered and decisions taken 
by the Committee.
Main activities during the year
During the year the Committee: 
• reviewed the findings and actions from the 
2012 review of the Group’s ‘Driving Out 
Harm’ programme;
• monitored progress of the divisional action 
plans stemming from the 2012 ‘Driving Out 
Harm’ review;
• reviewed the findings and recommendations 
of the external audit of corporate governance 
of safety and agreed a further external audit 
should be carried out in 2014 in line with the 
Global Safety Standard;
• reviewed environmental management across 
the Group;
• monitored safety practices and procedures 
across the Group; and
• considered and recommended to the Board 
for approval the updated Committee’s terms 
of reference.
It is now mandatory for UK public companies 
to report on greenhouse gas emissions in all of 
their businesses from 2013 and more details on 
this can be found on pages 22 to 23.
The safety of our employees and customers 
is of critical importance to the Board, as is the 
responsible management of our environmental 
obligations. I would like to thank Dean Finch  
and his team for the leadership they show  
in these areas.
Chris Muntwyler 
Safety & Environment  
Committee Chair 
27 February 2014
Corporate Governance pp52-92
67 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Embracing new
remuneration reporting
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to be given the opportunity 
to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 31 December 
2013.
During the 2013 financial year we have 
continued to see a focus on Executive 
remuneration. In line with the revised 
remuneration disclosure regulations that 
came into force in 2013, we have split  
the report into two parts:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
report sets out the Company’s 
remuneration policy for Directors for 
three years from the date of the 2014 
AGM and the key factors that were 
taken into account in setting the policy. 
This policy is subject to a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM  
and after that at least every third year. 
• The Annual Report on Remuneration 
sets out payments and awards made 
to the Directors and details the link 
between Company performance and 
remuneration for the 2013 financial 
year. This report together with this letter 
is subject to an advisory shareholder 
vote at the 2014 AGM.
The turnaround of the Group has 
continued during 2013 with a strong 
financial performance having been 
delivered. The highlights of the year were:
• normalised Group profit before tax  
of £143.7 million with an increase in 
core non-rail normalised operating 
profit to £185.5 million;
• 7% growth in UK Coach core  
service revenue;
• secured £1.8 billion in contract wins;
• delivered over £180 million of free  
cash flow;
• reduced net debt by £82 million;
• strong improvement in ROCE; and
• delivered a total shareholder return  
of 41% in 2013.
Against this background, our pay and 
benefits must be at a level that will attract 
and retain high quality management 
who are fully incentivised to deliver 
outstanding performance. We operate 
in an international market that places 
a premium on successful individuals. 
We have in our Executive Directors 
individuals of proven ability and the 
changes we made to their remuneration 
in 2012 helped the Company to retain 
and motivate them. This was very much 
in the long term interests of shareholders. 
After a pay freeze of two years (for 
2012 and for 2013), the Committee has 
decided that a modest 2% increase 
to base pay for Executive Directors is 
appropriate, effective from 1 January 
2014. A similar rise has been agreed  
for other managers in the Group.
Remuneration Committee 
overview
We have made no other changes to the 
structure of our Executive remuneration 
during 2013. Bonuses of 142.89% and 
144.08% of base salary were achieved 
by the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director respectively. 
The Remuneration Committee were 
comfortable that these bonus payments 
were based on performance against 
financial and safety targets alongside 
the achievement of specific personal 
objectives set at the beginning of  
the year.
We consulted many shareholders during 
2013 on our remuneration packages 
and the Board will continue to liaise with 
shareholders on this important subject 
as part of its ongoing dialogue with them. 
We believe that the Remuneration Policy 
report for 2014 is appropriate for future 
years and we look to our shareholders  
to approve the Report.
 
Sir Andrew Foster 
Remuneration Committee Chair 
27 February 2014
68 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Introduction
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been 
prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’) and has 
taken account of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Reporting Guidance issued by the GC100 
and Investor Group. It will be submitted to 
shareholders for their approval at the AGM 
to be held on 14 May 2014. In carrying out its 
functions, the Committee has followed the 
provisions of Schedule A to the September 
2012 edition of the Code which is published 
by the Financial Reporting Council. Further 
information on the Code can be found on  
the Financial Reporting Council’s website,  
frc.org.uk.
In this section of the report we have provided 
details of the Company’s remuneration policy 
for Directors which is proposed to be applicable 
from the date of the 2014 AGM and the key 
factors taken into account when setting 
this policy.
Remuneration policy for  
Executive Directors
Commencing from the 2014 AGM, shareholders 
will be provided with the opportunity to endorse 
the Company’s remuneration policy through 
a binding vote at least every three years. The 
first binding vote on the Directors’ remuneration 
policy set out in this section of the report will be 
put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration policy is based on the following 
broad principles set by the Committee:
• to provide a competitive remuneration 
package to attract and retain quality 
individuals;
• to align remuneration to drive the overall 
objectives of the business;
• to align the interests of management with  
the interests of shareholders; and
• to provide the foundation for overall reward 
and remuneration beyond the specific 
roles falling within the direct remit of the 
Remuneration Committee.
In implementing its policy, the Committee gives 
full consideration to the principles set out in the 
Code with regard to Directors’ remuneration 
and due regard is given to the guidance issued 
by investor protection bodies and institutional 
investors more generally.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing 
basis against the Committee’s broad principles 
and in light of emerging best practice in 
corporate governance. 
The Committee believes that it continues 
to take into account the principles of sound 
risk management when setting pay. The 
remuneration policy provides for a substantial 
proportion of the current remuneration 
packages of the Executive Directors to be 
weighted towards long term performance 
with the annual bonus also the subject of part 
deferral into the Company’s shares. Provisions 
also apply in the event of a misstatement of 
the Company’s results and a broad range of 
financial and non-financial targets are included 
in our incentive programmes. Appropriate 
liaison takes place between the Remuneration 
and Audit Committees as part of an effective 
remuneration risk assessment process. In 
line with the Association of British Insurers’ 
Guidelines on Responsible Investment 
Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors and 
senior management will not raise environmental, 
social or governance (‘ESG’) risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. 
More generally, with regard to the overall 
remuneration structure, there is no restriction 
on the Committee which prevents it from taking 
into account corporate governance on ESG 
matters and it takes due account of issues 
of general operational risk when structuring 
incentives. The Committee takes due account 
of remuneration structures elsewhere in the 
Group when setting pay for the Executive 
Directors (for example, consideration is given 
to the overall salary increase budget and the 
incentive structures that operate across  
the Group). 
The Group operates a leadership and 
development programme which includes 
an appraisal system for Directors and 
senior management. In 2013 the appraisal 
system used balanced scorecards to assess 
performance against safety, customer, people 
and community objectives. The results of 
the annual appraisal system are taken into 
consideration when setting remuneration levels.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy report
Corporate Governance pp52-92
69 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Base salary To provide a competitive level of 
salary as the main component 
of fixed remuneration. Enables 
the Group to recruit and retain 
Executive Directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the role and are key 
to developing and implementing 
business strategy without paying 
more than is necessary to do so.
The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and is normally  
reviewed annually. 
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
• pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250;
• external market conditions;
• pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group; and
• individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
A greater increase may be granted if there is a substantive change to an Executive’s role or 
responsibility, for example following promotion, or if an Executive’s salary falls significantly 
below market positioning. The Committee may stage increases in these circumstances over 
a number of years and the increases may be contingent on performance in role.
When considering pay increases the Committee intends to use comparator groups that  
will be based on groups of transport/leisure and general sector companies of a similar size. 
The Committee retains discretion to amend the comparator groups as necessary to make 
them more appropriate.
The Committee’s policy is to set base 
salary at an appropriate level taking into 
account the factors outlined in this table.
The maximum annual salary increase 
will not normally exceed the average 
increase which applies across the wider 
workforce. However, larger increases may 
be awarded in certain circumstances 
including but not limited to:
• increase in scope of responsibilities 
of the role;
• to apply salary progression for a 
newly appointed Director; and
• where a Directors’ salary has fallen 
significantly below market position.
In such circumstances, the increase will 
not exceed RPI + 10%.
Not applicable.
Pension 
related 
benefits
To provide competitive benefits in 
line with market practice. Provide 
funds to allow Executives to save 
for retirement. Pension benefits are 
a fixed element of remuneration.
Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension provision in line with 
market practice. 
The Group Chief Executive receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35% of salary. 
The Group Finance Director receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% of salary. 
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
The Committee’s policy is that the 
maximum cash allowance payable in lieu 
of a pension will be 35%.
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as 
part of fixed remuneration in line 
with market practice to enable the 
Group to recruit and retain talent.
Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and life assurance 
cover (4 x base salary), long term sickness and disability insurance, a cash alternative to  
a fully expensed car, free travel on the Company’s services and professional membership 
subscriptions.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order to 
remain competitive or to meet the needs of the business, for example to provide relocation 
expenses, including financial tax and legal advice if applicable. Any change to benefit 
provision will be detailed on an annual basis.
The cost to the Company of providing 
the benefits may vary from year to year in 
accordance with market conditions and 
will, therefore, determine the maximum 
amount that would be paid in the form  
of benefits during the policy period.
Not applicable.
Performance 
related bonus
To incentivise delivery of 
performance objectives that are 
directly linked to the financial and 
strategic priorities of the business.
A portion of bonus is deferred 
into shares, assisting retention of 
Executive Directors and aligning 
their financial interests with those  
of shareholders.
Bonus payments are paid following year end.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate (financial and  
non-financial) objectives over a one-year performance period. 
A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral into shares for one year 
from award. Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional reinvestment) are 
paid on these shares. 
For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the 
bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary is to be deferred. For the Group Finance Director, 
25% of the bonus earned up to 1 12.5% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 1 12.5% 
to 150% of salary is to be deferred. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
standardise the percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is felt appropriate in the 
future. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per share on the date 
of the award will be calculated on basis of the average market price share in the five days 
preceding the date of the grant.
Maximum 150% of base salary. The targets for the bonus in respect of 2013 were as follows:
For the Group Chief Executive 70% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 30% subject  
to non-financial targets.
For the Group Finance Director 60% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 40% subject  
to non-financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion to amend the weightings of the financial and non-financial elements 
of the bonus from year to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and/or cash generation,  
are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum. 
The numerical values of the target will not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers 
this information commercially sensitive but will be disclosed when they are considered no longer 
commercially sensitive.
Remuneration structure from 2014
The table below sets out the key elements of the Company’s remuneration policy for the Executive Directors with effect from the 2014 AGM. Whilst 
there is no major change in policy identified in these tables, the Remuneration Committee always seeks to retain flexibility in setting pay and benefits. 
This reflects competitive and other pressures which might affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key individuals. 
70 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Base salary To provide a competitive level of 
salary as the main component 
of fixed remuneration. Enables 
the Group to recruit and retain 
Executive Directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the role and are key 
to developing and implementing 
business strategy without paying 
more than is necessary to do so.
The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and is normally  
reviewed annually. 
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
• pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250;
• external market conditions;
• pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group; and
• individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential.
A greater increase may be granted if there is a substantive change to an Executive’s role or 
responsibility, for example following promotion, or if an Executive’s salary falls significantly 
below market positioning. The Committee may stage increases in these circumstances over 
a number of years and the increases may be contingent on performance in role.
When considering pay increases the Committee intends to use comparator groups that  
will be based on groups of transport/leisure and general sector companies of a similar size. 
The Committee retains discretion to amend the comparator groups as necessary to make 
them more appropriate.
The Committee’s policy is to set base 
salary at an appropriate level taking into 
account the factors outlined in this table.
The maximum annual salary increase 
will not normally exceed the average 
increase which applies across the wider 
workforce. However, larger increases may 
be awarded in certain circumstances 
including but not limited to:
• increase in scope of responsibilities 
of the role;
• to apply salary progression for a 
newly appointed Director; and
• where a Directors’ salary has fallen 
significantly below market position.
In such circumstances, the increase will 
not exceed RPI + 10%.
Not applicable.
Pension 
related 
benefits
To provide competitive benefits in 
line with market practice. Provide 
funds to allow Executives to save 
for retirement. Pension benefits are 
a fixed element of remuneration.
Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension provision in line with 
market practice. 
The Group Chief Executive receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35% of salary. 
The Group Finance Director receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% of salary. 
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
The Committee’s policy is that the 
maximum cash allowance payable in lieu 
of a pension will be 35%.
Not applicable.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as 
part of fixed remuneration in line 
with market practice to enable the 
Group to recruit and retain talent.
Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and life assurance 
cover (4 x base salary), long term sickness and disability insurance, a cash alternative to  
a fully expensed car, free travel on the Company’s services and professional membership 
subscriptions.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order to 
remain competitive or to meet the needs of the business, for example to provide relocation 
expenses, including financial tax and legal advice if applicable. Any change to benefit 
provision will be detailed on an annual basis.
The cost to the Company of providing 
the benefits may vary from year to year in 
accordance with market conditions and 
will, therefore, determine the maximum 
amount that would be paid in the form  
of benefits during the policy period.
Not applicable.
Performance 
related bonus
To incentivise delivery of 
performance objectives that are 
directly linked to the financial and 
strategic priorities of the business.
A portion of bonus is deferred 
into shares, assisting retention of 
Executive Directors and aligning 
their financial interests with those  
of shareholders.
Bonus payments are paid following year end.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate (financial and  
non-financial) objectives over a one-year performance period. 
A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral into shares for one year 
from award. Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional reinvestment) are 
paid on these shares. 
For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the 
bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary is to be deferred. For the Group Finance Director, 
25% of the bonus earned up to 1 12.5% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 1 12.5% 
to 150% of salary is to be deferred. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
standardise the percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is felt appropriate in the 
future. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per share on the date 
of the award will be calculated on basis of the average market price share in the five days 
preceding the date of the grant.
Maximum 150% of base salary. The targets for the bonus in respect of 2013 were as follows:
For the Group Chief Executive 70% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 30% subject  
to non-financial targets.
For the Group Finance Director 60% bonus is subject to normalised financial targets, 40% subject  
to non-financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion to amend the weightings of the financial and non-financial elements 
of the bonus from year to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and/or cash generation,  
are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum. 
The numerical values of the target will not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers 
this information commercially sensitive but will be disclosed when they are considered no longer 
commercially sensitive.
In addition to the components described below, it is the policy of the Company to honour any commitments made to a Director before this policy 
takes effect or before he/she became a Director. Such commitments include the Group Chief Executive’s unfunded pension arrangement and his 
Retention Award, both of which are described on page 7 4.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
71 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued
Notes:
Long term incentive arrangements
LTIP – performance conditions
The performance condition attached to one-half of an award (Part ‘A’) is based on the Group’s 
normalised earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth performance in excess of inflation over the 
performance period (three or five financial years commencing with the financial year in which 
the award is made).
The performance condition attached to the other half of an award (Part ‘B’) is based on the 
Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance over the same fixed performance 
period relative to the TSR performance of an appropriate group of companies. 
EPS and TSR have been chosen for the LTIP as the most appropriate measures of the 
Group’s long term performance, since EPS is an important growth measure considered within 
the Company and a driver of shareholder value and TSR improves shareholder alignment 
and is consistent with the Company’s objective of providing superior long term returns to 
shareholders. 
To determine vesting of LTIP awards, the Committee retains independent consultants to test 
the proportion of an award vesting under the relative TSR test and then reviews the conclusion 
of this analysis before shares formally vest. 
With regard to the EPS targets, vesting is based on the Company’s audited results with liaison, 
as required, between the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Committee believes that EPS growth as a performance measure for the long term 
incentives, in most normal circumstances, provides a transparent and accessible method of 
gauging the financial performance of the Company. The Company calculates performance 
against this performance measure by reference to the earnings per share figures reported in 
the Company’s audited accounts. TSR measured against an appropriate group of companies 
has been used by the Company as a primary performance measure for awards made to 
Executive Directors under the LTIP as outlined in this report.
The current LTIP rules expire in May 2015 and the intention is that these are renewed at the 
AGM in 2015 on the same terms but with the inclusion of a provision that would enable awards 
to be reduced should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial results.
The LTIP grant in 2014 will include a provision that will enable awards to be reduced should it 
be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial results.
The Committee may grant awards under the Listing Rule 9.4.2 which allows for the granting 
of awards, specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of an 
Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder approval, up to an equivalent of 100% of 
salary per annum. The Company will explain the reasons for making any awards under Listing 
Rule 9.4.2 in the following year. 
On a change of control, Deferred Bonus Awards and Performance Shares will vest, except  
to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company. Vesting will 
be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, 
unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested 
shares is considered inappropriate. The number or class of shares under award may  
be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
All employee share schemes
Currently the Company does not operate any all employee share plans. However if the 
Company implements any all-employee share schemes in the future, the Executive Directors 
would be eligible to join such schemes. 
Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Performance 
related bonus
(continued)
Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Company’s bonus deferral 
arrangements. Other employees may be invited to participate in future years at the  
Committee’s discretion.
Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary 
for the Company to restate materially the financial results upon which the bonus was awarded 
within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion of the 
bonus that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to which the original 
bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year. The non-
financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence and people objectives and will 
be determined by the Committee on an annual basis. The proportion of the bonus determined by 
performance against non-financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves  
at least 95% of budget normalised profit.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that 
there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the 
relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2013, please see page 79. 
Long Term
Incentive 
Plan – 
Performance 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of Executive 
Directors with shareholders. 
The performance conditions 
are aligned with the long term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants to 
achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Performance Share awards (in the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options or forfeitable 
shares) are granted annually and vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance 
conditions measured over a three-year period. Dividend equivalents can be paid on  
these shares.
A proportion of the award is made as approved share options under an HMRC approved 
option plan structure. This does not increase the gross benefit to the participant or the costs 
to the Company or shareholders.
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features  
remain appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there  
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares 
up to an equivalent of 100% of base salary 
per annum.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining half will be subject to the relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions 
to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were 
not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or 
TSR growth over the period.
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
– Matching 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of Executive 
Directors with shareholders.
Participants only receive Matching 
Shares subject to investing into 
the business and therefore this 
mechanism adds an element of 
buy-in to the remuneration. 
The performance conditions 
are aligned with the long term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants to 
achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching Shares that are based on  
a personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an 
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the pledging of shares held not already 
allocated to the LTIP . Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four Matching Shares 
being awarded (based on the value of the investment) for each National Express share 
pledged or purchased. 
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features  
remain appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there  
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
The maximum value of investment in any 
year is 30% of base salary.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining half will be subject to the relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions 
to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were 
not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or 
TSR growth over the period.
72 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment
Performance 
related bonus
(continued)
Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Company’s bonus deferral 
arrangements. Other employees may be invited to participate in future years at the  
Committee’s discretion.
Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary 
for the Company to restate materially the financial results upon which the bonus was awarded 
within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion of the 
bonus that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to which the original 
bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year. The non-
financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence and people objectives and will 
be determined by the Committee on an annual basis. The proportion of the bonus determined by 
performance against non-financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves  
at least 95% of budget normalised profit.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that 
there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the 
relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2013, please see page 79. 
Long Term
Incentive 
Plan – 
Performance 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of Executive 
Directors with shareholders. 
The performance conditions 
are aligned with the long term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants to 
achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Performance Share awards (in the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options or forfeitable 
shares) are granted annually and vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance 
conditions measured over a three-year period. Dividend equivalents can be paid on  
these shares.
A proportion of the award is made as approved share options under an HMRC approved 
option plan structure. This does not increase the gross benefit to the participant or the costs 
to the Company or shareholders.
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features  
remain appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there  
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive a 
conditional award of Performance Shares 
up to an equivalent of 100% of base salary 
per annum.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining half will be subject to the relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions 
to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were 
not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or 
TSR growth over the period.
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
– Matching 
Shares
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of Executive 
Directors with shareholders.
Participants only receive Matching 
Shares subject to investing into 
the business and therefore this 
mechanism adds an element of 
buy-in to the remuneration. 
The performance conditions 
are aligned with the long term 
performance of the business, 
thereby driving participants to 
achieve outcomes that realise 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching Shares that are based on  
a personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an 
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the pledging of shares held not already 
allocated to the LTIP . Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four Matching Shares 
being awarded (based on the value of the investment) for each National Express share 
pledged or purchased. 
Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria and other features  
remain appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances, and to ensure that there  
are no features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
The maximum value of investment in any 
year is 30% of base salary.
Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth. The remaining half will be subject to the relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions 
to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were 
not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Company’s EPS or 
TSR growth over the period.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
73 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Comparison with approach to 
remuneration across the Group
National Express Group operates internationally 
and accordingly, the remuneration policy for 
employees generally reflects the legislative and 
labour market requirements in each separate 
jurisdiction. The Group will always meet or 
exceed national minimum standards for terms 
and conditions of employment in each of 
our business areas, offering pay, terms and 
conditions that are appropriate to each labour 
market in which we operate. Base pay is set at 
a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in 
each relevant labour market and performance 
related pay arrangements are based on the 
achievement of business unit and individual 
goals, objectively assessed. Other than for 
a small number of senior Executives in each 
business unit, long term incentive plans are only 
applicable at Executive Director level.
Approach to recruitment 
remuneration of Executive Directors
In the event that the Company recruits a new 
Executive Director (either from within the 
organisation or externally) when determining 
appropriate remuneration arrangements, 
the Committee will take into consideration 
all relevant factors (including but not limited 
to quantum, the type of remuneration being 
offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was 
recruited from) to ensure that arrangements are 
in the best interests of both the Company and 
its shareholders without paying more than  
is necessary to recruit an Executive of the 
required calibre.
The Committee’s policy is for all Executive 
Directors to have rolling service contracts 
with a notice period of 12 months, unless on 
an exceptional basis to complete an external 
recruitment successfully, when a longer initial 
period reducing to 12 months may be used. 
The Committee would generally seek to align 
the remuneration of any new Executive Director 
following the same principles as for the current 
Executive Directors (set out in the table above).
However, the Committee reserves the right 
to make payments outside of this policy in 
exceptional circumstances. The Committee 
would only use this right where it believes that 
this is in the best interests of the Company, 
and when it would be disproportionate to seek 
specific approval from a general meeting.
The elements that would be considered by 
the Company for inclusion in the remuneration 
package for a new Director are:
• salary and benefits including defined 
contribution pension participation or a salary 
supplement in lieu of pension provision;
• participation in the Performance Related 
Bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to 
reflect the proportion of the year for which the 
new recruit was in post (maximum of 150% 
of salary). If the commencement date is after 
1st September in the year, no award would 
normally be made for that year;
• participation in the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(Performance Shares equivalent to up to 
100% of salary), Matching Scheme (up to 
four Matching Shares based on an Executive 
Director’s investment of up to 30% of salary) 
and any all employee share plans operating 
at that time; and
• costs relating to but not limited to relocation; 
London Allowance; legal, financial, tax and 
visa advice and pre-employment medical 
checks.
The Committee may make awards on 
appointing an Executive Director to ‘buy out’ 
remuneration arrangements forfeited on 
leaving a previous employer. The Committee 
would take into account both market practice 
and any relevant commercial factors in 
considering whether any enhanced and/or 
one-off annual incentive or long term incentive 
award was necessary. Awards made by way 
of compensation for forfeited awards would be 
made on a comparable basis, taking account 
of performance achieved (or likely to be 
achieved), the proportion of the performance 
period remaining and the form of the award. 
Compensation could be in cash or shares. 
In the event of recruitment or retention (other 
than buy out awards as described above), the 
Committee may also grant awards to a new 
or existing Executive Director under the Listing 
Rule 9.4.2 up to an equivalent of 100% of salary 
per annum. 
Executive Directors
The contract dates and notice periods for  
the Executive Directors are shown in the  
table below.
Executive Directors’ service contracts and notice periods 
Director Contract date
Notice period from  
the Company
Notice period from  
the Director
Jez Maiden 17 November 2008 12 months 12 months
Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months
The service contracts of both the Executive Directors, which are rolling contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company,  
to pay an amount on termination of employment equal to one year’s salary or, in the case of Dean Finch, one year’s salary, salary supplement in lieu  
of pension and car allowance. The Director will not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice. The Company will use  
the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to  
be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use. 
The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available to view on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders. Guidance on best 
practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors’ contractual provisions. 
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of 
his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return. The pension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022. All or part of it may be paid  
as a lump sum. The Group Chief Executive may request early payment on a change of control. 
The Group Chief Executive is eligible to receive a conditional Retention Award of Performance Shares equivalent to 100% of base salary per annum. 
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions measured over a five-year period. Half of any award is subject to EPS growth 
and the remaining half is subject to the relative total shareholder return (TSR) of the Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Executive Directors are also provided with Directors’ and Officers’ insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred  
in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
74 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Executive Directors’ external appointments
Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. 
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services. Details of fees received by Executive Directors in 2013 are shown below.
Director Fee External appointment
Jez Maiden £50,000 (2012: £50,000) Synthomer PLC 
Executive Directors’ termination payments
The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice. Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months’ base salary, benefits and 
pension (which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation). 
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose service with 
National Express terminates:
Reason for  
termination
Salary and contractual  
benefits 
Performance Related  
Bonus awards
Unvested Deferred  
Bonus awards
Unvested Long Term  
Incentive Plan awards Other
Retirement, Disability, 
Redundancy, Death, 
Sale of part of Company 
that employs participant, 
or any other reason 
that the Remuneration 
Committee decides
Payment equal to 
the aggregate of 
the basic salary 
and the value of any 
contractual benefits 
for the notice 
period including 
any accrued but 
untaken holiday
Bonus awarded 
(subject to 
satisfaction of 
performance 
targets) for the 
relevant financial 
year
Award vests 
on the date of 
cessation of 
employment
Awards vest on the date of 
cessation of employment, unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines 
it should vest at normal vesting date
The amount of award vesting will 
be subject to the satisfaction of 
performance conditions as at the  
date the award is deemed to vest
Awards will normally be reduced 
time pro rata to reflect time elapsed 
between grant and cessation  
of employment
Fees for 
outplacement 
and legal 
advice may  
be paid
Other leavers Paid to date 
of termination, 
including any 
accrued but 
untaken holiday pay
No award for year 
of termination
1
Award lapses 
on cessation of 
employment
Awards lapse in full on leaving 
employment
1
  Pursuant to Dean Finch’s service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive (such as gross misconduct),  
he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant bonus year in which 
termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved leaver (ie: under the 
first section in the table above). The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and 
the specific circumstances of the Executive’s departure including but not restricted to whether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with  
the Company. 
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should be pro-rated 
to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith:
• in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or
• by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
Share ownership guidelines
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive 
Directors are expected to build up a share fund equal to at least one year’s current salary over a period of five years.
The details of the interests of the Executive Directors in shares and long term incentive interests are set out on page 83 together with the extent to 
which each of the Executive Directors has complied with the guidelines as at 31 December 2013.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
75 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Remuneration policy for  
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors’ appointments
The Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts with the Company and do 
not participate in the Group’s pension scheme, 
annual bonus scheme or long term incentive 
schemes. Non-Executive Directors have letters 
of appointment and are appointed for an initial 
three-year term. Non-Executive Directors are 
typically expected to serve for two three-year 
terms, although their appointment can be 
terminated either by them or the Company  
on one month’s written notice. It is open  
to the Company to invite a Non-Executive 
Director to serve for a further period after the 
expiry of two three-year terms. The letters of 
appointment for the current Non-Executive 
Directors can be found on the Company’s 
website, www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
The table below sets out the Company’s remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from the 2014 AGM.
Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value 
Non-Executive fees To attract and retain persons 
of a suitable calibre for a 
group of this size and to pay 
fees which are reflective of 
responsibilities, competitive 
with peer companies  
without paying more than  
is necessary.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the 
Board as a whole and those of the Chairman are set by 
the Remuneration Committee. The fees are reviewed 
at appropriate intervals (normally once every year). The 
review takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the 
market, the time commitment required from the Director 
(estimated to be 60 days per year for the Chairman and 
20 days per year for the other Non-Executive Directors) and 
any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting 
as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or fulfilling 
the role of Senior Independent Director. Non-Executive 
Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements 
or bonuses and may not participate in long term incentive 
arrangements. A travel allowance may be paid to Non-
Executive Directors for attendance at Board meetings held 
outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director 
is resident.
The Committee’s policy 
is to set base fees at an 
appropriate level taking into 
account the factors outlined 
in this table.
Non-Executive Directors are also provided 
with Directors’ and Officers’ insurance and are 
indemnified by the Company against certain 
liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, 
including the costs of defending actions 
against them.
In accordance with the requirements of the 
Code, all Directors are required to stand for 
election or re-election by shareholders each 
year. The original appointment dates of the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are 
shown in the table below.
The remuneration of any new Non-Executive 
Director will be determined following  
the same principles as for the current  
Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors’ appointment dates
Director
Date of  
appointment
Notice period by either 
Company or Director
Sir John Armitt 1 January 2013 3 months
Joaquín Ayuso 1 June 201 1 1 month 
Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months
Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 1 month
Jackie Hunt 13 September 2012 1 month
Chris Muntwyler 1 1 May 201 1 1 month
Lee Sander 1 June 201 1 1 month
Tim Score 21 February 2005 1 month
76 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration (£’000)
Fixed
Annual variable
Multi reporting variable
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Maximum Maximum On-target 
Jez Malden
Minimum On-target 
Dean Finch
Minimum
100% 50%
27%
23%
100%
28%
23%
49%
31%
42%
27%
28%
30%
42%
Illustrations of application 
of remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors
The chart below illustrates the remuneration 
that would be paid to each of the Executive 
Directors under three different performance 
scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) On-target; and 
(iii) Maximum. 
The elements of remuneration have been 
categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; 
(ii) Annual variable; and (iii) Multiple reporting 
period, which are set out in the future policy 
table below. 
Element Descriptions 
Fixed Total amount of salary, pension 
and benefits in respect of 2013
Annual  
variable 
Performance Related Bonus 
(including deferred element)
Multiple 
reporting 
variable
Long Term Incentive Plan 
(Performance Shares and 
Matching Shares)
Assumptions used in determining the level of 
payout under given scenarios are as follows:
• Salaries are as at 31 December 2013.
• Performance Share Awards are granted  
at the maximum level permitted under  
the policy.
• Each Director will own shares with a value 
of 30% of his base salary and will receive up 
to four Matching Shares for each National 
Express share pledged or purchased.
• Minimum performance scenario assumes 
fixed pay only and no variable payments.
• On-target performance scenario assumes 
performance in line with the Company’s 
expectations, resulting in 30% of maximum 
vesting in respect of long term incentive 
awards and 50% of maximum payout, 
assuming 50% achievement of personal 
objectives, in respect of the annual bonus. 
Whilst the bonus scheme has targets for 
threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP 
only has targets for threshold and maximum. 
The value shown above in the on-target 
includes the values for on-target bonus and 
threshold LTIP performance.
• Maximum performance scenario assumes 
outstanding level of performance ie: 
maximum bonus and full vesting of long term 
incentives.
Share price appreciation is not allowed for.
Statement of conditions  
elsewhere in the Group
The Group operates across a number of 
countries and accordingly sets terms and 
conditions for employees which reflect the 
different legislative and labour market conditions 
that operate in each of our jurisdictions. We 
set Global People Standards to provide 
a framework for recognition and rewards 
internationally. We will always meet or exceed 
national minimum standards for terms and 
conditions of employment in each of our 
business areas. Pay arrangements in our 
businesses also reflect local performance with 
personal increases based on achievement, 
individually assessed. National Express believes 
in the value of continuous improvement, both 
for the individual and for the Company. The 
Company did not consult with employees in 
drawing up the Directors’ remuneration policy.
When determining the remuneration of 
Executive Directors, the Remuneration 
Committee takes into account business 
unit performance, including both financial 
performance and safety improvements in the 
year. Because of the wide variety in labour 
market conditions and in exchange rate 
movements, pay rates locally are not normally 
considered when considering Executive 
Director base pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and 
notes the salaries of senior Executives within 
the Group. Performance Shares and Matching 
Shares are cascaded down below Executive 
level to senior management, aligning the senior 
team to deliver value for the Group.
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Committee is committed to an ongoing 
dialogue with shareholders and seeks 
shareholder views when any significant changes 
are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee reflected on the views of 
shareholders from the AGM in 2013. We remain 
sensitive to such views and sought to consult 
many of our leading shareholders during 
2013 and 2014 on remuneration issues. We 
explained the rationale for our actions in 2012 
and reassured shareholders that there would be 
no major changes to the remuneration policy in 
2013. The Committee will continue to monitor 
shareholder comments and retain an open 
dialogue as necessary.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
77 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The relevant sections of this report have been 
audited, as required by the Regulations.
Composition
The individuals who served on the 
Remuneration Committee during 2013, and 
those individuals who attended Remuneration 
Committee meetings, are set out below: 
Name of Director Position
Sir Andrew Foster Committee Chair
Lee Sander Independent Non-
Executive Director 
Tim Score Senior Independent 
Director (resigned 
25 February 2014)
Management attendees Position
Dean Finch Group Chief Executive
Stephen Connock MBE Group HR Adviser
Michael Hampson General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Jane Kingston was appointed a member of the 
Committee on 26 February 2014. 
Responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• determine the fees of the Chairman;
• determine the remuneration and conditions 
of employment (including any termination 
arrangements) of the Executive Directors  
and Company Secretary;
• review the remuneration and conditions  
of employment of the senior management 
team; and
• select and appoint any remuneration 
consultants who advise the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee  
are available on the Company’s website at 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com. 
Meetings 
The Committee met four times in 2013. Details 
of attendance at these meetings can be found 
on page 58.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to 
seek any information that it requires from any 
employee of the Group. 
The Committee members and management 
attendees did not participate in any discussions 
directly relating to their own remuneration or 
performance during the year. 
Main activities during the year
During the year the Committee considered the 
following items of business:
• review of Executive Directors’ and senior 
Executives’ salary levels;
• approval of annual bonus payments;
• review of the Chairman’s fees;
• consideration and approval of performance 
targets to apply to the 2013 Long Term 
Incentive Plan awards (including the total 
shareholder return comparator group used 
and the range of earnings per share  
targets set);
• approval of 2013 award levels under the 
Company’s share plans;
• testing of performance conditions and 
approval of vesting of Long Term Incentive 
Plan awards granted in 2010;
• setting targets for the Group’s 2013  
bonus scheme;
• review and approval of the draft Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 December 2013;
• approval of the appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers as new 
independent remuneration consultants from 
1 August 2013 following a tender process;
• consideration and recommendation to 
the Board for approval of the updated 
Committee’s terms of reference; and
• review of advisers and fees paid to them.
Advisors to the Committee
Material advice or services were provided  
to the Committee during the year by:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) – 
independent remuneration consultants from 
1 August 2013;
New Bridge Street (‘NBS’) – independent 
remuneration consultants up to 1 August 2013;
Dean Finch – Group Chief Executive;
Stephen Connock MBE – Group HR Adviser;
Michael Hampson – General Counsel, and 
Company Secretary;
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings 
of the Committee to make recommendations 
relating to the performance and remuneration 
of his direct reports. The Group HR Adviser 
guided the Committee on reward matters 
relating to the Executive Directors and senior 
Executives and the broader Group HR strategy 
and policy. The Company Secretary acts as 
Secretary to the Committee.
Following a competitive tender process, 
the Committee appointed independent 
remuneration consultants, PwC, to advise on all 
aspects of senior executive remuneration. PwC 
was appointed from 1 August 2013.
During 2013 PwC provided advice to the 
management of the Group on various matters 
including pensions, information technology, 
internal audit and tax advice.
Prior to 1 August 2013, NBS were the appointed 
independent advisers to the Committee. NBS 
has no other connection with the Group other 
than in the provision of advice on Executive and 
employee remuneration and nor does its ultimate 
parent, Aon PLC. 
From time to time, the Company submits the 
remuneration consultant function to tender. 
NBS and PwC are members of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and the 
voluntary code of conduct of that body is 
designed to ensure objective and independent 
advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received 
was appropriate, objective and independent. 
Advisor
Fees in relation to remuneration 
advice (£’000s)
NBS 36
PwC 35
Base salary
No increases were awarded to base salary for 
the Executive Directors for 2012 or for 2013. 
Performance related bonus
A summary of the 2013 performance related 
bonus scheme is summarised below.
The maximum potential bonus payable to 
Executive Directors in 2013 was 150% of salary 
for both Executive Directors. For the Group Chief 
Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% 
of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 
125% to 150% of salary is to be deferred. For 
the Group Finance Director, 25% of the bonus 
earned up to 1 12.5% of salary and 50% of the 
bonus earned from 1 12.5% to 150% of salary is 
to be deferred.
The Committee has reviewed the performance 
against the conditions attached to the 
performance related bonus and in addition, 
made an assessment of the performance of  
the Group as a whole during 2013.
In respect of the targets applying to the annual 
bonus for 2013 for the Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director, a maximum of 
105% of salary and 90% of salary respectively 
was payable based on achievement against 
a sliding scale of challenging financial targets. 
A maximum of 45% and 60% of salary 
respectively was payable based on non-
financial targets that encompassed customer, 
operational excellence and people objectives.
Annual Report on Remuneration
78 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In relation to the proportion of the bonus determined 
by performance against normalised profit 
targets no bonus is payable unless the Company 
achieves at least 95% of budget and the maximum 
amount is only payable on the achievement of a 
stretch target of 1 10% of budget. The 2013 target 
set in relation to budget was £132.6 million.
The 2013 target set in relation to net debt was  
to deliver a net debt of £799. 1 million.
The targets set in relation to non-financial 
performance are key strategic Group objectives 
that are tailored to the responsibilities of each 
individual Executive Director and, in aggregate, 
are considered to be similarly challenging to the 
range of financial targets set. 
The table below summarises the performance 
conditions attaching to the 2013 awards and the 
actual performance and bonus value achieved.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment 
of annual bonuses. For any financial element 
to be payable, the Group must have achieved 
at least 95% of its normalised profit targets for 
the year. In addition, it is a pre-condition to the 
award of any bonus that the Remuneration 
Committee has determined that there has been 
an improvement in safety processes, procedures 
and outcomes during the year before any bonus 
is paid. As the financial targets are considered  
to be commercially sensitive and potentially 
provide information to competitors, they will not 
be disclosed in advance but will be disclosed  
the following year.
Non-financial objectives are logged with the 
Committee at the beginning of each year and 
then performance is reviewed at the end of 
the year in detail before any bonus payment is 
determined. The Committee believes that the 
non-financial targets are commercially sensitive 
since they may provide competitors with insight 
into the Group’s strategic plans and will not 
be disclosed in advance. The Committee’s 
intention is that a summary of these targets  
will be disclosed the following year.
The amounts deferred under the bonus plan 
are deferred into shares awarded under the 
Executive Deferred Bonus Plan (‘EDBP’) for one 
year . Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to 
continued service and the same ‘good leaver’ 
provisions and other terms as noted for the Long 
T erm Incentive Plan below. The 2013 bonus 
also includes provisions that require the deferred 
shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be 
necessary for the Company to restate materially its 
2013 results within a two-year period following the 
deferred bonus being awarded. The proportion 
of the bonus that would be the subject to these 
provisions would depend on the extent to which 
the original bonus payment turned out to be false 
following the publication of corrected results. 
The deferred bonuses awarded to both 
Executive Directors in 2013 (based on 
performance to 31 December 2012) are  
due to vest on 28 February 2014.
Single total figure of remuneration
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the 2013 financial year. 
Comparative figures for 2012 have also been provided.
2013 2012
£’000
Base 
salary
Taxable 
benefits
1
Performance 
related  
bonus
Value of 
LTIP 
vested 
Pension 
related 
benefits Total
Base 
salary
Taxable 
benefits
1
Performance 
related  
bonus
Value of 
LTIP 
vested 
Pension 
related 
benefits Total
Dean Finch 550 26 785 0 192
2
1,553 550 26 644 289 192
2
1,701
Jez Maiden 420 25 605 0 105 1,155 420 24 491 227 105 1,267
1 
Taxable benefits comprise a cash alternative to a fully expensed car (£20,000 for each of Dean Finch and Jez Maiden), health insurance and death in service and life assurance cover.
2
 In addition, Dean Finch has an entitlement under an unfunded pension arrangement as described on page 82.
2013 Bonus Scheme
% of salary Details
Maximum bonus potential 150% Proportion of bonus subject to mandatory deferral 
into Company shares for one year from award 
Bonus potential at 95% of budgeted 
normalised profit before tax (PBT)
22.5% for Group Chief Executive 
18.75% for Group Finance Director
On-target bonus potential at 100% of 
budgeted normalised PBT
45% for Group Chief Executive 
37 .5% for Group Finance Director
Awarded on achieving budget
Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted 
normalised PBT
90% for Group Chief Executive 
75% for Group Finance Director
Awarded on achieving a stretch target of 110% of normalised PBT
Net debt 15% for Group Chief Executive 
15% for Group Finance Director
Non-financial targets (underpinned by achievement of 95% 
of budgeted normalised PBT)
45% for Group Chief Executive 
60% for Group Finance Director
Awarded on meeting key strategic Group objectives tailored to each 
Executive Director’s responsibilities
Performance 
condition Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
Performance 
required
Actual  
performance
Bonus value achievable for 
meeting threshold and maximum 
performance (% salary)
Actual bonus  
value achieved  
(% salary)
Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden
Normalised profit 60% 50% 95% 110% 108.4% 108.4% 22.5%-90% 18.75%-75% 82.89% 69.08%
Net debt 10% 10% – – 10% 10% 3.75%-15% 3.75%-15% 15% 15%
Non-financial targets 30% 40% – – 30% 40% 0%-45% 0%-60% 45% 60%
Total 100% 100%
142.89
% salary
144.08
% salary
£785,000 £605,000
Corporate Governance pp52-92
79 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
LTIP awards
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP in 201 1 are scheduled to vest in 2014. The performance period 
relating to these Awards ended on 31 December 2013. Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied  
are set out below:
Performance Shares
Performance  
condition Weighting
Threshold  
performance  
required
Maximum 
performance  
required
Actual  
performance
LTIP value achievable 
for meeting threshold and  
maximum performance  
(% salary)
Actual LTIP value  
achieved 
(% salary)
Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden
TSR
1
50%
Median of 
comparator group
20th percentile of 
comparator group
Below 
median of 
comparator 
group 15%-50% 15%-50% 0% 0%
EPS 50% 2013 EPS of 26. 1p 2013 EPS of 29.3p 21.5p 15%-50% 15%-50% 0% 0%
Total 100% 30%-100% 30%-100%
0% salary 0% salary
£nil £nil
Matching Shares
Performance  
condition Weighting
Threshold  
performance  
required
Maximum 
performance  
required
Actual  
performance
LTIP value achievable 
for meeting threshold and  
maximum performance  
(% salary)
Actual LTIP value  
achieved 
(% salary)
Dean Finch Jez Maiden Dean Finch Jez Maiden
TSR
1
50%
Median of 
comparator group
20th percentile of 
comparator group
Below 
median of 
comparator 
group 18%-60% 18%-60% 0% 0%
EPS 50% 2013 EPS of 26. 1p 2013 EPS of 29.3p 21.5p 18%-60% 18%-60% 0% 0%
Total 100% 36%-120% 36%-120%
0% salary 0% salary
£nil £nil
1
 TSR was measured against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
Long term incentives awarded in 2013
The tables below set out the details of any long-term incentive award granted in the 2013 financial year where vesting will be determined according  
to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods. 
Dean Finch
Grant date Award type
Basis on which  
award made
Face value of
award
1
£,000
Percentage of award 
vesting at threshold 
performance
Performance 
period end date
Performance 
conditions
10.04.13
LTIP – Performance 
Shares 100% of salary 561 30% 31.12.15
TSR & EPS 
equally weighted
10.04.13
LTIP – Matching 
Shares 120% of salary 673 30% 31.12.15
TSR & EPS 
equally weighted
23.05.13
Chief Executive’s 
five year Award 100% of salary 541 30% 31.12.17
TSR & EPS 
equally weighted
80 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Jez Maiden
Grant date Award type
Basis on which  
award made
Face value of
award
1
£,000
Percentage of award 
vesting at threshold 
performance
Performance 
period end date
Performance 
conditions
10.04.13
LTIP – Performance 
Shares 100% of salary 428 30% 31.12.15
TSR & EPS 
equally weighted
10.04.13
LTIP – Matching 
Shares 120% of salary 514 30% 31.12.15
TSR & EPS 
equally weighted
1
  The face value in the tables above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the closing share price at the date of grant. The share price was 
199.9p on 10th April 2013 and 210p on 23 May 2013. 
Performance conditions for LTIP Awards granted in 2013
Part A of the Award – EPS Conditions
EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 Percentage of part A of the Award that vests
Less than 22. 1 pence 0%
22. 1 pence 30%
24.7 pence or above 100%
Between 22. 1 pence and 24.7 pence 30%-100% pro rata
Part B of the Award – TSR Conditions
Rank of the Company’s TSR Percentage of part B of the Award that vests
Below median 0%
Median 30%
20th percentile 100%
Between median and 20th percentile 30%-100% pro rata
Performance conditions for the Chief Executive’s five year Award
Part A of the Award – EPS Conditions (relating to one half of the Award)
EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 Percentage of part A of the Award that vests
Less than 23.4 pence 0%
23.4 pence 30%
28.3 pence or above 100%
Between 23.4 pence and 28.3 pence 30%-100% pro rata
Part B of the Award – TSR Conditions (relating to one half of the Award)
Rank of the Company’s TSR Percentage of part B of the Award that vests
Below median 0%
Median 30%
20th percentile 100%
Between median and 20th percentile 30%-100% pro rata
Corporate Governance pp52-92
81 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2013
The table below sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested at 31 December 
2013 (without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of less than three years).
Year of Award 
TSR element 
(max 50%)
EPS element 
(max 50%)
Total 
(max 100%)
2012 – Performance Shares and Matching Shares 0% 0% 0%
2012 – Chief Executive’s five year award 0% 0% 0%
2013 – Performance Shares and Matching Shares 19.5% 0% 19.5%
2013 – Chief Executive’s five year award 19.5% 0% 19.5%
Pension entitlements and cash allowances
Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes. 
The Group Chief Executive receives a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions. In addition, the Group Chief Executive is entitled,  
under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum 
notional return. The pension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022. All or part of it may be paid as a lump sum. The Group  
Chief Executive may request early payment on a change of control. 
The Group Finance Director receives a 25% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions. 
CEO’s pay in last five financial years
The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last five years, valued using the methodology applied to  
the single total figure of remuneration.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Chief Executive R Bowker
2
D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch
Total remuneration (£’000) 465 1,356 1,454 1,701 1,553
Annual bonus payment (% maximum opportunity) 0% 100% 100% 78% 95%
LTIP vesting level achieved
1
 (% maximum opportunity) n/a n/a n/a 32.5% 0%
1
  The incumbent Chief Executive during each of 2009, 2010 and 2011 did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year of performance ended 
during that year.
2
 R Bowker resigned as Chief Executive on 10 July 2009.
The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan (Executive Deferred Bonus Plan)
Deferred bonuses awarded in 2013 (based on performance to 31 December 2012) will vest on 28 February 2014 as set out in the table below. 
During year
As at 
1 January 
2013 Granted Vested Lapsed
At 
31 December 
2013
Market  
price at date  
of vesting
Date of  
grant
Date of  
vesting
Dean Finch 2012 75,417 – 75,417 – 0 218.5p 02.03.12 02.03.13
2013 – 79,523 – – 79,523 28.02.13 28.02.14
Jez Maiden 2012 51,832 – 51,832 – 0 218.5p 02.03.12 02.03.13
2013 – 62,981 – – 62,981 28.02.13 28.02.14
The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on the basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding the date  
of the grant.
Deferred shares will be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Company’s 2012 and 2013 results within  
a two-year period following the award of the bonus. The proportion of the bonus subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which  
the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
82 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director serving during 2013.  
The table includes only those columns in respect of elements of remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors.
2013 fees 
£000 Total
2012 fees 
£000 Total Notes
Sir John Armitt 225 225 – –
Appointed to the Board on  
1 January 2013 and as Chairman 
on 1 February 2013
Joaquín Ayuso 49 49 49 49
Jorge Cosmen 45 45 45 45
John Devaney 19 19 225 225
Resigned as Chairman on  
31 January 2013
Sir Andrew Foster 55 55 51 51
Jackie Hunt 45 45 13 13
Chris Muntwyler 59 59 59 59
Lee Sander 73 73 69 69
Tim Score 60 60 60 60
In addition, a travel allowance of £4,000 is payable to Joaquín Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside 
the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident. 
In line with the decision not to increase the basic salaries of the Executive Directors in 2013, it was agreed that there would be no increase in the fees 
paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2013. The fees payable to the Chairman also did not increase. 
Payments to past Directors 
No payments were made to past Directors during the period.
Payments for loss of office 
All loss of office payments to any person who has served as a Director of the Group will be disclosed in this report. No such payments were made 
in 2013.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding 
Directors’ shareholdings – Executive Directors’ interests and share ownership guidelines
In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive 
Directors are expected to build up a share fund as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 75 of the Policy.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in office and their connected persons as at 31 December 2013 and the details  
of long term incentive interests are shown below:
Shares held directly
Other 
shares held
Shareholding 
requirement  
(% salary)
Current shareholding
as at 31 December 2013 
(% salary)
1
Beneficially 
owned
EDBP interests 
not subject to 
performance 
conditions
LTIP interests 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Shareholding 
requirement  
met?
Executive Directors
Dean Finch 100% 166% 252,527 79,523 2,155,379 Yes
Jez Maiden 100% 152% 168,919 62,981 1,249,310 Yes
1
 The share price of 275.2p (as at 31 December 2013) has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary. 
Please see the appendices on page 87 for more information on LTIP awards.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
83 www.nationalexpressgroup.com -20
0
20
40
60
80
Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09
Index –
cumulative return
National Express Group –
cumulative return
National Express 
Group – Annual return
Index – 
Annual return
Shareholder return over period (Dec 2009=0)
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08
Shareholder return over period (Dec 2008=0)
National Express Group
cumulative return
FTSE 250
cumulative return
National Express 
Group – Annual return
FTSE 250 – 
Annual return
Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
Directors’ shareholdings – 
Non-Executive Director interests
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to 
a shareholding requirement. Details of their 
interests in shares and those of their connected 
persons as at 31 December 2013, all of which 
are held outright with no attaching performance 
conditions are shown below:
At 31 December 2013
Sir John Armitt 6,000
Joaquín Ayuso 0
Jorge Cosmen
1
 88,860,685
Sir Andrew Foster 22,893
Jackie Hunt 5,000
Chris Muntwyler 0
Lee Sander 0
Tim Score 0
1
  Jorge Cosmen’s holding includes shares held by European 
Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 89 in  
the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
The Register of Directors’ interests maintained 
by the Company contains full details of the 
Directors’ holdings of shares and options 
over shares in the Company. The mid-market 
price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 
31 December 2013 was 275 pence (2012: 
204 pence) and the range during the year 
ended 31 December 2013 was 191 pence  
to 276 pence.
Changes since year end
There have been no changes in the 
shareholdings of the Directors between 
31 December 2013 and the date of signing  
of this Annual Report.
Comparison of overall performance 
The first graph shows a comparison of National 
Express Group PLC’s five-year total cumulative 
shareholder return against that achieved by the 
FTSE 250 Index. This index has been selected 
because the Company is a constituent of this 
index and the Committee, therefore, feels that 
this is the most appropriate index with which to 
represent the Company’s relative performance. 
The second graph shows a comparison of 
National Express Group PLC’s cumulative return 
and annual return since the commencement 
of the turnaround of the business from 
31 December 2009 against that achieved by  
a bespoke index of First Group, Stagecoach 
and Go-Ahead.
The Group has executed a strong turnaround 
with a new management team following a 
period of intense instability in 2008 and 2009, 
which involved a rights issue, debt restructuring 
and the handback of the East Coast main line. 
Despite market concerns in 201 1 and 2012 
regarding the Group’s macro exposure to 
Spain, underlying performance, measured by 
non-rail revenues, earnings and return on capital 
have all improved since then.
84 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Chief Executive pay increases compared with total remuneration for UK employees
The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2012 to 2013 compared  
with the average percentage change for the UK employee population. 
The Group uses the UK workforce (who receive taxable benefits and bonus) as an appropriate comparator group as this avoids complicated 
exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Group’s overseas operations in the calculation.
The Group Chief Executive’s remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits  
and annual bonus (including any amount deferred) on the basis used for determining the single figure. The UK employee remuneration is based  
on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees that received taxable benefits and bonuses. 
Average percentage increase from 2012 to 2013
Base salary Taxable benefits
Performance 
related bonus
Group Chief Executive 0% 0% 21.97%
UK employee remuneration 2.63% 12.37% 
1
13.77%
1
  The 2013 increase in taxable benefits was driven by an increase in healthcare premium.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below sets out the total spend on pay in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year compared with distributions to shareholders:
2013 
(£m)
2012 
(£m)
% increase from  
2012 to 2013
Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 855.8 788.1 8.6%
Profit distributed by way of dividend 50.3 49.3 2.0%
Profit distributed by way of share buyback – – –
Statement of voting at 2013 AGM
At the AGM held on 9 May 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
 For Against 
Resolution text 
Number  
of votes
% of proxy 
votes cast
Number  
of votes
%of proxy 
votes cast
Total  
votes cast
% of issued share 
capital voted
Votes  
withheld
2.  To approve the Remuneration Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2012 277 ,526,180 71.52 110,503,482 28.48 388,029,662 75.83 18,006,199
21.  To approve amendments to the rules of 
the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 299,426,247 73.78 106,436,183 26.22 405,862,430 79.31 187,907
1
 The total voting rights in the Company as at the date of the meeting were 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, each carrying one vote on a poll. 
2
 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
The Committee was pleased that the majority of shareholders voted in 2013 in favour of the 2012 Remuneration Report whilst remaining sensitive  
to those who voted against. We had made some major structural reforms to our pay and benefits package for our Group Chief Executive in 2012  
and these reflected serious concerns about our ability to retain him over the long term. We engaged with our major shareholders who backed  
these improvements and the reasons for making them. In view of the votes at the 2013 AGM, however, Directors have continued to engage  
with shareholders during 2013/14 and have made themselves available to those shareholders who wished to raise issues of pay and benefits.  
These discussions have been advantageous and helpful to the Remuneration Committee and no changes are being proposed to the structure  
of remuneration for 2014.
Corporate Governance pp52-92
85 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014
Executive Directors’ base salaries
After a pay freeze of two years, the Committee has decided that a modest 2% increase to base pay for Executive Directors is appropriate, effective 
from 1 January, 2014. As of 1 January 2014, the current salaries for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are £561,000 and 
£428,000 respectively.
Performance related bonus
The annual bonus for the 2014 financial year will operate on the same basis for the 2013 financial year and will be consistent with the policy detailed 
in the Remuneration policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity and performance conditions. The targets themselves, 
as they relate to the 2014 financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive. However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance 
against them will be provided in next year’s remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time. 
Long term incentives
Long term incentive awards granted in the 2014 financial year will be granted in accordance with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section 
of this report.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
With effect from 1 January 2014, it was agreed that the fees for the Non-Executive Directors would increase to £47 ,000 but there would be no 
increase in the fees payable to the Chairman.
The current fees for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014 are as follows:
Role Fees (£’000)
Non-Executive Director 47
Chairman 225
Senior Independent Director 5
Chairman of Board Committee 10
In addition, a travel allowance £4,000 is payable to Joaquín Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside 
the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
Corporate Governance  
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 
86 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Appendices
LTIP Awards to Executive Directors
During year
LTIP Share 
Awards
At 
1 January 
2013 Granted Exercised Expired
At 
31 December 
2013
Market price 
on date of 
award
Market price 
at date of 
exercise
Date of 
award
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
Dean Finch
Performance 
Shares 227 ,272 – 73,863 153,409 – 220.3p 195.8p 15.03.10 15.03.13 15.09.13
Matching 
Shares 227 ,270 – 73,863 153,407 – 220.3p 195.8p 15.03.10 15.03.13 15.09.13
Performance 
Shares 222,672 – – – 222,672 247.0p – 25.02.11 25.02.14 25.08.14
Matching 
Shares 267,204 – – – 267,204 247.0p – 25.02.11 25.02.14 25.08.14
Performance 
Shares 240,069 – – – 240,069 228.4p – 11.04.12 12.04.15 12.10.15
Matching 
Shares 288,080 – – – 288,080 228.4p – 11.04.12 12.04.15 12.10.15
Performance 
Shares – 280,898 – – 280,898 199.9p – 10.04.13 11.04.16 11.10.16
Matching 
Shares – 337,076 – – 337,076 199.9p – 10.04.13 11.04.16 11.10.16
Jez Maiden
Performance 
Shares 174,672 – 56,768 117,904 – 230.0p 199.9p 01.04.10 01.04.13 01.10.13
Matching 
Shares 174,670 – 56,768 117,902 – 230.0p 199.9p 01.04.010 01.04.13 01.10.13
Performance 
Shares 170,040 – – – 170,040 247.0p – 25.02.11 25.02.14 25.08.14
Matching 
Shares 204,048 – – – 204,048 247.0p – 25.02.11 25.02.14 25.08.14
Performance 
Shares 183,326 – – – 183,326 228.4p – 11.04.12 12.04.15 12.10.15
Matching 
Shares 219,988 – – – 219,988 228.4p – 11.04.12 12.04.15 12.10.15
Performance 
shares – 214,504 – – 214,504 199.9p – 10.04.13 11.04.16 11.10.16
Matching 
Shares – 257,404 – – 257,404 199.9p – 10.04.13 11.04.16 11.10.16
1
 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the 2013 awards are shown on page 81.
2
  The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2011 and 2012 awards are the same as for the 2013 awards and the relevant maximum and minimum EPS figures are 29.3 pence and 26.1 
pence and 26.4 pence and 23.7 pence respectively.
3
 The aggregate gain on the shares which were exercised in 2013 was £516,000.
Group Chief Executive’s five year Retention Award
During year
LTIP Share 
Awards
At 1 January 
2013 Granted Exercised Expired
At 
31 December 
2013
Market price 
on date of 
award
Market price 
at date of 
exercise
Date of 
award
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
Dean Finch
Performance 
Shares 261,407 – – – 261,407 210.4p – 03.08.12 03.08.17 03.08.18
Performance 
Shares – 257,973 – – 257,973 210.0p – 23.05.13 23.05.18 23.05.19
1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the 2013 award are shown on page 81
2
  The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2012 award is the same as for the 2013 award and the relevant maximum and minimum EPS figures are 28 pence and 25 pence respectively.
By order of the Board
Sir Andrew Foster 
Remuneration Committee Chair 
27 February 2014
Corporate Governance pp52-92
87 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Corporate Governance 
Other Statutory Information
This section contains additional information 
which the Directors are required by law and 
regulation to include within the Annual Report. 
This section along with the information from 
the Chairman’s Statement on page 4 to the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 
page 92 constitutes the Directors’ Report in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report
The Company is required by the Companies Act 
to include a strategic report in this document. 
The information that fulfils the requirements of 
the strategic report can be found on pages  
1 to 51, which are incorporated in this report 
by reference.
Branches outside the UK
The Company has branches in Spain.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities before tax 
from continuing operations for the year ended 
31 December 2013 was £64.4 million (2012: 
£69.8m) and a profit attributable to equity 
shareholders of £56.8 million (2012: £60m)  
was transferred to reserves.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for 
the year of 6.75 pence per ordinary share (2012: 
6.6p) which, together with the interim dividend 
of 3.25 pence per ordinary share (2012: 3. 15p), 
paid on 20 September 2013, gives a total 
dividend for the year of 10.0 pence per share 
(2012: 9.75p). Subject to shareholder approval, 
the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014  
to ordinary shareholders on the register  
of members at the close of business on  
2 May 2014.
Directors
The Directors of the Company as at the date  
of the approval of this annual report are listed  
on pages 54 to 55.
On 1 January 2013 Sir John Armitt was 
appointed a Director of the Company.
On 31 January 2013 John Devaney resigned  
as Chairman of the Board.
On 1 February 2013 Sir John Armitt was 
appointed Chairman of the Board.
On 25 February 2014 Tim Score stepped down 
from the Board.
On 26 February 2014 Jackie Hunt was 
appointed Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee and Jane 
Kingston was appointed a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company from this date.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to its Articles of Association and 
relevant statutory law and to any direction 
that may be given by the Company in general 
meeting by special resolution, the business 
of the Company shall be managed by the 
Directors, who may exercise all powers of 
the Company which are not required to be 
exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Appointment and replacement  
of Directors
The rules for the appointment and replacement 
of Directors of the Company are set out in 
the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act and 
related legislation. In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors 
will retire at the 2014 AGM and offer themselves 
for election or re-election. The Board is satisfied 
that each Director is qualified for re-election by 
virtue of their skills, experience and contribution 
to the Board. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board has a procedure in place to deal 
with a situation where a Director has a conflict 
of interest, as required by the Companies Act 
2006. As part of this process, the members 
of the Board prepare a list of other positions 
held and all other conflict situations that may 
need authorising either in relation to the Director 
concerned or his or her connected persons. 
The Board considers each Director’s situation 
and decides whether to approve any conflict 
situations, taking into consideration what is in 
the best interests of the Company and whether 
the Director’s ability to act in accordance with 
his or her wider duties is affected. Each Director 
is required to notify the Company Secretary of 
any potential or actual conflict situations that will 
need authorising by the Board. Authorisations 
given by the Board are reviewed annually.
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability insurance in respect of legal action that 
might be brought against its Directors. Pursuant 
to the Company’s Articles of Association the 
Company has indemnified its Directors and 
Officers in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006. A copy 
of the Articles of Association is available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office. 
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as stated in note 36 on page 154,  
no contract existed during the year in relation  
to the Company’s business in which any 
Director was materially interested.
Directors’ interests in shares
The Board of Directors’ interests in shares in  
the Company are detailed on pages 83 and 84.
Directors’ share options
Details of Directors’ share options are provided 
in the Directors’ Remuneration report on  
page 87 .
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of 
indemnity with each of its Directors, which are 
qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose 
of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force 
at the date of this report.
Accountability and audit
Statements of the respective responsibilities of 
the Directors and auditors are set out on pages 
92 and 96.
Corporate governance
A full report on corporate governance can 
be found in the Governance section of this 
document and the Company’s governance 
statement is on page 56. Both are incorporated 
by reference into this report.
Post balance sheet events
As at the date of this report, there were no post 
balance sheet events to report.
Employment policies
The Group strives to meet its business 
objectives by motivating and encouraging its 
employees to be responsive to the needs of its 
customers and continually improve operational 
performance. The Group is committed to 
providing equality of opportunity to employees 
and potential employees. This applies to 
appropriate training, career development 
and promotion for all employees, regardless 
of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, 
religion, age or ethnic origin. All businesses  
in the Group report diversity data.
Full and fair consideration is given to 
applications for employment received from 
disabled persons, according to their skills 
and capabilities. The services of any existing 
employee disabled during their period of 
employment are retained wherever possible.
Employee involvement
The Group encourages employee involvement 
in its affairs. Subsidiary companies produce a 
range of internal newsletters and circulars which 
keep employees abreast of developments. 
Senior management within the Group meet 
regularly to review strategic developments 
and management conferences are held at 
Group and business levels to bring our senior 
managers together to share ideas and develop 
policy. Dialogue takes place regularly with trade 
unions and other employee representatives on  
a wide range of issues. 
88 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Employee views are also sought through regular 
employee satisfaction questionnaires, both 
within business units and across the Group. 
Following such surveys, results are shared with 
employees and action plans are put in place to 
deal with issues arising. The Group encourages 
innovation from all levels of employees and 
has a structured programme in place known 
as ‘Make a Difference’ to develop ideas 
and track them through to implementation. 
Innovation Sponsors, Agents and Champions 
are appointed in the business and their work is 
coordinated by an Innovations Council at Group 
level. For National Express, innovation is a way 
of life that involves and engages our people.
The Group also has a well-developed 
succession planning process in place and 
succession plans are reviewed by the Board 
annually. As a key part of this process, the 
Company focuses on emerging talent to ensure 
the Group has the right people being developed 
to meet our future business needs. Talent 
management remains an important priority  
for the Group.
Environmental policy
Information on the Group’s environmental 
initiatives, including the mandatory reporting 
disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions, can 
be found in the strategic report on pages 19 
to 23 and on the Company’s website, www.
nationalexpressgroup.com.
Political contributions
It is the Group’s policy not to make political 
donations and accordingly none were made 
in the year. However, the Company did attend 
party political conferences during the year for 
which total expenditure was £13,500 (2012: 
£6,750).
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the Company and its 
subsidiaries of financial instruments and any 
related risk management objectives and 
policies (including hedging policy) and exposure 
(including price, credit, liquidity or cash flow 
risk) of the Company in connection with such 
financial instruments can be found in the notes 
to the Consolidated Accounts on pages 102  
to 156 and are incorporated by reference into  
this report.
Major shareholdings
As at 24 February 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights  
in the Company.
Ordinary shares
Percentage of  
share capital* Nature of holding
European Express Enterprises Ltd 78,795,062 15.4% Direct 
Prudential PLC 66,764,762 13.0% Direct 
Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 26,288,829 5.1% Direct 
* The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmen’s holdings which are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 84.
Analysis of ordinary shareholdings at  
21 February 2014 Number of accounts
Percentage of total  
number of accounts Number of shares 
Percentage of  
ordinary capital
By size of holding
1-500 6,424 48.19% 895,299 0.17%
501-1,000 1,660 12.45% 1,308,489 0.26%
1,001-5,000 3,581 26.87% 8,374,981 1.64%
5,001-50,000 1,427 10.71% 16,900,098 3.30%
50,001-1,000,000 181 1.36% 49,975,242 9.77%
Over 1,000,000 56 0.42% 434,284,539 84.86%
13,329 100.00% 511,738,648 100.00%
By investor type
Individuals 12,368 92.78% 24,746,685 4.83%
Institutional investors 499 3.75% 481,626,562 94.12%
Other corporate investors 462 3.47% 5,365,401 1.05%
13,329 100.00% 511,738,648 100.00%
Corporate Governance pp52-92
89 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Share capital and rights attaching  
to the Company’s shares
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, 
any share in the Company may be issued with 
such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to 
dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise 
as the Company may from time to time by 
ordinary resolution determine (or, in the absence 
of any such determination, as the Directors  
may determine). 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares 
with a nominal value of 5 pence. At the date 
of this annual report, the issued share capital 
consisted of 51 1,738,648 ordinary shares  
of 5 pence each.
At a general meeting of the Company every 
member has one vote on a show of hands and 
on a poll one vote for each share held. The 
Notice of AGM accompanying this document 
specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights 
either by proxy or by being present in person in 
relation to resolutions to be passed at a general 
meeting. Details of the authorised and issued 
share capital of the Company and details of 
shares issued during the year can be found in 
note 15 on page 164. 
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides 
otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either 
personally or by proxy at a general meeting or 
to exercise any other right conferred by being 
a shareholder if he or she or any person with 
an interest in his or her shares has been sent a 
notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 
2006 (which confers upon public companies 
the power to require information with respect 
to interests in their voting shares) and he or she 
or any interested person failed to supply the 
Company with the information requested within 
14 days after delivery of that notice. The Board 
may also decide that no dividend is payable 
in respect of those default shares and that no 
transfer of any default shares shall be registered. 
These restrictions end seven days after receipt 
by the Company of a notice of an approved 
transfer of the shares or all the information 
required by the relevant Section 793 notice, 
whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer 
of any share which is not a fully-paid share, 
although such discretion may not be exercised 
in a way which the Financial Services Authority 
regards as preventing dealings in shares of that 
class from taking place on an open or proper 
basis. The Directors may likewise refuse any 
transfer of a share in favour of more than four 
persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other 
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares  
in the Company other than:
• certain restrictions that may from time to  
time be imposed by laws and regulations  
(for example, insider trading laws); and
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority whereby certain 
employees of the Company require approval 
of the Company to deal in the Company’s 
shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or  
voting rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 
AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise all 
powers to allot shares, or grant rights for, or to 
convert any security into, shares, and approve 
a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption 
rights. Details are set out in the Notice of AGM 
accompanying this document.
The Company was granted authority at the 
AGM in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to 
an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal 
capital. The authority was not used during the 
year. The authority is renewed annually and 
approval will be sought at the AGM in 2014 for  
its renewal. Further details are set out in the 
Notice of AGM accompanying this document.
Share schemes
First Names (Jersey) Limited (formerly IFG Trust 
(Jersey) Limited) are Trustee of the National 
Express Group Employee Benefit Trust. As at 
24 February 2014 they held 426,630 shares 
(0.08% of the issued share capital) of the 
Company for employee share schemes.  
Further details of the Company’s employee 
share schemes can be found in note 7 on  
page 1 16 and are incorporated by reference  
into this report. The Trustee may vote the  
shares held by the Trust at its discretion.
The current ABI guidance on dilution limits 
provide the overall dilution under all share 
plans operated by a company should not 
exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation 
to the Company’s share capital, with a further 
limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on 
executive plans. National Express share plans 
operate within ABI recommended guidelines  
on dilution limits.
Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of 
Association may be made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 14 May 2014 
at Hall 5, International Convention Centre, Broad 
Street, Birmingham B1 2EA. At the Meeting, 
special resolutions will be proposed to authorise 
the Directors to issue shares without applying 
statutory pre-emption rights, to authorise the 
Company to make market purchases of its own 
shares and to authorise the calling of general 
meetings (other than Annual General Meetings) 
on 14 clear days’ notice.  
Full details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.  
If you would like to register any question you 
may have in advance of the AGM you can do 
so at agm@nationalexpress.com or you can 
write to the Company Secretary at National 
Express Group PLC, National Express House, 
Birmingham Coach Station, Mill Lane, Digbeth, 
Birmingham B5 6DD.
Material contracts and change  
of control agreements
Under the terms of the Company’s Revolving 
Credit Facility, upon a change of control, 
the Company would have five days to enter 
into negotiations with the lenders to alter the 
terms. Following ten days of negotiations, if 
no agreement has been reached, outstanding 
balances would become repayable. 
Under the terms of the £1,000,000,000 Euro 
Medium Term Note Programme under which 
the Company issued Medium Term Notes 
(MTNs) to various institutions on 13 January 
2010 (as updated on 19 November 2012), there 
is a change of control put option such that, 
upon a change of control event, any holder of 
any MTN may require the Company to redeem 
or purchase that MTN. 
The Company entered into a private placement 
Note Purchase Agreement on 30 July 2012 
relating to the issue by the Company of 
€78,500,000 4.55% Senior Notes due 16 
August 2021. Under the terms of the Agreement 
the Company is required to offer to Note holders 
to repay to them the entire unpaid principal 
amount and interest thereon upon a change 
of control.
Corporate Governance
Other Statutory Information continued
90 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Group currently runs one DfT franchise: 
c2c. The rail franchise agreement with DfT 
contains termination rights for the benefit of  
DfT which would be triggered by a change  
of control in National Express Group PLC.
The Group’s rail franchisee, c2c, leases its 
rolling stock and its leases with Porterbrook 
Leasing Company Limited contain termination 
rights for the benefit of the lessor which would 
be triggered by a change of control in National 
Express Group PLC.
The Group’s North American business operates 
school bus services under contracts with 
school boards. Those contracts invariably 
contain a change of control clause for the 
benefit of the Board which would be triggered 
by a change of control in National Express 
Group PLC. While no one single school bus 
contract could be considered significant in 
the context of the Group turnover, the impact 
on that turnover in the event that each school 
board exercised its termination right on a 
change of control would be significant.
Directors’ and employees’  
service contracts
There are no agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office 
or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.
Risks
A summary of the Company’s risk management 
framework and an overview of its principal 
risks are detailed on pages 24 to 27 and are 
incorporated by reference into this report.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as 
auditors of the Company and to authorise  
the Directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Disclosure of information  
to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors are unaware and 
that each Director has taken all the steps that 
they ought to have taken as a Director in order 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information. This 
confirmation is given and should be interpreted 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Michael Hampson
Company Secretary  
27 February 2014
Corporate Governance pp52-92
91 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
• the Annual Report and financial statements, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
By order of the Board
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014
Jez Maiden
Group Finance Director 
27 February 2014
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the Financial Statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view  
of the state of affairs of the Company and of  
the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Company will continue  
in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for  
the prevention and detection of fraud and  
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. 
92 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Statements pp93-167
Financial Statements 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of National Express Group Plc 
 
93 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Opinion on Financial Statements of 
National Express Group PLC 
In our opinion: 
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for 
the year then ended; 
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union; 
• the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the related notes 1 to 38 to the 
Group Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 21 to the Company Financial 
Statements. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement on page 
62 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that: 
• we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in 
the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate; and 
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is 
not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the 
greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team: 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Impairment of goodwill 
The key assumptions used in the 
assessment of the carrying value of goodwill 
and intangible assets. This is determined 
with reference to judgemental factors such 
as future projected cash flows and the 
appropriate discount rate. 
 
We assessed management’s assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and 
intangible assets, described in note 14, specifically including the risk adjusted cash flow 
projections, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and sensitivities applied, particularly in 
respect of the Group’s interests in Spain and North America.  
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading 
performance, using our valuation specialists and benchmarking assumptions such as the 
perpetual growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic and market data. 
Spanish receivables 
The judgement used to estimate the bad 
debt provision in respect of the receivables 
due from public authorities and private 
companies in Spain is challenging given the 
current economic climate which means the 
receivables can become aged before they 
are recovered, in particular those due from 
public authorities. 
 
We assessed the adequacy of management’s provision against Spanish receivables and 
their recoverability by testing the controls over the credit management process and 
performing substantive procedures such as confirming cash receipts received post year 
end for a sample of receivables, reviewing aging and obtaining evidence to support the 
recoverability of aged receivables not provided for historically. For the public authority 
receivables we also obtained evidence of the agreed payment plans and confirmed,  
on a sample basis, that these had been adhered to.  Financial Statements 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of National Express Group Plc continued 
 
 
94 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 
Insurance provisions 
The measurement of the self-insured claims 
provision uses actuarial assumptions to 
determine the quantum of claims which are 
likely to arise in respect of past events but 
are not yet known to the Company. These 
claims are inherently difficult to predict and 
quantify as no two individual claims are the 
same, and the settlement outcome is 
subject to multiple variables. 
 
We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the valuation 
produced by the Group’s actuary, particularly in respect of North America, such as the 
claim rate probability and to re-perform the actuarial calculation to develop a valuation 
range. We compared the level of provision recorded to the range determined by our 
actuarial specialists and the Group’s actuary to conclude that the level of provision  
was appropriate. 
Exceptional items 
Management is required to exercise 
judgement in order to appropriately 
determine the items to be presented 
separately from normalised operating profit 
on the basis that they are material and  
non-recurring in nature and therefore 
disclosed as exceptional items. 
 
A sample of exceptional items (including all material items) have been agreed to source 
documentation and challenged by the local and Group audit teams as to their nature in 
order to validate that they are material non-recurring items which are appropriate to 
present outside of normalised operating profit. 
Tax provisions 
The value of the tax provisions recorded  
in respect of a number of uncertain tax 
positions which have not yet been agreed 
by the tax authorities. 
 
We used our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments 
based on their experience working with the revenue authorities, and reviewed 
correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness of the provisions 
made.  
Pension deficit  
The measurement of the Group’s net 
pension liability requires management to 
make judgements on assumptions including 
price inflation, discount rates, pension 
increases, mortality rates and earnings 
growth. 
 
We tested the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the net pension liability and our 
actuarial specialists performed a critical assessment of the key assumptions as described 
in note 34 with reference to comparable market data. 
 The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on pages 64 to 65. 
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of 
the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts 
or disclosures. Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any 
of the risks described above. We do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 
Our application of materiality 
 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person 
would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £9 million, which is approximately 6%  
of normalised pre-tax profit (profit before exceptional items and amortisation). The 
exceptional items are volatile and their exclusion, as well as the exclusion of amortisation 
costs, is consistent with the Group’s internal and external reporting to facilitate a better 
understanding of the underlying trading performance. We agreed with the Audit 
Committee that we would report to the Committee any audit adjustments in excess  
of £0.2 million, as well as any adjustments below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee  
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation  
of the Financial Statements.  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 95 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
 
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its 
environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the Group level. Our Group audit scope focused on the five operating 
divisions and the Group head office division, all of which were subject to a full scope audit 
for the year ended 31 December 2013. These six divisions account for 100% of the 
Group’s total assets, revenue and operating profit. Audits of these divisions are performed 
at lower levels of materiality determined by reference to the relative scale of the business 
division concerned. At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process. 
The Group audit team includes the component audit teams in our audit team briefing, 
discusses their risk assessment, and reviews documentation of the findings from their 
work. There is a programme of planned site visits so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or 
another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the six full scope divisions  
at least once a year. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed  
by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial 
Statements; and 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Matters on which we are required  
to report by exception 
 
 
Adequacy of explanations received  
and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters. 
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other information  
in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements; or  
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they 
consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have  
not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.  Financial Statements 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of National Express Group Plc continued 
 
 
96 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement set out on page 92 the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements, in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the Financial 
Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial 
Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
 
Nigel Mercer (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham, UK 
United Kingdom 
27 February 2014  Financial Statements pp93-167
Financial Statements 
Group Income Statement  
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
97 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
 
  Note 
Total before 
intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items 
2013 
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items 
2013 
£m 
Total 
2013 
£m 
Total before 
intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items  
2012  
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation and 
exceptional items 
2012 
£m 
Total 
2012
£m 
Continuing operations        
Revenue 4  1,891.3 – 1,891.3 1,831.2 – 1,831.2 
Operating costs before intangible 
amortisation and exceptional items   (1,698.4) – (1,698.4) (1,619.3) – (1,619.3)
Intangible amortisation  5,14  – (49.3) (49.3) – (51.7)(51.7)
Exceptional items  5  – (25.7) (25.7) – (42.6)(42.6)
Total operating costs  6  (1,698.4) (75.0) (1,773.4) (1,619.3) (94.3)(1,713.6)
Group operating profit  192.9 (75.0) 117.9 211.9 (94.3)117.6 
Loss on disposal of business 19 – (4.3) (4.3) – – – 
Share of results of associates  18  0.6 – 0.6 1.4 – 1.4 
Finance income  4,9  6.8 – 6.8 4.4 – 4.4 
Finance costs  9  (56.6) – (56.6) (53.6) – (53.6)
Profit before tax   143.7 (79.3) 64.4 164.1 (94.3) 69.8 
Tax charge 10  (32.5) 26.4 (6.1) (32.7) 24.2 (8.5)
 
Profit for the year  111.2 (52.9) 58.3 131.4 (70.1)61.3 
Profit attributable to  
equity shareholders   109.7 (52.9) 56.8 130.1 (70.1)60.0 
Profit attributable to  
non-controlling interests   1.5 – 1.5 1.3 – 1.3 
  111.2 (52.9) 58.3 131.4 (70.1)61.3 
Earnings per share:        
– basic earnings per share  13    11.1p   11.8p 
– diluted earnings per share  13   11.1p   11.7p 
Normalised earnings per share:        
– basic earnings per share  13 21.5p   25.5p   
– diluted earnings per share  13 21.4p   25.4p    Financial Statements 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income  
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
98 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 
 Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit for the year  58.3 61.3 
    
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:    
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans  34  (19.0) (31.1)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses  3.7 7.2 
  (15.3) (23.9)
    
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:    
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (net of hedging)  1.0 (44.2)
Exchange differences on retranslation of non-controlling interests   0.2 (0.2)
Gain on cash flow hedges   2.5 2.2 
Less: reclassification adjustments for gains or losses included in profit  (3.5) (20.2)
Tax on exchange differences   2.0 1.6 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges   0.3 4.9 
  2.5 (55.9)
    
Total comprehensive income/(expenditure) for the year   45.5 (18.5)
    
Total comprehensive income/(expenditure) attributable to:    
Equity shareholders   43.8 (19.6)
Non-controlling interests   1.7 1.1 
  45.5 (18.5)
  Financial Statements pp93-167
Financial Statements 
Group Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2013 
 
99 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
D Finch Group Chief Executive 
J K Maiden Group Finance Director  
27 February 2014 
 Note 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets  14 1,223.5 1,262.9 
Property, plant and equipment  15  751.4 787.4 
Available for sale investments  17  7.4 7.1 
Derivative financial instruments  17  18.5 31.1 
Investments accounted for using the equity method  18  5.1 4.4 
Trade and other receivables  20  4.6 5.6 
Defined benefit pension asset 34 12.6 16.6 
  2,023.1 2,115.1 
Current assets    
Inventories  21  21.2 19.3 
Trade and other receivables  22  169.9 194.8 
Derivative financial instruments  17  3.1 4.7 
Deferred tax assets 27 16.7 7.8 
Current tax assets   1.6 0.8 
Cash and cash equivalents  23  40.9 72.8 
  253.4 300.2 
Total assets   2,276.5 2,415.3 
Non-current liabilities    
Borrowings  28  (750.7) (786.8)
Derivative financial instruments  28  (1.6) (2.2)
Deferred tax liability  27  (75.1) (84.8)
Other non-current liabilities  25  (6.5) (5.9)
Defined benefit pension liability  34  (42.7) (35.9)
Provisions  26  (21.4) (28.3)
  (898.0) (943.9)
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables  24  (351.6) (348.4)
Borrowings  28  (76.8) (169.0)
Derivative financial instruments  28  (1.9) (3.0)
Current tax liabilities   (22.9) (19.9)
Provisions  26  (28.0) (28.7)
  (481.2) (569.0)
Total liabilities   (1,379.2) (1,512.9)
Net assets   897.3 902.4 
Shareholders’ equity    
Called-up share capital  32  25.6 25.6 
Share premium account   532.7 532.7 
Capital redemption reserve   0.2 0.2 
Own shares   (0.8) (0.5)
Other reserves  33  46.5 44.2 
Retained earnings   282.4 290.7 
Total shareholders’ equity   886.6 892.9 
Non-controlling interests in equity   10.7 9.5 
Total equity   897.3 902.4  Financial Statements 
Group Statement of Changes in Equity  
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
100 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
 
 
Share  
capital  
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
 £m 
Own 
shares 
(note 32)
£m 
Other 
reserves 
(note 33) 
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
 £m 
Total 
equity 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.5) 44.2 290.7 892.9 9.5 902.4 
Shares purchased  – – – (2.8) – – (2.8) – (2.8)
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes  – – – 2.5 – (2.5) – – – 
Total comprehensive income  
and expenditure  – – – – 2.3 41.5 43.8 1.7 45.5 
Share-based payments  – – – – – 3.1 3.1 – 3.1 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividends – – – – – (50.3) (50.3) – (50.3)
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 2013  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.8) 46.5 282.4 886.6 10.7 897.3 
 
 
Share  
capital  
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
 £m 
Own 
shares 
(note 32)
£m 
Other 
reserves 
(note 33) 
£m 
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
 £m 
Total 
equity 
£m 
At 1 January 2012  25.6 532.7 0.2 (14.0) 99.9 313.1 957.5 7.9 965.4 
Shares purchased  – – – (4.8) – – (4.8) – (4.8)
Own shares released to satisfy 
employee share schemes  – – – 4.5 – (4.5) – – – 
Disposal of own shares – – – 13.8 – (9.8) 4.0 – 4.0 
Total comprehensive income  
and expenditure – – – – (55.7) 36.1 (19.6) 1.1 (18.5)
Share-based payments  – – – – – 5.2 5.2 – 5.2 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividends – – – – – (49.3) (49.3) – (49.3)
Adjustment from changes in  
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5 
At 31 December 2012  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.5) 44.2 290.7 892.9 9.5 902.4 
  Financial Statements pp93-167
Financial Statements 
Group Statement of Cash Flows  
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
101 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
 
 Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Cash generated from operations  37  296.4 169.6 
Tax paid  (16.3) (13.4)
Net cash from operating activities   280.1 156.2 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Payments to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired  19(a) (7.2) (156.9)
Deferred consideration for businesses acquired and disposed 19(a) (3.7) (0.6)
Proceeds from the disposal of business 19(b) 1.4 – 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (90.7) (103.8)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment   12.1 16.7 
Payments to acquire intangible assets   (3.2) (2.9)
Payments to acquire associates  – (0.5)
Proceeds from disposal of associates  – 1.6 
Dividends received from associates  – 0.9 
Interest received   5.2 3.7 
Net cash used in investing activities   (86.1) (241.8)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from the sale of treasury shares  – 4.0 
Purchase of own shares   (2.8) (4.8)
Interest paid   (51.0) (48.8)
Finance lease principal payments   (21.3) (18.0)
Net loans (repaid)/drawn down  (99.4) 174.5 
(Payments)/receipts for the maturity of foreign currency contracts  (1.1) 8.9 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests   (0.5) (0.1)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company   (50.3) (49.3)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities   (226.4) 66.4 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents   (32.4) (19.2)
Opening cash and cash equivalents   72.8 92.5 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents   (32.4) (19.2)
Foreign exchange   0.5 (0.5)
Closing cash and cash equivalents  23  40.9 72.8 
  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
102 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Corporate information  
The Consolidated Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 
2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 27 February 2014. National Express Group PLC is a public 
limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.  
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report that accompanies these Financial Statements.  
2 Accounting policies  
Statement of compliance  
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations  
of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as adopted by the European Union (EU), and with those parts of  
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
Basis of preparation  
These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis (see Governance Report on page 62) under the historical cost 
convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments.  
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 
(£0.1m) except where otherwise indicated.  
A summary of the Group’s accounting policies applied in preparing these Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013  
is set out below. 
Significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statement and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results 
may ultimately differ from those estimates.  
The key accounting estimates and judgements are: 
Goodwill impairment 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been 
allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and 
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Details of the assumptions used and key sensitivities are set out in note 14 to these 
Financial Statements. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
Determining the amount of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations and the net costs of providing such benefits requires assumptions  
to be made concerning long term interest rates, inflation, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity of current and future 
pensioners. Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the obligations or the cost of providing such benefits.  
The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries. Details of the 
assumptions made are set out in note 34. 
Insurance  
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate 
of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not been reported 
to the Group. The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries. 
Tax provisions 
Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations with and enquiries from 
tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions. The assessments made are based on advice from independent tax advisors and the status of 
ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities.  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
103 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
2 Accounting policies continued 
Basis of consolidation  
These Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn  
up to 31 December each year. Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies.  
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group Income Statement includes the results of 
subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed. The purchase consideration is allocated to assets 
and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition. On the sale of a business, the Group Income Statement includes the results 
of that business to the date of disposal.  
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.  
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent 
Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
Certain comparatives have been reclassified to be consistent with the current years’ changes in presentation. 
Changes in accounting policies 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following new and revised Standards 
and Interpretations which have been adopted in the current year. Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported 
in these Financial Statements. 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) – the standard defines fair value,  
and a framework for measuring fair value. 
IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) – the standard has impacted the 
measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures,  
but not the Group’s total obligation. Following the replacement of expected returns on plan assets with a net finance cost in the Income 
Statement, the operating profit for the period has been reduced and accordingly other comprehensive income increased.  
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – the amendments require items of other comprehensive income to be grouped  
by those items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will never be reclassified, together with their associated 
income tax. The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence items of comprehensive income have been represented to reflect 
the change. The effect of these changes is evident from the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.  
Interests in joint ventures  
The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.  
The Group recognises its interest in the entity’s assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting. The Group Balance Sheet 
includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures’ net assets or liabilities and the Income Statement includes the appropriate share  
of their results after tax.  
Financial Statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Adjustments are made in the 
Group’s Financial Statements to eliminate the Group’s share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly 
controlled entities. The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.  
Interests in associates  
Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the  
voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates. The Consolidated Financial Statements include  
the appropriate share of these associates’ results and net assets based on their latest Financial Statements under the equity method  
of accounting. 
Income Statement presentation  
The Group Income Statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the Financial Statements to view the normalised 
results of the Group. Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following, as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of 
businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets, 
exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items and intangibles.  
Exceptional items  
Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency 
require separate identification on the face of the Income Statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year,  
in comparison to prior years. 
   Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
104 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition  
Rendering of services  
Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services and related activities in the UK, North America  
and Europe. Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.  
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customer’s travel or services provided under contractual arrangements 
as a proportion of total services to be provided.  
Rail revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies (TOCs), based principally on agreed models of route usage  
by Railway Settlement Plan Limited (which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of passenger 
receipts. In addition, net franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division (DfT Rail) and local Passenger 
Transport Executives (PTEs) are treated as revenue. Net franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.  
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales. UK Bus and Spanish Coach and Bus revenue comprises 
amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is 
recognised as the services are provided. For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred 
within liabilities and released to the Income Statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard. North American Bus revenue 
from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.  
Rental income  
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Finance income  
Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.  
Government grants  
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the Income 
Statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned. Other grants are credited to the Income Statement as the related 
expenditure is expensed.  
Segmental reporting  
Each of the Group’s business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those 
of the other business segments. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical 
segments which are operating in separate economic environments.  
The Group’s segments comprise: UK Bus; UK Coach; Rail; North American Bus; Spanish Coach and Bus; and Central functions.  
These segments are described in more detail in the Business review accompanying these Financial Statements.  
Leases  
Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, 
are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the 
leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase 
contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the Income 
Statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Property, plant 
and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.  
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are 
classified as operating leases. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the Income Statement 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet 
the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.  
Borrowing costs  
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
105 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
2 Accounting policies continued 
Current tax and deferred tax  
Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned. Income taxes are 
recognised in the Income Statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in other Comprehensive Income or Equity, in which case the 
tax is recognised directly in other Comprehensive Income or Equity. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that 
are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.  
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions:  
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill;  
• where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; and  
• in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences 
reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.  
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available  
against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date  
on the same basis. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.  
Intangible assets  
Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired 
in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on  
a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised. The amortisation expense is taken to the Income Statement through operating 
costs.  
Finite life intangible assets have a residual value of £nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment. The useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an 
annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where 
indicators of impairment exist. 
The Group’s only indefinite life intangible asset is goodwill.  
Software  
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and  
is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software licences, consulting costs 
attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the 
development, design and implementation of the computer software. Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred. Amortisation  
is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the Income Statement over its estimated 
useful life (3 to 7 years).  
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not  
be recoverable.  
 
Customer contracts  – over the life of the contract (between 1 and 33 years)  
Right to operate TOC franchises  – over the life of the franchise (between 1 and 7 years)  
Contractual relationships – over the life of the relationship (between 8 and 20 years) 
Brands – over the life of the brand (5 years)  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
106 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Goodwill  
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest  
in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost 
less any accumulated impairment. If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost (previously referred to as negative goodwill), this is credited immediately to  
the Income Statement.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised. All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge 
recognised as required.  
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended 
within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further 
evidence gained post-acquisition.  
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.  
Property, plant and equipment  
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Under  
the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.  
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other property, plant 
and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.  
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from  
the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the period  
of derecognition.  
Impairment of non-financial assets  
All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually. An impairment loss is recognised for the 
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated risk adjusted future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate  
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement in expense 
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.  
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they  
no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the asset’s net book value had no 
previous impairment loss been recognised. Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement. Future depreciation or amortisation is then 
adjusted to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life. Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.  
 
Freehold buildings  – 30 to 50 years  
Long leasehold property 
improvements  
– 15 to 40 years  
Public service vehicles  – 8 to 15 years  
Plant and equipment, fixtures 
and fittings  
– 3 to 15 years   Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
107 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
2 Accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments  
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition. The Group classifies its financial assets in the following 
categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired.  
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category  
if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.  
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the 
Income Statement. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category  
are presented in the Income Statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.  
Loans and receivables  
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They 
are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date which are classified as non-current 
assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the Balance Sheet.  
Available-for-sale financial assets  
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other  
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months  
of the Balance Sheet date.  
The Group’s investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. 
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until 
the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss 
is included in the Income Statement. Where there is no active market for the Group’s investments, fair value is determined using valuation 
techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses. In the absence of any other reliable external 
information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.  
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets  
is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security 
below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, 
the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that 
financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement. Impairment losses 
recognised in the Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Income Statement. 
Financial liabilities 
When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value. Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals,  
other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments. In the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss,  
an adjustment is made for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability. Subsequent measurement 
depends on its classification as follows: 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. These liabilities are carried on the Balance Sheet at fair value with gains or losses being 
recognised in the Income Statement. 
Other 
All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
108 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel derivatives and interest rate 
derivatives to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet. The fair value of foreign currency 
forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel 
prices at the period end.  
The Group’s fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined 
to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, and the ineffective portion in the Income Statement. The gains or losses deferred in equity in 
this way are recycled through the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is 
recognised in the Income Statement.  
The Group’s interest rate derivatives are designated as fair value hedges. The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement. The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the Income Statement for the gain  
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk free interest rate. 
Foreign currency derivatives are used to hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they 
are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and 
liabilities. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or 
sold. Foreign currency forward contracts are also used to hedge transactional exposures. These contracts are not hedge accounted and all 
gains and losses are taken directly to the Income Statement. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting.  
Inventories  
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in-first out basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow  
moving items. 
Pre-contract costs  
Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred up to the point when a franchise is awarded. From 
this point in time, appropriate costs are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the Income Statement over the life of the franchise. 
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.  
Trade and other receivables  
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. Doubtful 
debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other 
short term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts. In the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts that have no legal right  
of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.  
Trade and other payables  
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Interest-bearing borrowings  
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that  
are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.   Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
109 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
2 Accounting policies continued 
Insurance  
The Group’s policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses. To provide protection above these types of losses,  
the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers. The insurance provision is based on 
estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to  
the overall deductible within the Group’s insurance arrangements. The majority of provisions will be utilised within five years, and the 
provisions have been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.  
Pensions and other post-employment benefits  
The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature. Full details are provided in note 34.  
The Balance Sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net value for each scheme of the present value of the 
relevant defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation 
triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using 
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.  
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs  
in the Income Statement. Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised  
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset 
and is recognised within finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.  
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry. This is partitioned into sections  
and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise. In contrast to the pension schemes 
operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% 
by the employee. A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise 
adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.  
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation 
to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to 
employee service in the current and prior periods.  
Share-based payment  
The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees  
as consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant  
of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets 
and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the 
number of options that are expected to vest. The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which 
all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At each Balance Sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any,  
in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.  
Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions are measured  
at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present 
value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate. The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.  
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events. They are disclosed in the notes to the 
accounts where the expected future outflow is not probable.   Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
110 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Share capital, share premium and dividends  
Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any 
transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders’ equity as own shares until they are cancelled or reissued. Any consideration 
subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders’ equity.  
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements on the date when 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.  
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations  
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through 
a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if 
their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.  
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents  
a separate major line of business or geographical area; is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area; 
or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale. The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately in the 
Income Statement.  
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.  
Foreign currencies  
The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation 
currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation  
to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.  
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates  
of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity. On disposal of  
a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve (since 1 January 2004 under 
the transitional rules of IFRS 1) relating to that entity is recognised in the Income Statement. All other translation differences are taken to the 
Income Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used  
to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net 
investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income Statement.  
New standards and interpretations not applied  
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU): 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements – the standard establishes the principles for the presentation of consolidated accounts when  
an entity controls one or more other entities.  
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – the standard determines the type of joint arrangement by assessing the rights and obligations, and accounts  
for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement. 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities – the standard sets out the requirements to disclose information that enables users of 
accounts to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of these interests on its financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows.  
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – the standard deals with the classification, recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities,  
but has yet to be adopted by the EU.  
IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets – the amendment addresses the disclosure of information about  
the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on the fair value less costs of disposal. 
The Directors assess that the standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective are not likely to have a significant impact on future 
Financial Statements, with the exception of IFRS 9 which will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments. 
  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
111 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
3 Exchange rates 
The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 
If the results for the year to 31 December 2012 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2013,  
North American Bus would have achieved normalised operating profit of £59.8m on revenue of £584.8m, compared to normalised operating 
profit of £59.1m on revenue of £578.3m as reported, and Spanish Coach and Bus would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 
£87.7m on revenue of £559.5m, compared to normalised operating profit of £83.8m on revenue of £535.0m as reported. 
4 Revenue 
5 Segmental analysis 
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide 
and the geographical market they operate in. Commentary on the segments is included in the Strategic Report. 
Revenue is analysed by reportable segment and geographical location as follows: 
German Coach is not considered to be an operating or a reportable segment. 
All revenue in the Rail segment is generated in the UK. 
Inter-segment sales in UK Bus represent internal commission on ticket sales. Inter-segment sales in UK Coach represent rail replacement 
services provided to Rail. Inter-segment trading is undertaken on standard arm’s length commercial terms. Due to the nature of the Group’s 
businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same. No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue. 
 
2013 
Closing rate 
2013 
Average rate 
2012 
Closing rate 
2012
Average rate 
US dollar  1.66 1.56 1.63 1.59 
Canadian dollar  1.76 1.61 1.61 1.59 
Euro  1.20 1.18 1.23 1.23 
 
2013
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Rendering of services  1,888.8 1,828.0 
Rental income  2.5 3.2 
Revenue  1,891.3 1,831.2 
Finance income  6.8 4.4 
Total revenue from continuing operations  1,898.1 1,835.6 
 
External 
revenue 
2013 
£m 
Inter-
segment 
sales 
2013 
£m 
Segment 
revenue 
2013 
£m 
External  
revenue  
2012  
£m 
Inter-
segment 
sales 
2012
 £m 
Segment 
revenue 
2012 
£m 
UK Bus  273.3 0.1 273.4 268.8 0.2 269.0 
UK Coach  263.3 0.2 263.5 254.0 1.1 255.1 
North American Bus  645.0 – 645.0 578.3 – 578.3 
Spanish Coach and Bus  564.6 – 564.6 535.0 – 535.0 
Core non-rail businesses 1,746.2 0.3 1,746.5 1,636.1 1.3 1,637.4 
German Coach 2.1 – 2.1 – – – 
Non-rail businesses 1,748.3 0.3 1,748.6 1,636.1 1.3 1,637.4 
Rail  143.0 – 143.0 195.1 – 195.1 
Inter-segment sales elimination  – (0.3) (0.3) – (1.3)(1.3)
Total revenue  1,891.3 – 1,891.3 1,831.2 – 1,831.2  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
112 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Operating profit is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
Intangible asset amortisation is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
Exceptional items are analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
 
 
Normalised 
operating 
profit 
2013 
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
2013
£m 
Segment 
result 
2013
£m 
Normalised 
operating  
profit  
2012  
£m 
Intangible 
amortisation  
and  
exceptional  
items  
2012 
£m 
Segment 
result 
2012
£m 
UK Bus  31.2 (1.4) 29.8 34.1 (3.7) 30.4 
UK Coach  24.5 (1.9) 22.6 20.6 (2.5) 18.1 
North American Bus  62.6 (18.1) 44.5 59.1 (25.9) 33.2 
Spanish Coach and Bus  81.5 (37.2) 44.3 83.8 (41.8) 42.0 
Central functions (14.3) (6.4) (20.7) (12.4) (2.7) (15.1)
Core non-rail businesses  185.5 (65.0) 120.5 185.2 (76.6) 108.6 
German Coach (2.4) (0.7) (3.1) – – – 
Non-rail businesses 183.1 (65.7) 117.4 185.2 (76.6) 108.6 
Rail  9.8 (9.3) 0.5 26.7 (17.7) 9.0 
Operating profit from continuing operations  192.9 (75.0) 117.9 211.9 (94.3) 117.6 
Loss on disposal of business  (4.3)  – 
Share of post-tax results from associates  
and joint ventures  0.6   1.4 
Net finance costs   (49.8)  (49.2)
Profit before tax    64.4   69.8 
Tax charge    (6.1)  (8.5)
Profit for the year    58.3   61.3 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
UK Bus  – – 
UK Coach  0.3 – 
Rail  – 0.1 
North American Bus  13.5 11.1 
Spanish Coach and Bus  35.4 40.4 
Central functions  0.1 0.1 
Total  49.3 51.7 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
UK Bus  1.4 3.7 
UK Coach  1.6 2.5 
Rail 9.3 17.6 
North American Bus  4.6 14.8 
Spanish Coach and Bus  1.8 1.4 
Central functions 6.3 2.6 
Other 0.7 – 
Total  25.7 42.6  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
113 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Exceptional items are further analysed by type as follows: 
In the year to 31 December 2013, exceptional costs of £7.4m (2012: £16.3m) were incurred in relation to UK rail bids. This includes the  
costs of bidding for the Essex Thameside, Crossrail and ScotRail rail franchises. In addition, £1.9m (2012: £1.3m) was incurred in bidding  
for regional rail opportunities in Germany. 
£6.4m (2012: £3.0m) of business development costs have been incurred across the Group as part of a major investment to create other new 
contract and passenger business pipelines in new markets. 
Exceptional costs of £4.6m (2012: £13.4m) were incurred in relation to the acquisition and integration of school bus and transit businesses  
in North America. Further details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 19.  
Exceptional restructuring and rationalisation costs of £5.4m (2012: £8.6m) have been incurred, primarily within UK Bus, UK Coach and  
Spanish Coach and Bus. 
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are analysed by reportable segment as follows: 
 *  Non-current assets only include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. 
** The net capital expenditure, after allowing for the movements in capital creditors, disposal of fixed assets and payments to acquire intangibles,  
was £82.6m (2012: £125.4m). 
The majority of non-current assets in the Rail segment are located in the UK. 
Capital expenditure comprises property, plant and equipment additions as disclosed above and in note 15. In 2013 software intangible assets 
of £3.4m (2012: £6.6m) were acquired as disclosed in note 14. 
 
2013
 £m 
2012
 £m 
UK rail bids  7.4 16.3 
Other rail bids 1.9 1.3 
Other business development  6.4 3.0 
 15.7 20.6 
North America acquisition and integration 4.6 13.4 
Restructuring and rationalisation  5.4 8.6 
 25.7 42.6 
 
Assets  
2013  
£m 
Of which 
non-current 
assets* 
2013
£m 
Liabilities 
2013 
£m 
Capital**
expenditure 
2013 
£m 
Assets 
2012 
£m 
Of which  
non-current 
assets*  
2012 
£m 
Liabilities 
2012
£m 
Capital**
 expenditure 
2012
£m 
UK Bus  153.5 134.7 (118.7) 27.1 142.9 124.5 (115.1) 24.7 
UK Coach  59.0 45.0 (36.7) 3.8 66.7 53.0 (36.5) 6.6 
Rail  13.4 1.8 (45.7) – 14.7 2.4 (47.6) 0.2 
North American Bus  795.7 722.5 (195.2) 16.1 878.0 789.4 (203.9) 58.9 
Spanish Coach and Bus  1,148.1 1,065.2 (150.6) 36.4 1,172.5 1,076.3 (159.7) 43.1 
Central functions  26.2 5.7 (44.2) 1.4 34.0 4.7 (57.3)0.3 
Unallocated  89.2 – (796.7) – 125.3 – (911.6) – 
Intercompany elimination  (8.6) – 8.6 – (18.8) – 18.8 – 
Total  2,276.5 1,974.9 (1,379.2) 84.8 2,415.3 2,050.3 (1,512.9) 133.8  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
114 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
5 Segmental analysis continued 
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: 
6 Operating costs 
The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, stations 
and depots). The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased. The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based 
on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications. The non-capital element of the lease charge includes heavy 
maintenance charges and charges based on mileage. 
An analysis of fees paid to the Group’s auditors is provided below: 
 
 
Unallocated 
assets 
2013 
£m 
Unallocated 
liabilities  
2013 
£m 
Unallocated 
assets 
2012 
£m 
Unallocated 
liabilities 
2012 
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents  40.9 – 72.8 – 
Other debt receivables 1.0 – 1.0 – 
Current tax  1.6 (22.9) 0.8 (19.9)
Available for sale investments  7.4 – 7.1 – 
Derivative financial assets/(liabilities)  21.6 (3.5) 35.8 (5.2)
Borrowings, excluding finance leases  – (694.6) – (801.1)
Dividend payable  – (0.6) – (0.6)
Deferred tax  16.7 (75.1) 7.8 (84.8)
Total  89.2 (796.7) 125.3 (911.6)
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Cost of inventories recognised in expense 75.2 67.0 
Staff costs (including exceptional costs of £7.7m (2012: £5.8m))  855.8 788.1 
Depreciation – Owned assets (including exceptional costs in 2012 of £2.6m) 88.3 90.0 
 – Leased assets  19.1 19.8 
Amortisation of fixed asset grants  (1.1) (1.2)
Operating lease charges  Rolling stock: capital element 27.5 31.0 
 Rolling stock: non-capital element  – 5.0 
 Public service vehicles  6.0 4.0 
 Other  8.1 6.0 
 – Plant and equipment  41.6 46.0 
 Fixed track access  13.6 14.9 
 Other  23.6 23.7 
 – Land and buildings  37.2 38.6 
Foreign exchange differences (0.9) (0.4)
Other charges (including exceptional expense of £18.0m (2012: £34.2m))  608.9 614.0 
Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation  1,724.1 1,661.9 
Intangible asset amortisation  49.3 51.7 
Total operating costs  1,773.4 1,713.6 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts  0.3 0.3 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:   
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries  0.6 0.6 
Other services  0.1 0.3 
 1.0 1.2  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
115 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
7 Employee benefit costs 
(a) Staff costs 
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 
Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Group’s key management personnel who comprise the Directors of the 
parent Company. 
(b) Share schemes 
Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013 under the Group’s share schemes are as follows: 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Wages and salaries  738.4 679.9 
Social security costs  104.8 96.1 
Pension costs (note 34)  9.5 6.9 
Share-based payment (note 8)  3.1 5.2 
 855.8 788.1 
 2013 2012 
Managerial and administrative  3,941 3,659 
Operational  38,321 35,737 
 42,262 39,397 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Basic salaries 1.0 1.0 
Benefits  0.3 0.3 
Performance-related bonuses  1.4 1.1 
Share-based payment  1.0 1.5 
 3.7 3.9 
 
Number of 
share options 
2013 
Number of 
share options 
2012 
Exercise 
price 
Future 
exercise 
periods 
Executive Share Option Plan  16,286 35,508 207p-354p 2014 
Long Term Incentive Plan  10,498,399 6,986,836 nil 2014-2019 
Share Matching Plan  724,494 1,089,251 nil 2014-2015 
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan  846,474 1,325,234 nil 2014-2015 
WMT Long Service Option Scheme  262,171 283,628 129p-599p 2014-2023 
Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 142,504 127,249 nil 2014 
 12,490,328 9,847,706    Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
116 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
7 Employee benefit costs continued 
(b) Share schemes continued  
(i) Executive Share Option Plan  
The Company operates tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management 
positions. Options granted by this Plan have a maximum term of ten years. The options vest after three years subject to the satisfaction  
of certain performance criteria
 
based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share. If the performance criteria are not met when 
initially tested, in some instances they may be reassessed during the term of the option. From 2005 executive share option grants have been 
replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in (ii). There are no cash settlement alternatives.  
(ii) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)  
The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive 
Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees. Under the LTIP, a Performance Award to acquire a specified 
number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director. In addition, a Matching Award may be made, as described in (iii). 
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on both the achievement of target growth  
in earnings per share and the relative total shareholder return (TSR) of the Company against a comparator group of companies. If the 
performance conditions are met, Performance and Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable  
for a period of up to six months following the vesting date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.  
In 2011, 2012 and 2013 HMRC approved share option plans were added as an appendix to the LTIP (‘Approved Plan’). A participant can  
only hold an option under the Approved Plan over shares with a market value of up to £30,000 at the grant date. Options under the Approved 
Plan are granted in tandem with the usual options under the LTIP. The options are structured such that on exercise, the proportion of the  
gain in respect of the first £30,000 worth of shares (as measured at the date of grant) will be delivered under the Approved Option and  
the LTIP option shall be scaled back to deliver the remaining gross gain that would have been delivered had the option been granted alone. 
The excess shares under the LTIP will be forfeited such that both awards will never become fully vested. 
Since 2012, a supplementary five-year long term incentive award was granted to the Chief Executive subject to targets linked to the Group’s 
five-year plan. This comprised a Performance Award (with no matching element). If performance conditions are met, the Performance award 
will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to twelve months following the vesting date.  
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present. 
(iii) Share Matching Plan (the ‘Plan’)  
The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements described in (ii). Under the Plan, 
a Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment 
shares which are then matched by the Company on up to a 4:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the 
gross-tax equivalent of the amount invested. The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable  
for a period of up to six months following the vesting date. There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.  
(iv) Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan  
The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees. 
Under the scheme, part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest 
three years after the award date. The options must be exercised within six months of vesting. There are no cash settlement alternatives  
at present.  
(v) West Midlands Travel Ltd (WMT) Long Service Option Scheme  
The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 
and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years. The options are exercisable between three and ten years 
following the grant date. There are no cash settlement alternatives.  
(vi) TWM Share Incentive Plan (the ‘SIP’)  
The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees. At the end of the year, 1,079 (2012: 965) National Express Group PLC shares  
were held for the benefit of the Trustee. Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived. There are no cash  
settlement alternatives.   Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
117 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
7 Employee benefit costs continued  
(b) Share schemes continued  
 (vii) Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 
As detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the calendar 
year to be deferred for a period of one year and that these would vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Director’s continuing 
employment. The deferred forfeitable ordinary shares are awarded under the terms of The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus 
Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.  
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: 
• awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards; 
• awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Director’s continued employment with the Company; 
• the Committee may decide that participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that 
would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the grant date and 
the date of vesting; and 
• the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate ‘good leaver’ circumstances (eg death  
or disability). 
In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards  
as it considers appropriate.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
118 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
8 Share-based payments 
The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Group’s Income Statement for the year is as follows: 
There were exceptional costs included within the charge during the year of £0.1m (2012: £0.1m). 
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group had seven share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7(b).  
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average 
exercise prices. The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 599p (2012: between 129p and 604p) 
excluding options with a nil exercise price. The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: 
The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year (2012: one year). Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and 
the weighted average share price at exercise was 201p (2012: 225p). 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Expense arising from share and share option plans – continuing operations  3.1 5.2 
  2013   2012 
 
Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price  
p 
Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
price
p 
Options without a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  319,136 368 1,277,006 445 
Granted during the year  14,840 252 26,660 252 
Forfeited during the year  (5,892) 377 (9,708) 424 
Exercised during the year (10,501) 196 (29,877) 146 
Expired during the year (39,126) 276 (944,945) 475 
Outstanding at 31 December 278,457 380 319,136 368 
Exercisable at 31 December  225,895 411 211,343 430 
Options with a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  9,528,570 nil 7,285,150 nil 
Granted during the year  5,106,185 nil 4,754,977 nil 
Forfeited during the year  (209,721) nil (333,117) nil 
Exercised during the year  (1,426,737) nil (1,954,978) nil 
Expired during the year (786,426) nil (223,462) nil 
Outstanding at 31 December  12,211,871 nil 9,528,570 nil 
Exercisable at 31 December  – nil 197,069 nil 
Total outstanding at 31 December  12,490,328  9,847,706  
Total exercisable at 31 December  225,895  408,412  
Exercise price (p)  2013 2012 
0-300  104,166 123,278 
300-350 – 12,141 
350-650 174,291 183,717 
 278,457 319,136  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
119 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
8 Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following 
assumptions and inputs: 
Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% (2012: 24%) of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers. This has been 
incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price. 
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were 
not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward. The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared 
in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant. 
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the  
options above. 
9 Net finance costs 
 
 Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 
 2013 2012 2013  2012 
Risk free interest rate  1.19% 0.50%-1.16% 0.35%-0.84% 0.50%-0.55% 
Expected volatility  38.1% 36.8%-40.0% 29.2%-44.2% 40.0%-44.5% 
Peer group volatility  – – 36.8%-44.3% 38.5%-45.5% 
Expected option life in years  7 years 3-6 years 3-5 years 3-5 years 
Expected dividend yield  4.73% 3.97%-4.16% 4.64%-4.88% 4.16%-4.56% 
Weighted average share price at grant date 206p 239p 201p 225p 
Weighted average exercise price at grant date 252p 252p nil nil 
Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 32p 49p 128p 171p 
 
2013
 £m 
2012
£m 
Bond and bank interest payable  (50.2) (47.4)
Finance lease interest payable  (4.4) (4.7)
Other interest payable  (0.2) (0.2)
Unwind of provision discounting  (1.3) (1.3)
Net interest cost on defined benefit pension obligations (0.5) – 
Finance costs  (56.6) (53.6)
Other financial income 6.8 4.4 
Net finance costs  (49.8) (49.2)
Of which, from financial instruments: 
Cash and cash equivalents  (2.7) (1.6)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  (48.7) (46.9)
Derivatives used for hedging  5.9 4.0 
Loan fee amortisation  (2.4) (2.4) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
120 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
10 Taxation 
(a) Analysis of taxation charge in the year 
(b) Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity 
 
2013 
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Current taxation: 
 
 
Credit on exchange movements offset in reserves  (0.1) – 
 (0.1) – 
Deferred taxation:   
Deferred tax charge on share-based payment  – (0.1)
Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses  3.7 7.2 
Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges  0.3 4.9 
Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange differences 2.1 1.6 
 6.1 13.6 
 
 
2013 
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Current taxation: 
 
 
UK corporation tax  3.9 1.6 
Overseas taxation  14.4 7.0 
Current income tax charge  18.3 8.6 
Adjustments with respect to prior years – UK and overseas – (0.5)
Total current income tax charge 18.3 8.1 
Deferred taxation (note 27):   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – continuing operations  (11.8) (0.3)
Adjustments with respect to prior years – UK and overseas (0.4) 0.7 
Deferred tax (credit)/charge (12.2) 0.4 
Total tax charge 6.1 8.5 
   
The tax charge is disclosed as follows:   
Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items  32.5 32.7 
Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items  (26.4) (24.2)
 6.1 8.5 
   
Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items is analysed as follows:   
Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation (17.4) (15.1)
Tax credit on exceptional items (6.8) (9.1)
Tax credit on loss on disposal of business (2.2) – 
 (26.4) (24.2) Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
121 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
10 Taxation continued 
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge 
(d) Temporary differences associated with Group investments 
No deferred tax (2012: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has 
determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future. As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, overseas 
dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax. There are no 
temporary differences (2012: £nil) associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability 
has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise. 
(e) Unrecognised tax losses 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future 
taxable profits is probable. UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the Financial Statements amount to 
£6.1m (2012: £9.4m), which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future taxable profits.  
In addition, there are capital losses of £3.1m (2012: £5.9m) which have not been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent  
on capital gains arising.  
The £3.1m of unrecognised capital losses will expire at various dates from 2014 through to 2016, as follows: 
(f) Deferred tax included in the Income Statement 
Details on the Balance Sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27. 
(g) Factors that may affect future tax charges 
On 21 March 2012, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a 1% reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 24% effective from  
1 April 2012, along with two subsequent reductions to 23% from 1 April 2013 and 22% from 1 April 2014. On 20 March 2013, in the 
Chancellor’s 2013 Budget Statement, further reductions to 21% on 1 April 2014 and 20% on 1
 
April 2015 were announced. 
At the Balance Sheet date, a rate of 21% (2012: 23%) was substantively enacted. The change in rate from 23% to 21% has resulted in  
a tax credit of £0.1m to the income statement. 
The proposed changes to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% on 1 April 2015 will have a similar effect in future years. 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit before income tax  64.4 69.8 
Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%)  15.0 17.1 
Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation  1.8 0.7 
Recognition of a deferred tax asset for previously unrecognised tax losses  (0.1) (3.9)
Effect of reduction in UK tax rates (note 10(g)) (0.1) (0.1)
Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax  (0.4) 0.2 
European reinvestment relief and other tax credits (1.2) (1.6)
Effect of overseas tax rates  5.2 6.8 
Tax on European goodwill and intangibles  (6.1) (5.8)
Overseas financing deductions (6.8) (9.1)
Non-deductible expenditure  (1.2) 4.2 
Total tax charge reported in the income statement (note 10(a))  6.1 8.5 
  
2013 
£m 
2014  1.4 
2015  1.0 
2016  0.7 
  3.1 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances  (6.8) 7.2 
Other short term temporary differences (11.0) (1.2)
Utilisation of losses  5.6 (5.6)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge (12.2) 0.4  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
122 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
11 Discontinued operations 
In 2013 and 2012 there were no material movements arising from discontinued operations. 
12 Dividends paid and proposed 
13 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of £56.8m (2012: £60.0m) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by employee share ownership trusts and those held as 
treasury shares which are both treated as cancelled. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 
The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings  
per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business’ operations  
more appropriately. 
The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Declared and paid during the year   
Ordinary final dividend for 2012 paid of 6.6p per share  33.7 33.2 
Ordinary interim dividend for 2013 of 3.25p per share  16.6 16.1 
 50.3 49.3 
Proposed for approval (not recognised as a liability at 31 December) 
 
 
Ordinary final dividend for 2013 of 6.75p per share (2012: 6.6p per share)  34.5 33.7 
 2013 2012 
Basic earnings per share 11.1p 11.8p 
Normalised basic earnings per share  21.5p 25.5p 
Diluted earnings per share  11.1p 11.7p 
Normalised diluted earnings per share  21.4p 25.4p 
 2013 2012 
Basic weighted average shares  511,114,989 510,552,927 
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares  1,425,106 1,626,921 
Diluted weighted average shares  512,540,095 512,179,848 
   2013   2012 
 £m 
Basic EPS 
p 
Diluted EPS 
p £m 
Basic EPS  
p 
Diluted EPS 
p 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders  56.8 11.1 11.1 60.0 11.8 11.7 
Intangible amortisation  49.3 9.7 9.6 51.7 10.1 10.1 
Exceptional items  25.7 5.0 5.0 42.6 8.3 8.3 
Loss on disposal of business 4.3 0.8 0.8 – – – 
Tax relief on the above items  (26.4) (5.1) (5.1) (24.2) (4.7) (4.7)
Normalised profit from continuing operations  
and attributable to equity shareholders 109.7 21.5 21.4 130.1 25.5 25.4  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
123 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
14 Intangible assets  
 
 
Customer 
contracts  
£m 
 
Brand 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Contractual 
relationships 
£m 
Total finite life 
assets  
£m 
Goodwill 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:        
At 1 January 2013  460.1 2.3 31.9 58.7 553.0 1,121.3 1,674.3 
Acquisitions 3.7 – – – 3.7 3.9 7.6 
Additions 3.4 – 3.4 0.1 6.9 (3.4) 3.5 
Transfer to property, plant  
and equipment 
– – (0.2) (3.3) (3.5) 3.3 (0.2)
Disposals – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Companies divested (2.2) – (0.4) – (2.6) (3.6) (6.2)
Foreign exchange  6.6 – (1.4) (1.9) 3.3 5.6 8.9 
At 31 December 2013  471.6 2.3 33.0 53.6 560.5 1,127.1 1,687.6 
Amortisation and impairment:        
At 1 January 2013  308.8 0.3 15.7 3.2 328.0 83.4 411.4 
Charge for year  41.0 0.5 4.5 3.3 49.3 – 49.3 
Disposals – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Companies divested (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Transfer to property, plant  
and equipment 
– – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Foreign exchange  4.4 – (0.8) (0.4) 3.2 0.8 4.0 
At 31 December 2013  354.0 0.8 19.0 6.1 379.9 84.2 464.1 
Net book value:        
At 31 December 2013  117.6 1.5 14.0 47.5 180.6 1,042.9 1,223.5 
At 1 January 2013  151.3 2.0 16.2 55.5 225.0 1,037.9 1,262.9  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
124 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
14 Intangible assets continued 
Goodwill has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Group’s business operations. 
The carrying value by cash-generating unit is as follows: 
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based 
on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a five-year period. The assumptions, including growth rates and 
operating margins, are based on historical experience, detailed budget plans as well as management’s assessment of current market and economic 
conditions. Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts. 
 
 
Customer 
contracts  
£m 
Rail  
franchise  
£m 
Brand 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Contractual 
relationships 
£m 
Total finite  
life assets  
£m 
Goodwill 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:         
At 1 January 2012  417.9 9.9 – 23.0 57.0 507.8 1,082.9 1,590.7 
Acquisitions 54.3 – 2.3 3.4 – 60.0 65.6 125.6 
Additions – – – 3.2 3.2 6.4 3.1 9.5 
Transfer from property, plant 
and equipment – – 
 
– 3.0 – 3.0 – 3.0 
Disposal – (9.9) – – – (9.9) – (9.9)
Foreign exchange  (12.1) – – (0.7) (1.5) (14.3) (30.3) (44.6)
At 31 December 2012  460.1 – 2.3 31.9 58.7 553.0 1,121.3 1,674.3 
Amortisation and impairment:         
At 1 January 2012  272.3 9.7 – 11.8 – 293.8 84.4 378.2 
Charge for year  43.6 0.2 0.3 4.3 3.3 51.7 – 51.7 
Disposals – (9.9) – – – (9.9) – (9.9)
Foreign exchange  (7.1) – – (0.4) (0.1) (7.6) (1.0) (8.6)
At 31 December 2012  308.8 – 0.3 15.7 3.2 328.0 83.4 411.4 
Net book value:         
At 31 December 2012  151.3 – 2.0 16.2 55.5 225.0 1,037.9 1,262.9 
At 1 January 2012  145.6 0.2 – 11.2 57.0 214.0 998.5 1,212.5 
     
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
UK Coach     13.2 13.2 
North American Bus      319.9 330.5 
Spanish Coach and Bus     709.8 694.2 
     1,042.9 1,037.9  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
125 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
14 Intangible assets continued 
The calculation of value in use for each group of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the assumptions over discount rates and the 
growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five-year period of the management plan.  
The key assumptions used for the cash-generating units are as follows: 
The value in use of the North American Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by £161.1m (2012: £55.4m). Sensitivity analysis has been 
completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount 
following an increase in the discount rate of 150 basis points (2012: 40 basis points) or a reduction in the growth rates used to extrapolate 
cash flows beyond the five-year period of the management plan of 150 basis points (2012: 150 basis points).  
The value in use of the Spanish Coach and Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by £212.9m (2012: £47.4m). Sensitivity analysis has 
been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount 
following an increase in the discount rate of 140 basis points (2012: 30 basis points) or a reduction in growth rates used to extrapolate cash 
flows beyond the five-year period of the management plan of 150 basis points (2012: 130 basis points).  
The headroom in both North American Bus and Spanish Coach and Bus has improved during the year due to the reduced discount rate and  
the reduced asset values. 
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on key assumptions will not lead to an impairment of goodwill allocated to UK Coach. 
Sensitivities to other assumptions 
In North American Bus, a reduction in operating profit margin of 170 basis points (2012: 60 basis points) will result in the value in use  
of the division being equal to its carrying amount. In Spanish Coach and Bus a reduction in operating profit margin of 200 basis points  
(2012: 80 basis points) will also result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount. 
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and to be 
realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts. 
 
Pre-tax discount 
 rate applied to  
cash flow projections 
Growth rate used to 
extrapolate cash flows 
beyond five-year period of 
management plan 
 2013  2012  2013  2012 
UK Coach 9.4% 11.9% 2.0% 2.0% 
North American Bus  9.1% 11.5% 2.5% 2.5% 
Spanish Coach and Bus 8.6% 9.0% 2.0% 2.0%  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
126 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
15 Property, plant and equipment 
 
 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Long leasehold 
property 
improvements 
£m 
Public 
service 
vehicles  
£m 
Plant and 
equipment, 
fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:      
At 1 January 2013  98.5 4.1 1,139.9 164.3 1,406.8 
Additions  2.2 0.9 70.0 11.7 84.8 
Acquisitions  – – 2.5 – 2.5 
Disposals  (1.3) – (20.6) (2.2) (24.1)
Companies divested – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Transfer from intangible assets – – – 0.2 0.2 
Foreign exchange  1.4 (0.2) (12.7) 0.1 (11.4)
At 31 December 2013  100.8 4.8 1,178.5 174.1 1,458.2 
Depreciation: 
     
At 1 January 2013 15.4 2.3 473.6 128.1 619.4 
Charge for the year  2.5 0.7 91.7 12.5 107.4 
Disposals (0.7) – (9.0) (1.7) (11.4)
Companies divested – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Transfer from intangible assets – – – 0.1 0.1 
Foreign exchange  – (0.3) (8.1) – (8.4)
At 31 December 2013  17.2 2.7 547.9 139.0 706.8 
Net book value: 
     
At 31 December 2013  83.6 2.1 630.6 35.1 751.4 
At 1 January 2013 83.1 1.8 666.3 36.2 787.4 
  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
127 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
15 Property, plant and equipment continued 
Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 
Finance leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease  
and hire purchase liabilities. 
 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Long leasehold 
property 
improvements 
£m 
Public service 
vehicles  
£m 
Plant and 
equipment, 
fixtures 
and fittings 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:      
At 1 January 2012  95.1 4.2 1,025.5 173.6 1,298.4 
Additions  3.7 0.2 117.6 12.3 133.8 
Acquisitions of businesses 1.2 – 57.3 1.1 59.6 
Transfer to intangible assets – – – (3.0) (3.0)
Disposals  (0.5) (0.1) (30.1) (17.8) (48.5)
Foreign exchange  (1.0) (0.2) (30.4) (1.9) (33.5)
At 31 December 2012  98.5 4.1 1,139.9 164.3 1,406.8 
Depreciation:      
At 1 January 2012  13.0 2.0 401.3 127.6 543.9 
Charge for the year  2.1 0.5 95.0 12.2 109.8 
Disposals (0.2)– (10.4) (10.5)(21.1)
Foreign exchange  0.5 (0.2) (12.3) (1.2) (13.2)
At 31 December 2012  15.4 2.3 473.6 128.1 619.4 
Net book value:      
At 31 December 2012  83.1 1.8 666.3 36.2 787.4 
At 1 January 2012  82.1 2.2 624.2 46.0 754.5 
  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Land and buildings  – cost  – 1.3 
 – depreciation  – (0.1)
Net land and buildings   – 1.2 
Long leasehold property  – cost 0.8 – 
 – depreciation – – 
Net long leasehold property   0.8 – 
Public service vehicles  – cost  256.5 255.4 
 – depreciation (85.2) (75.1)
Net public service vehicles   171.3 180.3 
Plant and equipment  – cost  0.2 0.2 
 – depreciation  (0.1) (0.2)
Net plant and equipment   0.1 – 
Total net book value   172.2 181.5  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
128 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
16 Subsidiaries 
The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the results and net assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House. The principal country of operation in respect of the 
companies below is the country in which they are incorporated. 
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.  
The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government. 
Incorporated in England and Wales  
National Express Limited  Administration and marketing of express coach services  
in Great Britain 
Eurolines (UK) Limited  Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe 
Airlinks Airport Services Limited  Operation of coach services 
The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services 
West Midlands Travel Limited  Operation of bus services 
c2c Rail Limited Operation of train passenger services 
 
Incorporated in Scotland  
Tayside Public Transport Co Limited (trading as Travel Dundee) Operation of bus services 
 
Incorporated in the US  
Durham School Services LP  Operation of school bus services 
Petermann LLC Operation of school bus services 
National Express Transit Corporation Operation of transit bus services 
National Express Transit Services Corporation  Operation of transit bus services  
 
Incorporated in Canada  
Stock Transportation Limited  Operation of school bus services 
 
 
 
* The main holding companies of the ALSA Group. 
Incorporated in Spain  
NEX Continental Holdings SL* Holding company for operating companies 
Tury Express SA*  Holding company for operating companies 
General Tecnica Industrial SLU*  Holding company for operating companies 
Incorporated in Morocco  
GAT Groupe Alsa Transport SA (Marrakesh) Operation of bus services 
TVAM Transport de Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc SA (Marrakesh) Operation of bus services 
ACA Alsa City Agadir SA  Operation of bus services 
Incorporated in Germany  
National Express Germany GmbH  Operation of coach services  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
129 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
17 Derivative financial assets and available for sale investments 
Further information on the Group’s use of fuel, interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives is included in note 31. 
Available for sale investments 
The principal available for sale investments are as follows: 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Available for sale investments – Unlisted ordinary shares  7.4 7.1 
Derivative financial instruments – Interest rate derivatives 17.6 31.0 
Derivative financial instruments – Fuel derivatives 0.9 0.1 
Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets  18.5 31.1 
Derivative financial instruments – Fuel derivatives  0.9 4.6 
Derivative financial instruments – Foreign exchange derivatives 2.2 0.1 
Derivative financial instruments included in current assets  3.1 4.7 
 
2013
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Cost or valuation and net book value:   
At 1 January  7.1 7.6 
Additions 0.1 – 
Disposals – (0.3)
Foreign exchange 0.2 (0.2)
At 31 December  7.4 7.1 
   2013 
Proportion 
held 
% 
2012 
Proportion 
held 
% Name  Country of registration Class of share 
Metros Ligeros de Madrid, S.A. (MLM)  Spain Ordinary shares  15 15 
Various investments within ALSA and Continental Auto  Spain Ordinary shares  1-16 1-16  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
130 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
18 Investments accounted for using the equity method 
Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 
The Group’s share of post-tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 
(a) Investments in joint ventures 
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are as follows: 
The financial information of this joint venture is summarised below: 
The carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures matches the Group’s share of the net assets. 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Joint ventures  2.4 2.2 
Associates  2.7 2.2 
Total investments accounted for under the equity method  5.1 4.4 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Share of joint venture’s profit 0.2 0.1 
Share of associates’ profit 0.4 1.3 
Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.6 1.4 
Name  Country of registration Activity 
Proportion held 
% 
Ibero-Eurosur S.L.  Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring  20 
Share of joint venture’s balance sheet and results 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Non-current assets  3.5 3.5 
Current assets  0.1 – 
Share of gross assets 3.6 3.5 
Non-current liabilities  (0.7) (0.9)
Current liabilities  (0.5) (0.4)
Share of gross liabilities  (1.2) (1.3)
Share of net assets  2.4 2.2 
Revenue 0.3 0.2 
Share of profit 0.2 0.1  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
131 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued 
(b) Investments in associates 
The Group’s interests in associates are as follows: 
Name   
Country of
 registration 
Proportion held 
% 
Spanish Coach and Bus associates  Spain 20-50 
Spanish Coach and Bus’s associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations  
and similar operations. 
The aggregate amounts related to associates are summarised below: 
The carrying amount of the investment in associates matches the Group’s share of the net assets. 
19 Business combinations 
(a) Acquisitions 
During the year the Group acquired a number of small school bus businesses in North America. The total fair value of net assets acquired  
in these businesses was £3.7m. Total consideration was £7.6m (including deferred consideration of £0.4m), resulting in provisional  
goodwill of £3.9m. 
Deferred consideration of £3.7m was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in North America in earlier years. 
In 2012 the Group made a number of acquisitions, including Petermann Partners Inc., the Joint Venture of Thompson Transit Inc. and YCN 
Transportation LLC, and a number of small controlling interests in the Group’s Spanish division. Full details of these acquisitions are disclosed 
in the Group’s 2012 Annual Report and Accounts. No changes were made to the fair values during 2013. 
(b) Disposals 
On 23 August 2013 the Group disposed of YCN Transportation Inc., which provided special education transportation services to certain 
school districts in the State of Massachusetts. The fair value of the net assets disposed was £5.7m. Consideration received was £1.4m, 
resulting in a loss on disposal of £4.3m. 
There were no business disposals in the Group in 2012. 
20 Non-current assets – trade and other receivables 
21 Inventories 
The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial. 
Share of associates’ balance sheets and results 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Non-current assets  3.0 3.1 
Current assets  4.1 3.9 
Share of gross assets  7.1 7.0 
Non-current liabilities  (1.9) (2.2)
Current liabilities  (2.5) (2.6)
Share of gross liabilities  (4.4) (4.8)
Share of net assets  2.7 2.2 
Total revenue 19.8 12.7 
Share of profit 0.4 1.3 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Trade receivables 1.1 1.1 
Prepayments and accrued income  0.8 1.0 
Other receivables 2.7 3.5 
 4.6 5.6 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Raw materials and consumables  21.2 19.3  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
132 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
22 Current assets – trade and other receivables 
An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 
Amounts included within trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date are shown in note 30. The Directors believe that based  
on the ongoing contractual relationships with predominantly government bodies that these amounts will be collected. 
23 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand  37.7 41.7 
Overnight deposits  – 28.6 
Other short term deposits  3.2 2.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  40.9 72.8 
Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of £2.9m (2012: £6.7m) held by the Rail subsidiaries (TOCs). Under the terms of the 
train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the value of retained profits or the amount determined by 
prescribed liquidity ratios. The restricted cash represents the balance that is either not available for distribution or the amount required to 
satisfy the liquidity ratio at the Balance Sheet date. 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short term deposits are made for varying periods 
of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the agreed short 
term floating deposit rate. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value. 
24 Current liabilities – trade and other payables 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have  
an average term of two months. Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies  
of £0.9 m (2012: £1.4m). 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade receivables  110.3 130.4 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables  (11.3) (10.1)
Trade receivables – net  99.0 120.3 
Amounts due from associates and joint ventures (note 36) 1.1 0.9 
Amounts due from other related parties (note 36) 1.0 0.9 
Other receivables  34.4 38.2 
Prepayments and accrued income  34.4 34.5 
 169.9 194.8 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  (10.1) (10.2)
(Provided)/utilised in the year  (1.2) 0.1 
At 31 December (11.3) (10.1)
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade payables  129.7 133.1 
Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures (note 36) 0.8 0.8 
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 36) 0.9 3.6 
Other tax and social security payable  26.8 23.8 
Accruals and deferred income  112.9 92.3 
Other payables  80.5 94.8 
 351.6 348.4  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
133 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
25 Other non-current liabilities 
26 Provisions 
1
 The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers’ compensation and environmental 
claims, 
the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years. It comprises provisions for claims arising in the UK and North America. 
2
 Other includes amounts provided for restructuring activities across the Group and dilapidation provisions in Rail. 
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value. 
27 Deferred tax 
Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation  
in future years at a similar level to the current year. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset. 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Deferred fixed asset grants 4.7 3.0 
Other liabilities 1.8 2.9 
 6.5 5.9 
  
Claims 
provision
1
 
£m 
Other
2
 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013   50.6 6.4 57.0 
Charged to the income statement   21.8 0.7 22.5 
Utilised in the year  (28.0) (3.3) (31.3)
Unwinding of discount   1.3 – 1.3 
Acquired in business combinations  1.2 – 1.2 
Exchange difference   (1.9) 0.6 (1.3)
At 31 December 2013   45.0 4.4 49.4 
Current 31 December 2013   23.6 4.4 28.0 
Non-current 31 December 2013   21.4 – 21.4 
  45.0 4.4 49.4 
Current 31 December 2012   22.3 6.4 28.7 
Non-current 31 December 2012  28.3 – 28.3 
  50.6 6.4 57.0 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Net deferred tax liability at 1 January (77.0) (95.2)
Charge to income statement  12.2 (0.4)
Credit to other comprehensive income or equity 6.1 13.6 
Exchange differences  (0.4) 3.0 
Acquired in business combinations 0.7 2.0 
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (58.4) (77.0) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
134 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
27 Deferred tax continued 
Deferred tax assets 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Accelerated tax depreciation 0.7 (6.1)
Losses carried forward  8.9 10.3 
Other short term temporary differences  7.1 3.6 
Total  16.7 7.8 
 
28 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 
An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29. Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided 
in note 31. 
Deferred tax liabilities 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Accelerated tax depreciation  (158.5) (158.3)
Losses carried forward  36.4 42.1 
Other short term temporary differences 47.0 31.4 
Total (75.1) (84.8)
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Non-current   
Bank loans  5.2 3.7 
Bonds 579.5 590.0 
Finance lease obligations 100.7 127.1 
Other debt payable  65.3 66.0 
Non-current borrowings  750.7 786.8 
Fuel derivatives  1.1 2.2 
Interest rate derivatives 0.5 – 
Non-current derivative financial instruments  1.6 2.2 
Non-current borrowing and derivative financial liabilities  752.3 789.0 
Current   
Bank loans  14.1 110.9 
Bonds – accrued interest 29.2 29.2 
Finance lease obligations  32.2 27.6 
Other debt payable  1.3 1.3 
Current borrowings  76.8 169.0 
Fuel derivatives 1.5 2.5 
Foreign exchange derivatives  0.4 0.5 
Current derivative financial instruments  1.9 3.0 
Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities  78.7 172.0  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
135 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
29 Interest-bearing borrowings 
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 
1
 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility. 
In July 2013, the Group renewed its committed unsecured revolving bank facility, replacing the previous £500m facility, which had been due 
to mature in 2014, with a £410m facility, maturing in July 2018. 
During 2012, the Group issued a €78.5m Private Placement, repayable in August 2021 at a fixed rate of 4.55%. 
Under the terms of the £1bn EMTN programme, there is a change in control put option such that, upon a change of control event,  
any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN. 
Details of the Group’s interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 30 and 31. 
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result  
in its borrowings under the facility becoming immediately repayable. These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum 
EBITDA to net interest payable. 
 
2013  
£m  Maturity 
Effective
 interest rate 
2012 
£m Maturity  
Effective 
interest rate 
7 year Sterling bond 352.0 January 2017 6.54% 360.1 January 2017 6.54% 
10 year Sterling bond 227.5 June 2020 6.85% 229.9 June 2020 6.85% 
Bonds 579.5   590.0   
Accrued interest – bonds 29.2   29.2   
European bank loans 13.0 July 2018
1
LIBOR + 1.10% 79.4 August 2014
1
 LIBOR + 1.45% 
European bank loans –   28.4 February 2013 1.2% 
European bank loans  5.7 2014-2016 5.08% 5.8 2013-2017 5.02% 
European bank loans 0.6 2014-2016 EURIBOR + 2.87% 1.0 2013-2017 EURIBOR + 2.85% 
Bank loans  19.3   114.6   
US dollar finance leases  
at fixed rate  112.4 2014-2020 2.21% 127.5 2013-2019 2.34% 
European finance leases  
at fixed rate 4.2 2014-2017 5.68% 6.0 2013-2017 5.88% 
European finance leases  
at floating rate  3.1 2014-2017 EURIBOR + 1.31% 4.5 2013-2017 EURIBOR + 1.21% 
Sterling finance leases  
at fixed rate  13.2 2014-2018 4.76% 16.7 2013-2018 4.76% 
Finance leases  132.9   154.7   
Euro Private Placement 64.5 August 2021 4.55% 65.2 August 2021 4.55% 
Accrued interest – Private 
placement 1.1   1.2   
Euro loans  1.0 2014-2017  0.9 2013-2016  
Other debt payable  66.6   67.3   
Total  827.5   955.8    Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
136 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
29 Interest-bearing borrowings continued 
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings and deposits. 
As at 31 December 2013 
< 1 year  
£m 
1-2 years 
£m 
2-3 years 
£m 
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate        
Bank loans (0.9) (4.7) (0.1) – – – (5.7)
Bonds – – – (352.0) – (227.5) (579.5)
Finance leases  (31.0) (20.3) (18.7) (31.2) (17.2) (11.4) (129.8)
Other debt payable (1.3) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) (64.7) (66.6)
Floating rate    
Cash assets  40.9 – – – – – 40.9 
Bank loans (13.2) (0.3) (0.1) – – – (13.6)
Finance leases (1.2) (1.2) (0.5) (0.2) – – (3.1)
 
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Financial risk factors and management 
The Group’s multinational operations and debt levels expose it to a variety of financial risks, of which the most material are market risks 
relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins. The Group has 
in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using 
financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives. 
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board  
to the Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer. The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular reporting  
to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee on its activities. 
As at 31 December 2012 
< 1 year  
£m 
1-2 years 
£m 
2-3 years 
£m 
3-4 years 
£m 
4-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate        
Bank loans (31.0) (1.4) (1.2) (0.6) – – (34.2)
Bonds – – – – (360.1) (229.9) (590.0)
Finance leases  (26.1) (32.1) (20.9) (18.6) (28.2) (24.3) (150.2)
Other debt payable (1.3) (0.3) (0.5) – – (65.2) (67.3)
Floating rate        
Cash assets  72.8 – – – – – 72.8 
Bank loans  (79.9) (0.3) (0.2) – – – (80.4)
Finance leases (1.5) (1.2)(1.1)(0.5)(0.2) – (4.5) Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
137 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Foreign currency 
The Group has major foreign operations in the US, Canada and Spain and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency 
exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings. These movements can have a significant 
impact on the Group’s reported results. The Group seeks to manage this foreign currency exchange movements risk by aligning its foreign 
currency denominated liabilities with the EBIT generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded to the net debt: EBITDA 
covenant within the Group’s core borrowing facility. This is achieved by a combination of foreign currency borrowings and finance leases,  
and entering into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps. At the year end, the Group had 
outstanding foreign exchange derivatives of €170.0m and US$130.0m; swaps of US$75.0m, €4.9m, C$23.3m and finance leases of 
US$186.0m and €8.9m. 
Derivative financial instruments are designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets. The effective portion of the gain or loss 
on the hedge is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled to the Income Statement at the same time as  
the underlying hedged net assets affect the income statement. Any ineffectiveness is taken to the Income Statement. 
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange  
rates, with all other variables held constant. This would affect the Group’s profit before tax and translation reserve. The effect on the 
translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value  
of cross-currency swap contracts. These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Group’s 
overseas net investments. It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain  
or loss in the translation reserve of £3.5m. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities. It is the Group’s policy to maintain an 
appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest expense in the 
short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term. To achieve the desired fixed/floating ratio, 
the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt to floating rate debt. The net effect 
of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2013 the proportion of Group net debt at floating rates was 33% (2012: 37%).  
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all 
other variables held constant, on the Group’s profit before tax and on the Group’s hedging reserve.  
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps. If the interest rates applicable to floating 
rate instruments denominated in Sterling were increased by 100bps, it is estimated that the Group’s profit before taxation would decrease by 
approximately £1.8m. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in US$ were increased by 50bps, it is estimated 
that the Group’s profit before taxation would remain unchanged. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in 
Euro were increased by 75bps, it is estimated that the Group’s profit before taxation would reduce by £0.5m. The analysis assumes that the 
amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2013. 
   2013   2012 
As at 31 December 
Strengthening/
(weakening)
 in currency 
Effect 
on profit
 before tax 
£m 
Effect on 
translation  
reserve  
£m 
Effect 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Effect on 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
US dollar  10% – (2.6) – (8.0)
Euro  10% 0.1 5.9 – (11.6)
Canadian dollar  10% 0.2 0.2 – 0.5 
US dollar (10)% – 2.6 – 8.0 
Euro  (10)% (0.1) (5.9) – 11.6 
Canadian dollar  (10)% (0.2) (0.2) – (0.5) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
138 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Commodity prices 
The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage. It is the Group’s policy to hedge this exposure  
in order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the 
medium term. This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives. At 31 December 2013, the Group had hedged approximately 100% of  
its 2014 expected usage and 86% of its expected usage in 2015 (see the Group Finance Director’s review for further details).  
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair  
value of the Group’s financial instruments and accordingly on the Group’s profit before tax and on the Group’s hedging reserve. 
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives. The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the 
Group’s fuel derivatives. For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 20% increase or decrease  
in all prices would have been £41.2m at 31 December 2013. The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or 
disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives. 
Credit risk 
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets. This risk is mitigated by a number  
of factors. Many of the Group’s principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are public (or quasi-
public) bodies, both national (DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK) and local (school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain 
and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK). The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk. 
Outside of this the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group has implemented policies that require 
appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence. 
The only elements of the Group’s financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items. An ageing  
of the assets which are past due is included in the table below. In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there  
are no indications as at the year end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations (see Risk and risk management 
section for details of how management manages this process). 
   2013  2012 
As at 31 December 
Increase/
(decrease) 
in basis
points 
Effect on 
profit 
before tax
 £m 
Effect on 
hedging  
reserve 
 £m 
Effect on 
profit 
before tax 
 £m 
Effect on 
hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Sterling  100 (1.8) – (1.6) – 
US dollar 50 – – 0.1 – 
Euro  75 (0.5) – (0.5) – 
Sterling  (100) 1.8 – 1.6 – 
US dollar  (50) – – (0.1) – 
Euro  (75) 0.5 – 0.5 – 
   2013  2012 
As at 31 December 
Increase/
(decrease)
 in price 
Effect on 
profit 
before tax 
£m 
Effect on  
hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Effect on 
profit 
before tax 
£m 
Effect on 
hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Sterling denominated ULSD  20% – 15.8 – 14.9 
US dollar denominated heating oil/diesel  20% – 8.6 – 9.6 
Euro denominated ULSD  20% – 16.8 – 16.4 
Sterling denominated ULSD  (20)% – (15.8) – (14.9)
US dollar denominated heating oil/diesel  (20)% – (8.6) – (9.6)
Euro denominated ULSD  (20)% – (16.8) – (16.4) Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
139 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s liquidity risk is managed centrally by the Group Treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash requirements. 
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and medium term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has 
sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast funding requirements. In managing the liquidity risk, the Group has access to a range  
of funding sources through the banking and capital markets.  
In July 2013, the Group renewed its committed unsecured revolving bank facility, replacing the previous £500m facility, which had been due 
to mature in 2014, with a £410m facility, maturing in July 2018. The Group reduced the size of the facility, which is primarily used for seasonal 
funding requirements, in light of its lower debt forecast. At 31 December 2013, £393.4m of this facility remained unused (2012: £419.3m). 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had committed bank borrowing and finance lease facilities of £542.9m (2012: £616.2m).  
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 based on the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows. As such the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts disclosed  
in the Balance Sheet or other Notes. The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments. Their amounts reflect  
the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg  
of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg. 
Year ended 31 December 2013 
On demand 
£m 
Less than 
1 year 
£m 
1-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Bank loans  – 18.0 5.0 – 23.0 
Bonds – 36.8 475.3 254.8 766.9 
Finance lease obligations  – 36.7 101.8 11.5 150.0 
Other debt payable – 4.0 11.9 73.4 89.3 
Trade and other payables  – 350.7 1.8 – 352.5 
 – 446.2 595.8 339.7 1,381.7 
Foreign exchange derivatives – 1.8 – – 1.8 
Interest rate derivatives – (6.0) (10.8) (0.6) (17.4)
Fuel derivatives – (0.6) (1.9) – (2.5)
 – (4.8) (12.7) (0.6) (18.1)
 
Year ended 31 December 2012 
On demand 
£m 
Less than 
1 year 
£m 
1-5 years  
£m 
> 5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Bank loans  – 112.6 3.8 – 116.4 
Bonds – 36.8 497.1 269.7 803.6 
Finance lease obligations  – 29.7 135.3 12.7 177.7 
Other debt payable – 3.8 11.6 76.8 92.2 
Trade and other payables  – 347.0 2.9 – 349.9 
 – 529.9 650.7 359.2 1,539.8 
Foreign exchange derivatives – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Interest rate derivatives – (5.6)(21.4) (4.7)(31.7)
Fuel derivatives – (1.9) 1.4 – (0.5)
 – (7.1) (20.0) (4.7) (31.8)
   Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods 
 
Carrying 
amount 
£m 
Of which: 
neither 
impaired 
nor past due 
£m 
Less than 
30 days 
£m 
Between  
30 and 60 days  
£m 
Between 
61 and 90 days
 £m 
Over 90 days
 £m 
Trade receivables at 31 December 2013  100.1 60.2 17.1 7.5 3.5 11.8 
Trade receivables at 31 December 2012  121.4 82.2 19.1 8.3 2.3 9.5  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
140 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Capital risk management 
The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its Balance Sheet strength to achieve the Group’s objectives 
without putting shareholder value at risk. The Group’s capital structure comprises its equity (refer to the Group Statement of Changes  
in Equity) and its net debt (refer to note 37).  
The decrease in the Group’s net debt from £828.2m to £746.1m (excluding accrued interest) is explained in the Finance Director’s review. 
Information about the financial covenants in relation to the Group’s borrowing facilities is included in note 29.  
31 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) 
Fair values 
The table below illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2013. 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They 
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.  
Available for sale investments are non-derivative assets that are either designated as available for sale, or are not classified as loans and 
receivables or held to maturity investments. The Group’s available for sale investments have no active market, and in the absence of any  
other reliable external information are carried at cost or amortised cost which approximates to the fair value. 
The fair value of derivatives is either determined by the third-party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line  
with the market value of similar financial instruments or by use of valuation techniques using market data. Derivatives, other than those 
designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the Balance Sheet at their  
fair value with gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement. Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge  
are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value. For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective 
portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the Income Statement. Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the Income Statement when the 
hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed. For fair value hedges, all gains or losses 
are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Derivatives are the only instrument which the Group holds at fair value. The fair value measurement of these instruments is categorised within 
Level 2 (ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs). The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are 
determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs ie those that would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, nor have 
there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy. There are no non-recurring fair value movements. 
The Group’s bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment. After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. A portion of the bonds are designated as the hedged item in an effective 
fair value hedging relationship. As such the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being 
hedged. This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Group’s credit risk, movements in interest rates  
on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees. 
All other liabilities including finance leases, bank loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable are held at amortised cost.  
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The carrying value 
of these liabilities approximates to the fair value.  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
141 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
31 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
 
Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in. 
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for. No embedded derivatives have been identified. 
Classification of financial instruments  
As at 31 December 2013 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m 
Available-
for-sale 
assets 
£m 
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m 
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised 
cost  
£m 
At fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Assets       
Investments  – 7.4 – – – 7.4 
Fuel derivatives  – – 1.8 – – 1.8 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – 2.2 – – 2.2 
Interest rate derivatives – – 17.6 – – 17.6 
Cash and cash equivalents  40.9 – – – – 40.9 
Trade and other receivables  139.3 – – – – 139.3 
 180.2 7.4 21.6 – – 209.2 
Liabilities       
Bank loans  – – – (19.3) – (19.3)
Bonds including accrued interest – – – (608.7) – (608.7)
Finance lease obligations  – – – (132.9) – (132.9)
Other debt payable  – – – (66.6) – (66.6)
Fuel derivatives – – (2.6) – – (2.6)
Interest rate derivatives – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Foreign exchange derivatives – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Trade and other payables  – – – (352.5) – (352.5)
 – – (3.5) (1,180.0) – (1,183.5)
Classification of financial instruments  
As at 31 December 2012 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m 
Available-
for-sale 
assets 
£m 
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m 
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised cost  
£m 
At fair value 
through 
profit or loss 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Assets       
Investments  – 7.1 – – – 7.1 
Fuel derivatives  – – 4.7 – – 4.7 
Foreign exchange derivatives – – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Interest rate derivatives – – 31.0 – – 31.0 
Cash and cash equivalents  72.8 – – – – 72.8 
Trade and other receivables  165.1 – – – – 165.1 
 237.9 7.1 35.8 – – 280.8 
Liabilities       
Bank loans  – – – (114.6) – (114.6)
Bonds including accrued interest – – – (619.2) – (619.2)
Finance lease obligations  – – – (154.7) – (154.7)
Other debt payable  – – – (67.3) – (67.3)
Fuel derivatives – – (4.7) – – (4.7)
Foreign exchange derivatives – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Trade and other payables  – – – (349.9) – (349.9)
 – – (5.2)(1,305.7) – (1,310.9) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
142 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
31 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
The Group assesses at each year end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. In the financial year 
2013 there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets 
except the provision for impairment of receivables (see note 22). 
Hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates,  
fuel prices and interest rates. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured  
at fair value. In line with IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as (a) fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value  
of a recognised asset or liability, (b) cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset 
or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and (c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.  
In 2013 the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions 
and for hedging net investments in US dollar and Euro foreign operations. The Group applied fair value hedge accounting for the fair value 
interest rate risk on £200m of the Group’s fixed rate bonds and €78.5m Private Placement. 
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: 
 
The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 
 
 
Interest rate 
swaps
 £m 
Foreign  
exchange 
forward  
contracts  
£m 
Fuel swaps  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Net asset/(liability) at 1 January 2013 31.0 (0.4) – 30.6 
Transfers to the income statement on cash flow hedges – – (3.5) (3.5)
Cash settlements/(accrual) 0.4 1.1 – 1.5 
Revaluation through income statement  (14.3) – – (14.3)
Revaluation through other comprehensive income – – 2.7 2.7 
Exchange differences – 1.1 – 1.1 
Net asset/(liability) at 31 December 2013  17.1 1.8 (0.8) 18.1 
 
Interest rate 
swaps
 £m 
Foreign  
exchange 
forward  
contracts  
£m 
Fuel swaps 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Net asset at 1 January 2012 23.7 7.8 18.0 49.5 
Transfers to the income statement on cash flow hedges – – (20.2) (20.2)
Cash settlements/accrual 0.3 (4.2) – (3.9)
Revaluation through income statement  7.0 – – 7.0 
Revaluation through other comprehensive income – – 2.2 2.2 
Exchange differences – (4.0) – (4.0)
Net asset at 31 December 2012  31.0 (0.4) – 30.6 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  2.8 15.9 
Transferred to income statement – operating costs (3.5) (20.2)
Revaluation through other comprehensive income 2.7 2.2 
Exchange differences (0.2) – 
Tax on revaluation 0.3 4.9 
At 31 December  2.1 2.8  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
143 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
31 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities 
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign currency net 
assets of the Group which are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements. At 31 December 2013, the Group had 
designated €170m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives; €20m of revolving credit facility drawings; and €78.5m Private 
Placement as net investment hedges of the net assets of its Spanish subsidiaries. Similarly, $130m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign 
exchange derivatives were designated as a hedge of the net assets of the Group’s US subsidiaries. No ineffectiveness was recognised in 
relation to these hedges. 
Fuel derivatives 
The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division. Ultra low sulphur diesel  
is used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and Spanish Coach and Bus divisions and is hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel. Diesel used  
in the North American division is hedged using the diesel market. The timing of the swap cash flows match underlying fuel purchases from 
2014 through to 2015. There was no significant element of hedge ineffectiveness requiring recognition in the Income Statement.  
During the year £2.7m of fair value gains (2012: £2.2m) have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements in market fuel prices. 
Fair value movements of £3.5m (2012: £20.2m) have been transferred from the hedging reserve to the Income Statement following settlement 
of fuel trades, of which £5.8m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2013 and the remainder was generated during the year 
due to the movement in market fuel prices. 
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 
 
 
31 December 
2013 
Fair value 
£m 
31 December 
2012 
 Fair value  
£m 
31 December 
2013
Volume 
million litres 
31 December 
2012
Volume 
million litres 
Hedge fuel derivatives     
Sterling denominated – UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail  (0.7) (0.2) 83.5 76.9 
US dollar denominated – North American Bus  0.8 0.1 69.2 66.9 
Euro denominated – Spanish Coach and Bus  (0.7) 2.2 93.0 93.0 
Fuel derivatives included in current assets/(liabilities) (0.6) 2.1 245.7 236.8 
Sterling denominated – UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail  (0.8) (1.1) 86.0 79.0 
US dollar denominated – North American Bus 0.7 (0.5) 54.9 62.0 
Euro denominated – Spanish Coach and Bus  (0.1) (0.5) 89.5 77.0 
Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets/(liabilities) (0.2) (2.1) 230.4 218.0 
Total hedge fuel derivatives  (0.8) – 476.1 454.8  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
144 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
31 Financial instruments (including cash, trade receivables and payables) continued 
Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss 
In July 2010 the Group entered into four £50m denominated interest rate swaps on a total of £200m of the Group’s Sterling bonds. These 
interest rate swaps all pay floating interest (LIBOR + a margin) semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching the 
Group’s Sterling bonds (two swaps with total notional value £100m mature in January 2017, two swaps with notional value £100m mature  
in June 2020) and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on £200m of these bonds. These swaps are measured at fair 
value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses 
due to changes in the risk free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds. As at 31 December 2013 a total fair value loss of £12.2m 
was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps. This is offset by a fair value gain of £12.2m on the underlying hedged 
item, in this case changes in fair value on the £200m of the Group’s bonds due to changes in the risk free interest rate. 
In September 2012, the Group entered into two €39.25m denominated interest rate swaps equal in value to the Euro Private Placement. 
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest (EURIBOR + a margin) semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching 
the Euro Private Placement and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on the Private Placement. These swaps are 
measured at fair value through profit and loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair 
value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free rate on the Euro Private Placement. As at 31 December 2013 a total fair value loss of 
£2.1m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps. This is offset by a fair value gain of £2.1m on the underlying 
hedged item, in this case changes in fair value of the Euro Private Placement due to changes in the risk free interest rate. 
32 Called-up share capital 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 31 December:   
Authorised:   
800,000,000 (2012: 800,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 
Issued called-up and fully paid:   
511,738,648 (2012: 511,732,603) ordinary shares of 5p each  25.6 25.6 
The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 1,431,193 (2012: 1,984,855) of which 1,431,193 
(2012: 1,919,772) exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust. The remaining exercises 
in 2012 were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market. 
Own shares 
Own shares comprises 426,630 (2012: 535,658) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National 
Express Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’). During the year, the Trust purchased 1,322,165 (2012: 2,075,000) shares and 1,431,193 
(2012:1,919,772) shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Company’s share schemes. The market value of  
these shares at 31 December 2013 was £1.2m (2012: £1.1m). The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
145 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
33 Other reserves 
 
Merger
 reserve 
£m 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Translation 
reserve
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  15.4 2.8 26.0 44.2 
Hedge movements, net of tax – (0.7) – (0.7)
Exchange differences, net of tax  – – 3.0 3.0 
At 31 December 2013 15.4 2.1 29.0 46.5 
 
The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: 
• the merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000;  
• the hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised in equity on underlying 
hedged items; and 
• the translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries. 
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions 
The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme. The majority of 
employees of the Rail companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS), a funded 
defined benefit scheme. The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group. Contributions to the schemes are determined 
by independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans. The Group also provides certain additional unfunded  
post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section (c) in the ‘Other’ category. 
The defined benefit pension schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk  
and salary risk. 
During the prior period, certain liabilities of the Travel West Midlands Pension Fund relating to current and deferred pensioners valued at 
£238m on an accounting basis, were insured at a cost of £272m at the transaction date. As a result of this transaction, further assets due  
to the Travel West Midlands Pension Fund were identified and recovered which substantially offset these losses. This insurance policy is a 
qualifying insurance policy, and therefore the value of the policy and the value of the liabilities have been recognised within actuarial losses  
in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income. This buy-in has reduced risk and volatility, and brought greater stability to the Group’s 
pension contribution commitments.  
The UK Coach plan is now closed to all future accrual. A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to self-sufficiency over a six-year period was 
agreed in 2010; National Express contributes £4.2m annually to this scheme. In 2011 UK Bus agreed a £5.5m annual deficit repayment plan 
with the trustees of the West Midlands Passenger Transport Authority Pension Fund to fund a £71m scheme funding deficit over 12 years. 
The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only. 
The total pension cost charged to operating profit in the year was £9.5m (2012: £6.9m), of which £3.3m (2012: £3.5m) relates to the defined 
contribution schemes. 
 
 
Merger
 reserve 
£m 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Translation 
reserve
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2012  15.4 15.9 68.6 99.9 
Hedge movements, net of tax – (13.1) – (13.1)
Exchange differences, net of tax  – – (42.6) (42.6)
At 31 December 2012  15.4 2.8 26.0 44.2  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
146 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions  
The defined benefit pension (liability)/asset included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 
The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations. A summary of the latest triennial 
actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows.  
* Amounts included in the Income Statement, Other Comprehensive Income and the Balance Sheet are calculated using the projected unit method. 
The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes,  
in accordance with IAS 19. The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 
 
 
2013  
£m 
2012 
£m 
UK Bus  (40.8) (32.9)
UK Coach  12.6 16.6 
Rail  (0.4) (1.8)
Other (1.5) (1.2)
Total  (30.1) (19.3)
  UK Bus  UK Coach Rail 
Date of actuarial valuation 
Tayside 
31 March 
2011 
Travel West 
Midlands  
31 March  
2010 
5 April 
2013 
31 December 
2010 
Actuarial method used  Attained age* Attained age*  Projected unit Projected unit 
Rate of investment returns per annum  4.3%-6.9% 5.0%-7.0%  4.1% 5.5%-7.6% 
Increase in earnings per annum  5.0% 4.5%  – 4.2% 
Scheme assets taken at market value  £45.5m £382.0m  £77.3m £66.8m 
Funding level  97% 84%  82% 95%-99% 
  2013   2012  
 UK Bus UK Coach Rail UK Bus  UK Coach Rail 
Rate of increase in salaries  2.5% 2.5% 2.9% 2.5% 2.5% 3.0% 
Rate of increase of pensions  2.4% 3.4% 2.4% 2.0% 2.8% 2.0% 
Discount rate  4.6% 4.6% 4.6% 4.4% 4.4% 4.4% 
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 
Post-retirement mortality in years:       
Current pensioners at 65 – male  21.4 24.2  21.0 24.7  
Current pensioners at 65 – male, pension under  
£9,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa   20.7   20.6 
Current pensioners at 65 – male – others    22.9   22.8 
Current pensioners at 65 – female  24.1 26.7  23.7 27.6  
Current pensioners at 65 – female, pension under  
£3,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa    22.6   22.5 
Current pensioners at 65 – female – others    25.0   24.9 
Future pensioners at 65 – male  22.7 26.0  22.4 26.7  
Future pensioners at 65 – male, pension under 
£9,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa    23.1   23.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – male – others    25.1   25.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – female  25.6 28.7  25.3 29.6  
Future pensioners at 65 – female, pension under  
£3,300 pa or pensionable pay under £35,000 pa    25.1   25.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – female – others    27.4   27.3  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
147 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(a) Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued 
The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation. For the Rail scheme, mortality 
assumptions have been set by reference to the recent experience of the scheme. Mortality is assumed to improve in the future in line  
with the ‘core projection’ model published by the actuarial profession’s Continuous Mortality investigation, incorporating a long term 
improvement rate of 1.5% pa. 
The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS 19 valuation, and the following table 
provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption. 
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates. The expected rate of return on scheme assets  
is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets. 
(b) Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme  
The majority of employees of the Rail companies are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.  
The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. To date, the Group  
has experienced 11 changes of Rail franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise term  
and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement. By entering into the franchise contract,  
the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension 
liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries.  
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Group’s accounts present fairly its financial position,  
financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Group’s constructive 
obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19. This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent with that set 
out in this note for the Group’s other defined benefit schemes, means that the Group’s accounts reflect that element of the deficits anticipated 
to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new owner at 
franchise exit.  
In calculating the Group’s constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the 
RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above. These deficits are reduced by a ‘franchise adjustment’ which  
is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group will not be required to fund. The franchise 
adjustment, which has been calculated by the Group’s actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly  
present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Group’s obligations.  
The franchise adjustment decreased from £18.1m at 31 December 2012 to £15.5m at 31 December 2013. The principal reason for the 
decrease is the interest on the franchise adjustment of £0.7m and other net actuarial movements of £1.8m. In the prior year, the franchise 
adjustment decreased from £59.6m at 31 December 2011 to £18.1m at 31 December 2012. The principal reason for the decrease was the 
handback of the East Anglia franchise reducing the franchise adjustment by £49.0m. In addition the adjustment increased due to interest  
on the franchise adjustment of £0.7m and other net actuarial movements of £6.8m.  
 
UK Bus  
£m 
UK Coach 
£m 
Rail
 £m 
Defined benefit pension (liability)/asset at 31 December 2013 (40.8) 12.6 (0.4)
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate  7.4 1.3 – 
Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2013 (3.4) – (2.3)
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate  0.1 – –  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
148 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits 
The amounts charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December 
2013 and 2012 are set out in the following tables.  
Group Income Statement 
UK Bus 
2013 
£m 
UK Coach  
2013 
£m 
Rail 
2013 
£m 
Total 
2013
£m 
Amounts (charged)/credited to Group operating profit:     
Current service cost  (3.4) – (2.3) (5.7)
Net interest (expense)/income (1.3) 0.8 (0.7) (1.2)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 0.7 0.7 
Total (charge)/credit to income statement  (4.7) 0.8 (2.3) (6.2)
 
During the year £0.5m of administrative expenses were incurred. The net interest expense together with the interest on franchise adjustment 
has been included within Finance Costs (see note 9). 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
UK Bus 
2013
 £m 
UK Coach  
2013 
£m 
Rail 
2013 
£m 
Total 
2013
£m 
Actuarial loss during the period (14.3) (5.1) (0.2) (19.6)
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate 1.4 (2.8) 2.0 0.6 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains  (12.9) (7.9) 1.8 (19.0)
 
Group Income Statement 
UK Bus 
2012
£m 
UK Coach  
2012 
£m 
Rail 
2012 
£m 
Total 
2012
£m 
Amounts (charged)/credited to Group operating profit:     
Current service cost  (3.3)– (3.0) (6.3)
Expected return on pension scheme assets  23.9 2.2 3.9 30.0 
Interest on pension liabilities  (21.9) (2.4) (3.5) (27.8)
Interest on franchise adjustment – – 0.7 0.7 
Total charge to income statement  (1.3) (0.2) (1.9) (3.4)
Actual return on plan assets 32.5 2.7 11.9 47.1 
 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
UK Bus 
2012
 £m 
UK Coach  
2012 
£m 
Rail 
2012 
£m 
Total 
2012
£m 
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets  8.6 0.3 7.8 16.7 
Other actuarial gains and losses  (33.1) (6.3) (8.4) (47.8)
Actuarial losses  (24.5) (6.0) (0.6) (31.1)
  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
149 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued  
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: 
As at 31 December 2013 
UK Bus 
2013
 £m 
UK Coach 
2013
£m 
Rail  
2013 
£m 
Other 
2013
£m 
Total 
2013
£m 
Equities  100.5 – 70.7 – 171.2 
Bonds  56.9 99.2 3.9 – 160.0 
Property  3.8 – – – 3.8 
Insurance policy 226.7 – – – 226.7 
Diversified growth fund 62.1 – – – 62.1 
Other  6.4 (24.6) 0.4 – (17.8)
Fair value of scheme assets  456.4 74.6 75.0 – 606.0 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (497.2) (62.0) (101.3) (1.5) (662.0)
Franchise adjustment  – – 15.5 – 15.5 
Defined benefit obligation  (497.2) (62.0) (85.8) (1.5) (646.5)
Members’ share of deficit  – – 10.4 – 10.4 
Defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus (40.8) 12.6 (0.4) (1.5) (30.1)
 
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below. For Rail, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, 
which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee. 
The Group’s defined benefit obligation comprises £645.0m (2012: £618.6m) (including the members’ share of the deficit) arising from plans 
that are wholly or partly funded and £1.5m (2012: £1.2m) from unfunded plans. 
 
As at 31 December 2012 
UK Bus 
2012
 £m 
UK Coach 
2012
£m 
Rail  
2012 
£m 
Other 
2012
£m 
Total 
2012
£m 
Equities  85.6 – 62.9 – 148.5 
Bonds  58.8 65.8 3.5 – 128.1 
Property  3.7 – – – 3.7 
Insurance policy 242.6 – – – 242.6 
Diversified growth fund 53.3 – – – 53.3 
Other  4.0 7.3 0.7 – 12.0 
Fair value of scheme assets  448.0 73.1 67.1 – 588.2 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (480.9) (56.5) (99.3) (1.2) (637.9)
Franchise adjustment  – – 18.1 – 18.1 
Defined benefit obligation  (480.9) (56.5) (81.2) (1.2) (619.8)
Members’ share of deficit  – – 12.3 – 12.3 
Defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus (32.9) 16.6 (1.8) (1.2) (19.3)
 
UK Bus 
 £m 
UK Coach 
£m 
Rail  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2013 (480.9) (56.5) (81.2) (1.2) (619.8)
Current service cost  (3.4) – (2.3) (0.5) (6.2)
Benefits paid  23.3 2.0 1.4 0.2 26.9 
Contributions by employees (1.2) – (1.4) – (2.6)
Finance charge (20.7) (2.4) (2.5) – (25.6)
Interest on franchise adjustment  – – 0.7 – 0.7 
Members’ share of movement on liabilities – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions (11.4) (2.8) (0.1) – (14.3)
Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics – 1.5 – – 1.5 
Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments (2.9) (3.8) (0.1) – (6.8)
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013 (497.2) (62.0) (85.8) (1.5) (646.5) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
150 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued 
The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: 
 
UK Bus 
£m 
UK Coach  
£m 
Rail 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2013 448.0 73.1 67.1 588.2 
Expected return on plan assets  19.4 3.2 1.8 24.4 
Expected return on plan assets greater/less than discount rate 1.4 (2.8) 2.0 0.6 
Cash contributions – employer  9.8 3.1 2.2 15.1 
Administrative expenses (0.2) – (0.5) (0.7)
Cash contributions – employee  1.2 – 1.4 2.6 
Benefits paid  (23.2) (2.0) (1.4) (26.6)
Members’ share of return on assets  – – 2.4 2.4 
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2013 456.4 74.6 75.0 606.0 
 
 
UK Bus 
£m 
UK Coach  
£m 
Rail 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2012  431.9 67.9 321.0 820.8 
Expected return on plan assets  23.9 2.2 3.9 30.0 
Cash contributions – employer  9.7 4.2 2.9 16.8 
Cash contributions – employee  1.3 – 1.7 3.0 
Benefits paid  (27.4) (1.5) (3.4) (32.3)
Members’ share of return on assets  – – 7.8 7.8 
Franchise exit – – (274.6) (274.6)
Actuarial loss recognised in Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 8.6 0.3 7.8 16.7 
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2012 448.0 73.1 67.1 588.2 
 
 
UK Bus 
 £m 
UK Coach 
£m 
Rail  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2012 (448.7) (49.3)(363.7) (1.4) (863.1)
Current service cost  (3.3)– (3.0) – (6.3)
Benefits paid  27.4 1.5 3.4 0.2 32.5 
Contributions by employees (1.3)– (1.7) – (3.0)
Finance charge (21.9) (2.4) (3.5) – (27.8)
Interest on franchise adjustment  – – 0.7 – 0.7 
Franchise exit – – 307.3 – 307.3 
Members’ share of movement on liabilities – – (12.3) – (12.3)
Actuarial loss recognised in Statement  
of Comprehensive Income (33.1) (6.3) (8.4) – (47.8)
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2012 (480.9) (56.5) (81.2) (1.2) (619.8) Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
151 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued 
(c) Financial results for pension benefits continued 
The Group expects to contribute £15.4m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2014.  
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004 is £69.3m 
loss (2012: £50.3m loss). The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs 
and taken directly to equity of £51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently 
the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004. 
History of experience gains and losses: 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
 £m 
2010
 £m 
2009 
£m 
UK Bus      
Fair value of scheme assets  456.4 448.0 431.9 429.5 399.9 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (497.2) (480.9) (448.7) (434.8) (446.3)
Deficit in the scheme (40.8) (32.9) (16.8) (5.3) (46.4)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  (2.9) 5.0 (23.3) (0.1) 0.2 
Experience adjustments arising on assets  1.4 8.6 (7.3) 21.3 31.3 
UK Coach      
Fair value of scheme assets  74.6 73.1 67.9 59.6 51.6 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (62.0) (56.5) (49.3) (59.6) (56.8)
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme  12.6 16.6 18.6 – (5.2)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  (3.8) – 0.1 2.7 – 
Experience adjustments arising on assets (2.8) 0.5 9.7 2.3 3.8 
Rail      
Fair value of scheme assets  75.0 67.1 321.0 318.3 284.4 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (85.8) (81.2) (363.7) (372.8) (342.0)
Members’ share of deficit  10.4 12.3 40.5 50.8 55.7 
Deficit in the scheme (0.4) (1.8) (2.2) (3.7) (1.9)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities  (0.1) 2.7 (8.5) 12.2 (1.1)
Experience adjustments arising on assets  2.0 8.0 13.4 6.1 23.2 
Other      
Fair value of scheme assets  – – – – – 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (1.5) (1.2) (1.4) (1.4) (1.4)
Deficit in the scheme (1.5) (1.2) (1.4) (1.4) (1.4)
Experience adjustments arising on liabilities – – – – –  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
152 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
35 Commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group’s total operating lease commitments are as follows: 
Rail lease commitments  
Rail division companies have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure (tracks, stations and 
depots). They also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased. The TOCs’ obligations to fulfil these commitments exist only as part  
of their franchise agreement. The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new 
franchise agreement has been signed. The commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting  
on 1 April 2010. Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below: 
Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 0.7 years (2012: 0.4 years) and other land and buildings have an average 
duration of 0.7 years (2012: 0.4 years). Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 0.7 years (2012: 0.4 years) and other plant and 
equipment 0.7 years (2012: 0.4 years).  
  
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:   
Within one year:  Land and buildings  28.9 23.3 
 Plant and equipment  33.7 19.5 
  62.6 42.8 
After one year but not more than five years:  Land and buildings  30.9 32.9 
 Plant and equipment  47.1 23.4 
  78.0 56.3 
More than five years:  Land and buildings  47.9 51.0 
 Plant and equipment  3.3 – 
  51.2 51.0 
  191.8 150.1 
   
Land and 
buildings   
Plant and 
equipment 
Rail division commitments   
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:     
Within one year:  Fixed track access 10.4 5.4 – – 
 Rolling stock  – – 16.7 9.5 
 Other  3.5 1.9 0.5 0.3 
  13.9 7.3 17.2 9.8 
After one year but not more than five years:  Fixed track access – – – – 
 Rolling stock – – – – 
 Other – – – – 
  – – – – 
  13.9 7.3 17.2 9.8  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
153 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
35 Commitments and contingencies continued  
Other lease commitments  
Outside of the Rail division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items  
of plant and equipment. Commitments for future minimum rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases are shown below: 
The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 6.3 years (2012: 6.2 years) for land and buildings,  
4.1 years (2012: 3.4 years) for public service vehicles and 2.4 years (2012: 2.0 years) for other plant and equipment. 
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor 
The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 
The leases have an average unexpired duration of 0.7 years (2012: 0.3 years).  
Finance lease commitments 
The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment. These leases have terms of renewal but  
no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. 
Capital commitments 
The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements. 
Contingent liabilities 
Bonds and letters of credit 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations. As at 31 December 2013 
there were Rail performance bonds of £9.4m (2012: £4.0m) and Rail season ticket bonds of £21.2m (2012: £21.1m). The Group has other 
performance bonds which include performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of £105.1m (2012: £104.7m) and the rest of Europe 
of £26.2m (2012: £23.5m). Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of £48.8m (2012: £36.1m). 
 Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 
Other divisions’ commitments 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Within one year  15.0 16.0 16.3 9.3 0.2 0.4 
After one year but not more than five years  30.9 32.9 46.8 23.0 0.3 0.4 
More than five years 47.9 51.0 3.2 – 0.1 – 
 93.8 99.9 66.3 32.3 0.6 0.8 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases:   
Within one year  0.1 0.4 
After one year but not more than five years – – 
 0.1 0.4 
  2013   2012 
 
Minimum 
payments 
£m 
Present value  
of payments  
£m 
Minimum 
payments 
£m 
Present value 
of payments 
£m 
Within one year  35.4 32.2 28.2 27.5 
After one year but not more than five years  96.0 89.3 113.4 102.8 
More than five years  11.6 11.4 27.5 24.4 
Total minimum lease payments  143.0 132.9 169.1 154.7 
Less future financing charges (10.1) – (14.4) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments  132.9 132.9 154.7 154.7 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Contracted  19.0 46.3  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
154 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
36 Related party transactions 
A provision of £0.2m (2012: £0.2m) has been booked against amounts due from Spanish Coach and Bus associates, which are 
presented net. 
A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family. Jorge Cosmen is a Non-Executive 
Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008. These leases were in place before the Group’s acquisition  
of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.  
The details of the post-employment benefit plans operated for the benefit of employees of the Group are disclosed in note 34. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
 
 
 Amount of transactions 
Amounts due from  
related parties Amounts due to related parties 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
2013
 £m 
2012 
 £m 
2013 
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Associates       
ICRRL  – 9.0 – – – – 
Spain associates  1.8 2.3 1.1 0.9 (0.8) (0.8)
Total associates  1.8 11.3 1.1 0.9 (0.8) (0.8)
Trade investments      
Spain trade investments  4.4 4.4 0.5 0.5 (0.7) (0.5)
Property transactions      
North America 0.1 2.7 – – – (2.6) 
Spain  6.5 3.7 0.5 0.4 (0.2) (0.5)
Total other related parties  11.0 10.8 1.0 0.9 (0.9) (3.6)
Total  12.8 22.1 2.1 1.8 (1.7) (4.4)
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel (note 7) 3.7 3.9  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
155 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
37 Cash flow statement 
The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of £22.9m (2012: £40.7m) from continuing operations which are related  
to exceptional costs. 
(a) Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt 
* Excludes accrued interest on long term borrowings. 
Short term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months. 
Borrowings include non-current interest-bearing borrowings of £750.7m (2012: £786.8m) as disclosed in note 28. 
Other non-cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of £0.8m (2012: £26.2m) and a £2.6m negative movement  
in loan and bond arrangement fees (2012: £0.7m net positive movement). The £14.2m decrease to the fair value of the hedging derivative  
is offset by equal and opposite movements in the fair value of the related hedged borrowings. This comprises a £12.0m fair value movement 
in bonds and a £2.2m fair value movement in other debt payable. 
Total operations 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Net cash inflow from operating activities   
Profit before tax 64.4 69.8 
Net finance costs  49.8 49.2 
Share of post-tax results under the equity method (0.6) (1.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  107.3 109.8 
Intangible asset amortisation  49.3 51.7 
Amortisation of fixed asset grants  (1.1) (1.2)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.1) (4.5)
Loss on disposal of business 4.3 – 
Share-based payments 3.1 5.2 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (2.2) 0.4 
Decrease in receivables  21.9 68.4 
Increase/(decrease) in payables  13.9 (145.5)
Decrease in provisions (12.6) (32.3)
Cash generated from operations  296.4 169.6 
 
At 
1 January 
2013
£m 
Cash flow 
£m 
Exchange 
differences  
£m 
Other 
movements 
£m 
At 
31 December 
2013
£m 
Cash  41.7 (4.5) 0.5 – 37.7 
Overnight deposits  28.6 (28.6) – – – 
Other short term deposits  2.5 0.7 – – 3.2 
Cash and cash equivalents  72.8 (32.4) 0.5 – 40.9 
Other debt receivables  1.0 – – – 1.0 
Borrowings:      
 Bank and other loans (114.6) 99.6 (3.2) (1.1) (19.3)
 Bonds (590.0) – – 10.5 (579.5)
 Fair value of hedging derivatives 23.4 – – (14.2) 9.2 
 Finance lease obligations  (154.7) 21.3 1.3 (0.8) (132.9)
 Other debt payable  (66.1) (0.2) (1.4) 2.2 (65.5)
Total borrowings (902.0) 120.7 (3.3) (3.4) (788.0)
Net debt* (828.2) 88.3 (2.8) (3.4) (746.1) Financial Statements 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 
 
 
156 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
37 Cash flow statement continued 
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt continued 
* Excludes accrued interest on long term borrowings. 
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
38 Post-Balance Sheet events 
There are no post-Balance Sheet events. 
 
 
 
At 
1 January 
2012 
£m 
Cash flow 
£m 
Acquisitions/
disposals 
£m 
Exchange 
differences  
£m 
Other 
movements  
£m 
At 
31 December 
2012 
£m 
Cash  64.8 (31.6) 9.0 (0.5) – 41.7 
Overnight deposits  25.0 3.6 – – – 28.6 
Other short term deposits  2.7 (0.2) – – – 2.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  92.5 (28.2) 9.0 (0.5) – 72.8 
Other debt receivables  0.7 0.3 – – – 1.0 
Borrowings:       
 Bank loans (7.9)(109.6)(0.3)2.9 0.3 (114.6)
 Bonds (583.4) – – – (6.6) (590.0)
 Fair value of bond hedging derivatives 16.4 – – – 7.0 23.4 
 Finance lease obligations  (151.3) 18.1 (1.1) 5.8 (26.2) (154.7)
 Other debt payable  (0.7) (65.4) – – – (66.1)
Total borrowings (726.9)(156.9)(1.4)8.7 (25.5) (902.0)
Net debt* (633.7) (184.8) 7.6 8.2 (25.5) (828.2)
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year  (32.4) (28.2)
Cash inflow from movement in other debt receivables  – 0.3 
Cash outflow/(inflow) from movement in debt and finance leases  120.7 (156.9)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows  88.3 (184.8)
Change in net debt resulting from acquisitions and disposals  – 7.6 
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements (6.2) (17.3)
Movement in net debt in the year  82.1 (194.5)
Opening net debt (828.2) (633.7)
Net debt  (746.1) (828.2) Financial Statements pp93-167
Financial Statements 
Company Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2013 
 
 
157 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
 
D Finch Group Chief Executive  
J K Maiden Group Finance Director 
27 February 2014 
Company Number 2590560 
 
 Note 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Fixed assets    
Intangible assets 4 0.3 0.5 
Tangible assets  5  0.2 0.1 
Investments  6  1,117.2 1,605.1 
Derivative financial instruments 7 17.6 31.0 
  1,135.3 1,636.7 
Current assets    
Debtors  8  711.7 742.0 
Derivative financial instruments  7  2.2 0.1 
Cash at bank and in hand  9  27.6 36.6 
  741.5 778.7 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  10  (273.6) (944.9)
Derivative financial instruments  7 (0.4) (0.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 12 (0.2) (2.6)
Net current assets/(liabilities)   467.3 (169.3)
Total assets less current liabilities   1,602.6 1,467.4 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  11  (644.0) (655.2)
Derivatives more than one year 7 (0.5) – 
Provisions for liabilities and charges  12  – (2.7)
Net assets   958.1 809.5 
Shareholders’ equity    
Called-up share capital  15  25.6 25.6 
Share premium account  16  532.7 532.7 
Capital redemption reserve  16 0.2 0.2 
Own shares  16 (0.8) (0.5)
Profit and loss account  16  400.4 251.5 
Shareholders’ equity   958.1 809.5  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Accounts 
 
158 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
1 Accounting policies  
Basis of preparation  
The separate accounts of the parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The accounts have been prepared  
on the going concern basis and under the historic cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available 
for sale investments detailed below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.  
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses 
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The profit of the Company for the year is £200.4m (2012: £180.7m). 
Leases  
Leases of tangible fixed assets where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Company are 
classified as finance leases and the assets are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as plant and equipment. Finance leases are capitalised at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is 
included as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss account over the period 
of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Assets acquired under finance leases  
are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.  
Leases of assets where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Incentives 
received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease, or to the first review if shorter.  
Tangible fixed assets  
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on  
a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
The carrying value of fixed assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may 
not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit and 
loss account during the financial period in which they are incurred.  
Software  
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and  
is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software licences, consulting costs 
attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the 
development, design and implementation of the computer software. Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred. Amortisation  
is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated 
useful life (3 to 7 years).  
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value  
may not be recoverable.  
Investments in subsidiaries  
Investments are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.  
Available for sale investments  
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified as a loan or 
receivable, held to maturity or at fair value through profit or loss. After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains  
or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be 
impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition,  
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against fixed interest 
rate borrowings. Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each Balance Sheet date by the change in 
fair value attributable to the interest rate being hedged. 
Plant and equipment  – 3 to 5 years   Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
159 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
1 Accounting policies continued 
Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable  
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the  
Company expects a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement  
is virtually certain.  
Pensions  
The Company participates in both the National Express Group multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution 
scheme. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme on a consistent  
and reasonable basis, and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the requirements  
of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.  
Share-based payment  
In accordance with the transition provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of  
1 January 2005.  
The Company awards equity-settled share-based payment to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at  
fair value at the date of grant by an external valuer using a stochastic model. Non-market-based performance-related vesting conditions are 
not taken into account when estimating the fair value; instead those non-market conditions are taken into account in calculating the current 
best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and at each Balance Sheet date before vesting. The cumulative expense is 
calculated based on that estimate. Market-based performance conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value and at each 
balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated irrespective of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, 
provided that all other performance conditions are met.  
Deferred tax  
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the Balance Sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised  
where it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences  
can be deducted.  
Foreign currencies  
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end. Foreign currency transactions 
arising during the year are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction. Any exchange differences so 
arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.  
Derivative financial instruments  
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated 
with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently 
remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is calculated by 
reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.  
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that 
is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the profit and loss account. The gains or 
losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged underlying 
transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the profit and loss account.  
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, including the foreign currency contracts, gains or losses are taken directly to the profit 
and loss account in the period.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 for parent Company accounts. The disclosures are included within  
the consolidated accounts.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
160 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
2 Exchange rates 
The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Company are as follows: 
3 Directors’ emoluments 
Detailed information concerning Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
4 Intangible fixed assets 
 
 2013 2012 
 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate 
US dollar  1.66 1.56 1.63 1.59 
Canadian dollar  1.76 1.61 1.61 1.59 
Euro  1.20 1.18 1.23 1.23 
 
Software 
£m 
Cost:  
At 1 January 2013 0.6 
Disposals (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 0.4 
Amortisation:  
At 1 January 2013 0.1 
Charge in the year – 
At 31 December 2013 0.1 
Net book value:  
At 31 December 2013 0.3 
At 31 December 2012  0.5  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
161 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
5 Tangible fixed assets 
6 Financial assets: investments 
The provisions in the year primarily relate to the liquidation of a number of dormant subsidiary companies as described in note 10. 
The information provided below is given for the Company’s principal subsidiaries. A full list of subsidiaries and investments will be annexed to 
the next Annual Return to Companies House. The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which 
they are incorporated. 
The Group’s train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government. 
The following holdings are 100% held directly by the Company: 
Incorporated in England and Wales  
National Express Intermediate Holdings Limited Holding company for all Group operating companies except Rail 
National Express Trains Limited  Holding company for Rail operating companies 
 
 
 
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Cost:  
At 1 January 2013 2.1 
Additions 0.3 
At 31 December 2013 2.4 
Depreciation:  
At 1 January 2013 2.0 
Charge in the year 0.2 
At 31 December 2013 2.2 
Net book value:  
At 31 December 2013 0.2 
At 31 December 2012 0.1 
   
Investments in 
subsidiaries
 £m 
Cost or valuation:    
At 1 January 2013   2,111.0 
Additions   12.0 
At 31 December 2013   2,123.0 
Provisions:    
At 1 January 2013   (505.9)
Provided for in the year   (499.9)
At 31 December 2013   (1,005.8)
Net carrying amount:    
At 31 December 2013    1,117.2 
At 31 December 2012   1,605.1 
Incorporated in Guernsey  
National Express Guernsey Limited  Insurance captive  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
162 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
7 Derivative financial instruments 
Full details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies can be found in note 30 of the consolidated accounts. As the 
holding company for the Group, the Company faces similar risks over foreign currency and interest rate movements. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 for parent company accounts. The disclosures are included within  
the consolidated accounts. 
8 Debtors 
9 Cash at bank and in hand 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short term deposits are made for varying periods 
of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective 
short term deposit rates. The fair value of cash equals the carrying value. 
10 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other creditors are non-interest bearing and have  
an average term of six months. 
At the start of the year the Company had amounts owing to a number of dormant subsidiary companies that were subsequently entered into 
liquidation during 2013. The loans were eliminated as part of the liquidation and the carrying value of the investments in these companies was 
written down (note 6). 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Interest rate derivatives 17.6 31.0 
Derivative financial assets due over one year 17.6 31.0 
Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.2 0.1 
Derivative financial assets due under one year  2.2 0.1 
Interest rate derivatives (0.5) – 
Derivative financial liabilities due over one year (0.5) – 
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (0.4) (0.5)
Derivative financial liabilities due under one year  (0.4) (0.5)
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  700.1 732.2 
Corporation tax recoverable 1.9 – 
Deferred tax asset (see note 13)  6.0 9.0 
Other debtors  3.4 0.5 
Prepayments and accrued income  0.3 0.3 
 711.7 742.0 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Short term deposits  – 28.6 
Cash at bank  27.6 8.0 
 27.6 36.6 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Bank overdraft 46.1 40.8 
Bank loans  13.0 107.8 
Trade creditors  0.4 0.3 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  166.8 741.0 
Corporation tax payable – 6.8 
Accruals and deferred income  17.0 17.8 
Bonds – accrued interest 30.3 30.4 
 273.6 944.9  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
163 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
11 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
12 Provisions for liabilities and charges 
On 31 October 2013 the Group’s deductible buy-down programme ceased and £7.2m of claims provision was transferred from the Company 
to the Group’s North America division. 
13 Deferred tax 
The major components of the provision for deferred taxation are as follows: 
The reconciliation of deferred tax balances is as follows: 
Timing differences associated with Group investments 
No deferred tax (2012: £nil) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates, as no dividends have been accrued  
as receivable, and no binding agreement to distribute the past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiaries. 
Unrecognised tax losses 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future 
taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets that the Company has not recognised in the accounts amount to £2.6m (2012: £4.1m), which 
arise where the Company does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future profits.  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Bonds 579.5 590.0 
Other debt payable 64.5 65.2 
 644.0 655.2 
    
Claims 
provision 
£m 
At 1 January 2013    5.3 
Charged to profit and loss account     2.4 
Utilised in the year    (0.3)
Transferred to subsidiary undertaking    (7.2)
At 31 December 2013    0.2 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Accelerated capital allowances  0.2 0.2 
Other timing differences  0.1 0.2 
Losses carried forward 5.7 8.6 
Net deferred tax asset  6.0 9.0 
 £m 
Deferred tax asset at 1 January 2013 9.0 
Charged to profit and loss (3.0)
Deferred tax asset at 31 December 2013 6.0  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
164 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
The effective interest rates at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 
1
 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility. 
Details of the Company’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in note 30 and note 31 of the consolidated 
accounts. 
15 Called-up share capital 
The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 1,431,193 (2012: 1,984,855) of which 1,431,193 
(2012: 1,919,772) exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust. The remaining exercises 
in 2012 were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market. 
 
2013  
£m  Maturity Effective interest rate 
2012 
£m Maturity  Effective interest rate 
Current       
Bank overdraft  46.1 On demand LIBOR + 1% 40.8 On demand LIBOR + 1% 
European bank loans 13.0 July 2018
1
LIBOR +1.10% 79.4 August 2014
1
 LIBOR + 1.45% 
European bank loans –   28.4 Feb 2013 1.2% 
Bank loans 13.0   107.8   
Accrued interest 30.3   30.4   
Total current  89.4   179.0   
Non-current       
7 year Sterling bond 352.0 January 2017 6.54% 360.1 January 2017 6.54% 
10 year Sterling bond 227.5 June 2020 6.85% 229.9 June 2020 6.85% 
Bonds 579.5   590.0   
Euro Private Placement 64.5 August 2021 4.55% 65.2 August 2021 4.55% 
Other debt payable 64.5   65.2   
Total non-current  644.0   655.2   
 
2013 
£m 
2012
 £m 
At 31 December:   
Authorised:   
800,000,000 (2012: 800,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 
Issued called-up and fully paid:   
511,738,648 (2012: 511,732,603) ordinary shares of 5p each  25.6 25.6  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
165 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
16 Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 
Own shares 
Own shares comprises 426,630 (2012: 535,658) ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National 
Express Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’). During the year, the Trust purchased 1,322,165 (2012: 2,075,000) shares and 1,431,193 
(2012:1,919,772) shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Company’s share schemes. The market value of these 
shares at 31 December 2013 was £1.2m (2012: £1.1m). The dividends payable on these shares have been waived. 
17 Retirement benefits 
The Company participates in both the National Express Group Staff Pension Fund (a multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme) and a 
defined contribution scheme. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme 
on a consistent and reasonable basis, and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the 
requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits. Contributions to this scheme are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
The details of the latest actuarial valuation are detailed in note 34 to the consolidated accounts. 
The total defined benefit pension charge for the year, including contributions to the defined benefit scheme above the normal charge, 
amounted to £3.1m (2012: £4.2m). 
 
Share
 capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and
 loss account 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013 25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.5) 251.5 809.5 
Shares purchased  – – – (2.8) – (2.8)
Own shares released to satisfy employee  
share schemes – – – 2.5 (2.5) – 
Share-based payments – – – – 1.3 1.3 
Profit for the year – – – – 200.4 200.4 
Dividends – – – – (50.3) (50.3)
At 31 December 2013  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.8) 400.4 958.1 
 
Share
 capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and
 loss account 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2012 25.6 532.7 0.2 (14.0) 130.4 674.9 
Shares purchased  – – – (4.8) – (4.8)
Own shares released to satisfy employee  
share schemes – – – 4.5 (4.5)– 
Disposal of own shares – – – 13.8 (9.8) 4.0 
Share-based payments – – – – 4.0 4.0 
Profit for the year – – – – 180.7 180.7 
Dividends – – – – (49.3) (49.3)
At 31 December 2012  25.6 532.7 0.2 (0.5) 251.5 809.5  Financial Statements 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
 
166 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
18 Share-based payment  
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company had the following share-based payment arrangements, which are described  
in note 7(b) to the consolidated accounts.  
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average 
exercise prices. The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 
There were no options outstanding at 31 December 2013 excluding options with a nil exercise price (2012: none). The range of exercise 
prices for options was as follows: 
The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year (2012: one year). Options were exercised throughout the year and the 
weighted average share price at exercise was 200p (2012: 223p). 
  2013  2012 
 
Number 
of share 
options 
Weighted 
average  
exercise price  
(p) 
Number 
of share 
options
Weighted
average 
exercise price
(p)
Options without a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  – – 15,035 479 
Forfeited during the year  – – – – 
Group transfers during the year  – – – – 
Expired during the year – – (15,035) 479 
Outstanding at 31 December – – – – 
Exercisable at 31 December  – – – – 
Options with a nil exercise price:     
At 1 January  5,469,047 nil 3,819,477 nil 
Granted during the year  3,036,117 nil 2,564,947 nil 
Forfeited during the year (48,431) nil (208,594) nil 
Group transfers during the year – nil 313,161 nil 
Exercised during the year  (741,976) nil (796,482) nil 
Expired during the year (542,622) nil (223,462) nil 
Outstanding at 31 December  7,172,135 nil 5,469,047 nil 
Exercisable at 31 December  – nil 193,928 nil 
Total outstanding at 31 December  7,172,135  5,469,047  
Total exercisable at 31 December  –  193,928  
Exercise price (p)  2013 2012 
300-600 – – 
 – –  Financial Statements pp93-167
 
 
167 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
18 Share-based payment continued 
The weighted average fair value of the remaining share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the 
following assumptions and inputs: 
Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% (2012: 24%) of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers. This has been 
incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.  
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historic volatility over the last nine years, adjusted for one-off events that were not 
considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward. The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in 
the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.  
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the  
options above.  
19 Commitments and contingencies  
Operating lease commitments  
The Company has entered into operating leases on certain properties. Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases  
are as follows: 
Contingent liabilities  
(a) Guarantees  
The Company has guaranteed credit facilities totalling £190m (2012: £159m) of certain subsidiaries.  
(b) Bonds and letters of credit  
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations. Letters of credit have 
been issued to support insurance retentions of £48.8m (2012: £36.1m). 
20 Related party transactions  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 3c of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing transactions with 
wholly owned subsidiaries.  
21 Post-balance sheet events 
There are no post-balance sheet events. 
 Share options with nil exercise price 
  2013   2012 
Risk free interest rate  0.35%-0.84% 0.50%-0.55% 
Expected volatility  29.2%-44.2% 40.0%-44.5% 
Peer group volatility  36.8%-44.3% 38.5%-45.5% 
Expected option life in years  3-5 years 3-5 years 
Expected dividend yield  4.64%-4.88% 4.16%-4.56% 
Weighted average share price at grant date 202p 223p 
Weighted average exercise price at grant date nil nil 
Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 130p 167p 
 Land and buildings 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Operating leases which expire:   
Within one year – 0.1 
Within two to five years  0.1 0.2  Registrars’ details
All matters relating to the administration of 
shareholdings in National Express Group PLC, 
such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend 
payments or a change of address, should be 
directed to our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West 
Sussex BN99 6DA; shareholder helpline 
number 0871 384 2152* or +44 121 415 7047 
from overseas. If you are registered for online 
shareholder communications you can contact 
the Registrars via www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholder electronic 
communications
National Express encourages shareholders  
to use our online communications service.  
By registering for electronic communications, 
this provides a faster way to receive information 
and helps us to reduce print, paper and 
postage costs. 
Log on to www.shareview.co.uk if you would 
like to:
• register your e-mail so that you are able 
to access future shareholder information, 
including the Annual Report and Accounts 
electronically;
• check the balance of your shareholding;
• set up a dividend mandate online;
• change your registered postal address  
or your dividend mandate details; or 
• submit your vote online prior to  
a general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you should click on 
‘Register’ and follow the simple instructions –  
you will need your shareholder reference 
number from your share certificate or dividend 
voucher or any other correspondence sent to 
you by Equiniti Limited.
If you have any queries, contact our Registrars, 
Equiniti Limited, on the shareholder helpline 
number 0871 384 2152* or +44 121 415 7047 
from overseas.
Dividends paid direct to your  
bank account
Having dividends paid direct to your bank 
account has the following advantages:
• avoids the risk of cheques being lost and 
incurring a replacement fee;
• saves you time in presenting the cheque for 
payment; and
• the dividend is credited to your account on 
the payment date.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers
The Company now issues a Consolidated Tax 
Voucher (CTV) once a year to all shareholders 
save for corporate and institutional shareholders. 
The first CTV is included with the 2014 AGM 
mailing and will contain the tax and payment 
information for dividends paid during the tax 
year 2013/14.
To set up a new dividend mandate please 
log on to shareview.co.uk or contact our 
Registrars, Equiniti Limited, on the shareholder 
helpline number 0871 384 2152* or 
+44 121 415 7047 from overseas.
Share dealing service
A telephone and internet share dealing service, 
which provides a simple way to buy and sell 
shares, is available through our Registrars, 
Equiniti. For further information log on  
to shareview.co.uk/dealing or telephone  
0845 603 7037 (calls to this number  
are charged by BT at the local rate) or  
+44 121 415 7560 from overseas.
Company website
The Company website at www.
nationalexpressgroup.com has information 
about the Group, including press releases, 
share price data and copies of the half-year 
results and Annual Report and Accounts  
as well as corporate responsibility reporting.  
The Company no longer publishes the  
half-year results in hard copy. These will  
now only be available via the website.
ShareGift
ShareGift is an independent charity share 
donation scheme administered by the Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity 
number 1052686). Those shareholders who  
hold only a small number of shares, the value  
of which makes it uneconomic to sell them,  
can donate the shares to ShareGift who will  
sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide 
range of charities. Further information about 
ShareGift can be obtained from its website  
at sharegift.org and a ShareGift transfer  
form can be downloaded from  
www.nationalexpressgroup.com.
Unclaimed Assets Register
The Company participates in the Unclaimed 
Assets Register (UAR) which provides a search 
facility for shareholdings and other financial 
assets that may have been forgotten.  
For further information contact UAR by  
email at uarenquiries@uk.experian.com, 
Tel: 0844 481 8180 or visit www.uar.co.uk.
Unsolicited mail
We are legally obliged to make our register 
of members available, subject to a proper 
purpose test, to the public. As a consequence 
of this some shareholders might receive 
unsolicited mail. Shareholders wishing to limit 
the amount of such mail should write to the 
Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 
LON20771, London W1E 0ZT. Shareholders 
can also register online at www.mpsonline.org.
uk or request an application form by calling 
from within the UK: 0845 703 4599 or by  
email to mps@dma.org.uk.
Warning about share fraud
Share fraud includes scams where investors 
are called out of the blue and offered shares 
that often turn out to be worthless or non-
existent, or an inflated price for shares they 
own. These calls come from fraudsters 
operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are mostly 
based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who  
buy or sell shares in this way usually lose  
their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA), which 
replaced the Financial Services Authority on  
1 April 2013, have found most share fraud 
victims are experienced investors who lose  
an average of £20,000, with around £200m 
lost in the UK each year.
How to avoid share fraud
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, 
discounted shares, a premium price for shares 
you own, or free company or research reports, 
you should take these steps before handing 
over any money:
1. Get the name of the person and 
organisation contacting you.
2. Check the FCA Register at www.fca.org.uk/
register to ensure they are authorised.
3. Use the details on the FCA Register to 
contact the firm.
4. Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 
1 1 1 6768 (freephone) or +44 20 7066 1000 
from overseas if there are no contact details on 
the Register or you are told they are out of date.
5. Search the FCA’s list of unauthorised firms 
and individuals to avoid doing business with.
6. REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be 
true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell 
shares or other investments, you will not have 
access to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
or Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) if things go wrong.
Report a scam
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell 
the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out 
more about investment scams, or call the FCA 
Consumer Helpline on 0800 1 1 1 6768.
If you have already paid money to share 
fraudsters you should contact ActionFraud  
on 0300 123 2040.
*  Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Additional Information:
Shareholder Information 
168 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Final dividend ex dividend date 30 April 2014
Final dividend record date 2 May 2014
Annual General Meeting 14 May 2014
Final dividend payment date 23 May 2014
Half-year results announced 30 July 2014
*
Interim dividend ex dividend date 3 September 2014
*
Interim dividend record date 5 September 2014
*
Interim dividend payment date 19 September 2014
*
*
 Provisional dates.
Additional Information:
Dividends and Financial Calendar 
Additional Information pp168-172
169 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Additional Information:
Glossary
Bps Basis points
BSOG Bus Service Operators Grant
Code The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010
The Company National Express Group PLC
CPI Consumer Price Index
CTV Consolidated Tax Voucher
DfT Department for Transport
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax
EBITDA is ‘Earnings Before Interest and Tax plus Depreciation and Amortisation’. It is calculated by 
taking normalised operating profit and adding back depreciation, fixed asset grant amortisation, 
normalised profit on disposal of non-current assets and share-based payments
EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management
EPS Earnings per share – the profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue, excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares 
held in treasury which are treated as cancelled
EU European Union
EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate
Gearing ratio Is calculated as net debt, divided by EBITDA
The Group The Company and its subsidiaries
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
Net capital expenditure is the increase in net debt arising on the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets less proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment. It excludes capital 
expenditure arising from UK rail franchise entry and exits and discontinued operations, which are 
included in these headings. Growth capital expenditure is calculated as investment in fleet for new 
contracts and concessions, after deducting fleet released from contracts and concessions lost 
and fleet re-used in new contracts and concessions
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents (cash overnight deposits, other short term deposits), and 
other debt receivables, offset by borrowings (loan notes, bank loans and finance lease obligations) 
and other debt payable (excluding accrued interest)
Net interest expense is finance costs less finance income 
170 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Normalised earnings per share Earnings per share, excluding the loss on sale of a business, intangible asset amortisation, 
exceptional items and tax relief thereon
Normalised operating profit are the statutory results excluding loss on the sale of a business, charges for goodwill impairment, 
intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief thereon. The Board believes that the 
normalised result gives a better indication of the underlying performance of the Group
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following, as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale 
of business, exceptional profit or loss on sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill 
impairment, intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief thereon
NXEA National Express East Anglia
Operating cash flow is intended to be the cash flow equivalent of normalised operating profit
Operating margin is normalised profit divided by revenue, expressed as a percentage
RCF Revolving Credit Facility
Return on assets (ROA) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible assets
Return on capital employed (ROCE) is normalised operating profit divided by tangible and intangible assets
RPI Retail Prices Index
RPS Railway Pension Scheme
SPAD Signal Passed at Danger
TOC Train Operating Company
TSR Total Shareholder Return – the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period assuming 
that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares
ULSD Ultra low sulphur diesel
Underlying revenue compares the current year with the prior year on a consistent basis, after adjusting for the impact  
of currency, acquisitions, disposals and rail franchises no longer operated
Additional Information pp168-172
171 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Additional Information:
Five Year Summary
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
2009 
£m
Bus and Coach (Core non-rail)
Revenue 1,746.2 1,636.1 1,549.7 1,488.4 1,521.4
Normalised operating profit 185.5 185.2 181.8 170.4 147.8
Return on capital (pre tax) 11.1% 10.6% 10.6% 10.2% 9.3%
Basic earnings per share 20.1p 21.6p 20.7p 18.8p 27.7p
Group normalised
Revenue 1,891.3 1,831.2 2,238.0 2,125.9 2,711.1
Normalised operating profit 192.9 211.9 225.2 204.2 159.8
Return on capital (pre tax) 11.7% 12.2% 14.1% 13.2% 10.7%
Diluted earnings per share
†
21.4p 25.4p 26.9p 23.5p 30.4p
IFRS
Revenue 1,891.3 1,831.2 2,238.0 2,125.9 2,711.1
Operating profit 117.9 117.6 174.4 85.9 (0.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 64.4 69.8 129.4 40.2 (83.5)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share
†
11.1p 11.8p 19.9p 12.0p (17.6)p
Dividends per share – declared 10.0p 9.75p 9.50p 6.00p –
Net (debt)/funds
Cash at bank and in hand 40.9 72.8 92.5 128.8 105.8
Other debt receivable 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.8
Bonds (579.5) (590.0) (583.4) (565.6) –
Bank and other loans (19.3) (114.6) (7.9) (39.8) (687.7)
Fair value of bond hedging derivatives 9.2 23.4 16.4 (1.1) –
Finance lease obligations (132.9) (154.7) (151.3) (131.6) (75.6)
Other debt payable (65.5) (66.1) (0.7) (1.8) (1.2)
Net debt (746.1) (828.2) (633.7) (610.4) (657.9)
Gearing ratio 2.5x 2.5x 1.9x 2.1x 2.5x
† 
Earnings per share figures have been restated for the effect of the 2009 Rights Issue.
172 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Additional Information:
Corporate Information
Secretary and registered office 
Michael Hampson
National Express Group PLC 
National Express House 
Birmingham Coach Station 
Mill Lane 
Birmingham  
B5 6DD 
Tel: +44 (0)8450 130130 
www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Registered number
2590560
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindleyplace 
Birmingham 
B1 2HZ
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Shareholder helpline: 0871 384 2152*  
or +44 121 415 7047 from overseas.
*  Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Principal banker
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5HQ
Corporate solicitors
Ashurst LLP
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London 
EC2A 2HA
Financial advisors
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street 
London 
EC1A 1HQ
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street 
London 
EC1A 1HQ
Morgan Stanley
25 Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 4QA
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report and Accounts is intended 
to focus on matters which are relevant to the 
interests of shareholders of the Company. The 
purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts 
is to assist shareholders in assessing the 
strategies adopted and performance delivered 
by the Company and the potential for those 
strategies to succeed. It should not be relied  
on by any other party or for any other purpose. 
Forward looking statements are made in good 
faith, based on a number of assumptions 
concerning future events and information 
available to Directors at the time of their 
approval of this report. These forward looking 
statements should be treated with caution 
due to the inherent uncertainties underlying 
any such forward looking information. The 
user of this Annual Report and Accounts 
should not rely unduly on these forward 
looking statements, which are not a guarantee 
of performance and which are subject to 
a number of uncertainties and other facts, 
many of which are outside the Company’s 
control and could cause actual events to differ 
materially from those in these statements.  
No guarantee can be given of future results, 
levels of activity, performance or achievements.
This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on Amadeus 100%  
Silk and Amadeus 100% Offset, which are made using 100%  
recycled fibre certified by the FSC
®
.
Printed by Park Communications who are certified to ISO 14001,  
the standard for environmental management.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain  
it, please dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Thank you.
Designed by luminous.co.uk
Photography by Janie Airey
Print managed by urbanprintsupport.co.uk National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
National Express Group PLC
National Express House
Mill Lane
Digbeth
Birmingham B5 6DD
Tel: +44 (0) 8450 130130
www.nationalexpressgroup.com National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
