 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
888 is one of the world’s most 
popular online gaming entertainment 
companies. 
888’s trusted online brand offers localised 
products providing players the games they 
want in the language they speak with high 
functionality and interactivity, in a safe and 
secure environment. 
With more than 1,600 people in seven 
different countries, we provide our leading 
online gaming experience in a total of 19 
languages to over 150 countries and offer 
something for players of all abilities and 
requirements. Our highly sophisticated 
business analytics identify the best way to 
target people with the offering that will be 
of most interest to them, and our market 
leading technology allows us to enter new 
markets quickly and effectively, helping 
us to gain significant market share as new 
geographies are regulated. The ability to have 
such success in newly regulated jurisdictions 
in turn makes us an in-demand business to 
business provider. 
888 is a leader in corporate social 
responsibility, with specialist websites 
dedicated to both responsible gaming and 
corporate responsibility so that customers 
can play in a safe and secure environment. 
We continue to exceed our customers’ 
expectations both in terms of offer and 
customer service so that we can continue to 
grow the business organically and deliver 
value for our shareholders.
 01  Highlights
 02  Chairman’s Statement
 03  Chief Executive’s Review
 08  Enhanced Business Review
  08  Financial Review
  11 Operational  Review
  17  Regulation and General  
   Regulatory Developments
 21   Corporate Social Responsibility/
Responsible Gaming
 23  Risk Report
 25  Board of Directors
 26  Corporate Governance
 30  Directors’ Remuneration Report
 39  Directors’ Report
Contents
 42  Independent Auditors’ Report
 44  Consolidated Income Statement
 44  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 45  Consolidated Balance Sheet
 46  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 47  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 48  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 80  Company Balance Sheet
 81  Company Statement of Changes in Equity
 82  Company Statement of Cash Flows
 83  Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 85  Shareholder Information 01
www.888holdingsplc.com
1  
As defined in the table set out on page 8.
2  
Casino, Poker and Sport.
Highlights
up 13%
US$ million
Revenue 
376
331
2012 2011
Revenue — B2C  
Poker 
up 44%
US$ million
88
61
2012 2011
Revenue — B2C
up 16%
US$ million
330
284
2012 2011
Adjusted EBITDA
1 
 
Margin
   
per cent
67
56
2012 2011
Revenue — B2B
down 2%
US$ million
46
47
2012 2011
Revenue — B2C Casino 
up 12%
US$ million
165
148
2012
up 20%
US$ million
17.8
16.8
2012 2011
Adjusted EBITDA
1
Real money 
registered customer 
accounts
2
13.1
2012 2011
10.6
up 23%
million 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
02
Chairman’s Statement
2012 has been a record year for 888. We are delighted to 
report an increase in proﬁt after tax from US$2 million in 
2011 to US$35 million in 2012. The success of our customer 
offering and targeted marketing is overcoming a backdrop 
of global economic uncertainty and helping us capitalise 
on the ever changing regulatory landscape.
We have made signiﬁcant progress in driving the business 
forward, building on the change in strategic direction 
set in train last year. I am delighted that in March, Brian 
Mattingley agreed to take the Chief Executive Officer 
position. Brian has been a member of the 888 Board 
since the IPO and has an excellent knowledge of both the 
business and the wider industry. 
Brian, supported by our senior management team has 
overseen a year in which we reinstated the dividend, 
successfully re-launched in the newly regulated Spanish 
market — quickly achieving the number 2 position — 
launched a new casino front end, expanded our mobile 
platform, and established a strong US-facing position, to 
name but a few highlights.
One of our core strengths is offering our customers 
exactly what they want, and our ability to do this has 
been demonstrably successful with growth across most 
of our business lines. Another competitive advantage is 
the quality and capabilities of our technological platform, 
which allows us to tailor our marketing to individuals and 
to target our products in an efficient manner. We have 
continued to focus on new regulatory horizons, and the 
success of our poker offering in Spain shows the beneﬁt of 
being ready for a new market opening. We are well placed 
to repeat this success as other markets regulate.
Financial Results and Dividend
We have achieved record results this year. The beneﬁts 
of continued product development and cost-effective 
customer acquisition have resulted in a signiﬁcant increase 
in the Group revenue to US$376 million, a 13% uplift (2011: 
US$331 million). Adjusted EBITDA* was US$67 million 
(2011: US$56 million). As at 31 December 2012 the Group 
had US$82 million of cash and cash equivalents and 
US$49 million liabilities to customers. 
Given the strength of our ﬁnancial performance the 
Board took the decision to restore dividend payments at 
the half year and an interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share 
was paid. Taking into account the strong performance 
of the business and lack of dividend in 2011 the Board is 
recommending a ﬁnal dividend comprising 4.5¢ per share 
(which together with the interim dividend equals 7.0¢ per
* As deﬁned in the table set out on page 8.
share in accordance with our pay-out policy set out at the 
time of our 2005 ﬂotation) and an additional one-off 2.0¢ per 
share, bringing the total for the year to 9.0¢ per.
People
The record performance that we have achieved this year 
would not be possible without our staff. Across the world, 
1,600 people strive to make our strategy come to life and 
it is their commitment, passion and ambition that results in 
the ultimate success of our business. 
Outlook
We have the right strategy and are executing it well. As 
we did with Spain we have invested in and prepared the 
platform in readiness for US entry and, following very 
positive recent regulatory movements in New Jersey and 
Nevada, we look forward to an exciting future.
Richard Kilsby 
Chairman 03
www.888holdingsplc.com
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
I am delighted that, in the ﬁrst year of my tenure as 
Chief Executive, the Group has delivered its strongest 
performance to date in our B2C line of business and a solid 
performance in B2B. This excellent performance has been 
driven by the successful development of our products, 
including the launch of Casino 50, our focus on customer 
acquisition and retention, and the continued delivery of 
superior customer service and a value for money offer.
Implicit in our strategy was the desire to improve 
margins, therefore we are delighted to have made further 
improvements in the year, particularly as we have incurred 
higher gaming duties compared to the previous year 
and we have continued to invest in our business. As we 
entered regulated markets we committed US$131 million 
to marketing spend which resulted in marketing ratio to 
revenue of 35%, slightly higher than that of last year, 31%.
Most importantly, we have delivered an adjusted EBITDA
1
 
of US$67 million, a 20% increase on last year. This 
represents an Adjusted EBITDA
1
 margin increase from 
16.8% to 17.8%. At the year end, we had US$82 million of 
cash, of which US$32 million was available for general 
corporate purposes, having during the year paid US$11 
million of retroactive duties to the Spanish government 
and settled for US$37 million the ﬁnal consideration on the 
Wink Bingo acquisition. 
Given the strong cash generation during the year the 
Board of Directors reinstated the dividend at the half year, 
declaring an interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share that was 
paid on 18 October 2012. Taking into account the strong 
performance of the business and lack of dividend in 2011 
the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend comprising 
4.5¢ per share (which together with the interim dividend 
equals 7.0¢ per share in accordance with our pay-out 
policy set out at the time of our 2005 ﬂotation) and an 
additional one-off 2.0¢ per share, bringing the total for the 
year to 9.0¢ per share.
2011 was about going back to basics, and 2012 has focused 
strongly on preserving and enhancing our technical edge. 
Structurally, the Group is now managed into two business 
lines, B2C and B2B, whereas B2C is further managed 
in product groups (for example, Poker/Casino) rather 
than by service areas (for example, marketing), which 
has enhanced our focus and allowed us to utilise our 
technological and analytical strength through a uniﬁed 
approach to product growth.
Combining these disciplines and bringing our analytical 
strengths to bear at all stages has led to improved 
new product development, followed up by targeted, 
personalised and data driven marketing and CRM 
campaigns, all of which in turn lead to maximising player 
lifetime value. This concentrated focus on our core strong 
analytics and marketing capabilities, has maximised their 
beneﬁts across the business. It is these fundamental 
competencies together with our exceptional product 
platform and back office capabilities that have enabled us 
to successfully compete with and surpass our competition.
1  As deﬁned in the table set out on page 8. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
04
Building on our Strengths
Despite the evolving challenges of the market place 
in which we operate, our strategic direction remains 
constant. 
Our strategy in terms of the customer proposition is clear 
— high quality products with precision targeted marketing 
to attract higher volumes of lower spend, more casual 
gamers, all of which is supported by exceptional customer 
service.
Early in 2012, we launched Casino 50, our new casino 
front end. This is a revolutionary multi-software platform, 
delivering, compared to previously, a much more exciting 
and interactive experience to our customers. It has been 
received well by players, and we are now beginning to see 
the fruits of our labour. Our Poker business continues to 
grow, with record breaking revenues of US$88 million and 
a 31% increase in active players compared to last year. We 
remain in the top 5 in terms of global liquidity, as reported 
by PokerScout. This product group is our star performer 
and we deservedly won the highly regarded eGaming 
Review Poker Operator of the Year award in November.
Within our technology infrastructure, we have created 
an in-house games studio, designed to develop our 
own “home bred” slots games. We have launched ten of 
these slots games during the year of which Elm Street, 
with stunning graphics, was the most popular. This 
demonstrates the company’s desire to distance itself 
from other operators and provides a unique offering to 
our customers in an area in which we control all of the 
elements required for our on-going success.
The Bingo sector remains challenging and this now 
mature market has become highly competitive. However, 
we remain one of the largest networks in the UK, holding 
our own against highly aggressive competitors, and we 
will continue to drive this offering and further integrate 
the platform into the Group’s state of the art back office, 
allowing all the beneﬁts of that to ﬂow through to our 
bingo offering. In December we announced an agreement 
with Facebook to launch real-money products the ﬁrst of 
which is Bingo Appy, offering 90 ball, 75 ball and 5 line 
bingo including a wide range of slots and instant games. 
To date we are seeing strong customer interest, but it 
is too early to predict the ultimate success of this new 
market.
Sport remains an important part of our product suite 
and one which continues to offer opportunities. Targeted 
marketing has helped to increase revenue year on year and 
we have seen success in our mobile strategy, with 30% of 
revenue generated through our dedicated 888Sport app. 
We are working closely with our partners and assessing 
options through which we can provide 888Sport with a 
genuine competitive edge. A strategic review is underway 
that will ascertain the best way of fulﬁlling this aim.
During the year we have made signiﬁcant progress in 
newly regulated markets. In the summer we saw the 
opening of the Spanish market, albeit three months later 
than was planned, given the delayed introduction of the 
new regime. We had adapted our software well in advance 
of licensing, and following the retroactive duty payment 
we were granted our license on 1 June. After effectively 
and efficiently migrating customers to the regulated 
environment we quickly built market share, with our poker 
offer becoming number two in the Spanish market with 
888poker.es delivering more than 20% market share. This 
was achieved by calculated marketing investment, and 
further shows the strength of our management capabilities 
in understanding new markets, underpinned by the 
efficiency of our customer acquisition strategy.
Proving just what an opportunity regulation can provide 
for 888, the end result is that poker revenue generated 
since regulation is more than double that pre-regulation, 
even with the deduction of gaming duty. We are 
encouraged by this market, and we will invest in order to 
grow this signiﬁcant business.
Chief Executive’s Review 05
www.888holdingsplc.com
The Italian market has also proved to be successful. 
Initially launching a brand new Casino offering, designed 
speciﬁcally for Italy, in the second half of 2011 with 
cautious marketing spend, the launch achieved very 
pleasing results. The decision by the Italian regulator to 
allow slots from December 2012 has bolstered our offering 
and allowed us to introduce our unique games, alongside 
the traditional Casino products. This has resulted in player 
numbers more than doubling compared to December 2011. 
In Dragonﬁsh, we have now completed the rationalisation 
of smaller unproﬁtable licensees and hence revenue 
decreased marginally by 2%. Removing the burden of 
unproﬁtable contracts has helped us focus on our core 
strengths, concentrating our efforts on attracting large 
scale clients to our platform. In addition we have signed 
12 new bingo skins. This approach has also released the 
resources to enable us to focus on the anticipated opening 
of the US market.
We currently operate Caesars Interactive Entertainment’s 
(CIE) World Series of Poker online poker brand in the 
UK, a collaboration which received the approval of the 
Nevada Gaming Control Board and included a ﬁnding by 
the Control Board of suitability for 888. In January 2012 
we announced a deal extending our relationship with 
Caesars that will see Dragonﬁsh power a selection of CIE’s 
established and recognised poker brands including the 
“WSOP” in the US, once online gaming is permitted under 
the new regulatory regime.
This non-exclusive agreement marked the ﬁrst strand in our 
US online strategy and indicated the strong platform that 
we can use to sign with further potential US partners. Our 
objective in respect of the US is to become one of, if not the, 
largest providers of online operations and services in this 
market. We have a three part strategy, a business to business 
strategy where we are platform, software and back office 
providers, taking a revenue share; a strategic alliance where 
we partner with a supplier which allows us to reach regional 
casino outlets; and most importantly, a strong B2C offer 
where we bring all of 888’s talents, expertise and strengths 
to bear on penetrating this exciting market.
In terms of contracts signed to-date, the CIE deal is 
the traditional B2B revenue share operation where we 
supply the technology and the services with our partner 
supplying their expertise and funds on marketing. Having 
land-based partnerships will be the key to unlocking 
access to regulated US states and it is worth remembering 
that Caesars operates casinos in Nevada, New Jersey and 
California. All of these are likely to offer online gaming 
upon the potential liberalisation of the market.
In July we announced an alliance with WMS Gaming Inc., 
which is one of the world’s largest slot and games design 
operators with in excess of 250 secondary and tertiary 
casino customers. As one of the biggest suppliers of slot 
machines to hundreds of land based casinos in the US, 
this deal will enable WMS to offer an online product to all 
its customers utilising our state of the art poker platform.  
The agreement will give the Group a competitive edge and 
allow the launch of a real money offering concurrent with 
the ﬁnalisation of either Federal or State based regulation.
After the year end, we completed the last strand of 
our three part strategy, by entering into a joint venture 
agreement with global investment ﬁrm Avenue Capital 
Group, to launch and operate a comprehensive B2C 
gaming offering into the US. Avenue Capital Group has 
interests in various terrestrial casinos and entertainment 
companies making them an ideal partner for 888. The 
agreement will provide signiﬁcant investment in marketing 
to take advantage of the regulating US gaming market,  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
06
and we are enormously excited by the opportunities. 
A number of states are currently providing positive 
indications, with New Jersey legislators passing a bill 
legalising online gaming, while the Nevada Gaming Control 
Board recommended to the Nevada Gaming Commission 
the approval of the licensing of 888 as an Interactive 
Gaming Service Provider. The Commission hearing will be 
held on 21 March 2013. 
As the ﬁrst non-US online operator to be recommended 
we are very well positioned in the US and the business 
foundations are now set. We are leveraging our existing 
infrastructure to penetrate the largest gaming market in 
the world and we are only waiting for the regulator to 
allow us to start working.
In parallel with our focus on building signiﬁcant market 
share in regulated jurisdictions we have directed resources 
into the development of our mobile offering. 2012 was the 
year that the prevalence of smartphones and tablets ﬁnally 
led to the long-awaited coming of age of mobile gaming, 
and we can expect leadership in mobile to be a signiﬁcant 
revenue and customer acquisition generator. The company 
has a devoted team concentrating on mobile applications 
and now has a comprehensive product offering across 
all major platforms, including both Apple and Android, 
tablets and smartphones. All applications are witnessing 
strong growth in usage, and we are conﬁdent that this 
medium will be earnings enhancing.
Our social gaming business has now been fully integrated 
into 888’s technological architecture, and the team is now 
working alongside our excellent product developers. It 
is clear that social networks are becoming an integrated 
part of online gaming however and, while it still remains a 
nascent industry, it is one in which we are well positioned 
to remain ahead of the curve. We will continue to review 
our product suite, and capitalise on opportunities such as 
Facebook real-money gaming and we expect to continue 
to progress in this area. 
Regulation
Regulation of online gaming continued to be a key area 
of interest to 888 during 2012, as always, presenting both 
opportunities and challenges. During 2012 we acquired 
two new online gaming licenses — in Spain and in the 
German state of Schleswig-Holstein, adding to a growing 
list of local licenses held by the group. At the same time, 
the group remains committed to obtaining local licenses 
applicable to its operations in various jurisdictions of 
choice, presenting the potential for commercial growth. 
As 2012 drew to an end, 888 was approaching the ﬁnal 
stages of the Nevada licensing process, a lengthy exercise 
commenced in 2011. On 7 March 2013, the Nevada Gaming 
Control Board recommended to the Nevada Gaming 
Commission the approval of the licensing of 888 as an 
Interactive Gaming Service Provider and in connection 
therewith the licensing of its key executives and controlling 
shareholders. The Commission hearing will be held on 
21 March 2013, and 888 is on the cusp of becoming one 
of the ﬁrst international online gaming operators to 
commence operations in a US jurisdiction under a local 
license. In February 2013, New Jersey legislators passed a 
bill legalising online gaming, allowing land-based casinos 
in the state to apply for licences to offer casino and poker. 
This is expected to be enforced by the end of the year. With 
partnerships already in place, this positions 888 well. Other 
US jurisdictions are on the brink of introducing legislation to 
allow for the licensing of online gaming within their territories, 
developments that present tremendous opportunities for 
growth.
2012 saw a list of European jurisdictions either 
Chief Executive’s Review 07
www.888holdingsplc.com
adopting new gaming laws, or being in the process 
of reforming their regulatory landscape. Though the 
European Commission has renewed its call for greater 
harmonisation between EU Member States in this area, 
regulatory regimes within the EU remain largely divergent, 
posing challenges for the Group. Naturally, the growing 
abundance of local licensing requirements is inevitably 
accompanied by the burdens of local taxation and costly 
compliance requirements. We continue to remain actively 
engaged in regulatory developments worldwide and seek 
the opportunities for growth presented by regulation while 
continuing to face the accompanying challenges. 
A notable development likely to have a particularly 
profound impact on 888 in future years is the Bill 
presented in late 2012 by the United Kingdom 
Government, aiming to bring foreign operators under the 
licensing umbrella of the UK Gambling Commission, as 
well as exposing those operators to UK Gaming Duty. We 
will continue to closely follow developments on this front 
during 2013, taking measures to minimise the adverse 
impact that UK gaming reform could have. 
Responsible Gaming
888 is dedicated to providing its customers with a 
responsible gaming environment. Hand in glove with 
our stated goal of providing our players with the most 
entertaining gaming offering experience is our ﬁrm 
commitment to help prevent compulsive usage and 
underage access of our gaming products. We have long 
been recognised as a market leader in this area, and 
continue to introduce innovative new measures to ensure 
that our products are used in a responsible way by the 
right people. More information could be found at our 
dedicated website, www.888responsible.com.
2013 Focus
We see 2013 as a year of tremendous opportunity. We will 
continue to invest in our infrastructure, our product offer 
and in regulated markets. 
We see high growth potential in Spain, where we intend to 
build on our strong position as we increase our marketing 
spend without diminishing its analytical, cost-effective, 
targeting. The introduction of live roulette and potentially 
slots will also provide growth opportunities, as witnessed 
by the introduction of slots in Italy at the end of 2012 
which provided a catalyst for further growth in this 
important market.
We see our Spanish success as the blueprint for entry into 
other newly regulating markets. In the United States, where 
we are preparing for launch following positive regulatory 
changes, we will continue to invest in our technological 
platform, the cornerstone of our offer. In addition to being 
recommended for a licence in Nevada, we have been invited 
to apply for a licence in New Jersey, where a bill legalising 
online poker and casino has been passed.
In Poker we will continue to develop the platform and 
continue to create variation in the games available to our 
customers. Casino 50 continues to evolve, and we intend to 
remain at the top of the tree in terms of customer lifetime 
value. In Bingo we will develop more skins and expand 
our offer to ensure maximum coverage is achieved. Sport 
is already undergoing a strategic review and we intend to 
work with our existing and possibly new partners to ensure 
we optimise its true potential and have the ability to expand 
our brand into new regulated markets. Social media will 
continue to be an area in which we expand, and we will 
carefully monitor the success of these ventures.
All of these projects will undoubtedly require investment, 
alongside our intention to continue to invest in our technology 
and marketing expertise. This investment together with strong 
marketing campaigns and a push into new regulated markets, 
will have a short-term impact on margin growth. We remain 
focused on our strategy and believe that any incremental 
expenditure on our core business will ensure future growth 
and improved market share for all our brands.
Despite success to date, we do not believe we have yet got 
close to reaching full potential with our mobile offering. 
There is a signiﬁcant opportunity as we increase the 
breadth and quality of our dedicated apps and roll them 
out across the app stores, while also making certain that 
the performance of our traditional products is maximised 
on whatever medium our players favour.
Outlook
We are well placed for the future and believe we have the 
right products, the right technology, and best in breed 
analytical marketing to provide sustained growth and 
increased market share. We also have a highly talented and 
dedicated workforce, and I would like to thank our staff for 
helping us achieve these excellent results. We are conﬁdent 
of delivering further value to our shareholders in the future.
Brian Mattingley 
Chief Executive Officer 
13 March 2013 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
08
Enhanced Business Review
Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Adjusted 
EBITDA
Y ear ended
31 December
2012
1
US$ million
Y ear ended
31 December
2011
1
US$ million
Operating profit 36.9 14.6
Depreciation 9.2 9.0
Amortisation 5.6 4.0
Restructuring costs — 4.9
Retroactive duties and 
associated charges 11.1 —
Share benefit charges 1.7 2.4
Impairment charges 2.2 20.7
Adjusted EBITDA 66.8 55.6
General
888 delivered another record performance in 2012 
with a revenue increase of 13% to US$376 million (2011: 
US$331 million), particularly impressive given the strong 
comparatives to the prior year. Growth was driven by our 
B2C line of business with a 16% revenue increase, in turn lead 
by strong Poker growth of 44% and Casino at 12%. At the 
same time B2B almost maintained its prior year revenue with 
a 2% decrease.
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial Summary 
Year ended
31 December
2012
1
US$ million
Year ended
31 December
2011
1
US$ million Change
Revenue
B2C
 Casino 165.5 148.0 12%
 Poker 87.5 60.6 44%
  Bingo 51.8 54.0 (4%)
 Emerging Offering 25.0 21.6 16%
Total B2C 329.8 284.2 16%
B2B 46.0 47.0 (2%)
Revenue 375.8 331.2 13%
Operating Expenses
2,3
113.5 108.6
Gaming duties
4
11.5 7.3
Research and Development Expenses 27.2 29.9
Selling and Marketing Expenses 131.2 102.3
Administrative Expenses
3,5,6
25.6 27.5
Adjusted EBITDA 66.8 55.6 20%
Net Finance income (expenses)
7
1.9 (13.1)
Depreciation and Amortisation (14.8) (13.0)
Adjusted Profit Before Tax
3,4,5,6,8
53.9 29.5 82%
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
3,4,5,6,8
13.9¢ 7.4¢ 88%
1  Totals may not sum due to rounding.
2  Excluding depreciation of US$9.2 million (2011: US$9.0 million) and amortisation of 
 US$5.6 million (2011: US$4.0 million).
3   Excluding restructuring costs of nil (2011: US$4.9 million out of which US$1.0 million related to 
 Operating expenses and US$3.9 million to Administrative expenses).
4  Excluding retroactive duties and associated charges of US$11.1 million (2011: nil).
5 Excluding share beneﬁt charges of US$1.7 million (2011: US$2.4 million).
6 Excluding impairment charges of US$2.2 million (2011: US$20.7 million).
7 Comprising Finance income equal to US$4.6 million (2011: US$0.2 million) net of  
Finance expenses equal to US$2.7 million (2011: US$13.3 million).
8 Excluding movement in contingent and deferred consideration of US$2.0 million 
(2011: US$4.2 million). 09
www.888holdingsplc.com
Adjusted EBITDA increased 20% to US$67 million (2011: 
US$56 million), Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 
17.8% (2011: 16.8%) despite the payment of additional US$4 
million gaming duties in regulated markets. Adjusted Proﬁt 
before tax
1
 increased 82% to US$54 million (2011: US$30 
million) and Adjusted Earnings per share
1
 increased 88% to 
13.9¢ (2011: 7.4¢). There was also strong operational cash 
generation of US$71 million (2011: US$79 million). 
During the period the Group completed the settlement of 
the deferred consideration payable in respect of the Wink 
acquisition. The Group ﬁnancial position remains strong with 
cash and cash equivalents at year end at US$82 million with 
no debt.
Geographical Segmentation
888’s turnover by geography is set out in the table below.  
Revenue by geographical market: 
Year ended 31 December
Revenue
2012
US$ million
Growth on 
prior year
UK 161.8 6%
Europe (excluding UK) 142.1 14%
Americas 38.2 44%
Rest of world 33.7 23%
Total Revenue 375.8 13%
Growth was achieved in all geographical segments with 
the UK at 6%, Europe (excluding the UK) at 14%, Americas 
at 44% and rest of the world at 23%. The regulated 
European markets account for over 80% of our revenue, 
with success in Spain and Italy boosting the percentage of 
our revenue obtained from regulated markets.
Expenses
Over the last twelve months, we have made signiﬁcant 
investment in regulated and regulating markets as well as 
in our technology and product innovation.
Operating expenses
1
, which include mainly employee 
related costs, chargebacks, returned e-cheques and 
payment service providers (“PSP”) commissions, totalled 
US$114 million (2011: US$109 million) representing a 
lower proportion to revenues of 30% (2011: 33%). Staff 
costs
2
 remained stable in absolute terms. Chargebacks
3
 
ratio remained stable at 0.9% (2011: 1.0%) as did PSP 
commissions ratio at 6.0% (2011: 5.9%).
Gaming duties, in respect of statutory payments 
levied in regulated markets reached US$12 million (2011: 
US$7 million) (excluding US$11.1 million back dated duties 
imposed in Spain). The increase in gaming duties is driven 
by revenue expansion in Spain and Italy and due to the 
fact that gaming duties were levied in Spain only since 
June 2011.
Research and development expenses, net of software 
costs capitalised associated with our focus on preparing 
the platforms for the US market, regulated markets and on 
developing the mobile platform, were US$27 million (2011: 
US$30 million).
Marketing expenses during the year reached a record 
US$131 million (2011: US$102 million) reﬂecting investment 
in the launch into regulated markets in Spain and Italy. This 
has resulted in an increase of marketing ratio to revenue to 
35% (2011: 31%).
Administrative expenses
1
 decreased to US$26 million 
(2011: US$28 million) reﬂecting reduced level of expenses 
associated with professional costs arising from regulated 
markets and the refocusing of the B2B business.
Share Benefit Charges
Share beneﬁt charges were US$1.7 million (2011: US$2.4 
million) the decrease is primarily as a result of the Group 
selective equity award policy since 2010.
Finance Income (expenses)
Net Finance income
1
 was US$1.9 million (2011: expense 
of US$13.1 million). Most of the difference is attributable 
to Wink related charges in 2011 and the fair value of 
operational hedging instruments in 2012.
1 
 As deﬁned in table set out on page 8.
2
 See detail in note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements.
3
 See detail in note 4 to the ﬁnancial statements 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
10
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA reached a record US$67 million (2011: 
US$56 million) again compared to a strong performance 
last year. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.8% (2011: 16.8%). 
Taxation
The tax charge for 2012 was US$5.4 million (2011: US$3.9 
million) representing stable tax expense even though 
proﬁt has increased signiﬁcantly.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share was 10.2¢ (2011: 0.6¢). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share
1
 was 13.9¢ (2011: 7.4¢). 
We believe adjusted basic earnings per share excluding 
impairment charges, retroactive duties and associated 
charges, restructuring costs, share beneﬁt charges and 
movement in contingent and deferred consideration better 
reﬂects the underlying business and assists in providing a 
clearer view of the performance of the Group. 
Dividend 
Given the strong cash generation during the year the 
Board of Directors reinstated the dividend at the half year, 
declaring an interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share that was 
paid on 18 October 2012. Taking into account the strong 
performance of the business and lack of dividend in 2011, 
the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend comprising 
4.5¢ per share (which together with the interim dividend 
equals 7.0¢ per share in accordance with our pay-out policy 
set out at the time of our 2005 ﬂotation) and an additional 
on-off 2.0¢ per share, bringing the total for the year to 9.0¢ 
per share.
Cash Flow
The Group continues to generate substantial amounts 
of free cash with net cash generated from operating 
activities, after payment of retroactive duties and 
associated charges, reaching US$71 million  
(2011: US$79 million). 
Balance Sheet 
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong, with no debt 
and ample liquid resources. The Group’s cash position as 
at 31 December 2012 was US$82 million (31 December 
2011: US$76 million). 
Balances owed to customers were US$49 million (2011: 
US$45 million).
1
 As deﬁned in the table set out on page 8. 11
www.888holdingsplc.com
Growth Through Technological Innovation
T echnology remains at the heart of 888, and it is our more 
than decade long history of building best in class back 
office systems and experience in online marketing that 
provides us with a real competitive advantage. With our 
own technology team, product development and dedicated 
marketing departments driven by advanced modelling and 
analytics working together under one roof, we control all of 
the ingredients required for our success. 888 is uniquely well 
placed to target investment and marketing spend through 
basing investment decisions on real-time comprehensive 
data analysis, thereby maximising return on investment.
Our powerful analytical tools drive the success of our 
products from development to marketing, and also help 
to provide the successful platform on which we are able to 
launch in newly regulated markets with impressive results. 
Each time that we launch a new offering into a new market, 
it is built on top of our proven platform, providing an 
excellent base for growth, with our technological systems 
allowing us to extract more from our investment and take 
advantage of a very powerful tool in online gaming.
888 will continue to invest in technology to produce best in class 
multi-regulation, multi-product and multi-platform offerings. 
Continuing Innovation
An online gaming destination is successful through offering 
customers precisely what they want in an innovative and 
dynamic environment that encourages repeat visits. The 
enormous success of Poker 6 was the result of analysing 
customer requirements and providing the casual player 
an attractive offering of an inviting environment in which 
to enjoy the game with a more recreational feel, allowing 
players to place smaller initial stakes.
Following these successful changes to our poker product, 
the ﬁrst quarter of 2012 saw the launch of our revamped 
casino offering, Casino 50, which reconstructed the casino 
platform to provide an industry leading casino product. 
The multi-software platform delivers a much more exciting 
and interactive experience to our customers. Utilising 
state-of-the-art web and design technology, the 888casino 
software is simpler and faster than ever before. From 
easy tab-based navigation, to opening multiple games 
in parallel, 888casino provides a sleek, smooth transition 
which now includes a higher screen resolution and allows a 
perfect platform for crisp, vibrant graphics and clear wide 
& HD screen viewing. With personalisation at the heart 
of the new design, 888casino allows players to create the 
lobby of their choice and create shortcuts to their favorite 
games. The intuitive features of the new 888casino adapts 
to each individual player, allowing players to engage online 
casino ‘their way’.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
12
Casino 50, fully localised with multi-currency support 
and available in 18 languages, offers a huge range of 
online casino games including unique and innovative slot 
games with branded themes and progressive jackpot as 
well as new versions of Blackjack and Roulette which are 
appealing for card & table players. 
These unique and innovative slots are designed and 
created by 888’s in house game studio, developed within 
our technological infrastructure. 888casino now offers 
over 200 games across multiple platforms including 
download, no download, tablets, mobile and more. Casino 
50 has been received well by our customer base, and we 
have begun to see the fruits of our labour as revenues and 
ﬁrst time depositors have increased, with the Casino also 
achieving one of the highest player life-time values in the 
industry. 
Poker 6 continues to evolve and grow, with the modern, 
innovative and fun environment now providing a 1-click lobby 
as well as the opportunity to play via webcams, with a unique 
“Play with Friends” option giving the chance to do exactly that. 
The success of 888poker received prestigious external 
recognition, with 888 being awarded the 2012 Poker 
Operator of the Year at the eGaming Review - Annual 
Operator Awards.
Bingo continues to be a challenging and very competitive 
market, but we are proud to remain the number one online 
bingo platform worldwide, and we continue to ensure that the 
platform is fresh and relevant. The no download (Flash) Bingo 
application has proved popular, and over 100 available Instant 
Games boost player life-time value. Fully localised for a wide 
variety of languages and currencies, the platform has been 
created to ensure that it provides a turnkey solution for brands 
and companies looking to enter the Bingo market. Graphics, 
themes, animations, room introductions and the games 
themselves are easily adaptable and ideal for a third party 
operator to customise. The fact that 888 powers 25 networks 
and well over 100 skins, with thousands of active players on 
each network is the successful testimony to our approach. 
888Sport remains an important part of the portfolio, and this 
area of the business is still growing, with particular success 
in increasing the prominence of mobile betting through 
launching apps across a comprehensive range of products. 
As a result, the percentage of revenues in Sport resulting 
from mobile devices reached 30% at the end of the year. 
Continuing success in our B2C divisions will attract 
interesting B2B opportunities for Dragonﬁsh. Our focus 
is on quality contracts, and a widespread appraisal of all 
of our relationships was completed in 2012, resulting in a 
healthier bottom line. As can be seen from the growth in 
our B2C divisions, we have proven back office capabilities, 
and this allows us to be selective with our pipeline and 
look for those deals that will have a signiﬁcant bottom line 
impact. 
Dragonﬁsh’s leading position in Bingo is not something 
that we take for granted. Despite the increasingly mature 
market and high levels of competition, our net gaming 
revenue in this area remains robust. This is the result of 
continuing innovation of the Bingo platform, supported 
by investment and product improvement, adding better 
bonus management systems, and a wealth of new instant 
games — both those developed by 888games and cherry-
picked best of breed external ones. As with all of our 
products, we have also maximised the performance of our 
Bingo offering on HTML5 and mobile devices.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 13
www.888holdingsplc.com
Platform of Choice for 
Regulated Markets          
Dragonﬁsh is also a key component of our regulated 
market strategy. Our best in breed B2C offering and 
investment in building the best possible platform for 
operation in new jurisdictions provides a strong incentive 
for companies to partner with Dragonﬁsh in order to gain 
a foothold in newly regulating territories. An example of 
this is the CasinoFlex platform which offers Dragonﬁsh’s 
partners download and instant-play games along with 
the popular Live Casino product, seamlessly integrated 
into one complete gaming package, as well as providing 
comprehensive back office support. 
Our success in Spain has not gone unnoticed and we have 
received a number of enquiries. The market is only now 
starting to show meaningful partnership potential and, 
consistent with our strategy for Dragonﬁsh, we will only 
sign deals where there is a good economic rationale for so 
doing. Dragonﬁsh remains active in looking for signiﬁcant 
opportunities that arise in countries that are looking to 
regulate online gaming. The largest of these opportunities 
is clearly the United States. 
Investment in the platform means that Dragonﬁsh is ideally 
placed once the US market opens, and strategic deals have 
already been signed — with more still to come. We operate 
Caesars Interactive Entertainment’s (CIE) World Series of 
Poker online poker brand in the UK, a collaboration which 
received the approval of the Nevada Gaming Control 
Board (which included a ﬁnding of suitability for 888 by 
the Control Board). In addition, Dragonﬁsh will power a 
selection of CIE’s established and recognised poker brands 
including the “WSOP” in the US, once online gaming is 
permitted under a new regulatory regime.
Following on from this a strategic agreement was signed 
with gaming content and slots supplier WMS Gaming 
Inc., the quoted US group which is a major supplier of 
electronic games content and slot machines to the land 
based gaming industry. Under the deal 888 will provide an 
online poker platform to WMS who will then market and 
distribute it to their land based casino customers. Initially 
the deal will involve play for fun but when the regulatory 
environment allows real money will be offered. Whilst 
the true value of these deals will only be realised if online 
poker legislation develops positively, they reﬂect our 
growing presence in the US market and the very strong 
position that we have there.
Success in New Markets
888 receives over 50% of revenue from regulated markets, 
with no other individual territory accounting for anywhere 
near 10% of the total revenue. This is a strong position 
from which to build and, as more territories regulate, it is 
a key priority of 888 to obtain and then build a signiﬁcant 
market share. We had tremendous success in Spain 
in 2012, and how we did this is indicative of our wider 
strategy.
Prior to the opening of the market we adapted the 
software to meet the licensing requirements and, just as 
importantly, to provide an excellent gaming environment 
to attract the recreational Spanish player. On 1 June 
2012 we were awarded a Spanish eGaming licence. After 
effectively and efficiently migrating customers to the 
regulated environment we quickly built market share, 
with our poker offer becoming number two in the Spanish 
market with more than 20% market share for 888poker.es. 
This was done without signiﬁcant marketing investment, 
showing the efficiency of our customer acquisition. 
Revenue from poker in Spain is now double that earned 
from the pre-regulation market.
The Italian market has also proved to be successful. 
Initially launching a brand new Casino offering, designed 
speciﬁcally for Italy, player numbers almost doubled in the 
ﬁrst half of 2012, and bets rose 70%. Having adapted our 
poker software, this was launched in the second half of the 
year, and the decision by the Italian regulator to allow slots 
from December bolstered our offering and allowed us to 
introduce our unique games such as Deal or No Deal and 
Big Brother. We will continue to analyse player trends in 
Spain and Italy, ensuring that our offering and marketing 
remain at the cutting edge. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
14
We will also maintain our focus on being in the best possible 
position to take advantage of regulatory movements in the 
US, positioning 888 to become one of, if not the, largest 
providers of online operations and services in that market. 
Already, considerable work has been done to make certain 
that we have the best possible product ready for launch in the 
US, and our Dragonﬁsh deals with CIE and WMS show that we 
are ideally placed to maximise B2B opportunities. We await 
any regulatory movements with considerable excitement.
New Platforms
After a number of false dawns, the irresistible rise of the 
smart phone and the increasing ubiquity of tablets meant 
that 2012 was the year that the mobile market truly took 
off as a signiﬁcant revenue and customer acquisition 
generator. The rise in mobile usage has led us to redeﬁne 
our marketing strategy, with a strand of our marketing 
devoted speciﬁcally to the mobile consumer. 
What works on PC does not necessary work on mobile, 
and 888 has a devoted team concentrating on mobile 
applications. Beneﬁtting as we do from having all 
technological development teams under one roof, all 
products are based on the same base 888 platform, allowing 
us to use all core functionality from our market leading 
traditional offering and only needing to invest once in the 
platform prior to utilising it across all consumer devices. All 
product groups are now available as apps on both Apple 
and Android, tablets and smartphones. All applications are 
witnessing growth in usage, and we are conﬁdent that this 
medium will be earnings enhancing as we move forward.
We will continue to invest in this area in order to 
develop the best possible applications, for all regulated 
jurisdictions, and maximise the performance of our 
product range across all mobile devices. The 888sport app 
is now responsible for 30% of our Sport revenue, and we 
expect growth in mobile usage across all areas to carry on 
at pace in 2013. 
While still a nascent industry, social networks are 
becoming an integral part of online gaming. 888 has 
been a pioneer in offering social aspects as part of the 
user experience in our traditional gaming offerings, and 
exploring social gaming itself. 
An important step was made in December with the signing 
of an agreement with Facebook to launch real-money 
products over the world’s most popular social network. 
The agreement allows 888 to offer bingo, casino and 
slot games through the Facebook platform in the UK. 
Developed by 888, the ﬁrst app to launch was Bingo Appy, 
which has made an encouraging start. A casino offering 
including slots and other popular games will be launched 
in the ﬁrst half of 2013. 
Business Analytics
The successes detailed above are based upon 888’s 
technological strength and the efficient utilisation of this 
technology, directed by extensive analytics data. 888 
operates as a technology marketing company, controlling 
all the required ingredients to our success, pushing the 
envelope with our product offering and marketing by 
using advanced modelling and analytics. They all feed one 
another. The fact that we have all three under the same 
roof makes us very effective.
The goals of our industry leading business analytics are 
simple — to maximise customer recruitment, increase 
customer lifetime value and minimise the cost per 
customer acquisition, thereby optimising return or 
marketing investment.
Having more than fourteen years’ experience in online 
gaming, and the best customer care application in the 
industry, 888 has at its disposal more than a decade of 
precious data. A highly trained and experienced team of 
research quantitative professionals are able to use this to 
boost the effectiveness of products, games, marketing 
campaigns, advertisements and payment systems.
Prior to any product launches our in house teams carry 
out extensive testing, with data analysis results indicating 
where sites can be improved and providing the best 
possible gaming experience. It was this testing and 
analysis that formed the bedrock of the success of Poker 
6, creating precisely the product that the market lacked 
and giving the recreational gamer the Poker experience 
that they had been missing. The launch of a new product 
is of course not the end of the analysis, and every part of 
every page is studied to make sure that it provides the 
right experience to the player and the maximum possible 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 15
www.888holdingsplc.com
value to 888. Poker 6 and Casino 50 are never considered 
ﬁnished products, but will continue to evolve to match 
consumer tastes.
Alongside product optimisation, the analysis of marketing 
campaigns is also of key importance to 888. With 
more than a hundred million dollars spent each year 
on marketing it is absolutely crucial to the success of 
the business that this money is spent wisely. Due to our 
exceptional analytics our spending is very surgical — we 
have the data and ability to be able to decide exactly 
where we want to spend our money, making us a lot 
more effective. At any given time we track and analyse 
hundreds of online and offline campaigns, thousands of 
active affiliates, and the performance of all products. This 
dynamic real time analysis allows the instant judging of 
marketing spend — from signiﬁcant TV advertisements to 
single banner advertisements. If a new banner advert is 
launched that is not performing as hoped, it can be seen 
immediately and be tweaked or replaced. Thousands of 
promotional activities are designed and analysed, with 
the most proﬁtable ones then recurring most often, being 
improved continuously.
As well as analysing marketing campaigns, customer 
behaviours are themselves analysed at every step of the 
playing lifecycle with 888, helping our customer relationship 
management (CRM) be amongst the best in the business. 
Our data mining capabilities help to predict a player’s 
lifetime value within a short period of joining 888. These 
predictions, based on robust statistical modelling of millions 
of customers, help 888 to identify player characteristics and 
segment them according to churn type. Players are then 
targeted according to a tailored marketing plan from the 
CRM department, offering each individual the speciﬁc offers 
and experiences that will be most likely to appeal to them. 
Combining data analytics with great marketing ideas 
therefore helps us to have a highly personalised 
relationship with customers, maximising the customer 
experience and lifetime value. Our customer engagement 
platform cherry-picks the most suitable client 
communications through analysing individual responses to 
them, be they regular newsletters, tailored advertisements, 
or one off promotional emails. 
Our analytical data also allows the early identiﬁcation of 
high-rollers. From the very beginning of their customer 
lifecycle this strong core of long term, dedicated 
customers, is provided with 888’s exceptional VIP service. 
This service encompasses both on and offline activities, 
including 888 hosted exclusive activities at major sporting 
events and 5 star experiences.
The ongoing work of our business analytics team will make 
certain that all new products, marketing campaigns, and 
individual games will have the maximum beneﬁt as we 
move into 2013.
ePayment and Fraud
In order to maximise revenue and convert browsers into 
players, it is important that payment processing is fast, 
easy to use and available in the format and currency 
customers desire. 888’s leading payment processing 
capabilities support 22 languages and a wide variety 
of currencies, while more than 50 payment methods 
are supported. While it is vital that payment is as quick 
and easy as possible, we take our duty as a responsible 
operator very seriously and take comprehensive steps to 
minimise fraud. 
888 has multiple acquiring relations with Tier 1 banks, 
level 1 Payment Card Industry compliance, and Visa and 
Mastercard accreditation. Introducing new features and 
capabilities in the payment platform helped us to better 
convert customers in the cashier. These capabilities allow 
much shorter login time to the system from all over the 
world, and much more effective and reliable ways to 
process payments.
Customer Support and Service
Strong customer relationships are the bedrock of 888’s 
success, and the Group remains committed to its goal of 
providing the best customer support and service in the 
global online gaming industry. 
First class customer support is offered for each of the 
Group’s brands and White Labels via telephone, e-mail 
and chat to customers around the world, in 8 different 
languages. 888’s ongoing commitment to localisation 
strengthens relationships worldwide, through speaking to 
people in their language and cultural context, while the 
market-leading usage of social features and interactivity 
with players strengthens brand loyalty.
The launch of 888.es, a tailor-made offering for the 
newly regulated Spanish market, in June 2012, marked an 
additional milestone for the Group. To support this venture 
a wholly new customer support team was recruited and 
trained to handle all aspects of the operation, successfully 
establishing a range of new processes and procedures. 
With a well thought-out strategy, excellent migration and 
penetration plan, 888.es rapidly reached a signiﬁcant 
market share in one of Europe’s most important strategic 
markets.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
16
In 2012 888’s support teams converted a signiﬁcant 
proportion of all incoming phone calls and relevant 
incoming chats to deposits; continuing to provide a 
convenient service to players and contributing to business 
growth. The expansion of live telephone and chat deposit 
capabilities to our Bingo offering proved to be highly 
successful, enabling the business to take advantage of new 
marketing opportunities and boost revenues. 
The Telemarketing and Proactive Chat Department 
continued to deliver excellent performance as measured 
by the deposits generated by interaction with customers. 
Using compelling incentives and offering additional 
services to customers at critical conversion points, the 
Department increased its performance for the fourth 
successive year in all three key metrics — efficiency, 
productivity and revenue generated. 
The optimisation and expansion of 888’s Online Web Self-
Service tool to regulated markets, along with the continual 
evaluation and reﬁnement of content, resulted in an 
increased usage of this tool by customers. Improvements 
helped to reduce customer issues while increasing 
people’s ability to ﬁnd answers to their queries themselves, 
enabling 888 to further reduce its operational expenditure, 
improve agent efficiency and more effectively manage its 
resources.  
The successful establishment of the WINK Bingo Operation 
in Antigua in May 2012, completed within a very tight 
timeline and to budget, was a major boost for the Group’s 
customer service. Growth was prominent across most of our 
business lines in 2012 and with this a substantial, business 
critical, increase in active players.  Achieved with little to 
no disruption for our customer base, the new operation 
allowed us to handle the signiﬁcant increase in the volume 
of incoming queries into our support centres in 2012. 
The main Gibraltar contact centre focuses on providing 
support for 888’s principal markets in Europe, Asia Paciﬁc 
and Latin America, while the Antiguan contact centre 
focuses on supporting the English speaking markets 
in Europe, Australia, Asia Paciﬁc and Canada. The fully 
established contact centre in Romania is providing mainly 
telemarketing and proactive chat activities in several 
languages for 888 and Dragonﬁsh.
Support teams in all operational locations aim to close the 
majority of issues during the ﬁrst contact, as exempliﬁed 
in the Service Level Achievement reached in 2012. 
Throughout the year, we further improved the handling 
of customer interactions by prioritising inbound queries 
according to customer status and speciﬁed business 
priorities. In addition, the Department increased its social 
media presence and expanded the use of RightNow 
capabilities, adding alerts and various automated reminder 
protocols to enhance the customer experience.
Customer Satisfaction
888 continues to monitor customer satisfaction at key 
points throughout their lifetime cycle in order to assist 
stakeholders in the group to identify and understand 
habits and expectations of loyal players, as well as to 
design service initiatives and ongoing refresher training 
based on the results. 
In 2012, the customary annual study conducted to 
benchmark 888’s service level within its primary markets 
included English, German, Spanish and Italian speaking 
casino and poker players, as well as English speaking sport 
customers. 888 is pleased that, for the fourth year running, 
respondents from our main language markets gave 
their highest rating to the level of professionalism of our 
support representatives. The 2012 study, for the ﬁrst time, 
also included our English speaking Bingo B2C and B2B 
players and provided invaluable insight into this segment 
of the industry. 
Review forums, customer surveys and feedback analysis 
assisted the Department in the continual evaluation and 
reﬁnement of the Online Help content. Enhancements of 
the visual representations of supplied information reduced 
text based materials, adapting to customer needs and 
increasing user satisfaction.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 17
www.888holdingsplc.com
As a business operating in a highly regulated environment 
and deeply committed to conducting its business in a 
lawful and compliant manner, 888 is heavily impacted by 
regulatory changes relevant to its business operations. 
Technological developments in online gaming have often 
preceded regulatory reform, and recent years have seen a 
constant effort by various jurisdictions around the world 
to bring laws governing gaming up to date to reﬂect 
present technology. The most signiﬁcant developments in 
recent years have occurred in European jurisdictions, but 
similar evolution is now occurring in the United States and 
elsewhere around the world. The group continues to be 
an active and vocal supporter of the regulation of online 
gaming, and invests signiﬁcant efforts in facing the various 
challenges posed by the ever growing and complex 
mosaic of divergent regulatory regimes relevant to its 
business worldwide. The following paragraphs summarize 
the main relevant regulatory developments of 2012. 
European Jurisdictions 
As the hopes for pan-European harmonization of online 
gaming laws waned during 2012, a growing number of 
EU Member States have introduced (or are in the process 
of introducing) local legislation governing the offering 
of online gaming. Several EU Member States are either 
contemplating or have already put in place, a liberalised 
(or partially liberalised) gaming regime: The UK, France, 
Italy, Spain, Denmark, Belgium, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, 
Romania, Bulgaria and others have already adopted a 
regulatory regime governing online gaming. Other EU 
Member States, including Ireland, the Czech Republic, 
the Netherlands, and Sweden are also considering (or 
are already in the process of) revising their gaming laws, 
possibly to include liberalization of the online gaming 
market. The proliferation of varying regulatory regimes 
throughout the EU Internal Market has inevitably resulted 
in increased regulatory constraints and compliance 
challenges impacting the Group’s European business.
In June 2012 the group was issued an online gaming 
license by the Spanish gaming Directorate and launched 
its licensed casino and poker offering in that jurisdiction. 
The Spanish authorities have announced their intention to 
expand the scope of gaming variants available to licensed 
operators during 2013. 
Italy, where the group holds an online gambling 
concession, introduced new legislation in 2012 expanding 
the scope of licensable online activities to include online 
slots. The group has updated its Italian licence concession 
in accordance with this new legislation and launched the 
new games in December 2012.
During 2012, Germany adopted a new Inter State Gambling 
Treaty and introduced federal duty on sports betting, 
applicable to all operators accepting sports wagers 
in Germany. The regulation of online gaming itself in 
Germany continued to be characterized by legal ambiguity 
and chaos during 2012. Despite harsh criticism by the 
EC, the new Inter-State Gambling Treaty was signed and 
approved by the German federal states, entered into force 
in July 2012, and introduced a very limited online sports-
betting regime, allowing for no more than 20 licencees and 
echoed the online gaming ban contained in the previous 
treaty. Towards the end of 2012, various German courts 
expressed doubts regarding the validity and enforceability 
of the new treaty, and litigation on this matter is expected 
to carry into 2013.
Conversely, the German state of Schleswig-Holstein 
introduced its own regulatory and licensing regime for 
online casino games and sports betting. Despite having 
received a large number of applications for licensure under 
this legislation, a change of government in that state 
was followed by an announcement indicating the new 
administration’s desire to repeal the law and align the state 
with the treaty adopted by the other German states. Due 
to legal difficulties and delays in the repeal of the existing 
law, the Schleswig-Holstein regulator ultimately issued 
licenses to qualiﬁed applicants, ﬁrst for sports betting only, 
and later for casino licenses. The group was issued both a 
sports betting license and an online casino license by the 
Schleswig-Holstein authorities during 2012. However, there 
remains a certain degree of legal uncertainty surrounding 
the ability of Schleswig-Holstein licensees to accept 
players throughout Germany under that license. While the 
Schleswig-Holstein law does not prohibit the acceptance 
of players nation-wide, and while strong legal arguments 
are available to support the right of Schleswig-Holstein 
licensees to operate in such a manner, the issue is likely to 
be the subject of legal debate once the Schleswig-Holstein 
regime has been fully launched. It is however noteworthy 
that the issuance of online gaming and betting licenses by 
Schleswig-Holstein has exacerbated doubts regarding the 
validity of the Inter State Gaming Treaty (as expressed in 
comments made by various German courts in the latter 
half of 2012). 
REGULATION AND GENERAL REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
18
In early 2013, the Parliament of Schleswig-Holstein, with a 
single vote majority, repealed the state’s Gaming Act, and 
voted to join the other 15 States’ Inter-State Gaming Treaty 
(though the licenses already issued under the repealed Act 
will remain in force for the duration of their 6-year term). 
Concurrently, the German Federal Court of Justice, noting 
doubts regarding the compatibility of the current German 
regulatory regime with EU law, referred the matter for 
adjudication by the European Court of Justice. In practical 
terms, this ruling makes it unlikely that lower German 
courts will take a more deﬁnitive approach regarding the 
validity of the regime until the issue has been ruled on by 
the ECJ, and the vagueness regarding the validity of the 
current regime is likely to persevere for quite some time. 
The end of 2012 saw the UK evaluating its online gaming 
regime. On 3 December 2012, the UK Department for 
Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) published a draft bill 
to amend the 2005 Gambling Act. The bill proposes 
subjecting online gaming operators whose services 
are accessible in the UK to the licensing requirements 
applicable to UK-based operators, while abolishing the 
right of EU/EEA based operators to advertise their 
services in the UK without a UK gaming license. Under 
the current regime, only operators whose online gaming 
equipment is physically located in the UK are required 
to obtain a UK gaming license; furthermore, operators 
licensed in the EU/EEA or in a white-listed jurisdiction, 
such as Gibraltar, 888’s home jurisdiction, are legally 
allowed to advertise their services in the UK. The new 
bill proposes abolishing these two provisions by stating 
that “remote gambling” that is “capable of being used” 
in the UK, may only be conducted under a UK gaming 
license; similarly, such “remote gambling” may only be 
advertised in the UK if it is conducted in accordance with 
a UK gaming license. The bill has been placed before 
Parliament, where the ordinary legislative process will 
commence. The proposal indicates a timeline for the 
reform which is commensurate with the 2013 budget 
and implementation of the new regime is anticipated in 
December 2014. The group is presently assessing the legal 
impact such a change could have on its interaction with 
customers in the UK.
As part of a broader austerity package, and with the 
undisguised aim of generating signiﬁcant tax revenue 
from online gaming, Greece adopted a regulatory and 
licencing regime governing online gaming regime during 
2011. The 2011 Greek legislation (which has not yet been 
enacted) has come under severe criticism due to its 
incompatibility with EU law. This is primarily due to the 
fact that applicants for an online gaming licence must be 
established in Greece, locate their gaming infrastructure 
and store data in Greece and conduct payment 
processing in Greece. The law also subjects applicants 
to retroactive taxation. In late 2012, and as part of the 
Greek Government’s plans to privatize the state owned 
betting monopoly (OPAP), the Government granted OPAP 
a 10-year monopoly on sports betting and a 20-year 
monopoly on VLT operations. Consecutively, the Greek 
Gaming Commission announced its intention to generate 
a blacklist of unlicensed operators active in the Greek 
market; however, due to severe criticism of this move, the 
blacklisting process has been indeﬁnitely put on hold. In 
early 2013, the ECJ ruled that the monopoly granted under 
Greek law to OPAP may be in breach of EU law, returning 
the matter to the Greek courts for ﬁnal determination. A 
ﬁnal ruling invalidating OPAP’s monopoly could have a 
profound impact on the regulatory regime applicable to 
gaming (both online and land-based) in Greece. 
Belgium’s licensing regime for online gaming activities 
became effective in early 2012 after a year of “temporary 
test permits” granted to selected operators. Belgian online 
gaming licences may only be issued to terrestrial operators 
already operating a casino or gaming arcade. In addition, 
servers containing (as a minimum) the data pertaining 
to Belgian operations, are to be located in Belgium. For 
these reasons, the European Commission has declared the 
Belgian regulatory regime to be incompatible with EU law. 
Both Hungary and Romania amended their gambling laws 
during 2011 and introduced limited regulatory regimes 
governing online gaming. The implementation of these 
new regulatory regimes was delayed in anticipation of the 
publication of necessary secondary legislation. Neither 
regime was launched during 2012, and both jurisdictions 
have indicated that they intend to reform the 2011 laws to 
accommodate a more liberalized licensing approach.
Bulgaria adopted a new gaming law, including a liberal 
licensing regime for online gaming, which came into 
effect in mid-2012. Regulations to implement the online 
gaming aspects of the bill are anticipated in early 2013, at 
which time the licensing process under the new law will 
commence. 
The newly elected government of The Netherlands has 
announced its intention to continue efforts by the previous 
administration towards liberalization of the country’s 
regulatory regime applicable to online gaming. In late 
2012 an agreement was reached with the Dutch lottery 
monopoly, securing the latter’s support for liberalization 
of the online market as part of a broader reform of 
gaming laws. The Group maintained close contact with 
the Dutch authorities during 2012, providing information 
and making proposals with regard to the anticipated 
reform based on its experience from other regulated 
markets. The Group will continue to engage with the 
REGULATION AND GENERAL REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS 19
www.888holdingsplc.com
Dutch Gaming Administration during 2013, with the hope 
that the anticipated reform will accommodate a vibrant 
and commercially viable online gaming market in the 
Netherlands.
Also in late 2012, the authorities of the Czech Republic 
announced their intention to redraft a bill aimed at 
reforming the country’s gaming laws (after a previous 
version was rejected by the European Commission). The 
Group remains hopeful that these efforts will result in 
liberalization of the Czech gaming market, allowing the 
Group to obtain a license in this jurisdiction as well.
The Government of Sweden has also announced that it 
is drafting legislation to liberalize the country’s online 
gaming market (currently reserved to the local lottery 
monopolists).
Developments also occurred on the pan-European 
level. Following the public consultation launched by the 
European Commission’s (“EC”) Green Paper on online 
gaming in 2011, the European Union Internal Market and 
Services Commissioner released in October 2012 an 
action plan on the regulation of Europe’s online gambling 
industry. Falling short of proposing harmonization of the 
laws governing online gaming throughout the Internal 
Market, the action plan includes a series of initiatives 
planned for the following two years and aims at clarifying 
the regulatory landscape governing online gambling and 
encouraging cooperation between EU Member States. 
Most notably, the Commission has proposed the adoption 
of a comprehensive set of common principles aimed at 
creating a safer online gaming market in the EU.  The 
action plan lists the following ﬁve priority areas: (1) 
compliance of national regulatory frameworks with EU law; 
(2) enhancing administrative cooperation; (3) protecting 
consumers and citizens; (4) preventing fraud and money 
laundering; and (5) safeguarding the integrity of sports 
and preventing match-ﬁxing. To promote the above, the 
Commission has stated it will establish an expert group to 
facilitate exchanges of experience on regulation between 
Member States. 888 submitted a position paper in the 
context of the consultation process, also addressing the 
issues above, where the group already has well developed 
and robust policies and systems in place. The Commission 
has also planned to send requests for information to 
Member States against whom complaints were registered 
and infringement actions were commenced since 2008 in 
order to obtain an update on the latest developments in 
national legislation.  
USA
Federal legislation governing online gaming (most likely 
online poker, initially) remains the less likely possibility in 
2013. Late 2012 saw consensus between Senator Harry 
Reid (long time supporter of online poker legislation) 
and Senator Jon Kyl (who has traditionally objected to 
federal legislation condoning online poker) who together 
proposed a draft bill to regulate online poker on a federal 
level. However, the year ended without the bill having 
been formally introduced to Congress. It is yet to be seen 
whether Senator Kyl’s retirement from the US Senate 
in early 2013 will affect the likelihood of a new federal 
online poker bill, and whether the newly elected US 
administration will pursue initiatives aimed at regulating 
online gaming on the federal level. As noted below, various 
US states have embarked on independent initiatives to 
regulate online gaming within their territories, and the 
possibility of inter-state compacts is not to be ruled out. 
The Group remains hopeful that these developments at 
state level will ultimately encourage federal legislation 
aimed at regulation of the industry on a national level. 
The end of 2011 saw publication of the US Department of 
Justice’s memorandum reversing the Department’s long-
standing position regarding the scope of the Wire Act. 
The Department’s conclusion that the Wire Act does not 
apply to non-sports betting, and hence does not prohibit 
the intra-state sale online of lottery tickets by licensed 
state lotteries, motivated public discussions and legislative 
initiatives in various US jurisdictions, with the aim of 
regulating intra-state online gaming. 
The State of Nevada implemented, during 2011, a new 
regime governing intra-state interactive poker. The newly 
introduced Nevada regime allows licensed terrestrial 
gaming operators to offer online poker to patrons in 
Nevada, including through partnership with online 
operators in possession of an appropriate service provider 
licence. On 7 March 2013, the Nevada Gaming Control 
Board recommended to the Nevada Gaming Commission 
the approval of the licensing of 888 as an Interactive 
Gaming Service Provider, manufacturer and distributor, 
and in connection therewith the licensing of its key 
executives and controlling shareholders. The Commission 
hearing will be held on 21 March 2013. By securing the 
Board recommendation the Group continues to pioneer 
the Nevada online gaming market. Furthermore, a bill 
passed by the Nevada legislature in early 2013 could pave 
the way for Nevada to compact with other jurisdictions 
towards cooperation (and possibly – pooled liquidity) in 
connection with Interactive Gaming, a development the 
group strongly supports and will continue to assess as 
developments occur. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
20
Late in December 2012 the New Jersey legislature voted 
in favour of a bill that would authorize Atlantic City casino 
licensees to offer casino games via the internet to players 
located in the borders of the state. The new bill only 
allows intrastate Internet gaming, but it provides that 
interstate gaming may occur in the future. Unlike other 
US jurisdictions whose online gaming laws are restricted 
to speciﬁc gaming variants, the law passed by the New 
Jersey legislature would allow licensees to offer online the 
full range of gaming services available under state law, to 
customers within the state. At the close of 2012, the bill 
awaited approval by the Governor (a previous similar bill 
was vetoed by the Governor in 2011). Governor Christie 
conditionally vetoed the bill in early 2013, and in February 
2013 the bill was amended to reﬂect the Governor’s 
conditional veto and was subsequently signed into law 
by the Governor. Following passage of the law, the NJ 
regulator will adopt regulations to develop the regulatory 
framework and is expected to issue licenses during 2013. 
Other states also made initial steps towards regulating 
intrastate online gaming. In June 2012, a bill authorizing 
Internet gaming within the state borders of Delaware 
was signed by the Governor. The new law allows for an 
Internet lottery to be offered and administered through 
the Delaware Lottery. Internet table games and video 
lottery games will also be offered via a website or 
websites branded and promoted by the state’s three 
racetrack casinos, sharing one technology platform. Sale 
of Internet ticket games, meanwhile, will be conducted 
by the Delaware Lottery Office. The new law only allows 
intrastate Internet gaming, but it provides that interstate 
gaming may occur in the future.
Also in December 2012, California Senator Wright 
introduced an Internet gaming bill which would legalize 
intrastate Internet poker. This bill is identical to a previous 
version introduced by the same senator in early 2012 
which had been withdrawn due to anticipated political 
difficulties. 
Bills introducing online gaming regimes in Hawaii, Iowa, 
Illinois, Connecticut, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, Ohio and 
Washington D.C. failed to pass. 
Other US jurisdictions, including Maryland and New 
York, are considering joining Illinois — the ﬁrst US 
state to launch online lottery services — by launching 
online platforms for the sale of lottery products. These 
developments could all present potential business 
opportunities for the Group, which could act as a service 
provider to licensees and lottery corporations in the 
various states.
Other Developments
Several Canadian provinces continued to examine 
possibilities for the regulation of online gaming at the 
provincial level, through the existing lottery corporations. 
The most signiﬁcant development occurred in the province 
of Ontario, which published a tender seeking potential 
partners to operate an online gaming platform on behalf 
of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation.
In Australia, a proposal was published in late 2012 
recommending that the government embark on a 5-year 
online poker “trial”. Resistance within the Australian 
Parliament remains vocal, and the likelihood of signiﬁcant 
change prior to national elections late in 2013 seems 
unlikely.
Finally, the massive growth in social-network based 
gaming in recent years has prompted interest and 
attention from various regulators. While some 
spokespersons have speciﬁcally called for this industry 
to be brought under the scope of real-money gaming 
regulation, other regulators (most notably the UK 
Gambling Commission) have called on the industry to  
“self regulate” in a responsible manner, so as to mitigate 
any potential adverse impacts of social gaming on 
vulnerable audiences (primarily minors). The growing 
importance of social gaming to the industry at large,  
and to the Group in particular, renders this an important 
focal point for 888 in 2013.
REGULATION AND GENERAL REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS 21
www.888holdingsplc.com
Corporate Social Responsibility
As a global leader in online gaming entertainment, 888 
is committed to a standard of corporate and social 
responsibility that reﬂects the high professional and ethical 
standards we have set for ourselves.
Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental to 
the future success of 888 and the sustainability of the 
business. At 888, we understand that our responsible 
approach is both the correct way to do business and 
one that enhances our credibility, thereby supporting the 
development of the business. 
Our values 
At 888 we place the community and the customer at the 
centre of all our endeavours. We are constantly looking at 
new and innovative ways to create a caring, responsible 
gaming environment and have taken rigorous steps at all 
our online sites to prevent underage activity.
For any customers who suspect they have a problem, 
our Director of Responsible Gaming and our well-trained 
staff provides individual assistance that is considerate, 
supportive, and helpful. 
Environment 
As an online businesses 888’s activities have a relatively 
small impact on the environment, but 888 continues to 
develop its commitment to environmental issues:
 ● Energy consumption: We continuously monitor our 
energy consumption to help us ensure we are being as 
energy efficient as possible. 
 ● Recycling: We recycle as much as possible. Paper, 
bottles and cans are collected from all of our sites. All 
888’s redundant IT equipment is now recycled.
 ● Water: We use only ecological detergents in our offices 
and use water saving devices in all our locations. 
 ● Travel: To minimise the impact of travel on the 
environment we encourage employees to either cycle 
to work and, in certain locations, provide buses for 
commuters. We also continue to invest in the state of 
the art technology to help meetings occur remotely. 
Community 
888 is committed to supporting both the various local 
communities in which it operates and also the broader 
global community. Our community investment program 
includes charitable donations and long standing 
community involvement in our key areas across the world. 
888’s Annual Charity Weekend resulted in a donation of 
US$24,000 to Bliss, the UK charity working to provide the 
best possible care and support for all premature and sick 
babies and their families. 
Responsible gaming
Our values place the community and the customer at the 
center of all our endeavours. We are constantly creating 
new and innovative ways to create a caring, responsible 
gaming environment and to ensure children are unable to 
access our gaming sites. 
888 aims to provide responsible adults with the best 
online gaming entertainment experience. However, we 
acknowledge that gaming poses a potential danger to a 
small minority of people. We continuously train all our staff 
in how to provide a safe gaming experience. Our training 
program incorporates methods and techniques to help our 
employees recognise and take appropriate actions if they 
identify compulsive or underage activity.
Protecting Customers 
 ● As a responsible, regulated gaming company we 
comply with both the GamCare and the eCOGRA 
guidelines. 
 ● GamCare is the leading authority on the provision of 
counseling, advice and practical help in addressing the 
social impact of gambling in the UK. 
 ● eCOGRA ensures that approved online casinos are 
properly and transparently monitored to provide player 
protection. 
 ● Our site has links to helping agencies and we have 
placed many safeguards for those who need help with 
controlling their gaming.
 ● Self-assessment test: For players who are worried 
about their gaming habits and want to know more 
about the signs of compulsive gambling,  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
22
 ● Controlling deposit limits: should clients feel the  
need to, they can control their play pattern by self 
limiting the amounts they deposit per day, per week  
or per month. 
 ● Self exclusion: A player can request to be self excluded 
for a chosen period, due to different concerns. Based 
on internal studies we decided to increase time periods 
available for clients to cool off. Clients can choose from 
six different exclusion periods from 1 day to 6 months. 
During this period, 888 blocks the account and no 
promotional e-mails are sent to the client. 
Protecting minors 
Underage activity on our sites is prohibited and 888 takes 
the matter of underage gaming extremely seriously. 
Our offering is not designed to attract minors. We make 
every effort to prevent minors from playing on our sites 
and use sophisticated veriﬁcation systems as well as 
a third party veriﬁcation supplier to identify and track 
minors if they log into our software. The veriﬁcation 
process today consists of two veriﬁcation systems, both 
192.com and URU.
We train our staff to be highly sensitive to the possibility 
of underage activity and make sure we suspend any 
account suspected to be an underage account. 
888responsible 
Since 2007 a dedicated website, www.888responsible.com, 
has been available, providing information regarding all 
aspects of responsible gaming. The site is available in 
English, French, Spanish and German.
Corporate Social Responsibility 23
www.888holdingsplc.com
Risk Report
The Group operates in a dynamic business environment. 
In addition to the day-to-day commercial risks faced 
by most enterprises such as fraud and theft, the online 
gaming industry faces particular challenges in respect of 
Regulatory risk, Reputational risk, Information Technology 
risk and Taxation risk, each of which is detailed below.
Regulatory risk
The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic 
and complex. Change in the regulatory regime in a 
speciﬁc jurisdiction could have a material adverse 
effect on business volume and ﬁnancial performance in 
that jurisdiction. In addition, a number of jurisdictions 
have regulated online gaming, and in many of those 
jurisdictions the Group holds licenses. However, in some 
cases, lack of clarity in the regulations, or conﬂicting 
legislative and regulatory developments, mean that the 
Group may risk failing to obtain an appropriate license, 
having existing licenses adversely affected, or being 
subject to other regulatory sanctions. Furthermore, legal 
and other action may be taken by incumbent gaming 
providers in jurisdictions which are seeking to regulate 
online gaming, in an attempt to frustrate the grant of 
online gaming licenses to the Group. A detailed regulatory 
review is set out in the Regulation and General Regulatory 
Developments section above. The Group manages its 
regulatory risk by routinely consulting with legal advisors 
in the jurisdictions where its services are offered or 
are accessible, where necessary obtaining formal legal 
opinions from local counsel. Furthermore, the Group 
obtains frequent and routine updates regarding changes in 
the law that may be applicable to its operations, working 
with local counsel to assess the impact of any changes 
on its operations. The Group constantly adapts and 
moderates its services to comply with legal and regulatory 
requirements. Finally, the Group blocks players from 
certain ‘blocked jurisdictions’ at various stages and using 
various technological methods.
Reputational risk
Under-age and problem gaming are inherent risks 
associated with the online gaming industry. The Group 
devotes considerable resources to putting in place 
prevention measures coupled with strict internal 
procedures designed to prevent under-aged players from 
accessing its real money sites. In addition, the Group 
promotes a safe and responsible gaming environment to 
its customers supplemented by its corporate culture. The 
Group has a dedicated Director of CSR & Responsible 
Gaming tasked with the responsibility of implementing 
such policies. Further details about the Group’s responsible 
gaming initiatives are set out in the previous pages. 
Information Technology risks
As a leading online business, the Group’s IT systems 
are critical to its operation. The Group is reliant on the 
performance of these systems.
Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are 
implemented throughout the Group’s technology 
operations and designed to protect its networks from 
malicious attacks and other such risks. These measures 
include traffic ﬁltering, anti-DDoS (Distributed Denial of 
Service) devices and Anti-Virus protection from leading 
vendors. Physical and logical network segmentation is 
also used to isolate and protect the Group’s networks and 
restrict malicious activities. The IT environment is audited 
by independent auditors, such as PCI DSS security audit 
and eCOGRA audit. These audits form part of the Group’s 
approach to ensuring proper IT procedures and a high 
level of security. In order to ensure systems are protected 
properly and effectively, external security scans and 
assessments are carried out in a timely manner. The Group 
has a disaster recovery site to ensure full redundancy and 
operation availability. All critical data is replicated to the 
disaster recovery site and stored off-site on a daily basis. 
In the event of loss of functionality of the Group’s main IT 
systems, the business can be fully operated through the 
resources available at the disaster recovery site.
In order to minimise dependence on telecommunication 
service providers, the Group invests in network 
infrastructure redundancies whilst regularly reviewing 
its service providers. The Group has two internet service 
providers in Gibraltar in order to minimise reliance on one 
provider. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
24
As a part of its monitoring system, the Group deploys set 
user experience tests which measure performance from 
different locations around the world. Network-related 
performance issues are addressed by rerouting traffic 
using different routes or providers. 888 operates a 24/7 
Network Operations Centre (NOC). The NOC’s role is to 
conduct real time monitoring of production activities using 
state-of-the-art systems. These systems are designed to 
identify and provide alerts regarding problems related to 
systems, key business indicators and issues surrounding 
customer usability experience.
The IT environment tracks changes, incidents and SLA 
KPIs in order to ensure that client experience is consistent 
and well managed. As part of these procedures, capacity 
planning takes place and infrastructure is built accordingly. 
System-wide availability and business-level availability is 
measured and logged in the IT information systems.
Taxation risk
The Group aims to ensure that each legal entity within 
the Group is a tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it 
is incorporated and has no taxable presence in any other 
jurisdiction. While the Group’s customers are located 
worldwide, certain jurisdictions may seek to tax the 
Group’s activity which could have a material adverse 
effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group or on 
customers’ behaviour. Furthermore, jurisdictions in which 
online gaming is regulated may impose gaming duties on 
licenced operators. The Group actively monitors taxation 
risk in the relevant jurisdictions and takes such steps as it 
considers necessary to minimize such risks.
Risk Report 25
www.888holdingsplc.com
Board of Directors
Richard Kilsby 
Non-executive Chairman
Richard Kilsby has been Chairman since March 2006, 
having previously been Deputy Chairman of the Group 
from August 2005. Since 2002, he has held several 
Board and management positions in various private and 
venture capital funded companies. In 2004, he acted as 
independent monitor for the SEC and USA Department 
of Justice in connection with Adecco. From 1999 to 2002, 
he was Chief Executive of Trade Point and subsequently 
Executive Vice-Chairman of virt-x plc. From 1995 to 1998, he 
was an Executive Director of the London Stock Exchange, 
prior to which he was a Managing Director for Bankers 
Trust from 1992 to 1995. He was also Vice-Chairman of 
Charterhouse Bank from 1988 to 1992, and spent the early 
part of his career with Price Waterhouse (now PwC) where 
he was a partner from 1984 to 1988. Age 61.
Brian Mattingley
Chief Executive Officer
Brian Mattingley has been Chief Executive Officer since 
March 2012, having previously been Deputy Chairman 
of the Group and Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director since March 2006. He joined the Board in August 
2005. He was previously Chief Executive of Gala Regional 
Developments Limited until 2005. From 1997 to 2003 he 
was Group Finance and Strategy Director of Gala Group 
Plc, prior to which he was Chief Executive of Ritz Bingo 
Limited. He has held senior executive positions with 
Kingﬁsher Plc and Dee Corporation Plc. Age 61.
Aviad Kobrine
Chief Financial Officer
Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial Officer of the 
Group since June 2005, and was appointed to the Board in 
August 2005. From October 2004 he was a consultant to 
888. Previously, he was a banker with the Media Telecoms 
Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers and prior 
to that, he was a senior associate with Slaughter and May. 
He holds a Masters in Finance from the London Business 
School (Distinction), a BA in Economics and an LLB from 
Tel Aviv University. Age 49.
John Anderson
Independent Non-executive Director
John Anderson was the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Group from September 2000 to December 2006. He is 
currently Non-executive Chairman of Burford Holdings 
plc and was Chief Executive Officer of Burford Holdings 
plc from 1996 to 2000. He is Chairman of the Interactive 
Gaming Council, Chairman of 10 Tech Holdings Limited, 
Non-executive Director of Swiftstake Technologies Limited 
and Non-executive Director of Probability (Gibraltar) 
Limited which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Probability 
Plc. Previously, he was a Board member of Ladbrokes plc 
from 1990 to 1996. Age 64.
Amos Pickel
Independent Non-executive Director
Amos Pickel was appointed in March 2006. Formerly the 
Chief Executive Officer of Atlas Management Company 
Limited and Chief Executive Officer and member of the 
Board of Directors of Red Sea Hotels Ltd. Previously a 
Non-executive Director of Gresham Hotel Group Plc, he is 
a non-practising solicitor holding a Masters in Law from 
New York University and an LLB. from Tel Aviv University. 
Since September 2010, he has been the chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Berggruen Residential Limited. 
Age 46.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
26
Corporate Governance
888 Holdings plc is admitted to the UK Official List and its 
shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange under 
a Premium Listing. As such, despite being incorporated in 
Gibraltar, the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) 
applies to the Company and is available at www.frc.org.uk. 
A new edition of the Code was published in September 2012 
and will apply to the 2013 reporting period.
Statement of Compliance
The Board remain committed to the principles of 
corporate governance in the Code which it considers to 
be central to the effective management of the business 
and to maintaining the conﬁdence of investors. This report 
explains how the Company has applied the main principles 
of the Code. 
Business Model
A discussion of the basis on which the company generates 
and preserves value over the longer term, together with 
its strategy for delivering its objectives, is set out in the 
Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive’s review on 
pages 2 to 7.
The Board
The Directors consider it essential that the Company 
should be both led and controlled by an effective Board.
Composition
During 2012, the Board consisted of six Directors (ﬁve 
Directors following Gigi Levy’s resignation from the Board 
as of 31 May 2012), as follows: two independent Non-
executive Directors, one Non-independent Non-executive 
Director (none following Gigi Levy’s resignation from 
the Board as of 31 May 2012), a Non-executive Chairman, 
and two Executive Directors, being the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Brian Mattingley was 
appointed full-time Chief Executive Officer in March 2012. 
Prior thereto, following Gigi Levy’s stepping down as Chief 
Executive officer as of 30 April 2011, Mr Mattingley had 
taken on certain executive duties. On 19 March 2012, the 
Board conﬁrmed that John Anderson could be treated as 
independent, since 5 years had passed since he served 
as Chief Executive Officer, and the other criteria under 
Code provision B.1.1 and the Pensions Investment Research 
Consultants (PIRC) guidelines were fulﬁlled, in that Mr 
Anderson was considered independent and involved in 
none of the relevant conﬂicts regardless of the materiality 
thereof. The Board further resolved that its decision would 
be identiﬁed in this Annual Report. 
Brian Mattingley was previously the Senior Independent 
Director and was appointed full-time Chief Executive 
Officer in March 2012. As such, the Board is presently 
in the process of appointing a new Senior Independent 
Director. The role of the Senior Independent Director 
is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to 
evaluate the Chairman’s performance and lead the Board’s 
succession planning, and to serve as an intermediary for 
the other directors where necessary.
The biographical details of all of the Directors are given 
on page 25. The Company is actively seeking new Non-
executive Directors with the experience and skill-set to 
help the Group continue its next phase of growth, and 
intends to appoint at least one new Non-executive Director 
during Q2, 2013. The service contracts of the present Non-
executive Directors were renewed for an additional three 
year period on 1 March 2013. In doing so, the Company 
rigorously reviewed the performance of its Non-executive 
Directors, taking into account the need for progressive 
refreshing of the Board.
Strategic approach
The Board focuses upon the Group’s long-term objectives, 
strategic and policy issues and formally and transparently 
considers the management of key risks facing the Group, 
as well as determining the nature and extent of signiﬁcant 
risks it will take in achieving its strategic objectives, 
maintaining sound risk management and internal control 
systems and reviewing annually the effectiveness of 
the company’s risk management and internal control 
systems. The Board is responsible for acquisitions and 
divestments, major capital expenditure projects and 
considering Group budgets and dividend policy. The Board 
also determines key appointments. The Board receives 
regular updates on shareholders’ views. The Board has 
an established calendar of business. This covers the 
ﬁnancial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and 
performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct 
of standing business. The calendar forms the basis for 
effective integration of business activities as between the 
Board and its principal Committees (see page 28), which 
individually consider their own operating frameworks 
against the Board’s business programme. The Board has 
established a formal process for the annual evaluation of 
its performance, its committees and individual Directors. 
The evaluation process covers a range of issues such as 
Board processes, Board roles and responsibilities, Board 
agendas and committee processes. The internal Board 
evaluation relating to performance in 2012 was carried 
out in December 2012, and included evaluation of the 
performance of the board as a whole as well as evaluation 
of individual directors and the chairman. Pursuant to the 
evaluation, the Board was satisﬁed that the non-executive 
Directors continue to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to their role. The Board plans to meet six 
times a year. During 2012, the Board met ﬁve times. Set 
out below are details of the Directors’ attendance record 
at Board and Committee meetings in 2012. 27
www.888holdingsplc.com
T otal number of meetings held during the year ended
December 2012 and the number of meetings
attended by each Director
Board
Audit
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Nominations
committee
Total held in year 5 1 1 1
Richard Kilsby 5 n/a n/a n/a
Brian Mattingley 5 n/a n/a n/a
Aviad Kobrine 5 n/a n/a n/a
John Anderson 5111
Amos Pickel 5111
Gigi Levy* 0 n/a n/a n/a
* Gigi Levy stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 May 2012.
The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas 
for Board meetings are set in advance. Board papers are 
issued to Directors sufficiently in advance of meetings to 
facilitate both informed debate and timely decisions.
Non-executive review and performance appraisal
The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year 
with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive 
Directors being present. The Non-executive Directors 
meet once per year without the Chairman present in 
order to appraise the performance of the Chairman and 
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors. 
It is part of the role of Senior Independent Director to 
lead this process, presently the Board is in the process 
of appointing a new Senior Independent Director. The 
Directors have wide-ranging business experience, and no 
individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Board’s 
decision making.
The Board considers that John Anderson and Amos Pickel 
satisfy the independence criteria of the Code in 2012. The 
Board is satisﬁed that, upon his appointment as Chairman, 
Richard Kilsby met the independence criteria of the Code. 
The other signiﬁcant commitments of the Chairman 
during 2012 are detailed in his biography on page 25. 
It is noted that Mr Kilsby resigned as a Non-executive 
Director of Tullett Prebon plc in 2012. The Board considers 
that Mr Kilsby’s other commitments do not interfere with 
the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is 
satisﬁed that he makes sufficient time available to serve 
the Company effectively.
Reserved powers and delegation
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been 
adopted and its content is reviewed to align it with 
operational needs and the Board’s preference to monitor 
and, where appropriate, approve matters of substance to 
the Group as a whole. Senior executives have given written 
undertakings to ensure compliance within their business 
operations with the Board’s formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it for decision or approval.
Division of responsibilities
The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and 
formally deﬁned, with the Chairman being responsible for 
the effective operation of the Board as a whole, leadership 
of the Board in achieving a culture of constructive 
challenge by non-executives, regularly agreeing and 
reviewing each director’s training and development needs, 
and supporting key external relationships.
Other issues
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary and the Company’s nominated 
advisers, who are responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed. Directors are able to seek 
independent professional advice, if required, at the 
Company’s expense provided that they have ﬁrst notiﬁed 
their intention to do so. 
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is 
a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the induction of new 
Directors, which has been formulated with the guidance of 
the Nominations Committee.
The opportunity to hold office as non-executive Directors 
of other companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden 
their experience and knowledge, which will beneﬁt the 
Company. Executive Directors may be allowed to accept 
non-executive appointments with the Board’s prior 
permission, so long as these are not likely to lead to any 
conﬂict of interest. Executive Directors may be required to 
account for fees received from such other companies.
The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of 
legal actions against its Directors. T o the extent permitted by 
Gibraltar law, the Company also indemniﬁes the Directors.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
28
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover 
where a Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders 
on an annual basis. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprised two independent 
Non-executive Directors: Amos Pickel (Chair) and John 
Anderson. The Board is satisﬁed that Amos Pickel has 
sufficient recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience to 
Chair the Audit Committee. Normally, by invitation, the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer and, where appropriate, representatives of the 
Company’s external auditors attend the Audit Committee 
meetings.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are available on 
request to the Company Secretary and are included on the 
Company’s website, www.888holdingsplc.com.
In summary, the Audit Committee assists the Board in 
discharging its responsibilities with regard to ﬁnancial 
reporting, external and internal audits and controls, 
including reviewing 888’s annual ﬁnancial statements, 
considering the scope of annual audit and the extent 
of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, 
approving 888’s internal audit programme, advising on 
the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the 
effectiveness of internal control systems.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of 
the external audit process by establishing schedules 
and agendas for regular meetings with the auditors, 
supervising the audit function directly to ensure that the 
auditors are independent and objective in their ﬁndings, 
and working to ensure comprehensive audit coverage to 
meet the risks and demands posed by the Company’s 
business.
The appointment or reappointment of the external auditor 
is put to the vote of each Annual General Meeting. Prior 
thereto, the Audit Committee considers the auditor’s 
performance during the year, and forms a view as to 
whether to recommend that the present auditor be re-
appointed or an alternative be proposed. 
BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been the Company’s 
external auditors since 2003. Neither BDO LLP nor BDO 
Limited provides any material non-audit services to the 
Company. The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the 
Company’s auditors are objective and independent by 
monitoring the appointment of the auditors for any non-
audit work involving fees above US$0.1 million.
Nominations Committee
During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised 
two independent Non-executive Directors: Amos Pickel 
(Chair) and John Anderson. Brian Mattingley was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer in March 2012.
The Nominations Committee assists the Board in 
discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition 
of the Board. The Nominations Committee is responsible 
for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the 
Board, determining succession plans for the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, and identifying and recommending 
suitable candidates for appointment as Directors. The 
Nominations Committee’s terms of reference are available 
on request to the Company Secretary and are included on 
the Company’s website, www.888holdingsplc.com.
During 2012, the Nominations Committee took steps to 
identify new Non-executive Directors, and it is intended to 
appoint at least one new Non-executive Director during 
Q2 2013. Furthermore, since the stepping down of the 
Company’s previous Chief Executive Officer in April 2011, 
the Nominations Committee led the search for a new Chief 
Executive Officer with the assistance of an executive search 
ﬁrm. Pending such recruitment, Brian Mattingley was asked 
by the Board to become more involved in the day to day 
operations of the Company. In March 2012, Brian was asked 
to take on the role of Chief Executive Officer. 
The Nominations Committee is also responsible for 
implementing the Board’s policy on diversity within 
the scope of its mandate, including setting measurable 
objectives and monitoring progress on achieving such 
objectives. In considering new Board appointments, 
diversity is one of the criteria considered by the 
Nominations Committee.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
comprised two independent Non-executive Directors: 
Amos Pickel (Chair) and John Anderson.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the 
framework of executive remuneration and its cost. It is 
required to take account of any recommendation made 
by the Remuneration Committee in determining the 
remuneration, beneﬁts and employment packages of the 
Executive Directors and senior management and the fees 
of the Chairman.
Corporate Governance 29
www.888holdingsplc.com
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, which outlines the 
Remuneration Committee’s work and details of Directors’ 
remuneration, is on pages 30 to 38. The Remuneration 
Committee’s terms of reference are available on request 
to the Company Secretary and are included on the 
Company’s website, www.888holdingsplc.com.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible 
for the Company’s system of internal control, for setting 
policy on internal control and risk management, and 
for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control and 
risk management. It is management’s role to implement 
Board policies on risk and control, including reporting. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit 
Committee to review the appropriateness and adequacy of 
systems of internal control and risk management in relation 
to the ﬁnancial reporting process on an ongoing basis and 
to make recommendations to the Board. Deloitte Limited 
(Gibraltar) was engaged in 2012 to carry out the Company’s 
internal audit function, reporting to the Audit Committee. 
During 2012, Deloitte prepared a comprehensive risk report 
which was presented to the Board. Following consideration 
thereof, an audit plan for the coming 5 years was prepared 
and approved by the Board.
888’s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, 
has developed stringent payment risk management 
and fraud control procedures. The team makes use of 
external and internal systems to manage the payment 
risks. Detailed procedures exist throughout the Company’s 
operations and compliance is monitored by operational 
management and the internal audit function.
The Directors periodically review the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of internal control and risk management. 
The review considers individual risk control responsibilities, 
reporting lines and qualitative assessments of residual risks.
Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial 
Audiences
The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue 
with principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side 
analysts through a planned programme of investor relations 
and ﬁnancial PR activity. The outcome of these meetings 
is reported to the Board. The programme includes formal 
presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly 
release of Interim Management Statements, analysts’ 
conference calls and periodic road shows. 
Shareholders are free to contact any non-Executive 
director to address any issues where contact with the 
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate or 
where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting (scheduled to be held on 8 May 2013) 
and private investors are encouraged to take advantage 
of the opportunity given to ask questions. The Chairmen 
(or nominated members) of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees will attend the meeting and be 
available to answer questions.
Compliance with Statutory Provisions
As the Company is registered in Gibraltar, it is subject to 
compliance with Gibraltar statutory requirements. The 
main legislation relevant to companies in Gibraltar is 
the Gibraltar Companies Act, which is based on the UK 
Companies Act 1929. The Company is in full compliance 
with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
Going Concern 
After careful review of the Group’s budget for 2013, its 
medium-term plans, liquid resources and all relevant 
matters, the Directors are conﬁdent that the Company and 
the Group have adequate ﬁnancial resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. They have 
therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group 
are disclosed in the Risk Report above.
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
The Group’s Chief Executive Officer is the Director 
responsible for monitoring corporate social responsibility 
within 888. The Board receives periodic reports on the 
Group’s activities in this area from the Chief Executive 
Officer. Further details are set out in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility report on pages 21 to 22.
Diversity Policy
Diversity is important to us as we believe that only through 
access to the most diverse pool of talent will we recruit 
and retain the most talented individuals to serve our 
customers. Presently, women comprise approximately  
20% of the Group’s senior management, and we actively 
seek to recruit and advance women into our top 
management.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
30
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Letter to Shareholders
Dear Shareholders,
Over the course of 2012, the Remuneration Committee 
has worked to develop the company’s remuneration policy 
so as to ensure that it provides a remuneration structure 
for our directors that continues to be appropriate for our 
business while reﬂecting best practice as set out in the 
Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate Governance 
Code and in UK institutional shareholders’ guidelines 
on remuneration. Furthermore, we aimed to develop 
a remuneration policy which anticipates upcoming 
changes to the regulatory framework for reporting on 
remuneration. The Committee has speciﬁcally focused 
on aligning the Company’s remuneration policy with 
Company strategy and its approach to risk, and on 
rewarding success fairly, whilst avoiding paying more 
than is necessary to properly attract, retain and motivate 
directors of appropriate calibre to the Company’s business.
The Committee believes that a transparent and consistent 
remuneration policy clearly linking executive remuneration 
to personal and company performance is the best way to 
ensure alignment of executive incentives with shareholder 
interests and to advance the long-term interests of the 
company and its shareholders.
In this respect, the Remuneration Committee has set 
clear performance criteria for calculation of the Executive 
Directors’ annual bonus (if any), as well as for the 
vesting of long-term equity based incentives. In line with 
institutional shareholders’ guidelines, share awards made 
commencing 1 January 2012 are consistently subject to cliff 
vesting after three years from grant, as opposed to annual 
vesting over a four year period as was the case previously.
We hope that you will ﬁnd the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report informative and would be happy to discuss any 
feedback you may have.
Sincerely,
Amos Pickel 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
13 March 2013
Introduction
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company 
presents its report on the remuneration of its Directors 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. The Company is 
incorporated in Gibraltar and, therefore, is not required 
to comply with the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
requirements in Schedule 8 to the UK Large and Medium 
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008, but has chosen to prepare this 
Remuneration Report on the basis of those requirements, 
as appropriate.
The report sets out the structure and details of the 
remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 
2012. It also describes the Board’s policy and approach to 
the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors’ 
remuneration contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. BDO LLP and BDO Limited have audited the sections 
headed ‘Directors’ Remuneration Summary’ and ‘Directors’ 
Interests in Share Awards and Share Options’. 
A resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report is proposed, annually, to shareholders for approval. 
This Remuneration Report will be put to shareholder vote 
at the upcoming Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consisted solely of 
independent Non-executive Directors, currently Amos 
Pickel (Chair) and John Anderson. Since the Company 
was a member of the FTSE Small Cap Index throughout 
2012, it is not required to have more than two members 
of its Remuneration Committee, however in any event the 
Company continues to seek suitably experienced Non-
executive Directors to expand its Board and committee 
membership. Details of attendances at Committee 
meetings are contained in the statement on Corporate 
Governance on page 26 to 29.
The Remuneration Committee’s remit includes such 
matters as:
 ● Determining and agreeing with the Board the 
remuneration policy with regard to the Company’s 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer and other members of the executive 
management; 
 ● Regularly reviewing the on-going appropriateness and 
relevance of the Company’s remuneration policy;
 ● Setting and monitoring performance criteria for bonus 
arrangements operated by the Group ensuring that 
they represent achievable and motivating rewards 
for appropriate levels of performance and, where  31
www.888holdingsplc.com
appropriate, are justiﬁable taking into account the 
Company’s and its group’s overall performance and the 
corresponding return on shareholders’ investment in 
the same period;
 ● Recommending to the Board the policy for and scope 
of pension arrangements for the executive directors; 
and 
 ● In relation to the Company’s share option and share 
award schemes, setting or recommending vesting 
criteria which are appropriate in terms of the 
Company’s performance and return on shareholders’ 
investment over the same period.
The formal terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee are available on request in writing to the 
Company Secretary and on the Company’s website, 
www.888holdingsplc.com.
Independent Advice
The Board intends that executive remuneration policies 
be both formal and transparent. It further acknowledges 
the importance of taking into consideration independent 
advice in setting remuneration policies and beneﬁt 
levels. In 2012, the Remuneration Committee took into 
consideration advice received in the past from New Bridge 
Street as well as latest available benchmarks published by 
New Bridge Street.
Remuneration Policy
Executive Directors
Remuneration packages must be sufficient to attract, 
retain and motivate Directors of the calibre appropriate 
to a global business in a competitive environment. The 
Remuneration Committee is mindful that most of the 
Group’s competitors are not UK listed companies and 
acknowledges the unique risk proﬁle associated with 
online businesses of the nature of the Group’s, and takes 
these matters into account in determining appropriate 
remuneration levels. The components of the remuneration 
structure are set out below.
At least half of the total potential remuneration of the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer 
is represented by a variable element, dependent on the 
performance of the Group. The Remuneration Committee 
considers that these represent achievable and motivational 
levels of personal rewards commensurate with stipulated 
levels of corporate performance.
The Remuneration Committee is mandated by the Board 
to satisfy itself that the level of the Directors’ and senior 
management’s remuneration is appropriate, having regard 
to pay and conditions throughout the sectors in which 
the Group operates as well as pay and conditions of 
employees throughout the Group. It further ensures that 
such remuneration aligns with the risks and rewards to 
shareholders. In this context, the Remuneration Committee 
regularly reviews individual and corporate performance 
targets and uses careful and rigorous judgment to match 
remuneration to achievements.
The Remuneration Committee applies a remuneration 
policy which has at its core the following objectives:
 ● To align the incentives of executives with the interests 
of shareholders, including being mindful of employee 
costs in light of the Company’s capital needs and return 
to shareholders;
 ● To focus on top-line growth and margin improvement;
 ● To link a signiﬁcant proportion of remuneration to 
ﬁnancial and individual performance, both in the short 
term and long term;
 ● To provide strong linkage between remuneration, 
performance and delivery of Company strategy; and
 ● To ensure total remuneration is market-competitive in 
the industry and helps attract and retain executives of 
the highest calibre.
It is the Company’s policy to take into account the pay 
and conditions of employees throughout the Group when 
determining Directors’ remuneration. For this purpose, 
the Remuneration Committee has available to it non-
personally identiﬁable information regarding pay and 
conditions throughout the Group and ensures that Director 
remuneration is not excessive or disproportionate when 
taking into account the additional risks and responsibilities 
taken on by Directors.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
32
Remuneration 
Component Purpose Implementation
Base Salary, benefits 
and pension
1
Provide an attractive pay 
and benefits package taking 
into account the risks and 
responsibilities of the role in 
order to attract, retain and 
motivate directors of suitable 
calibre 
Base salary is reviewed annually taking into account 
personal performance and market benchmarks. Benefits 
provided to Brian Mattingley include the provision of 
fully serviced accommodation and use of a Company 
car; benefits provided to Aviad Kobrine include a car 
allowance and health, disability and life insurance. Further 
details are set out on page 33.
Bonus Provide a challenging framework 
to incentivize executive 
performance and align executive 
incentives to shareholder 
interests
Maximum bonus award is 100% of base salary, calculated 
on a linear scale based on adjusted like-for-like Adjusted 
EBITDA growth, commencing with a 25% bonus 
entitlement upon reaching a threshold of 5% year on year 
Adjusted EBITDA growth and reaching full bonus payment 
at 20% year on year Adjusted EBITDA growth. In addition, 
a bonus is only payable where reported Adjusted EBITDA 
is above budget for the year as approved by the Board. 
Further details are set out on page 33.
Share Awards Encourage executives to 
create long-term shareholder 
value, aligned with the timing 
of implementation of the 
Company’s long-term strategy
Share awards or nil cost options are subject to 3 year cliff 
vesting, with equally weighted dependence on EPS-based 
and TSR-based metrics. The total grant allocation to each 
Executive Director is equal to 100% of such Executive 
Director’s salary converted into shares of the Company by 
reference to the prevailing share price at the time of grant. 
Further details are set out on pages 33 to 38.
1  Neither Executive Director is entitled to a pension from the Company; Aviad Kobrine receives a cash payment in lieu thereof in the amount of 15% of his 
base salary.
Recruitment of New Directors
The Company is aware of its need to attract and retain 
new directors of suitable calibre to its business, and 
determines the remuneration packages it offers by 
taking into account the global nature and competitive 
environment of its business. 
Appointment of Brian Mattingley as CEO 
Mr. Mattingley was appointed as full-time Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company on 27 March 2012, after having 
taken on additional executive responsibilities during the 
period following the departure of Gigi Levy on 30 April 2011.
Pursuant to his employment agreement with the Company, 
Mr. Mattingley is entitled to a base salary of £345,000 
per annum, subject to annual review at which such base 
salary may (at the Company’s discretion) be increased but 
not decreased, with the ﬁrst such review taking place on 
1 January 2013. Furthermore, Mr. Mattingley was entitled 
to a one-off bonus upon signing of the agreement of 
£310,000 as compensation for the additional executive 
responsibilities taken and performance achieved in respect 
of the period prior to his appointment as Chief Executive. 
Mr. Mattingley is eligible to participate in the Company’s 
annual discretionary bonus plan, subject to the 
performance criteria set out below under “Annual Cash 
Bonus“ and a maximum bonus of 100% of salary. 
Furthermore, Mr. Mattingley was granted a phantom share 
award which is normally capable of vesting on 27 March 
2015. Further details of the phantom share award are set 
out below under “Phantom Share Award”.
Mr. Mattingley is further entitled to the provision of 
accommodation in Gibraltar or Spain and company car 
beneﬁts as described below under “Beneﬁts”.
Non-executive Directors
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors receive 
fees only, and are not eligible to participate in any bonus 
plan, pension plan, share plan, or long-term incentive 
plan of the Company. The Chairman and the Executive 
Directors determine the fees paid to the Non-executive 
Directors. The Chairman’s fees are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 33
www.888holdingsplc.com
Fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are set by 
reference to an assessment of the time commitment 
and responsibility associated with each role. Levels take 
account of additional demands placed upon individual 
Non-executive Directors by virtue of their holding 
particular offices, such as Committee Chairman and/or 
Deputy Chairman, and travel time to Board meetings at 
the Group’s headquarters in Gibraltar. The fees paid to 
each Non-executive Director during 2012 are disclosed  
in the Directors’ remuneration summary on page 36.
Remuneration Structure
Base Salary and Benefits 
The Executive Directors’ base salaries are subject to 
annual review at the time of the annual general meeting 
each year with effect from 1st January of the same year. In 
reviewing salaries the Remuneration Committee takes into 
account pay and conditions elsewhere across the Group, 
relevant market data and benchmarking, and the individual 
Director’s performance and experience. Benchmarking 
is carried out on a total remuneration basis, and takes 
account of pay levels for comparable roles at a range of 
organisations of similar size and sector. 
In 2012, Brian Mattingley’s salary was £345,000, and Aviad 
Kobrine’s salary was £346,500*. In 2013, Brian Mattingley’s 
salary will be £345,000 and Aviad Kobrine’s salary will be 
£346,500*. 
Beneﬁts provided to Brian Mattingley include the provision 
of accommodation in Gibraltar or Spain, and the use of a 
company car at the Company’s expense.
Beneﬁts provided to Aviad Kobrine include a car allowance 
and health, disability and life insurance. 
Annual Cash Bonus
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to an annual 
cash bonus up to a maximum of 100% of salary, which 
becomes payable following the approval of the Group’s 
annual results at the annual general meeting in accordance 
with performance criteria which are designed to provide a 
challenging framework to incentivize executive performance 
and align executive incentives to shareholder interests.
* Part of which is paid by the Company and part by Cassava Enterprises 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
The performance criteria for payment of the annual cash 
bonus are based on the growth of Adjusted EBITDA over 
that reported in the previous year, with the removal of 
exceptional items relating to the changing regulatory 
environment to arrive at a like-for-like adjusted EBITDA. 
The bonus is assessed on a sliding scale, such that where 
adjusted EBITDA has grown by 5% compared to the 
previous year, the Executive Director will be entitled to 
25% of bonus entitlement, rising on a linear scale to 100% 
entitlement where growth of 20% has been achieved. 
No bonus is paid where growth is below 5%, and the bonus 
is only paid where reported adjusted EBITDA is above 
budget for the year as approved by the Board. Bonus 
entitlement is limited to a maximum of 100% of base 
salary.
In 2012, the Executive Directors achieved a cash bonus of 
US$1.1 million, in light of the 2012 adjusted EBITDA of US$67 
million, representing growth in adjusted EBITDA of 20% 
compared to 2011, and which also exceeded the budgeted 
Adjusted EBITDA for 2012. 
Pensions
Brian Mattingley has no pension entitlement from the Company. 
Aviad Kobrine is entitled to a cash payment in lieu of an 
annual contribution to his personal pension scheme of 15% 
of his base salary.
Long-Term Incentives
The long-term incentive plans utilized by the Company 
are aimed to encourage the Executive Directors to create 
long-term shareholder value and to align executive 
incentives to shareholder interests.
The Company has two employee share incentive plans: (i) 
the 888 All-Employee Share Plan, and (ii) the 888 Long-
term Incentive Plan. The Company currently only grants 
awards under the 888 All-Employee Share Plan.
Performance-dependent options and awards were granted 
under the 888 All-Employee Share Plan to Aviad Kobrine 
on 27 March 2012. Details of these awards and options are 
set out on pages 36 to 37.
A phantom share award was granted to Brian Mattingley 
on his appointment as CEO in 2012. Details of the phantom 
share award are set out on page 35. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
34
888 All-Employee Share Plan
All employees, consultants and Executive Directors 
of the Group who are not within six months of their 
normal retirement age are eligible to participate in the 
888 All-Employee Share Plan at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Awards under the 888 All-Employee Share Plan can either 
be granted for no consideration (or with a nil exercise 
price for options) or at an exercise price that will normally 
be no less than the market value of an ordinary share at 
the time of grant or average share price during a period 
as determined by the Remuneration Committee at time of 
grant. In countries where an award or option involving real 
shares is not appropriate or feasible for legal, regulatory or 
tax reasons, a phantom award may be used.
The maximum number of ordinary shares that an eligible 
employee may acquire pursuant to share awards or 
options granted to such person in any calendar year under 
the 888 All-Employee Share Plan and the 888 Long-term 
Incentive Plan may not have an aggregate market value, 
as measured at the date of grant, exceeding 200% of such 
person’s annual base salary or such higher limit as the 
Remuneration Committee may determine is appropriate 
in any individual case. Awards vest over a ﬁxed period 
of up to four years. The Remuneration Committee may 
determine that the vesting and release or exercise of share 
awards and options under the 888 All Employee Share 
Plan are subject to performance conditions imposed at the 
time of grant.
The following conditions applied to all share awards under 
the 888 All-Employee Share plan to the executive directors 
commencing 1 January 2012 and to an award over 1,175,373 
ordinary shares of the Company made to Aviad Kobrine on 
24 May 2011.
The Executive Directors are granted nil cost options on 
an annual basis following the publication of the Group’s 
annual results. The total grant allocation to each Executive 
Director is equal to 100% of such Executive Director’s 
salary converted into shares of the Company by reference 
to the prevailing market value of a share at the time of 
grant. The nil cost options are subject to 3 year cliff vesting 
commencing from the beginning of the ﬁnancial year in 
which the award is granted, with 50% of such options 
dependent upon the achievement of a performance 
condition based on cumulative growth in Earnings Per 
Share (EPS) over such three-year period, and the other 
50% of such options dependent upon the achievement 
of a performance condition based on cumulative growth 
in Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over such three-year 
period. With regard to the options subject to the EPS 
performance condition, where the compound annual EPS 
growth rate is between 5% and 20% adjusted on a like-
for like basis, such options vest on a linear scale between 
25% and 100% of the shares under the EPS element, with 
an EPS growth rate of below 5% not allowing any vesting. 
With regard to the options subject to the TSR performance 
condition, where the Company’s annual TSR growth rate 
is between the median of a peer group determined by the 
Remuneration Committee and 10% above such median, 
such options vest on a linear scale between 25% and 100% 
of the shares under the TSR element, with a TSR growth 
rate of below such median not allowing any vesting. The 
peer group for the TSR performance condition determined 
by the Remuneration Committee is presently as follows with 
respect to awards made to date, however the Remuneration 
Committee will reconsider the composition of such peer 
group on an annual basis prior to the grant of any options:
 ● Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment PLC
 ● Sportech PLC
 ● Ladbrokes PLC
 ● Playtech Ltd.; and
 ● Paddy Power PLC
888 Long-term Incentive Plan
All employees and Executive Directors of the Group who 
are not within six months of their normal retirement age are 
eligible to participate in the 888 Long-term Incentive Plan 
at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. As at the 
date of this report, no awards have been granted pursuant 
to the 888 Long-term Incentive Plan. As set out above, 
the Company has given long-term incentive awards to 
Executive Directors under the 888 All-Employee Share Plan.
Scheme Limits
Awards and options granted under the 888 All-Employee 
Share Plan and the 888 Long-term Incentive Plan may be 
satisﬁed through the issue of new shares. It is intended 
that grants of options and awards are to be planned so as 
not to exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in 
any rolling ten year period for the 888 Long-term Incentive 
Plan, and 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any 
rolling ten year period for the 888 All-Employee Share Plan 
and the 888 Long-term Incentive Plan, in the aggregate. 
The Committee has regard to appropriate annual ﬂow-
rates so as to ensure that these limits are not breached.
Employee Trusts
The Company established a Trust to further the interests 
of the Company, its subsidiaries and shareholders by 
providing share incentives to employees (including 
Executive Directors) of any Group company to enable the 
Group to attract, retain and motivate employees. 
The 888 Holdings plc Share Plan Trust currently holds 
46,432 ordinary shares in the Company.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 35
www.888holdingsplc.com
Phantom Share Award
Brian Mattingley was granted a phantom share award by 
the Company pursuant to his employment agreement 
dated 27 March 2012. 
The phantom share award provides that Mr Mattingley will 
be entitled to a one-time cash sum, on the vesting date of 
27 March 2015 provided that he is in employment with the 
Company at that time. The amount payable is calculated 
on an incremental basis, based on the average share price 
of the Company over a period of 20 dealing days prior to 
the scheduled vesting date for the award. The minimum 
amount payable is £250,000 and the maximum payable is 
£5,500,000.
Speciﬁcally, where the Company’s average share price is 
less than 50p in the 20 dealing days prior to the scheduled 
vesting date, a minimum award amount of £250,000 is 
payable. Where the share price is between 50p and 60p, 
the award payable is calculated on a straight line basis 
between £250,000 and £450,000. For each additional 
10p above a share price of 60p up to £1, an incremental 
amount of £200,000 is payable; for each additional 10p 
above a share price of £1 and up to £1.20, an incremental 
amount of £300,000 is payable; for each additional 
10p above a share price of £1.20 and up to £1.60, an 
incremental amount of £400,000 is payable; and for each 
additional 10p above a share price of £1.60 up to £2.00, 
an incremental amount of £500,000 is payable up to a 
maximum payment of £5,500,000. 
The phantom award will also vest if Mr Mattingley leaves 
employment before the normal vesting date for any 
reason unless he resigns or the company dismisses him 
summarily in accordance with the terms of his contract for 
example for gross misconduct. The average share price 
will normally be calculated by reference to the 20 day 
period up to the date of the termination of employment. 
However, if the Company has terminated Mr Mattingley’s 
employment under notice, he may request the average 
share price to be calculated either by reference to the 
period up to the service of the notice or the normal 
vesting date of 27 March 2015 as he chooses. If there 
is a change of control, the average share price will be 
calculated by reference to the period up to the change  
of control. 
The fair value of Mr Mattingley’s award at 31 December 
2012 has been externally evaluated at £1.8 million, with the 
Company recording a charge in the amount of £0.5 million 
in its 2012 accounts in respect of the amount earned in the 
year.
Director Appointments - Service Contracts and 
Directors’ Fees
Executive Directors
It is the Company’s policy that each Executive Director’s 
service agreement is terminable on no more than 12 
months’ written notice by either party. Each Executive 
Director’s employment can be terminated by making a 
payment equal to the salary and pension contributions 
(if any) and the value of other contractual beneﬁts due 
to the Executive Director in lieu of any unexpired notice 
period. The Executive Directors continue to be entitled 
to be paid a bonus, and in the case of Brian Mattingley, a 
phantom share award, during any unexpired part of the 
notice period even if the employment is terminated by 
making payment in lieu of notice. No other beneﬁts upon 
termination of employment are payable. An Executive 
Director’s entitlement to share awards and share options 
under the 888 All Employee Plan on termination of 
employment will be governed by the terms of that plan. 
Brian Mattingley’s entitlements under his phantom share 
award on termination of employment are described above. 
Name Position Contracting Party Letter of Appointment Date
Brian Mattingley Chief Executive Officer The Company 27/03/2012
Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer The Company 14/09/2005
Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer Cassava Enterprises 
(Gibraltar) Limited
 1
14/09/2005
1 Wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
36
Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but have signed Letters of Appointment. 
Non-executive Directors’ appointments, which are for a term of three years, may be terminated by the Company without 
notice in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the Gibraltar Companies Act, except for the 
Chairman who is required to be given six months’ prior written notice of termination. No compensation is payable on the 
termination of the appointment. 
Name Position Contracting Party
Letter of 
Appointment Date
Richard Kilsby Chairman The Company 01/03/2013
John Anderson Non-executive Director The Company 01/03/2013
Amos Pickel Non-executive Director The Company 01/03/2013
Gigi Levy
1
Non-executive Director The Company 30/04/2011
1  Mr. Levy resigned as a Non-executive Director on 31 May 2012. Mr. Levy was Chief Executive Officer of the Company until 30 April 2011.
Directors’ Remuneration Summary 
The cash emoluments or fees receivable by the Directors for 2012 and 2011 are shown below:
Base 
salary/
fees 
US$ ’000
1
Bonus
US$ ’000
1
Benefits
US$ ’000
Pensions
Allowance
US$ ’000
6
Compensation
for loss 
of office
US$ ’000
Total 
2012
US$ ’000
T otal 
2011
US$ ’000
Executive
Brian Mattingley
3
495 506 59 1,060 768
Aviad Kobrine
2
550 561 40 82 1,233 1,419
Non-executive
Richard Kilsby 349 17 366 370
John Anderson 122 122 124
Amos Pickel 122 122 106
Gigi Levy
4
44 44 3,783
Michael Constantine
5
106
Total 1,682 1,067 116 82 2,947 6,676
1 Where Directors’ remuneration is denominated in Sterling, amounts have been converted into US$ at the average rate of exchange for the relevant 
month it was paid, save for the annual cash bonus which is converted into US$ at the year end exchange rate.
2 Part of Mr. Kobrine’s remuneration is paid by one of his employers, Cassava Enterprises (Gibraltar) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 
3  Mr. Mattingley was a Non-executive Director of the Company during 2011.
4 Mr. Levy resigned as a Non-executive Director on 31 May 2012. Mr. Levy was Chief Executive Officer of the Company until 30 April 2011.
5 Mr. Constantine resigned as a Non-executive Director on 31 December 2011.
6 In 2011, the pension allowances amounted to US$34,000 for Gigi Levy and US$71,000 for Aviad Kobrine.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 37
www.888holdingsplc.com
Directors’ Interests in Ordinary Shares 
The notiﬁed beneﬁcial interests of Executive and Non-executive Directors who were in office at 31 December 2012 in the 
issued share capital of the Company are: 
Ordinary shares
31 December
2012 2011
Executive
Brian Mattingley
1
142,857 142,857
Aviad Kobrine 443,183 443,183
Non-executive
Richard Kilsby 114,285 114,285
John Anderson 588,869 588,869
Amos Pickel 100,000 100,000
1  Mr. Mattingley was a Non-executive Director of the Company during 2011.
Directors’ Interests in Share Awards & Share Options 
The number of shares subject to Share Awards or Share Options granted to the Executive Directors and outstanding as 
at 31 December 2012 is set out below:
Date 
of award
Earliest
exercise/
Vesting 
date
Exercise
period 
end date
Exercise
price
£
Awards 
at 
31/12/2011
Awarded
2012
Vested 
in 2012
Market
price at
vesting
date
£
Market
price at
award
date
£
Lapsed
in 
2012
Awards 
at 
31/12/ 2012
Aviad Kobrine                   
888 All-Employee 
Share Plan
1
15 / 01/ 2008 15 / 01/ 2012 15 / 01/ 2018 nil 42,500 42,500 0 .45 1.42 —
15 / 01/ 2008 15 / 01/ 2012 15 / 01/ 2018 nil 7 ,500 7 ,500 0 .45 1.42 —
888 All-Employee 
Share Plan
3
14 / 01/ 2009 13/ 01/ 2012 15 / 01/ 2019 nil 7 , 126 7 , 126 0 .45 1. 00 —
888 All-Employee 
Share Plan
1
2 4 / 05/20 11 2 4/ 05/20 12 2 4/ 05/20 21 nil 23 5, 0 7 5 23 5,0 75 0.71 0 .34 —
2 4 / 05 / 2011 2 4 / 05 / 2012 2 4 / 05 / 2021 nil 423, 134 423, 134 0 . 71 0 .34 —
2 4 / 05/20 11 2 4/ 05/20 13 2 4/ 05/20 21 nil 23 5, 0 7 5 0 .34 — 23 5,0 75
2 4 / 05 / 2011 2 4 / 05 / 2013 2 4 / 05 / 2021 nil 23,50 7 0 .34 — 23,50 7
2 4 / 05/2011 2 4/ 05/2014 2 4/ 05/20 21 nil 23 5, 0 7 4 0 .34 — 235,0 7 4
2 4 / 05 / 2011 2 4 / 05 / 2014 2 4 / 05 / 2021 nil 23,508 0 .34 — 23,508
  2 4/ 05/20 11 2 4/ 05/20 15 2 4/ 05/20 21 nil 23 5, 0 7 5 0 .34 — 23 5,0 75
888 All-Employee 
Share Plan
2
2 4 / 05/20 11 2 4/ 05/20 14 2 4/ 05/20 21 nil 1, 17 5,3 73 0.34 — 1, 175,3 73
888 All-Employee 
Share Plan
2
27 / 03/ 2012 27 / 03/ 2015 2 8 / 0 3 / 2 0 2 2 nil 625, 000 0 .63 — 625, 000
1 Awarded as a nil cost option.
2 Awarded as a nil cost option. Vesting subject to performance conditions, as described on page 34. 
3 Awarded as a nil cost option. Grant made in lieu of waiver of a part of Mr. Kobrine’s annual cash bonus. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
38
The closing price of one ordinary share was 119p at 31 December 2012. The highest closing price during 2012 was 120p 
and the lowest was 42p. 
No Director was materially interested during the year in any contract which was signiﬁcant in relation to the business of 
the Company. 
The parts of the directors’ remuneration report from Directors’ Remuneration Summary to this point have been audited 
in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. 
Total shareholder return 
The chart below shows the value of an investment of £100 Sterling in the Company’s shares and in the FTSE 250 
Index over a ﬁve year period ending 31 December 2012. The Directors have chosen the FTSE 250 Index as the most 
appropriate comparator index as the Company was a constituent member until October 2006, was reincluded in that 
index from February 2008 until 2010 and was on the reserve list in 2012. 
VALUE OF £100 STERLING IN 888 OVER 5 YEAR PERIOD ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2012 V. FTSE 250 INDEX
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
1/1/2008
4/1/2008
7/1/2008
10/1/2008
1/1/2009
4/1/2009
7/1/2009
10/1/2009
1/1/2010
4/1/2010
7/1/2010
10/1/2010
1/1/2011
4/1/2011
7/1/2011
10/1/2011
1/1/2012
4/1/2012
7/1/2012
10/1/2012
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Amos Pickel
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
13 March 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report 39
www.888holdingsplc.com
Directors’ Report
The Directors submit to the members their Annual  
Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2012. The report on Corporate Governance 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 38 
form part of this Directors’ Report.
Principal Activities
During 2012 the Group’s principal activities were the 
provision of online gaming entertainment to customers 
and business partners. A review of the business and future 
developments is given in the Chairman’s Statement on 
page 2, the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 3 to 7 and 
the Enhanced Business Review on pages 8 to 10.
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 
70.
Results
The Group’s Proﬁt before tax for the ﬁnancial year of 
US$41 million is reported in the Consolidated Income 
Statement on page 44. The Directors recommend a ﬁnal 
dividend comprising 4.5¢ per share (which together with 
the interim dividend equals 7.0¢ per share in accordance 
with our pay-out policy set out at the time of our 2005 
ﬂotation) and an additional one-off 2.0¢ per share, 
bringing the total for the year to 9.0¢ per share.
Directors and their Interests
Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are 
shown on page 25. The Directors who served during the 
year are shown below. All directors retire at each Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for 
re-election on an annual basis.
Richard Kilsby (ﬁrst appointed 30 August 2005).
Brian Mattingley (ﬁrst appointed 30 August 2005).
Aviad Kobrine (ﬁrst appointed 30 August 2005).
John Anderson (ﬁrst appointed 30 August 2005).
Amos Pickel (ﬁrst appointed 14 March 2006). 
Gigi Levy (ﬁrst appointed 18 June 2006; resigned from the 
Board as of 31 May 2012).
The beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests of the Directors 
in shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38.
Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests 
in the shares of the Company or in any material contract or 
arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Share Capital
Changes in the Company’s share capital during the ﬁnancial 
year are given in the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity. As at 31 December 2012, the Company’s issued 
share capital comprised 349,688,356 ordinary shares of GBP 
£0.005 each. At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2012, 
the Board was empowered to allot equity securities of the 
Company for cash without application of pre-emptive rights 
under the Company’s Articles, provided that such power is 
limited: (a) to the allotment of equity securities in connection 
with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary shareholders where 
the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests 
of all Ordinary shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as 
may be) to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held 
by them; and (b) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an 
aggregate nominal value of £86,941 (5% of the Company’s 
Ordinary Share capital in issue as at 31 March 2012). This 
authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company. 
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association of the Company can only be 
amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of 
shareholders.
Rights Attaching to Ordinary Shares
The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are 
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies 
and to exercise voting rights. Holders of ordinary shares 
may receive a dividend and on liquidation may share in 
the assets of the Company. Holders of ordinary shares are 
entitled to receive the Company’s Annual Report. Subject 
to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares 
may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the 
proposal of resolutions at general meetings.
Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights
Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting 
instructions must be received by the Company’s Registrars 
not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Limitations 
on Holdings
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the 
holding of ordinary shares other than under restrictions 
imposed by law or regulation (for example, insider trading 
laws) or pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code. 
Requirements of Nevada Gaming Regulations
The Company has applied for licensing by the State of 
Nevada. As an applicant and, if licensed, as a licensee, the 
Company is subject to certain requirements under the Nevada 
Gaming Control Act and to the licensing and regulatory 
control of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, and the 
Nevada Gaming Commission.
The Company has applied for registration with the Nevada 
Gaming Commission as a publicly traded corporation and its 
subsidiaries have applied for licensure as manufacturers and 
distributors of interactive gaming systems and as interactive 
gaming service providers. Such licenses are not transferable. 
The Nevada Gaming Commission may limit, condition, suspend 
or revoke a license, registration, approval or ﬁnding of suitability 
for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing agency. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
40
The Nevada Gaming Commission may also require anyone 
having a material relationship or involvement with the 
Company to be found suitable or licensed. For such time 
as the Company is subject to the aforementioned legal 
requirements and to the control of the Nevada State Gaming 
Control Board and Nevada Gaming Commission, any person 
who acquires more than 5% of any class of our voting 
securities must report, within ten days, the acquisition to the 
Nevada Gaming Commission. Any person who becomes a 
beneﬁcial owner of more than 10% of any class of our voting 
securities is required to apply for a ﬁnding of suitability within 
30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming 
Control Board mails written notice in accordance with NRS 
463.643. Under certain circumstances, an “Institutional 
Investor,” as such term is deﬁned in the regulations of the 
Nevada Gaming Commission, which acquires more than 10% 
but not more than 25% of any class of our voting securities, 
may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of 
such ﬁnding of suitability requirements.
The Nevada Gaming Commission may also, in its discretion, 
require any other holders of our equity securities or any 
holders of our debt securities to ﬁle applications, be 
investigated and be found suitable to own our equity or debt 
securities. The applicant security holder is required to pay all 
costs of such investigation. 
Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a ﬁnding of 
suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered 
to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be found 
unsuitable based solely on such failure or refusal. The same 
restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, when 
requested, fails to identify the beneﬁcial owner. Any security 
holder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, 
any beneﬁcial ownership of the common stock beyond such 
period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming 
Commission may be guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
Changes in control through merger, consolidation, acquisition 
of assets, management or consulting agreements or any form 
of takeover cannot occur without prior investigation by the 
Nevada State Gaming Control Board and approval by the 
Nevada Gaming Commission.
Directors’ Report
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 31 December 2012 the Company had been notiﬁed of the following interests in 5% or more of its share capital 
under DTR Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority:
Shareholders
Number of 
shares
% issued 
share 
capital
Principal Shareholder Trusts
E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.70
O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.70
Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust 37,122,358 10.62
Other Substantial Shareholders
JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited 17,485,763 5.00
No notiﬁcations pursuant to DTR Rule 5 have been 
received by the Company between 31 December 2012 and 
the date of this Annual Report.
Shareholder Agreements and Consent 
Requirements 
There are no known arrangements under which ﬁnancial rights 
are held by a person other than the holder of the shares. 
A Relationship Agreement governing the relationship 
between the above Principal Shareholder Trusts and 
the Company was entered into in connection with 
the Company’s ﬂotation. The Relationship Agreement 
provides that all transactions between the Group and the 
Principal Shareholder Trusts will be on a normal business 
basis, that the Group will be allowed to carry on business 
independently of them and that the Principal Shareholder 
Trusts will not cause the Company to contravene the 
Code unless required by law or as contemplated in the 
Relationship Agreement. It further provides that each 
of the Principal Shareholder Trusts will not solicit Group 
employees without consent, that only Independent 
Directors can vote on proposals to amend the Relationship 
Agreement, that the Principal Shareholder Trusts will 
consult the Group prior to disposing of a signiﬁcant number 
of shares in order to maintain an orderly market and shall 
not disclose conﬁdential information unless required to 
do so by law or relevant regulation or having ﬁrst received 
the Company’s consent. The Relationship Agreement also 
includes restrictions on the Principal Shareholder Trusts 
power to appoint Directors and includes obligations 
on the trusts to ensure that the majority of the Board, 
excluding the Chairman, is independent. The Principal 
Shareholder Trusts can nominate a Non-executive Director 
for appointment to the Board. In the event that this right 
is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board 
(excluding the Chairman of the Board) being Independent 
Directors, such appointment shall only become effective 
upon the appointment to the Board of an additional  41
www.888holdingsplc.com
Independent Director acceptable to the Nominations 
Committee. Such restrictions and obligations apply in 
respect of the E Shaked Shares Trust and O Shaked Shares 
Trust whilst they collectively hold not less than 7.5% of the 
issued share capital of 888, and in respect of the Ben-
Yitzhak Family Shares Trust whilst it individually holds not 
less than 7.5% of the issued share capital of 888.
Change of Control
Other than the Group’s gaming licences where change of 
control is subject to prior consent, there are no material 
contracts to which the Group is a party which would allow 
the counterparty to terminate or alter those contractual 
arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Group.
Charitable Contributions 
Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the 
year amounting to US$0.2 million (2011: US$0.2 million). 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records which disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company, 
for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors’ report 
which complies with the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) 
Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies (Consolidated Accounts) 
Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act.
Financial statements are published on the Group’s website 
in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements, 
which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. The 
maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is the 
responsibility of the Directors. The Directors’ responsibility 
also extends to the ongoing integrity of the ﬁnancial 
statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report and the ﬁnancial statements. The Directors are 
required to prepare ﬁnancial statements for the Group 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) and have also chosen to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
Corporate Governance
The corporate governance statement is on pages 26 to 29 
and is incorporated in this Directors’ Report by reference. 
Group and Parent Company Financial Statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with the Gibraltar 
Companies (Accounts) Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies 
(Consolidated Accounts) Act 1999 and the Gibraltar 
Companies Act.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that ﬁnancial 
statements present fairly for each ﬁnancial year the Group 
and Company’s ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance 
and cash ﬂows. This requires the faithful representation of 
the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 
accordance with the deﬁnitions and recognition criteria 
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the 
International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for 
the preparation and presentation of ﬁnancial statements’. 
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. A fair 
presentation also requires the Directors to: 
 ● Consistently select and apply appropriate accounting 
policies; 
 ● Present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
 and understandable information; and 
 ● Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to  
enable members to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the  entity’s 
ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance. 
We conﬁrm, to the best of our knowledge: 
a. The ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss 
of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and 
b. The Enhanced Business Review, includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Auditors
A resolution for the reappointment of BDO LLP and BDO 
Limited as auditors of the Company will be proposed at 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 BDO LLP were 
appointed auditors for the purposes of the Company 
preparing ﬁnancial statements as required pursuant to 
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. BDO Limited 
have been appointed to act as auditors for the purposes 
of issuing an audit report pursuant to Section 10 of the 
Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Act 1999 to be ﬁled with 
the Gibraltar Companies Registry.
On behalf of the Board: 
Brian Mattingley 
Chief Executive 
13 March 2013 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
42
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of 888 Holdings Plc
We have audited the financial statements of 888 Holdings 
Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise 
the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and 
Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Company 
statements of changes in equity, the Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and 
Company statements of cash flows and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with our engagement letters. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an Auditors’ report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and 
auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ 
responsibilities, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
888 Holdings Plc has complied with the requirements 
of rules 9.8.6 and 9.8.8 of the Listing Rules of the UK 
Financial Services Authority (the “Listing Rules”) and 
in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies 
Act 2006 in preparing its Annual Report, as if it was 
incorporated in the United Kingdom. As auditors, we have 
agreed that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual 
Report will be those as set out below.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Gibraltar Companies (Consolidated 
Accounts) Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) 
Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 (as 
amended), and the part of the Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion, the information 
disclosed in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the financial statements, if the Company has not kept 
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or 
if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar 
legislation regarding Directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.
org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
 ● The financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and the Company’s affairs as 31 
December 2012 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
 ● The Group and Parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union;
 ● The financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies 
(Consolidated Accounts) Act 1999, the Gibraltar 
Companies (Accounts) Act 1999 and the Gibraltar 
Companies Act 1930 (as amended);
 ● The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by legal and 
regulatory requirements
In our opinion information given in the Directors’ report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2012 for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.  43
www.888holdingsplc.com
Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under Gibraltar legal and regulatory requirements we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 ● The company has not kept proper accounting records,
 ● If we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or 
 ● If information specified by law regarding directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 ● The directors’ statement, in relation to going concern; 
 ● The part of the corporate governance statement 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and 
 ● Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the 
Board of the Company on directors’ remuneration. 
BDO LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
55 Baker Street 
London 
W1U 7EU
13 March 2013
Christian Summerfield (Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of  
BDO Limited 
Registered Auditors 
Regal House 
Queensway 
PO Box 1200  
Gibraltar 
13 March 2013
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in 
England and Wales (with registered number OC305127).
BDO Limited, a Gibraltar limited company, is registered in 
Gibraltar with company number 52200. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
44
Consolidated Income Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Year ended 31 December
Note
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Revenue 3 375.8 331.2
Operating expenses 128.3 122.6
Gaming duties 22.6 7.3
Research and development expenses 27.2 29.9
Selling and marketing expenses 131.2 102.3
Administrative expenses 29.6 54.5
Operating profit before impairment charges, retroactive duties and associated 
charges, restructuring costs and share benefit charges 51.9 42.6
Impairment charges (2.2) (20.7)
Retroactive duties and associated charges (11.1) —
Restructuring costs — (4.9)
Share benefit charges (1.7) (2.4)
Operating profit 4 36.9 14.6
Finance income 6 4.6 0.2
Finance expenses 6 (2.7) (13.3)
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration 21 2.0 4.2
Share of post-tax profit of equity accounted joint ventures 13 — 0.1
Profit before tax 40.8 5.8
Taxation 7 5.4 3.9
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 35.4 1.9
Year ended 31 December
Note
2012
US $ 
2011
US $
Earnings per share 8
Basic 10.2¢ 0.6¢
Diluted 10.1¢ 0.6¢
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2012
31 December
Note
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Profit for the year 35.4 1.9
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan 5 (0.7) (0.4)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 34.7 1.5
The notes on pages 48 to 79 form part of these financial statements. 45
www.888holdingsplc.com
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2012
31 December
Note
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 147.7 141.9
Property, plant and equipment 12 18.3 17.1
Investment in equity accounted joint venture 13 — 1.2
Available for sale investment 14 0.2 0.2
Deferred taxes 15 0.4 0.4
166.6 160.8
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 16 81.5 75.9
Short term investments 17 3.5 6.0
Trade and other receivables 18 33.0 26.4
118.0 108.3
Total assets 284.6 269.1
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 19 3.2 3.2
Share premium 0.1 0.1
Retained earnings 144.9 118.0
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 148.2 121.3
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 85.4 65.5
Customer deposits 22 49.5 44.9
Contingent and deferred consideration 21 0.7 37.4
135.6 147.8
Non-current liabilities
Share benefit charges — cash settled 24 0.8 —
Total liabilities 136.4 147.8
Total equity and liabilities 284.6 269.1
The financial statements on pages 44 to 47 were approved and authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 
March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Brian Mattingley Aviad Kobrine
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The notes on pages 48 to 79 form part of these financial statements. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
46
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Share
capital
US$ million
Share
premium
US$ million
Retained
earnings
US$ million
Total
US$ million
Balance at 1 January 2011 3.2 0.1 113.6 116.9
Equity settled Share benefit charges — — 2.4 2.4
Equity settled Share benefit charges  
(included within restructuring costs) — — 0.5 0.5
Issue of shares (see note 19) — — — —
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent — — 1.9 1.9
Other comprehensive income for the year — — (0.4) (0.4)
Balance at 1 January 2012 3.2 0.1 118.0 121.3
Dividend paid (8.7) (8.7)
Equity settled Share benefit charges — — 0.9 0.9
Issue of shares (see note 19) — — — —
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent — — 35.4 35.4
Other comprehensive income for the year — — (0.7) (0.7)
Balance at 31 December 2012 3.2 0.1 144.9 148.2
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity. 
Share capital — represents the nominal value of shares allotted, called-up and fully paid. 
Share premium — represents the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value. 
Retained earnings — represents the cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
The notes on pages 48 to 79 form part of these financial statements. 47
www.888holdingsplc.com
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income tax 40.8 5.8
Adjustments for: 
Impairment charges 2.2 20.7
Depreciation 9.2 9.0
Amortisation 5.6 4.0
Interest received (0.3) (0.2)
Interest expense 1.1 7.4
Foreign exchange differences on deferred consideration 0.5 1.7
Fair value movements on Foreign exchange derivatives (3.3) 1.6
Share of post- tax profit of equity accounted joint venture — (0.1)
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration (2.0) (4.2)
Share benefit charges 1.7 2.9
55.5 48.6
Increase in trade receivables (2.9) (4.9)
(Increase) decrease in other accounts receivables (0.4) 2.8
Increase in customer deposits 4.6 10.2
Increase in trade and other payables 18.9 26.4
Cash generated from operations 75.7 83.1
Income tax paid (5.0) (4.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities 70.7 78.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Consideration paid on acquisitions (See note 21) (36.7) (46.1)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (10.6) (4.5)
Decrease (increase) in short term investments 2.5 (5.1)
Interest received 0.3 0.2
Acquisition of intangible assets (0.3) (0.2)
Internally generated intangible assets (10.5) (4.1)
Net cash used in investing activities (55.3) (59.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (1.1) (3.7)
Dividends paid (8.7) —
Net cash used in financing activities (9.8) (3.7)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5.6 15.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 75.9 60.7
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 81.5 75.9
The notes on pages 48 to 79 form part of these financial statements. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
48
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1 General information
Company description and activities 
888 Holdings Public Limited Company (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together the ‘Group’) was founded in 
1997 and originally operated as a holding company domiciled in the British Virgin Islands. On 12 January 2000, the 
Company was continued in Antigua and Barbuda as a corporation under the International Business Corporation 
Act 1982 with registered number 12512. On 17 December 2003, the Company re-domiciled in Gibraltar with the 
Company number 90099. On 4 October 2005, the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Group is the owner of innovative proprietary software solutions providing a range of virtual online gaming 
services over the internet including Casino, Poker, Bingo, Sport and games to end users and also provides these 
services through its business to business independent unit Dragonfish to business partners. In addition, the Group 
provides payment services, customer support and online advertising. 
Definitions 
In these financial statements: 
The Company 888 Holdings Public Limited Company.
The Group 888 Holdings Public Limited Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries Companies over which the Company has control (as defined in International Accounting 
Standard 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and whose accounts are 
consolidated with those of the Company).
Related parties As defined in International Accounting Standard 24 - ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
2 Significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards, including International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) and Interpretations, adopted by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and endorsed for use by companies listed on an EU regulated 
market. 
The significant accounting policies applied in the financial statements of the Group in the prior years are applied 
consistently in these financial statements, without any material change. 
The financial statements are presented in US dollars (US$ million) because that is the currency the Group primarily 
operates in. 
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Act 1999, the Gibraltar 
Companies (Consolidated Accounts) Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act. 
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or the International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated 
results or financial position.
Amendments to IAS 12 — Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.  
Amendments to IFRS 7— Disclosures: Transfers of Financial assets
The following standards and interpretations issued by the IASB or IFRIC have not been adopted by the Group 
as they were not effective for the year 2012. The Group is currently assessing the impact of these standards and 
interpretations will have on the presentation of, and recognition in, its consolidated results in future periods. 
Amendments to IAS 1 — Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income (effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2012).
IFRS 10 — Consolidated Financial Statements (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2014).  49
www.888holdingsplc.com
2 Significant accounting policies continued
IFRS 11 — Joint Arrangements (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014).
IFRS 12 — Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). 
IFRS 13 — Fair Value Measurement (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013).
IAS 27 — Separate Financial Statements (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). 
IAS 28 — Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2014). 
IAS 19 — Employee Benefits (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013).
Amendments to IFRS 7 — Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013). 
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 — Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and 
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013). 
These amendments have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
Amendments to IAS 32 — Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014). 
IFRS 9 — Financial Instruments (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015). This 
amendment has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
Improvements to IFRSs. This annual improvement project clarifies the requirements of IFRS’s and eliminates 
inconsistencies within and between standards. The relevant changes included amendments to IFRS 1 ‘First-time 
adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’, IAS 16 
‘Property, plant and equipment’, IAS 32 ‘ Financial instruments’ and IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’. These amendments have 
not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and 
judgments that affect the application of policies and reported amounts. Estimates and judgments are continually 
evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Included in this note are accounting policies which cover areas that the Directors consider require estimates and 
assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year. These policies together with references to the related notes to the financial 
statements can be found below: 
Note
Taxation 7
Contingent consideration 21
Intangible assets 11
Impairment of Goodwill and intangible assets 11
Share-based payments 24
Contingent liabilities and regulatory compliance 28
Presentation of accounts
Following a review of the financial statements, the following amendment has been made to the consolidated 
balance sheet presentation. Cash deposits in accounts with restricted access, primarily in respect of regulated 
market requirements, have been included as short terms investments and the comparatives adjusted accordingly. 
The new presentation has no effect on net assets nor on the reported profit and loss and therefore a comparative 
prior year balance sheet for 31 December 2010 has not been presented.
The effect on the comparative cash flow has been to increase the cash used in investing activities by US$5.1 million, 
and therefore reduce the increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year by the same amount. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
50
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. The subsidiaries 
are companies controlled by 888 Holdings Public Limited Company. Control exists where the Company has 
the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date the parent gained control until such time as control ceases. 
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements using the 
purchase method of accounting. On the date of the acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are 
measured at their fair values and any excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. 
Inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and 
using consistent accounting policies. 
Revenue 
Revenue is recognised provided that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue 
can be reliably measured. Revenue is recognised in the accounting periods in which the transactions occurred after 
deduction of certain bonuses granted to customers and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable.
Revenue consists of income from online activities and that generated from processing customers’ cross currency 
deposits and withdrawals, which is allocated to each reporting segment. Revenue from online activities comprises:
Casino and Bingo
Casino and Bingo online gaming revenue is represented by the difference between the amounts of bets placed by 
customers less amounts won.
Where the Group is using a third-party platform and is not deemed to be the principal the recognised income is the 
net revenue share earned from that activity. 
Poker 
Poker online gaming revenue represents the commission charged from each poker hand in ring games and entry 
fees for participation in Poker tournaments. In Poker tournaments entry fee revenue is recognised when the 
tournament has concluded. 
Emerging Offerings 
Revenue from Emerging Offerings is mainly comprised of Sportbook, Social games and third party platform based 
activity.
 ● Sportsbook online gaming revenue comprises net house win adjusted for the fair value of open betting 
positions.
 ● Social games revenue comprises the Group’s share from the sale of virtual goods to customers playing  
the Group’s games.
 ● Revenue derived from using third-party platforms represents the Group’s net revenue share from that activity.
B2B 
Where the Group is considered to be the principal , income is recognised as the gross revenue generated from use 
of the Group’s platform in online gaming activities with the partners’ share of the revenue charged to operating 
expenses. In other cases income is recognised as the Group share of the net revenue generated from use of the 
Group’s platform.
Recoupable advances received are carried at cost less recouped amounts and are treated as deferred income 
within current liabilities and released as they are earned in line with the policy above. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  51
www.888holdingsplc.com
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Operating expenses
Operating expenses consists primarily of staff costs, payment service providers’ commissions, chargebacks, 
commission and royalties payable to third parties, all of which are recognised on an accruals basis, and depreciation 
and amortisation.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses consist primarily of staff costs, corporate professional expenses, all of which are 
recognised on an accruals basis, and impairment charges.
Foreign currency 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies are translated into US dollar equivalents 
using year-end spot foreign exchange rates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange rate differences on foreign currency transactions are included 
in financial income or financial expenses as appropriate. 
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from US dollars are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
(i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that 
balance sheet; and
(ii) Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at an average exchange rate (unless this 
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction 
dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions).
Taxation 
The tax expense represents tax payable for the year based on currently applicable tax rates. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance 
sheet differs from its tax base. It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Recognition of deferred 
tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the difference can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from 
goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The amount of the asset or liability is 
determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/assets are settled/recovered. 
Intangible assets 
Acquisitions 
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. The identified intangibles are amortised over the useful 
economic life of the assets. This has ranged between three months to four years for acquisitions to date. The 
exception is acquisitions of trade names, which have an indefinite useful economic life and therefore an annual 
impairment test is conducted. 
Internally generated intangible assets 
Expenditure incurred on development activities is capitalised only when the expenditure will lead to new or 
substantially improved products or processes, the products or processes are technically and commercially feasible 
and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. All other development expenditure is expensed. 
Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits 
to be derived from the asset to which it relates. The Group estimates the useful life of these assets as between 
three and five years, except for certain licence costs which are amortised over either the life of the licence, or up to 
20 years, whichever is the shorter period. Previously certain licences were deemed to have an indefinite life. This 
refinement of policy has no material impact on the financial statements. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
52
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the Company’s interest in the fair value 
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Cost comprises the fair value of any assets 
transferred, liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued, plus, for acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 
2010, any direct costs associated with the acquisition. 
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the 
consolidated income statement. Where the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceed the fair value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated income statement on 
the acquisition. 
For business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010 changes in the estimated value of contingent 
consideration post acquisition are treated as an adjustment to cost and therefore change the carrying value 
of goodwill. For business combinations completed after that date changes in the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are charged or credited to the income statement. In addition, for those business combinations 
completed after 1 January 2010, the direct costs of acquisition are charged immediately as an expense.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation. Assets are assessed at each 
balance sheet date for indications of impairment. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of the 
assets less their estimated residual values over their expected useful lives. The annual depreciation rates are as 
follows: 
IT equipment 33%
Office furniture and equipment 7-15%
Motor vehicles 15%
Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of the term of the lease or useful lives
Impairment of non-financial assets 
Impairment tests on goodwill are undertaken annually on 31 December, and where applicable an impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where 
the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less 
costs to sell), the asset is written down accordingly. 
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried 
out on the asset’s cash generating unit (i.e. the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there 
are separately identifiable cash flows). 
Investment in equity accounted joint ventures
Jointly controlled entities (JCE) are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by 
contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. 
JCEs are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are recognised initially at cost. 
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits and losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except 
that losses in excess of the Group’s investment in the JCEs are not recognised unless there is an obligation to make 
good those losses. 
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its JCEs are recognised only to the extent of 
unrelated investors’ interests in the JCE. The investor’s share in the JCEs profits and losses resulting from these 
transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the JCEs.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  53
www.888holdingsplc.com
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Any premium paid for a JCE above the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the JCE. Where there is 
objective evidence that the investment in a JCE has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment is tested 
for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets, and any charge or reversal of previous impairments is 
taken to the consolidated income statement. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised at fair value and carried at amortised cost and principally comprise amounts 
due from credit card companies and from e-payment companies. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when 
collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when there is objective evidence that 
the full amount may not be collected. 
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into contracts for derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts to hedge risks 
associated with foreign exchange rates. Such derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value under IAS 
39 and comprise level 2 fair value measurement instruments and are carried in the statement of financial position as 
assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. Any gains or losses arising from 
changes in the fair values of derivatives are recorded immediately in the consolidated income statement.
A fair value measurement hierarchy is based on the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value 
to increase consistency and comparability. The inputs are categorised into three levels, with the highest priority 
given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority given 
to unobservable inputs. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are either 
directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. 
Short term investments
Short term investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
on an active market. They are initially recognised at fair value, plus transaction costs directly attributable to their 
acquisition. They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any 
provisions for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash comprises cash in hand and balances with banks. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. They include short-term deposits originally purchased with 
maturities of three months or less. 
Equity 
Equity issued by the Company is recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are recognised at fair value and carried at amortised cost. 
Liabilities to customers 
Liabilities to customers comprises the amounts that are credited to customers’ bankroll (the Group’s electronic 
‘wallet’), including provision for bonuses granted by the Group, less management fees and charges applied to 
customer accounts, along with full progressive provision for jackpots. These amounts are repayable in accordance 
with the applicable terms and conditions. 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets comprise non-derivative financial assets not included in any of the above financial 
asset categories and comprise principally the Group’s investments in entities not qualifying as joint ventures or 
subsidiaries. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in a separate component 
of equity. Where there is a significant decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset the full amount 
of the impairment, including any amount previously charged to equity, is recognised in the income statement. On 
disposal of an available-for-sale asset any balance within equity is transferred to the income statement.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
54
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases wherever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership to the Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are 
charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of a past event from 
which it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reasonably estimated. 
Segment information 
Segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision 
maker. The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the management team comprising the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. These segments are: 
 ● B2C (Business to Customer) Casino, Poker, Bingo and Emerging Offering which mainly comprises 888’s 
Sportsbook, Live dealer offering and games, Mytopia social games; and
 ● B2B (Business to Business) which offers Total Gaming Services under the Dragonfish trading brand. 
Dragonfish offers to its business partners use of technology, software, operations, E-payments and advances 
marketing services, through the provision of offline/ online marketing, management of affiliates, SEO, CRM 
and business analytics. 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends this is when paid. In 
the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
Share-based payments
 ● Equity settled
Where the Company grants its employees or contractors shares, or options, the fair value at the date of grant 
is charged to the income statement over the vesting period. Non-market performance conditions are taken into 
account by adjusting the number of instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the 
cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of instruments that eventually vest. 
Market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value at the date of grant.
 ● Cash-settled
For transactions treated as cash settled share based payment transactions, the Company recognises the services 
received, and a liability to pay for those services, as the employees render service. 
Until the liability is settled, the Company remeasures the fair value of the liability at each reporting date and at the 
date of settlement, with any changes in fair value charged or credited to the income statement for the period. 
Severance pay schemes
Severance scheme surpluses and deficits are measured at:
 ● The fair value of plan assets at the reporting date; less
 ● Plan liabilities calculated using the projected unit credit method discounted to its present value using yields 
available for the appropriate government bonds that have maturity dates appropriately to the terms of the 
liabilities; plus
 ● Unrecognised past service costs.
Any difference between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in liabilities 
over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the scheme, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  55
www.888holdingsplc.com
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Group enters into financial guarantee contracts the Group considers these to be insurance contracts and 
accounts for them as such. The Group treats the guarantee as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes 
probable that the Group will be required to make payments under the guarantee. 
3 Segment information
Business Segments
Year Ended 31 December 2012
B2C B2B Consolidat ed
Casino
US$  million
Poker
US$ million
Bingo
US$ million
Emerging
offering
US$ million
Total 
B2C
US$ million US$ million US$ million
Revenue 165.5 87.5 51.8 25.0 329.8 46.0 375.8
Result
Segment result before 
impairments 157.3 26.7 184.0
Impairments (0.6) (1.6) (2.2)
Segment result 156.7 25.1 181.8
Unallocated corporate 
expenses
1
144.9
Operating profit 36.9
Financial income 4.6
Financial expenses (2.7)
Movement in contingent 
and deferred consideration 2.0
Share of post-tax profit 
of equity accounted joint 
ventures —
Taxation (5.4)
Profit for the year 35.4
Assets
Unallocated corporate 
assets 284.6
Total assets 284.6
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 46.5 3.0 49.5
Unallocated corporate 
liabilities 86.9
Total liabilities 136.4
1  Including share benefit charges of US$1.7 million charged to administrative expenses.
        888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
56
3 Segment information continued
Year ended 31 December 2011
B2C B2B Consolidat ed
Casino
US$ million
Poker
US$ million
Bingo
US$ million
Emerging
offering
US$ million
T otal 
B2C
US$ million US$ million US$ million
Revenue 148.0 60.6 54.0 21.6 284.2 47.0 331.2
Result
Segment result before 
impairments 152.0 27.8 179.8
Impairments (20.7) — (20.7)
Segment result 131.3 27.8 159.1
Unallocated corporate 
expenses
1
144.5
Operating profit 14.6
Financial income 0.2
Financial expenses (13.3)
Movement in contingent 
and deferred consideration 4.2
Share of post-tax profit 
of equity accounted joint 
ventures 0.1
Taxation (3.9)
Profit for the year 1.9
Assets
Unallocated corporate 
assets 269.1
Total assets 269.1
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 39.1 5.9 45.0
Unallocated corporate 
liabilities 102.8
Total liabilities 147.8
1 
 Including share benefit charges of US$2.4 million charged to administrative expenses and restructuring costs of US$4.9 million.
Other than where amounts are allocated specifically to the B2C and B2B segments above, the expenses, assets 
and liabilities relate jointly to all segments. These amounts are not discretely analysed between the two operating 
segments as any allocation would be arbitrary.
Geographical information 
The Group’s performance can also be reviewed by considering the geographical markets and geographical 
locations within which the Group operates. This information is outlined below: 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  57
www.888holdingsplc.com
3 Segment information continued
Revenue by geographical market 
Year ended 31 December
2012 2011
US$ million US$ million
UK 161.8 153.1
Europe (excluding UK) 142.1 124.2
Americas 38.2 26.5
Rest of world 33.7 27.4
Revenue 375.8 331.2
Assets by geographical location
Year ended 31 December
Carrying amount of 
segment assets by location
Additions to property, 
plant and equipment
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Europe (including UK) 226.6 228.5 5.4 3.3
Americas 9.5 — 2.5 —
Rest of World 48.5 40.6 2.7 1.2
284.6 269.1 10.6 4.5
4 Operating profit
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Operating profit is stated after charging:
Staff costs (see note 5) 80.8 86.8
Audit fees to BDO LLP 0.3 0.4
Audit fees to BDO Limited 0.1 0.1
Other fees paid to BDO LLP — other assurance related matters 0.1 0.1
Depreciation (within operating expenses) 9.2 9.0
Amortisation (within operating expenses) 5.6 4.0
Chargebacks 3.3 3.4
Payment service providers’ commissions 21.7 18.8
Retroactive taxes and associated charges 11.1 —
Restructuring costs
1
— 4.9
Impairment costs (within administrative expenses — see notes 11 and 13) 2.2 20.7
1 During 2011 the Group restructured its management team resulting in aggregated terminated staff and related costs of US$4.9 million for the year  
 ended 31 December 2011 of which US$3.9 million were in relation to the former CEO. Total costs included US$0.5 million in respect of accelerated  
 equity settled share benefit charges arising on termination. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
58
5 Employee benefits
Staff cost including Executive Directors’ remuneration comprises the following elements:
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Wages and salaries 80.6 82.0
Social security 3.3 3.1
Pension costs 4.9 4.9
88.8 90.0
Staff costs capitalized in respect of internally generated intangible assets (8.0) (3.2)
80.8 86.8
In the income statement total staff costs, excluding share benefit charge of US$1.7 million (2011: US$2.4 million), are 
included within the following expenditure categories:
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Operating expenses 48.4 49.1
Research and development expenses 15.0 19.6
Administrative expenses 17.4 18.1
80.8 86.8
Average headcount number of employees by category:
2012
Number
2011
Number
Operations 671 593
Research and development 224 217
Administration 115 119
1,010 929
At 31 December 2012 the Group employed 1,035 (2011: 932) staff. 
Severance pay liability — Israel 
The Group’s employees in Israel are eligible to receive certain benefits from the Group in specific circumstances. 
As such the Group operates a defined benefit severance pay plan which requires contributions to be made to 
separately administrated funds. 
The method used to determine the current service cost and the present value of the defined benefit obligation, 
according to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ is the Projected Unit Credit actuarial cost method. Actuarial gains and 
losses are recognised by the Group using the equity method. 
The following table summarises the employee benefits figures as included in the Group’s financial statements for 
2012 and 2011, respectively: 
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Severance pay liability (within trade and other payables) 1.0 0.6
Income statement charge 2.8 3.0
Actuarial movements on severance pay liability (included in statement of comprehensive income) 0.7 0.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  59
www.888holdingsplc.com
5 Employee benefits continued
Movement in severance pay liability:
Severance pay plan assets
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
At beginning of year 8.4 8.3
Expected return 0.4 0.4
Contributions 3.0 3.0
Benefits paid (1.7) (2.4)
Actuarial gain (loss) on assets 0.1 (0.3)
Exchange differences 0.2 (0.6)
At end of year 10.4 8.4
Severance pay plan liabilities
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
At beginning of year 9.0 8.6
Interest cost 0.4 0.3
Current service costs 2.8 3.1
Benefits paid (1.8) (2.5)
Actuarial loss on obligations 0.8 0.1
Exchange differences 0.2 (0.6)
At end of year 11.4 9.0
Severance pay plan trends
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
2010
US$ million
2009
US$ million
2008
US$ million
Plan assets 10.4 8.4 8.3 6.8 4.2
Plan liabilities (11.4) (9.0) (8.6) (7.0) (4.5)
Severance pay liability (1.0) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
Experience gains and losses on scheme assets and liabilities
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
2010
US$ million
2009
US$ million
2008
US$ million
On plan assets 0.1 (0.3) 0.2 0.9 0.2
On plan liabilities (0.8) (0.1) (0.5) (1.1) (1.1)
(0.7) (0.4) (0.3) (0.2) (0.9)
Employees can determine individually into which type of investment their share of the plan assets are invested 
therefore the Group is unable to accurately disclose the proportions of the plan assets invested in each class of 
asset. Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income amount to US$2.5 million (2011: 
US$1.8 million). 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
60
5 Employee benefits continued
The main actuarial assumptions used in determining the fair value of the Group’s employee benefits plan are shown 
below:
2012
%
2011
%
Discount rate (nominal) 3.80 4.34
Estimated increase in employee benefits costs 3.82 3.00
Voluntary termination rate 70 70
Estimated rate of return on assets 4.34 4.71
Inflation rates based on Israeli government bonds 2.28 2.19
6 Finance income and finance expenses
Finance income:
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Interest income 0.4 0.2
Fair value movements on foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 —
Fair value movements of foreign exchange derivatives on deferred consideration 0.9 —
Finance income 4.6 0.2
Finance expenses:
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$  million
Interest expense on deferred consideration 1.1 3.7
Unwinding of discount on contingent and deferred consideration — 3.7
Fair value movements of foreign exchange derivatives on deferred consideration — 1.6
Foreign exchange losses 1.6 4.3
Finance expenses 2.7 13.3
7 Taxation
Corporate taxes
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Current tax 5.4 3.7
Deferred tax — 0.2
Taxation expense 5.4 3.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  61
www.888holdingsplc.com
7 Taxation continued
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Profit before taxation 40.8 5.8
Tax at effective tax rate in Gibraltar (2012: 10%, 2011: 10%) 4.1 0.6
Effect of overseas taxation 2.3 2.2
Effect of deferred tax originating in overseas jurisdictions 0.1 (0.1)
Permanent disallowable expenditure 1.7 3.2
Non-taxed income (3.7) (1.3)
Adjustments to prior years tax charges 0.9 (0.7)
Total tax charge for the year 5.4 3.9
Current tax is calculated with reference to the profit of the Company and its subsidiaries in their respective 
countries of operation: 
Gibraltar — Commencing as of January 1, 2011, Gibraltar companies are subject to a corporate tax rate of 10%. 
However, certain forms of income, including royalty income, are exempt from corporate tax. 
Israel — The domestic corporate tax rate in Israel from 2012 is 25% (2011: 24%). The company’s Israeli subsidiary had 
entered into certain transfer pricing agreements with the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner, which were effective 
until the end of 2010. The subsidiary has recently concluded an assessment agreement with respect to all tax years 
up to 2011, and the directors have reasons to believe that the same principles will apply to the tax year 2012.
UK — 888’s subsidiary in the UK pays corporate tax in the UK at the applicable rate of 24% (2011: 26%). 
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share 
In accordance with IAS 33, ‘Earnings per share’, the weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per 
share takes into account all potentially dilutive equity instruments granted, which are not included in the number of 
shares for basic earnings per share. Certain equity instruments have been excluded from the calculation of diluted 
EPS as their conditions of being issued were not deemed to satisfy the performance conditions at the end of the 
performance period or it will not be advantageous for holders to exercise it into shares, in the case of options. The 
number of equity instruments excluded from the diluted EPS calculation is 6,363,756 (2011: 4,870,226).
Year ended 31 December
2012 2011
Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders (US$ million) 35.4 1.9 
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 348,880,677 346,385,511
Effect of dilutive Ordinary Shares and Share options 2,665,293 3,597,516
Weighted average number of dilutive Ordinary Shares 351,545,970 349,983,027
Basic 10.2¢ 0.6¢
Diluted 10.1¢ 0.6¢ 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
62
8 Earnings per share continued
Adjusted earnings per share
The Directors believe that EPS excluding share benefit charges, restructuring costs, retroactive taxes and associated 
charges, impairment charges and movement in contingent and deferred consideration better reflects the underlying 
performance of the business and assists in providing a clearer view of the performance of the Group. 
Reconciliation of profit to profit excluding share benefit charges, restructuring costs, retroactive taxes and 
associated charges, impairment costs and movement in contingent and deferred consideration: 
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 35.4 1.9
Share benefit charges (excluding Share benefit charges within restructuring costs) 1.7 2.4
Restructuring costs — 4.9
Retroactive taxes and associated charges 11.1 —
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration (2.0) (4.2)
Impairment charges 2.2 20.7
Profit excluding share benefit charges, restructuring costs, impairment charges, movement 
in contingent and deferred consideration and retroactive taxes and associated charges 48.4 25.7
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 348,880,677 346,385,511
Weighted average number of dilutive Ordinary Shares 351,545,970 349,983,027
Adjusted basic earnings per share 13.9¢ 7.4¢
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 13.8¢ 7.3¢
9 Dividend
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Dividends paid 8.7 —
An interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share was paid on 18 October 2012.
The Board of Directors will recommend to the shareholders a final divided in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2012, comprising 4.5¢ per share and an additional one-off 2.0¢ per share, which will be recognised in the 2013 
financial statements once approved.
10 Acquisitions
Acquisitions made during the year
Following commercial negotiations between the Group and one of its former B2B white label customers, the 
Group acquired the former customer’s domain name and brands as at 1 January 2012 for cash consideration of 
US$0.6 million, and contingent consideration based on a percentage of revenue receivable originally estimated 
at US$0.9 million. All amounts, except for goodwill arising of US$0.3 million, have been attributed to intangible 
assets acquired, comprising customer information and brands. At the year end the contingent consideration 
payable has been increased by US$0.4 million. The acquisition is deemed immaterial in respect of IFRS3 disclosure 
requirements.
Acquisitions completed in prior years
Wink online Bingo business
On 31 December 2009 the Group acquired the trade and assets comprising the Wink online Bingo business of Daub 
Limited (‘Wink Bingo Business’) for an all cash consideration.
During the year 2012, the Group paid an amount of US$35.5 million and completed the settlement of the deferred 
consideration payable in respect of the Wink acquisition. Following negotiations with the vendors the final amount 
payable was reduced and as a result US$2.4 million was released to the consolidated Income Statement.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  63
www.888holdingsplc.com
11 Intangible assets
Goodwill
US$ million
Acquired
intangible
assets
US$ million
Other
intangible
assets
US$ million
Total
US$ million
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2011 145.8 9.0 16.1 170.9
Additions — 0.2 4.1 4.3
At 31 December 2011 145.8 9.2 20.2 175.2
Additions — — 10.5 10.5
Acquisitions 0.3 1.5 — 1.8
At 31 December 2012 146.1 10.7 30.7 187.5
Amortisation and impairments:
At 1 January 2011 — 5.5 3.1 8.6
Impairment 20.7——20.7
Amortisation charge for the year — 1.5 2.5 4.0
At 31 December 2011 20.7 7.0 5.6 33.3
Impairment ——0.90.9
Amortisation charge for the year — 1.7 3.9 5.6
At 31 December 2012 20.7 8.7 10.4 39.8
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2012 125.4 2.0 20.3 147.7
At 31 December 2011 125.1 2.2 14.6 141.9
At 31 December 2010 145.8 3.5 13.0 162.3
Analysis of goodwill by cash generating units:
Bingo 
online 
business
US$ million
Mytopia 
social 
games
US$ million
Other 
US$ million
Total
Goodwill
US$ million
Carrying value at 1 January 2011 125.1 20.2 0.5 145.8
Mytopia social games goodwill impairment — (20.2) — (20.2)
Internet domain name goodwill impairment — — (0.5) (0.5)
Carrying value at 1 January 2012 125.1 — — 125.1
Acquisition of internet domain name and brands - — 0.3 0.3
Carrying value at 31 December 2012 125.1 — 0.3 125.4
Impairment
In accordance with IAS36 and the Group’s stated accounting policy an impairment calculation is carried out 
annually on the carrying amounts of goodwill and any other intangible assets that shows indication of impairment. 
A review was carried out at 31 December 2012 to assess whether there was any indication that its other intangible 
assets and property plant and equipment had been impaired. Where an impairment calculation was carried out, 
the carrying value in use of the assets was determined by discounting the future cash flows of the relevant cash 
generating unit to their present value. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
64
11 Intangible assets continued
Goodwill
Bingo Online Business 
Goodwill and intangible assets associated with the online Bingo business unit relates to the acquisition of the online 
Bingo business of Globalcom Limited during 2007 and the acquisition of the Wink Bingo business in 2009. The 
income streams generated from the bingo business, comprising the B2C Bingo cash generating unit and the B2B 
cash generating unit, have been treated together as the risks and rewards associated with those income streams 
are deemed to be sufficiently similar. Cash flow projections have been prepared covering the following five year 
period. Underlying growth rates as shown in the table below have been applied to revenue and are based on past 
experience and projections of future changes in the online gaming market.
Having applied conservative estimates, certain B2B contracts due to end in the next three years have not been 
projected to be renewed and have been assumed to gradually decline over the period to contract end. The discount 
rate that is considered by the Directors to be appropriate is the Group’s specific weighted average cost of capital 
which also applies to the online Bingo cash generating units.
Key assumptions used 
Discount
rate 
applied
1
Underlying
growth 
rate year 1
Underlying
growth 
rate years
2-5
Underlying
growth 
rate year 
6+
Operating
expenses
2
increase
years 1-5
Operating
expenses
2
increase 
year 6+
At 31 December 2012 10% 2% 0% 1% 6% 1%
At 31 December 2011 8% 2% 0% 1% 6% 1%
1   The discount rate is recalculated every year by taking into account prevailing risk free rates, equity risk premium and company beta and having 
regard to external data commenting upon the Weighted Average Cost Of Capital applied to the Group.
2  Operating expenses exclude marketing costs which were included in the projections throughout the period as a fixed percentage of revenues.
The Directors have concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes to key assumptions that would lead to 
impairment in the Bingo goodwill and intangible assets.
Mytopia social games
The Group performed an impairment review during the year 2011 on the cash generating Mytopia social games unit 
which was acquired in June 2010, which resulted in a full impairment charge of US$20.2 million against goodwill, 
which was taken to administrative expenses in the consolidated Income statement for the year 2011 and was 
included within the B2C operating segment.
Other intangible assets associated with the cash generating Mytopia social games unit acquired during June 2010 
including an online bingo game application and non-compete agreement, are being amortised over their estimated 
useful economic lives of up to three years.
Other goodwill
Following an impairment review the directors consider no other impairment needs to be recognised. In 2011 an impairment 
review in respect of an internet domain name acquired in 2008 resulted in a full impairment charge of US$0.5 million.
Other Intangible assets
Licenses
During December 2012, the Group requested the French licence to be revoked given the impact of high gaming 
duty rates imposed in France which ultimately rendered the offering of the Group’s online gaming services in that 
jurisdiction not economically viable. As a consequence no future income arises from these assets and the Group 
has made a full impairment charge of US$0.8 million in respect of the French licence costs and other intangible 
assets of US$0.1 million.
Other intangible assets 
No impairment tests were considered to be required at 31 December 2012 and the carrying value of other intangible 
assets is considered to be appropriate. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  65
www.888holdingsplc.com
12 Property, plant and equipment
IT 
equipment
US$ million
Office
furniture
and 
equipment
US$ million
Motor
vehicles
US$ million
Leasehold
improve-
ments
US$ million
Total
US$ million
Cost
At 1 January 2011 41.8 2.8 0.5 15.1 60.2
Additions 4.4 — — 0.1 4.5
Disposals (5.6) — — (1.9) (7.5)
At 31 December 2011 40.6 2.8 0.5 13.3 57.2
Additions 10.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 10.6
Disposals (0.4) — — — (0.4)
At 31 December 2012 50.5 2.9 0.6 13.4 67.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 28.6 1.7 0.4 7.9 38.6
Charge for the year 7.5 0.2 — 1.3 9.0
Disposals (5.6) — — (1.9) (7.5)
At 31 December 2011 30.5 1.9 0.4 7.3 40.1
Charge for the year 7.4 0.2 0.1 1.5 9.2
Disposals (0.2) — — — (0.2)
At 31 December 2012 37.7 2.1 0.5 8.8 49.1
Depreciated cost
At 31 December 2012 12.8 0.8 0.1 4.6 18.3
At 31 December 2011 10.1 0.9 0.1 6.0 17.1
At 31 December 2010 13.2 1.1 0.1 7.2 21.6
13 Investment in equity accounted joint ventures
The following entity meets the definition of a Jointly Controlled Entity and has been equity accounted in the 
consolidated financial statements:
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Percentage of
equity interest
2012
%
Percentage of
equity interest
2011
%
Technology Solutions (Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar 50% 50%
On 6 October 2010 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement (“JVA”) via 888 Regulated Markets Ltd. (“888 
RM”), a wholly owned subsidiary, with Prima Networks Ltd. (“PNL”) and Technology Solutions (Gibraltar) Ltd. 
(“TSG”), a Gibraltar company jointly owned by 888 RM and PNL in equal parts. 
The Group through 888 RM obtained in 2010 a licence to operate online poker games in France.
Under the terms of the JVA, 888 RM, PNL and TSG operated the network jointly.
High gaming duty rates imposed in France rendered the offering of the Group’s online gaming services in that 
jurisdiction not economically viable. Accordingly during December 2012, 888 RM requested its local licence to be 
revoked following which it was mutually agreed with PNL to terminate the joint venture.
Consequently the Group impaired the cost of its investment in the joint venture in the amount of US$1.3 million. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
66
13 Investment in equity accounted joint ventures continued
Aggregated amounts relating to TSG are as follows:
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Non-current assets 2.3 2.3
Current liabilities 2.2 2.2
Revenues 0.2 1.7
Expenses (0.2) (1.5)
Profit — 0.2
Share of before tax profit of Joint Venture — 0.1
Investment including loans in equity accounted Joint Venture — 1.2
14 Financial Assets — Available for sale investments
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Balance at the beginning and end of the year 0.2 0.2
Available-for-sale assets comprised of unquoted securities. The fair value of these has been determined on the 
basis of expected cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and a premium specific to 
the unlisted securities. Fair value movements for 2011 and 2012 were insignificant.
15 Deferred taxes
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Group’s deferred 
tax assets resulting from temporary differences are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Accrued severance pay 0.4 0.3
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.1
Intangible assets (0.8) (0.4)
Provision for share benefit charges 0.2 0.1
Provision for vacation 0.3 0.3
Hedging gains (0.3) —
0.4 0.4
16 Cash and cash equivalents 
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Cash and cash equivalents 78.1 74.1
Restricted cash 3.4 1.8
81.5 75.9
Restricted cash represents customers’ funds held in designated accounts under regulated market licence 
requirements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  67
www.888holdingsplc.com
17 Short term investments 
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Deposits 3.5 6.0
3.5 6.0
Short term investments primarily relates to deposits held by banks to support guarantees in respect of regulated 
market licence requirements.
18 Trade and other receivables
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Trade receivables
1
20.1 17.2
Corporate tax 3.5 1.8
Fair value of derivative financial instruments
2
3.3 —
Other receivables and prepayments
1
6.1 7.4
33.0 26.4
1  The carrying value of trade receivables and other receivables approximates to their fair value as the credit risk has been addressed as part of 
impairment provisioning and, due to the short-term nature of the receivables, they are not subject to ongoing fluctuations in market rates.
2  Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value under IAS 39 and comprise level 2 fair value measurement instruments. Any gains or 
losses arising from changes in the fair values of derivatives are recorded immediately in the consolidated income statement.
19 Share capital 
Share capital comprises the following:
Authorized 
31 December
2012
Number
2011
Number
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Ordinary Shares of £0.005 each 426,387 ,500 426,387 ,500 3.9 3.9
Allotted, called up and fully paid
31 December
2012
Number
2011
Number
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Ordinary Shares of £0.005 each 347,687,468 345,429,509 3.2 3.2
Issue of ordinary shares of £0.005 each 2,000,888 2,257,959 — —
349,688,356 347,687,468 3.2 3.2 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
68
19 Share capital continued
The following tables include details on issue of ordinary shares of £0.005 each as part of the Group’s employee 
share option plan (see note 24) during 2012 and 2011:
Issued during 2012
Ordinary 
shares of 
£0.005 
each
January 2012 76,816
April 2012 362,612
May 2012 1,106,071
June 2012 194,988
August 2012 161,468
October 2012 98,933
Shares Issued during 2012 2,000,888
Issued during 2011
Ordinary 
shares of 
£0.005 
each
March 2011 50,000
May 2011 780,612
June 2011 359,443
August 2011 187,105
September 2011 45,106
October 2011 474,597
November 2011 174,528
December 2011 186,568
Shares Issued during 2011 2,257,959
During 2012, the Company did not issue shares (2011: nil) in respect of employees’ exercising market value options. 
Shares issued are converted into US$ at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of issue. The issued and fully 
paid share capital of the Group amounts to US$3.2 million (2011: US$3.2 million) and is split into 349,688,356 (2011: 
347,687,468) ordinary shares. The share capital in UK sterling (GBP) is £1.7 million (2011: £1.7 million) and translates 
at an average exchange rate of US$1.82 (2011: US$1.86) to GBP. 
20 Trade and other payables
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Trade payables 33.1 27.3
Corporate taxes 2.3 0.7
Other payables, accrued expenses and deferred income 50.0 37.5
85.4 65.5
The carrying value of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value given the short maturity date of 
these balances.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  69
www.888holdingsplc.com
21 Contingent and deferred consideration
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Deferred consideration re Wink acquisition — 37.4
Other contingent consideration
1
 0.7 —
0.7 37.4
1 The Group has recognised contingent and deferred consideration on an acquisition in the period. Further details are given in note 10.
Contingent and deferred consideration — movements in the year 
Wink Bingo
 business
1
Mytopia
social
games Others Total
US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million
Contingent and deferred consideration at 1 January 2011 72.1 10.2 — 82.3
Paid in year — Capital amounts (40.1) (6.0) — (46.1)
Unwinding of discount 3.7 — — 3.7
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration — (4.2) — (4.2)
Foreign exchange differences on deferred consideration 1.7 — — 1.7
Contingent and deferred consideration at 31 December 2011 37.4 — — 37.4 
Other contingent and deferred consideration arising 
on acquisitions — — 1.5 1.5
Paid in year — Capital amounts (35.5) — (1.2) (36.7)
Movement in contingent and deferred consideration (2.4) — 0.4 (2.0)
Foreign exchange differences on deferred consideration 0.5 — — 0.5
Contingent and deferred consideration at the end of the year — — 0.7 0.7
1 During the year 2012, the Group paid an amount of US$35.5 million and completed the settlement of the deferred consideration payable in  
 respect of the Wink acquisition. Following negotiations with the vendors the final amount payable was reduced and as a result US$2.4 million was  
 released to the consolidated Income Statement.
22 Liabilities to customers and progressive prize pools
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Liabilities to customers 44.1 40.0
Progressive prize pools 5.4 4.9
49.5 44.9 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
70
23 Investments in significant subsidiaries
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Percentage 
of equity 
interest
2012
%
Percentage 
of equity 
interest
2011
%
Nature of 
business
Cassava Enterprises (Gibraltar) 
Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Gaming website operator
Virtual Marketing Services (UK) 
Limited UK 100 100 Advertising services
Virtual Marketing Services 
(Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Marketing acquisition
Dixie Operation Limited Antigua 100 100 Customer call center operator
Random Logic Limited Israel 100 100
Research, development 
and marketing support
Brigend Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Bingo business operator
Fordart Limited Gibraltar 100 100
General commercial 
business activities
New Wave Virtual Ventures 
Limited Gibraltar 100 100
Development of social games — 
Mytopia. 
Virtual Internet Services 
Limited Gibraltar 100 100
Data hosting and 
development services
888 Regulated Markets Limited Malta 100 100
Holder of French online 
gaming licence
Virtual Marketing Services 
Italia SRL Italia 100 100
Holder of Italian online 
gaming licence
888 Spain Public Limited 
Company Gibraltar 100 100
Holder of Spanish online 
gaming licence
888 Virtual Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of group IP assets
888 US Limited Gibraltar 100 100
Applied for internet gaming 
service provider licence in the 
state of Nevada 
888 US INC. USA 100 100
Provider of data hosting services 
for the forthcoming US operations
AGN LLC USA 100 100
Applied for internet gaming 
service provider licence in the 
state of Nevada
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  71
www.888holdingsplc.com
24 Share-based payment 
Prior to flotation, the Company adopted two equity-settled employee share incentive plans - the 888 All-Employee 
Share Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan. The 888 All-Employee Share Plan is open to all employees and 
Executive Directors of the Group who are not within six months of their normal retirement age at the discretion of 
the Remuneration Committee. Awards under this scheme will vest in instalments over a fixed period of up to four 
years. Certain of these awards are subject to performance conditions imposed by the Remuneration Committee at 
the dates of grant, further details of which are given in the directors remuneration report on page 30. 
Details of equity settled Shares and Share Options granted as part of the 888 All-Employee Share Plan: 
Share options granted
31 December, 2012 31 December, 2011
Weighted average
exercise price Number
Weighted average 
exercise price Number
Outstanding at the beginning of the year £1.41 3,645,044 £1.38 4,587,481
Market value options lapsed during the year £1.41 (503,622) £1.29 (942,437)
Outstanding at the end of the year
1,2
£1.41 3,141,422 £1.41 3,645,044
1  Of the total number of options outstanding at the end of the year, 2,923,109 had vested and were exercisable at the end of the year  
(2011: 2,932,129).
2 The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year is £1.02-£1.80 (2011: £1.02-£1.80).
Shares granted
31 December
2012
Number
2011
Number
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,368,292 4,441,138
Shares granted — future vesting 2,134,719 5,091,457
Lapsed future vesting shares (642,445) (906,344)
Shares issued during the year (2,000,888) (2,257,959)
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,859,678 6,368,292
Shares are granted at a nominal exercise price. 
Valuation information — Shares granted
2012 2011
Weighted average share price at grant date £0.63 £0.34
Weighted average share price at issue of shares £0.72 £0.34
Average remaining life until vesting (Months) 18 20
Shares granted for future vesting are valued at the share price at grant date which the Company considers 
approximates to the fair value. The restrictions on the shares during the vesting period, primarily relating to non-
receipt of dividends, and any performance conditions attached are considered to have an immaterial effect on the 
share option charge.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards a charge to the income statement in respect of 
any shares or options granted under the above schemes is recognised and spread over the vesting period of the 
shares or options based on the fair value of the shares or options at the grant date, adjusted for changes in vesting 
conditions at each balance sheet date. This charge has no cash impact.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
72
24 Share-based payment continued
Cash-settled share-based payment
On 27 March 2012, the Company awarded its Chief Executive Officer a cash settled share-based award. The 
phantom award will be fully vested in three years from the grant date, provided he remains in employment with the 
Company on the third anniversary of the grant date. Under specific terms, the phantom award will also vest if he 
leaves employment before the normal vesting date as detailed in the Directors remuneration report.
The amount payable is calculated on an incremental basis, based on the average share price of the Company over a 
period of 20 dealing days prior to the scheduled vesting date for the award. The minimum amount payable is £0.25 
million and the maximum amount payable is £5.5 million if the share price is above £2.00.
Valuation information
31 December
2012 2011
Option pricing model used Monte Carlo —
Share price at 31 December 2012 £1.19 —
Remaining life until vesting 2.24 years —
Risk-free interest rate 0.37% —
Standard deviation 50.31% —
Share benefit charges
Year ended 31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Equity settled 
Charges in respect of share and option awards granted this year — 0.6
Charges in respect of share and option awards granted in previous years 0.9 1.8
0.9 2.4
Charges in respect of share and option awards granted in previous years included within 
restructuring charges (see note 4) — 0.5
Equity settled charge for the year 0.9 2.9
Cash settled
Charges in respect of the phantom option awards granted this year 0.8 —
Total share benefit charges 1.7 2.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  73
www.888holdingsplc.com
25 Related party transactions
The aggregate amounts payable to the Directors as well as share-based charges are set out below:
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Short term benefits
1
3.0 3.3
Share benefit charges — equity settled
1
0.3 0.8
Share benefit charges — cash settled 0.8 —
4.1 4.1
Further details on Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ remuneration summary on page 36.
1
 In addition, following the departure of the former CEO on 30 April 2011, the Group incurred aggregated termination and related costs of  
 US$3.9 million, of which US$3.4 million were in respect of short term benefits and US$0.5 million in respect of accelerated equity settled share  
 benefit charges.
26 Commitments 
Lease commitments 
Future minimum lease commitments under property operating leases for the year ended 31 December 2012 are as 
follows: 
Year ended 31 December
Leases expiring within
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
One year 3.3 3.3
Two to five years 9.2 11.3
12.5 14.6
The amount paid in the year was US$3.5 million (2011: US$3.7 million).
Lease commitments on the Group’s property are shown to the date of the first break clause.
27 Financial risk management 
The Group is exposed through its operations to risks that arise from use of its financial instruments. Policies and 
procedures for managing these risks are set by the Board following recommendations from the Chief Financial 
Officer. The Board reviews the effectiveness of these procedures and, if required, approves specific policies and 
procedures in order to mitigate these risks.
The main financial instruments used by the Group, on which financial risk arises, are as follows: 
 ● Cash and cash equivalents;
 ● Restricted cash;
 ● Short term investments;
 ● Trade and other receivables;
 ● Trade and other payables;
 ● Liabilities to customers;
 ● Available for sale financial investments  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
74
27 Financial risk management continued
Detailed analysis of these financial instruments is as follows:
31 December
Financial assets
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Trade receivables 20.1 17.2
Other receivables 6.5 5.0
Cash and cash equivalents 78.1 74.1
Restricted cash 3.4 1.8
Short term investment 3.5 6.0
Available for sale financial investments 0.2 0.2
111.8 104.3
In accordance with IAS 39, all financial assets are classified as loans and receivables except for available-for-sale 
assets and US$3.3 million relating to forward currency contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange 
rates. Such derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value under IAS39 and comprise level 2 fair value 
measurement instruments.
31 December
Financial liabilities
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Trade payables 33.1 27.3
Other payables and accrued expenses 40.7 36.1
Contingent and deferred consideration 0.7 37.4
Liabilities to customers 49.5 44.9
124.0 145.7
In accordance with IAS 39, all of the above financial liabilities are held at amortised cost, except for US$0.5 million 
of contingent consideration arising on acquisitions which are recognised at fair value. (2011: except for US$1.5 
million relating to the forward currency contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange transactions 
recognised at fair value.) 
At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the fair value and the book value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities were 
materially the same. 
Capital
The capital employed by the Group is composed of equity attributable to shareholders. The primary objective 
of the Group is maximizing shareholders’ value, which, from the capital perspective, is achieved by maintaining 
the capital structure most suited to the Group’s size, strategy, and underlying business risk. Other than disclosed 
elsewhere in note 28, there are no demands or restrictions on the Group’s capital. 
The main financial risk areas are as follows: 
Credit risk
Trade receivables
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to trade receivables who are the Group’s payment service providers 
(‘PSP’). These are third party companies that facilitate deposits and withdrawals of funds to and from customers’ 
virtual wallet with the Group. These are mainly intermediaries that transact on behalf of the main credit card 
companies. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  75
www.888holdingsplc.com
27 Financial risk management continued
The risk is that a PSP would fail to discharge its obligation with regard to the balance owed to the Group. The 
Group reduces this credit risk by: 
 ● Monitoring those balances on a regular basis.
 ● Arranging for the shortest possible cash settlement intervals.
 ● Replacing rolling reserve requirements, where they exist, with a Letter of Credit by a reputable financial 
institution.
 ● Ensuring a new PSP is only contracted following various due diligence and ‘Know Your Customer’ procedures.
 ● Ensuring policies are in place to reduce dependency on any specific PSP.
The Group believes that based on the above and on extensive past experience, the PSP receivables are of good 
credit quality and there is no requirement to provide for any potential bad debts arising from a PSP failing to 
discharge its obligation. None of the balances owed by the various PSP are overdue or impaired (2011: nil). 
An additional credit risk the Group faces relates to customers disputing charges made to their credit cards 
(‘chargebacks’) or any other funding method they have used in respect of the services provided by the Group. 
Customers may fail to fulfill their obligation to pay which will result in funds not being collected. These chargebacks 
and uncollected deposits, when occurring, will be deducted at source by the PSPs from any amount due to 
the Group. As such the Group provides for these eventualities by way of a provision based on analysis of past 
transactions. This provision is netted off from the trade receivables balance and at 31 December 2012 was US$1.1 
million (2011: US$1.2 million). 
The Group’s in-house Fraud and Risk Management department carefully monitors deposits and withdrawals by 
following prevention and verification procedures using internally developed bespoke systems integrated with 
commercially available third party measures. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
The Group controls its cash position out of its Gibraltar headquarters. Subsidiaries in its other main locations (Israel, 
Antigua and London) maintain minimum cash balances which are deemed required for their operations. 
Cash settlement proceeds from PSPs, as described above, are paid into bank accounts controlled by the Treasury 
function. 
The Group maintains its funds with highly reputable financial institutions and will not hold funds with financial 
institutions with low credit rating. 
The Group maintains its cash reserve in highly liquid deposits and regularly monitors rates in order to maximise 
yield.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash represents customers’ funds held for payment service provider transactions in respect of regulated 
markets. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
76
27 Financial risk management continued
Short term investments
Short term investments primarily relates to deposits held by banks for guarantees in respect of regulated markets 
licence applications.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk by type of financial instrument is summarised below: 
31 December 2012 31 December 2011
Carrying 
value
US$ million
Maximum 
exposure
US$ million
Carrying 
value
US$ million
Maximum 
exposure
US$ million
Trade receivables 20.1 20.1 17.2 17.2
Other receivables 6.5 6.5 5.0 5.0
Cash and cash equivalents 78.1 78.1 74.1 74.1
Restricted cash 3.4 3.4 1.8 1.8
Short term investment 3.5 3.5 6.0 6.0
Available for sale financial investments 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
111.8 111.8 104.3 104.3
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk exists in the case where the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its financial obligations as 
they become due. 
The Group monitors its liquidity in order to ensure that sufficient liquid resources are available to allow it to meet 
its obligations. 
The following table details the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities:
31 December 2012
Trade 
payables
US$ million
Other 
payables
1
US$ million
Deferred and
contingent
consideration
US$ million
Liabilities to 
customers
US$ million
Total
US$ million
On demand 6.9  2.1  —  49.5  58.5 
In 3 months 24.8 33.3 0.3  —  58.4 
Between 3 months and 1 year 1.4  4.5  0.4  —  6.3 
More than 1 year —  0.8 —  —  0.8 
 33.1  40.7 0.7 49.5 124.0
1  Includes other payables, accrued expenses, derivative financial liabilities and provisions, and excludes deferred income.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  77
www.888holdingsplc.com
27 Financial risk management continued
31 December 2011
Trade 
payables
US$ million
Other 
payables
1
US$ million
Def err ed  and
c ontingent
c onsider ation
US$ million
Liabilities to 
ustomers
US$ million
T otal
US$ million
On demand 8.5 1.0 — 44.9 54.4
In 3 months 17.1 32.4 — — 49.5
Between 3 months and 1 year 1.5 1.6 37.4 — 40.5
More than 1 year 0.2 1.1 — — 1.3
27.3 36.1 37.4 44.9 145.7
1
 Includes other payables, accrued expenses and provisions. 
Market risk 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is limited to the interest bearing deposits in which the Group invests 
surplus funds. 
The Group’s policy is to invest surplus funds in low risk money market funds or on call overnight facilities. The 
Group also arranges with its principal bankers that excess GBP funds are swept automatically across its accounts, 
every night, in order to maximise availability of funds for investments. 
Downside interest rate risk is minimal as the Group has no floating rates borrowings. Given current low interest 
rates a 0.5% downward movement in bank interest rates would not have a significant impact on finance income for 
the year. However, a 0.5% increase in interest rates would, based on the year end deposits, increase annual profits 
by US$0.3 million. 
Currency risk 
The Group’s financial risk arising from exchange rate fluctuations is mainly attributed to: 
 ● Mismatch between Balance sheet Liabilities to customers which is predominantly denominated in US$ and 
the net receipts from customers which are settled in the currency of the customer’s choice, of which sterling 
(GBP) and Euros (EUR) are significant.
 ● Mismatch between reported revenue which is mainly generated in USD (the Group’s functional and reporting 
currency) and significant portion of deposits which are settled in local currencies. 
 ● Expenses, the majority of which are denominated in foreign currencies including sterling (GBP), euro (EUR) 
and New Israeli Shekel (ILS).
The Group continually monitors the foreign currency risk and takes steps, where practical, to ensure that the net 
exposure is kept to an acceptable level, inter alia by using foreign exchange forward contracts designed to fix the 
economic impact of known liabilities. At 31 December 2012 the Group had entered into Israeli shekel/US dollar 
outstanding forward contracts totaling US$81 million regarding 2013 operational business costs expected to be 
incurred in Israeli shekels. In addition the Group had entered into US dollar/ GB Pound as well as US Dollar/Euro 
forward contracts totaling US$140 million regarding 2013 expected currency excess in GB Pound and Euro, The 
total fair value of the forward contracts was US$ 3.3 million to be settled on a monthly basis throughout 2013. (2011: 
the Group had entered into GB Pound/US dollar outstanding forward contracts totaling US$32.4 million regarding 
the Wink deferred liability whose fair value as at 31 December was US$1.5 million which had been settled during the 
year 2012.  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
78
27 Financial risk management continued
The tables below detail the net financial position by currency at 31 December 2012 and 2011:
31 December, 2012
GBP
US$ million
EUR
US$ million
ILS
US$ million
USD
US$ million
Other
US$ million
Total
US$ million
Cash and cash equivalent 16.9 7.3 7.4 44.9 1.6 78.1
Restricted cash — 3.4 — — — 3.4
Receivables 9.9 6.0 4.9 3.6 2.2 26.6
Short term investments — 2.7 0.8 — — 3.5
Available for sale financial investments — — — 0.2 — 0.2 
Net monetary assets 26.8 19.4 13.1 48.7  3.8 111.8
Payables (21.3) (17.3) (20.5) (63.1) (1.8) (124.0)
Net monetary liabilities (21.3) (17.3) (20.5) (63.1) (1.8) (124.0)
Net financial position 5.5  2.1  (7.4) (14.4) 2.0  (12.2)
31 December, 2011
GBP
 US$ million
EUR
 US$ million
ILS
 US$ million
USD
 US$ million
Other
 US$ million
T otal
 US$ million
Cash and cash equivalent 12.3 9.7 5.3 43.9 2.9 74.1
Restricted cash 0.4 1.2 — 0.1 — 1.7
Receivables 7.0 6.4 0.6 5.6 2.6 22.2
Short term investments — 5.2 0.8 0.1 — 6.1
Available for sale financial investments — — — 0.2 — 0.2
Net monetary assets 19.7 22.5 6.7 49.9 5.5 104.3
Payables (60.2) (7.9) (13.8) (63.5) (0.3) (145.7)
Net monetary liabilities (60.2) (7.9) (13.8) (63.5) (0.3) (145.7)
Net financial position (40.5) 14.6  (7.1) (13.6) 5.2  (41.4)
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below details the effect on profit before tax of a 10% strengthening (and weakening) in the US Dollar 
exchange rate at the balance sheet date for balance sheet items denominated in Sterling, Euros and New Israeli 
Shekels: 
Year ended 31 December, 2012
GBP
US$ million
EUR
US$ million
ILS
US$  million
10% Strengthening (0.6) (0.2) 0.7
10% Weakening 0.6 0.2 (0.7)
Year ended 31 December, 2011
GBP
US$ million
EUR
US$ million
ILS
US$ million
10% Strengthening 4.1 (1.5) 0.7
10% Weakening (4.1) 1.5 (0.7)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  79
www.888holdingsplc.com
28 Contingent liabilities and regulatory issues
a. As part of the Board’s ongoing regulatory compliance and operational risk assessment process, the Board 
continues to monitor legal and regulatory developments, and their potential impact on the business, and 
continues to take appropriate advice in respect of these developments. 
b. Given the nature of the legal and regulatory landscape of the industry, from time to time the Group has 
received notices, communications and legal actions from a small number of regulatory authorities and other 
parties in respect of its activities. The Group has taken legal advice as to the manner in which it should 
respond and the likelihood of success of such actions. Based on this advice and the nature of the actions, 
the Board is unable to quantify reliably any material outflow of funds that may result, if any. Accordingly, no 
provisions have been made. 
c. The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Group is filing tax returns, providing for and 
paying all taxes and duties it believes are due based on local tax laws, transfer pricing agreements and tax 
advice obtained. The Group is periodically subject to audits and assessments by local taxing authorities. The 
Board is unable to quantify reliably any exposure for additional taxes, if any, that may arise from the final 
settlement of such assessments. Accordingly no additional provisions have been made. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
80
Company Balance Sheet 
At 31 December 2012
31 December
Note
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 2 23.4 22.8
23.4 22.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 3 225.5 146.3
Cash and cash equivalents 4 17.6 16.4
243.1 162.7
Total assets 266.5 185.5
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Share capital 5 3.2 3.2
Share premium 0.1 0.1
Retained earnings 32.5 (4.4)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 35.8 (1.1)
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6 229.9 186.6
Non-current liabilities
Share benefit charges — cash settled 0.8 —
Total liabilities 230.7 186.6
Total equity and liabilities 266.5 185.5
The financial statements on pages 80 to 82 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on  
13 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Brian Mattingley Aviad Kobrine
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The notes on pages 83 to 84 form part of these financial statements. 81
www.888holdingsplc.com
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
At 31 December 2012
Share 
capital
US$ million
Share 
premium
US$ million
Retained 
earnings
US$ million
Total
US$ million
Balance at 1 January 2011 3.2 0.1 7.4 10.7
Issue of shares ————
Share benefit charges — — 2.9 2.9
Total comprehensive income for the year — — (14.6) (14.6)
Balance at 1 January 2012 3.2 0.1 (4.3) (1.0)
Dividend paid — — (8.7) (8.7)
Issue of shares ————
Share benefit charges — — 0.9 0.9
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 44.6 44.6
Balance at 31 December 2012 3.2 0.1 32.5 35.8
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity. 
Share capital — represents the nominal value of shares allotted, called-up and fully paid for.
Share premium — represents the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value. 
Retained earnings — represents the cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
The notes on pages 83 and 84 form part of these financial statements. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
82
Company Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Year ended
31 December
Year ended
31 December
2012
US$ million
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Cash flows from operating activities:
 Profit/(Loss) before income tax 46.5 (13.7)
Adjustments for:
 Interest received (0.1) (0.1)
 Share benefit charges 1.1 1.1
 Increase in amounts owed by subsidiaries (78.9) (11.4)
 Decrease (increase) in other accounts receivables (0.3) 0.4
 Increase in trade payables 1.4 0.5
 Increase in amounts owed to subsidiaries 43.0 22.4
 (Decrease) increase in other accounts payables (1.9) 3.7
Cash generated from (used in) operations 10.8 2.9
Tax paid (1.0) (0.3)
Net cash generated from (used in) operating activities 9.8 2.6
Cash flows from investing activities:
 Interest received 0.1 0.1
Net cash generated from investing activities 0.1 0.1
Cash flows from financing activities:
 Dividends paid (8.7) —
Net cash used in financing activities (8.7) —
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.2 2.7
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 16.4 13.7
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 17.6 16.4
The notes on pages 83 and 84 form part of these financial statements. 83
www.888holdingsplc.com
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
1 General information and accounting policies 
A description of the Company, its activities and definitions are included in note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements. 
The Company has applied accounting policies identical to the Group’s accounting policies listed in note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements other than in relation to investments in its subsidiaries which are held at cost less 
any impairment provision required. 
The following standard issued by the IASB has not been adopted by the Company as this was not effective for the 
year 2012. The Company is currently assessing the impact this standard will have on the presentation of its results 
in future periods. 
IAS27 Separate Financial Statements (effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014). 
Under Section 10(2) of the Gibraltar (Consolidated Accounts) Act 1999, the Company is exempt from the 
requirement to present its own income statement. 
2 Investments in subsidiaries
The Company’s subsidiaries are listed in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and are held at cost 
less provision for any impairment. The Group applies IFRS 2 ‘Share-based transactions’. Consequently, the Parent 
Company recognises as a cost of investment the value of its own shares that it makes available for the purpose of 
granting share options to employees or contractors of its subsidiaries. The movement on investment in subsidiaries 
in both years was in respect of IFRS 2 This amount was US$0.6 million in 2012 (2011: US$1.8 million).
3 Trade and other receivables
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Amounts due from subsidiaries 225.2 146.3
Other receivables and prepayments 0.3 —
225.5 146.3
The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value. None of the balances included 
within trade and other receivables are past due or impaired. Amounts due from subsidiaries are payable on 
demand.
4 Cash and cash equivalents
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Cash and cash equivalents 17.6 16.4
17.6 16.4
5 Share capital
The disclosures in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements are identical for the Company. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
84
6 Trade and other payables
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Trade payables 1.9 0.6
Amounts due to subsidiaries 222.3 179.3
Corporate tax 1.6 0.7
Other payables and accrued expenses 4.1 6.0
229.9 186.6
The carrying value of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value. All balances included within trade 
and other payables are repayable on demand. 
7 Financial risk management
The Company’s financial risk management objectives and policies are identical to those of the Group as disclosed 
in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 
8 Contingent liabilities
The disclosures in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements are identical for the Company. 
9 Share-based payment 
The disclosures in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements are identical for the Company except that the 
charge for the year is partly taken to investment in subsidiaries as set out in note 2.
10 Related party transactions 
During the year the Company received dividends from its subsidiaries totaling US$60 million and paid to its 
shareholders dividends totaling US$8.7 million (2011: nil). 
Share benefit charges in respect of options and shares of the Company awarded to employees of subsidiaries 
totalled US$0.6 million (2011: US$1.8 million). 
During the year subsidiaries of the Company participated in funding its costs which totalled US$11.2 million (2011: 
US$15.1 million) At 31 December 2012, net amount owed by subsidiaries to the Company amounted to US$2.9 
million (2011: net amount owed by the Company to its subsidiaries US$33.1 million). 
The aggregate benefits paid to the directors of the Company by its subsidiaries set out below:
31 December
2012
US$ million
2011
US$ million
Short term benefits 0.2 0.3
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  85
www.888holdingsplc.com
Shareholder Information 
Group websites 
A range of shareholder information is available in 
the Investor Relations area of the Group’s website, 
www.888holdingsplc.com, including: 
 ◗ Latest information on the Group’s share price 
 ◗ Information on the Group’s financial performance
 ◗ News and events 
The following websites can be also accessed through 
the Group’s main Web site www.888.com or are available 
directly. 
Casino 
888’s Casino games are offered through its 888casino 
and live casino
 ◗ www.888casino.com 
 ◗ www.Casino-on-Net.com
 ◗ www.ReefClubCasino.com
Poker 
888’s Poker offering is through 888poker
 ◗ www.888poker.com
 ◗ www.PacificPoker.com
Sportsbook 
888’s Sportsbook offering is through 888sport
 ◗ www.888sport.com 
Bingo 
888’s Bingo offering is through 888ladies and Wink
 ◗ www.888ladies.com 
 ◗ www.winkbingo.com
 ◗ www.poshbingo.co.uk
 ◗ www.tastybingo.com
 ◗ www.redbusbingo.com
 ◗ www.bingostreet.com
 ◗ www.bigbrotherbingo.com
 ◗ www.888bingo.com
Spain
888’s Spain Poker and Casino games are offered through 
its Spanish regulated website
 ◗ www.888.es 
 ◗ www.888poker.es
Italy
888’s Italy Casino games are offered through its Italian 
regulated website
 ◗ www.888.it 
Games
888’s Games offering is through 888games
 ◗ www.888games.com
 ◗ www.888play.com
888responsible: 
The Group’s dedicated site focusing on responsible 
gaming
 ◗ www.888responsible.com 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
86
Shareholder Notes 87
www.888holdingsplc.com
Shareholder Notes 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
88
Shareholder Notes Shareholder Services
All enquiries relating to Ordinary Shares, Depository 
Interests, dividends and changes of address should be 
directed to the Group’s Transfer Agent:
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
UK
Tel: 0870 162 3100
www.capitaregistrars.com
Further Information
For further information please contact:
info@888holdingsplc.com
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
UK
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
UK
Solicitors
Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London
EC4Y 1HS
UK 
UK
Hassans
57/63 Line Wall Road
Gibraltar
Company Secretary
Strait Secretaries Limited
57/63 Line Wall Road
Gibraltar
Auditors
BDO LLP
Chartered Accountants 
55 Baker Street
London 
W1U 7EU
UK
Registered Auditors
BDO Limited 
Regal House 
Queensway 
Gibraltar
Incorporated in Gibraltar with
registered number 90099 888 Holdings plc
Suite 601/701 Europort
Europort Road
Gibraltar
T: +350 20049800
F: +350 20048280
E: Info@888holdingsplc.com
www.888holdingsplc.com
