 APR ENERGY PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
APR ENERGY PLC   2013 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS
APR ENERGY PLC
Registered Office
54 Baker Street
London W1U 7BU
Commercial Operations
3600 Port Jacksonville Parkway
Jacksonville, FL 32226 USA
Tel: +1 904 223 8488
Fax: +1 904 223 8955
www.aprenergy.com
COVER tp.indd   1 04/04/2014   10:02 APR Energy powers the progress of 
the communities we serve by providing 
cost-efficient reliable electricity, on a 
fast-track basis, anywhere in the world.
We leverage state-of-the art technology 
and industry-leading expertise to 
provide utility and industrial customers 
with fuel-efficient turnkey plants that are 
rapidly deployed, customisable, and 
scalable. 
Cautionary Statement
This announcement (in particular the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement) has been prepared solely 
to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Company’s strategies and overall performance. Certain statements 
in this announcement constitute or may constitute forward-looking statements. Any statement in this announcement that is not a 
statement of historical fact including, without limitation, those regarding the Company’s future expectations, operations, financial 
performance, financial condition, and business is or may be a forward-looking statement. Such forward-looking statements are subject 
to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in any forward-looking 
statement. These risks and uncertainties include, among other factors, changing economic, financial, business or other market 
conditions. These and other factors could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described in 
this announcement. As a result, whilst they are made in good faith based on information available up to the time of their approval of 
this announcement, you are cautioned not to place any reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements 
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of this announcement and the Company undertakes no obligation to update 
its view of such risks and uncertainties or to update the forward-looking statements contained herein. Nothing in this announcement 
should be construed as a profit forecast.
COVER tp.indd   2 04/04/2014   10:02 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 1 
Strategic Report
Overview
 1 Highlights
 2 APR Energy at a glance
 4 Our global reach
 6 Chairman’s Statement
Strategy
 7 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
11 Our market
14 Our business
22 Our strategy
33 Key performance indicators
Performance
34 Financial Review
40 Corporate responsibility
46 Risk management
48 Principal risks and opportunities
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Report
52 Chairman’s letter
54 The Board of Directors
56 The Management T eam
58 Corporate Governance Report
68 Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
75 Annual Statement
77 Directors Remuneration Policy Report
84 Annual Report on Remuneration
Financial Statements
 92 Independent Auditor’s Report
 95 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
 96 Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position
 97 Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity
 98 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
124 Company Statement of Financial 
Position
125 Company Statement of Changes in 
Equity
126 Company Cash Flow Statement
127 Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
Other Information
132 Shareholders’ information
133 Glossary 
Contents
Highlights
l Record new contract wins in 2013 totalling 740MW and 298MW of extensions reflecting 90% renewal rate
l Full year revenues up 16% to $308 million; Adjusted EBITDA up 15% to $181 million
l Adjusted profit for the year of $48 million; Adjusted basic EPS of $0.60 in line with expectations
l Power generation capacity increased 58% during the year to 2,074MW
l High fleet utilisation rate of 81% at year end; Average utilisation of 74% across the year
l Completion of the GE Power Rental Business acquisition
l Strong start to 2014 with extension of 200MW project in Libya and 82MW new contract in Myanmar
l New contract announced today with global mining customer for 60MW turbine plant in South Pacific
l Libyan customer up to date with all payments; $100 million of cash received to date in respect of contract
l Full Year dividend maintained at 10 pence per share
  Reported Reported Adjusted
1
 Adjusted
1 
Adjusted
1
$ million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 Change
Revenue  308.3 265.7  308.3 265.7  16%
Operating profit  69.0 9.2 77.8 67.2  16%
Profit/(loss) before taxation  27.5 (4.9) 56.0 63.3  (12%)
Profit/(loss) for the year  19.8 (14.9) 48.3 53.3  (9%)
Basic earnings per share ($)  $0.24 ($0.19) $0.60 $0.68  (12%)
Adjusted EBITDA  -  -  181.2 157.0  15%
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%)  -  -  59% 59%  - 
1  
The Group uses adjusted financial information in managing the business and evaluating the Group’s underlying performance. The Group adjusts for certain 
items including amortisation of intangibles, Founder securities revaluation movements and acquisition related costs. A reconciliation to their statutory 
equivalents is available in the Financial Review on page 34. 2 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
T urnkey approach
Industry-leading 
expertise
APR Energy at a glance
Overview
APR Energy is a global 
leader in rapidly delivered 
large-scale power 
solutions and, following 
our acquisition of the GE 
Power Rental Business 
and our GE strategic 
alliance, we are the 
world’s leading provider 
of fast-track mobile 
turbine power. 
Serving both developed and developing markets, APR Energy sells electricity and generation 
capacity to utilities, countries, and industries that have critical power deficits or that require 
dedicated, distributed, or seasonal generation solutions. 
Fast-track power
Global reach
APR Energy delivers power fast, 
when and where it is needed. We 
combine highly mobile technology with 
proprietary modular plant design and 
advanced engineering, logistics, and 
installation capabilities to deploy, install, 
and commission a large-scale power 
plant within days or weeks.
With a presence in over 25 countries, 
a network of regional hubs and 
commercial offices, a fleet capacity 
exceeding two gigawatts (GW), and 
attendant supplier relationships in all our 
key markets, APR Energy stands ready 
to respond quickly to urgent electricity 
needs wherever they may be around 
the globe. 
APR Energy installs, operates, 
and maintains its own plants and 
equipment, including site preparation 
and integration with surrounding 
infrastructure. Customers, therefore, do 
not worry about project management, 
plant operations, or upfront funding 
or financing, typically paying only for 
electricity generation and capacity.
APR Energy’s industry-leading logistical, 
project management, and engineering 
expertise enables us to mobilise 
large-scale power plants quickly 
and efficiently. Our fast-track, highly 
developed processes integrate across 
all logistics, planning, engineering, 
installation, legal, and commercial 
teams to ensure seamless and rapid 
execution.
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
0
20
40
60
80
100
Fleet capacity* (MW) Contracted utilisation* (%)
2013 2013 2012 2012
2,074 81%
1,311
62%
*Defined in the glossary on page 133 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 3 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Scalability
Community 
partnership
Through our use of highly mobile, turnkey power plants, APR Energy delivers, within weeks, 
large blocks of power that can run entire cities. The reliable power we provide helps foster 
economic growth, socio-political stability, and an overall improved quality of life for the 
communities we serve.
Advanced, mobile 
technology
Proven track record
APR Energy offers the newest power 
generation fleet in the industry, providing 
customers with the latest advancements 
in fuel efficiency and emissions controls. 
Our fleet features proven mobile gas 
turbine technology from GE, as well as 
diesel and natural gas reciprocating-
engine power modules from Caterpillar. 
APR Energy has installed over 2.5GW 
of power capacity across more than 25 
countries around the globe, powering 
millions of homes and keeping 
economies growing. Our high rate of 
contract renewals is a testament to high 
levels of customer satisfaction and the 
value of the service we provide.
Our solutions are highly customisable 
to accommodate each customer’s 
unique needs and can scale to over 
400MW. Installed on either an interim or 
semi-permanent basis, APR Energy’s 
solutions can deliver the power capacity 
equivalent to a traditional power plant 
and integrate seamlessly into existing 
infrastructure.
APR Energy partners with the local 
communities in which we operate 
to build positive relationships and 
contribute to their overall well-being. 
We hire a large number of our plant 
employees locally and, through our 
community development programme, 
we support local infrastructure, 
education, healthcare, and disaster relief 
causes.
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
0
20
40
60
80
100
Technology mix Installed capacity by region
Mobile
T urbines
56%
Africa
38%
Diesel 
Power 
Modules 
39%
Americas
29%
Asia
21%
Gas
Power Modules 
5%
Middle East
12%
www.aprenergy.com 4 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our global reach
Overview
A global footprint that 
spans over 25 countries
APR Energy has installed over 2.5GW of 
capacity across more than 25 countries 
and is able to respond quickly to urgent 
electricity needs, wherever they may arise 
around the world. 
APR Energy’s international network of 
regional hubs and offices allows us 
to leverage proximity, strong supplier 
relationships, and efficient logistics 
to provide world-class service and a 
timely response. At the same time, our 
commitment to managing the business 
and assets on a homogenous and global 
basis means that each local APR Energy 
regional hub has access to deep vertically 
integrated channels of customer support. 
Being close to our customers is one of APR 
Energy’s key competitive advantages. It 
allows us to respond quickly to the needs 
of our clients and new opportunities. As 
a global business, we are able to use our 
resources strategically by moving staff and 
equipment around the world to wherever 
our customers need them.
Americas
485MW*
29%
of APR Energy 
contracted
capacity
l Dilapidated infrastructure and 
transmission line bottlenecks
l Power demand consistently 
outstripping GDP growth
l Lack of power grid integration 
among countries
l High vulnerability to geophysical and 
hydrological events
l Rich mineral reserves and resources 
attracting investment
Americas  Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 5 
Middle East
205MW*
Africa
645MW*
Asia Pacific
345MW*
12%
of APR Energy 
contracted
capacity
38%
of APR Energy 
contracted
capacity
21%
of APR Energy 
contracted
capacity
* As at 31 December 2013
l Increasing population, urbanisation, 
and standard of living driving 
demand growth
l Hydro-dominant systems with 
increasing sensitivity to climatic 
changes
l Well-endowed with oil and gas 
resources
l Damaged and destroyed 
infrastructure due to conflicts and 
political strife
l Underdeveloped power transmission 
and distribution infrastructure  
l Rapid population and economic 
growth heightening electricity 
demand
l Increasing need to retire ageing, 
inefficient infrastructure 
l Uninterrupted power supply 
requirement during peak summer 
months
l Accelerated investment and 
rebuilding in the aftermath of the 
Arab Spring 
l Extreme weather with summer 
peaking  
l Tight reserve margins and low utility 
cash reserves for public sector 
growth
l Outdated equipment running at 
partial capacity
l Liberalisation of power markets and 
regulatory framework
l Awareness and acceptance of 
advanced technologies for power 
generation
l History of highest natural 
catastrophe occurrences and 
upward trend
Africa Middle East Asia Pacific     
Active Projects
Completed Projects
Offices and Hubs 6 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
It is a pleasure to report on a year of 
transformational change and significant 
achievement. APR Energy is a growth 
business operating in an attractive and 
growing market. The value our customers 
place on the large-scale, rapidly delivered 
power that we provide is reflected in the 
Group’s successful new contract wins and 
extensions during the year. 
Our mobile turbine technology continues 
to be key in winning new customers. The 
low emission, dual-fuel turbines offer 
quick installation, greater reliability, and 
extended maintenance intervals, providing 
maximum operating flexibility. The turbines’ 
ability to run on diesel or natural gas, also 
makes them available for a broad range of 
applications throughout the world. 
The demand for our power solutions across 
our portfolio of technologies and geographic 
regions remains strong. This, coupled with 
the structural dynamics of the fast-track 
power market, bodes well for the Group’s 
continued growth. 
During 2013, there were two excellent 
examples that illustrate how we are 
benefitting from the rapidly growing global 
market for large-scale power solutions:
l 	 We successfully installed and 
commissioned our 450MW project 
in Libya, providing power to over a 
million people. This is the largest single 
contract in the fast-track power industry 
– a tremendous achievement that was 
successfully executed across multiple 
sites, notwithstanding the challenging 
operating environment.
l 	 Similarly, we commissioned and further 
extended our contract in Uruguay to 
300MW. Featuring mobile gas turbines, 
our plants are now a critical part of the 
country’s power generation infrastructure.
With a diverse pipeline of opportunities, an 
experienced management team, a capable 
workforce and a focused financial discipline, 
the Board believes that the Group is well 
placed to continue to fulfil its significant 
growth potential.
The Board provides active oversight 
to support the Group in securing key 
opportunities and achieving disciplined 
growth. We consider the Group’s risk 
appetite and risk management, in the 
context of material contracts and extensions, 
to ensure that any associated risks, 
including concentration risk, have been 
fully considered. In the case of the Group’s 
significant contract in Libya, this included 
entering into an enhanced credit structure, 
backed by a leading UK Financial Institution, 
which affords us the confidence that all 
payments will be recovered in full. This 
confidence is reflected by the receipt of 
$100 million from our Libyan customer since 
the contract commenced, representing the 
receipt of all outstanding payments.
In October, the Board was pleased to 
announce and complete our acquisition of 
GE’s Power Rental Business. Following this, 
APR Energy became the world’s leading 
provider of fast-track mobile turbine power. 
This transformational transaction allows us 
to move forward rapidly towards delivering 
our objectives.
The transaction also offered attractive 
diversification of our revenue base into new 
markets and sectors, which we believe 
offer significant potential for the future. The 
deal creates a long-term strategic alliance 
with GE, providing a dedicated supply 
of new turbines, a collaborative business 
development platform, and expanded 
access to worldwide support services. 
We are excited to be working closely 
with GE, whose partnership and equity 
commitment is testament to our prospects 
and vision to be the leader in the large-scale, 
fast-track power industry. We welcome GE 
as a key strategic investor in APR Energy 
and their participation on our Board.
The Board continually strives to achieve 
high standards of corporate governance 
and we believe that the observance of these 
standards is in the best interests of all our 
stakeholders. The Board comprises high 
calibre individuals, who possess the range 
of skills and experience needed to ensure 
quality contribution to our decision making. 
We believe that diversity adds significant 
value to the quality of discussion and 
decision making, as reflected by the Board’s 
composition in terms of both gender and 
international representation.
The Board believes that moving to a 
Premium listing would be advantageous for 
the Company and reflects a positive step 
in the Company’s maturity. The Board is 
actively taking steps towards a Premium 
Listing, which it expects to achieve within the 
coming twelve months.
In recognition of the Board’s confidence 
in the Group’s underlying and future 
prospects, the Directors are proposing a 
final dividend for 2013 of 6.7p (2012: 6.7p) 
per share. With the interim dividend of 
3.3p (2012: 3.3p), this results in a full year 
dividend of 10.0p (2012: 10.0p). Subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 20 May 2014, the final 
dividend will be payable on 3 June 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 4 April 
2014. The Board will continue to maintain 
a regular review of its dividend policy and 
reiterates its intention to pay an annual 
dividend.
2013 was a transformational year for 
APR Energy and one which we exited 
strongly. We have a highly motivated and 
experienced management team and have 
made real progress in advancing our 
strategy to deliver power solutions to our 
increasing customer base where and when 
they are needed. We remain confident that 
the Group will create significant shareholder 
value in the future.
Mike Fairey 
Chairman
25 March 2014
Chairman’s Statement
A year of transformational change and significant achievement 
provides strong foundation for continued growth in the fast evolving 
global market for large scale, rapidly delivered power.
Mike Fairey, Chairman Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 7 
2013 was a year of significant change for 
APR Energy, and I am pleased to report the 
progress we have achieved.
Our ability to deploy large-scale power, 
rapidly, combined with our turnkey approach 
and advanced technology, provides 
customers with the confidence of having 
reliable power when they need it. Our ability 
to do this consistently has led to great client 
‘stickiness’ – and our contract renewal rate 
of over 90% in 2013 is testament to that.
Order intake was strong, driven by record 
new contract wins of 740MW (2012: 569MW) 
and contract extensions of 298MW (2012: 
724MW), including in Uruguay, Indonesia, 
Angola and post year-end Libya, where 
clients not only renewed contracts, but 
expanded them at similar pricing.
We have focused on delivering a strong 
operational performance, with utilisation a 
key target for management. Across the year 
the Group achieved a utilisation rate of 74%. 
With the commissioning of a number of 
significant contracts during the second half 
and ongoing renewals, total fleet utilisation 
increased to 81% at year end. This reflects 
a significant improvement in diesel power 
module utilisation and almost full utilisation 
across our turbine fleet, demonstrating our 
customers’ desire for this technology.
Our acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business in October 2013, together with our 
new partnership and supply agreement has 
accelerated the pace at which the Group 
can address the growing market opportunity. 
During the year, we continued to invest in 
our power generation capacity, increasing it 
by nearly 60% to 2,074 MW (31 December 
2012: 1,311MW) through a combination of 
acquisitive and organic capacity expansion. 
This investment focused primarily on our 
mobile gas turbines, the key technology 
underpinning our strategy. As a result of 
this investment, our fleet at the year end 
comprised 56% mobile gas turbines, 39% 
diesel power modules, and 5% gas power 
modules. 
2013 financial performance 
Through a combination of strong order 
book growth and successful project 
execution, we delivered a strong operating 
and financial performance. Our financial 
results for 2013 reflect the inclusion of the 
GE power rental business from the end of 
October.
Revenue increased 16% to $308 million 
(2012: $266 million) driven primarily by 
new contract wins, contract extensions and 
high utilisation levels on an enlarged fleet, 
following the commissioning of a number 
of significant contracts during the year. 
The timing of these projects becoming 
operational resulted in revenue being 
heavily biased to the second half of the 
year, as expected.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 15% to $181 
million (2012: $157 million) resulting in an 
adjusted EBITDA margin of 59% (2012: 
59%). Over the medium-term, larger-scale, 
repeatable projects should benefit from 
operating efficiencies, which, together with 
the growth of our turbine fleet, is expected 
to enhance margins.
Adjusted basic earnings per share was 
60 cents (2012: 68 cents) based on a 
weighted average number of shares of 
81.0 million (2012: 78.2 million shares), the 
increase in shares reflecting the 15.5 million 
shares issued to GE at the end of October 
2013. 
During the year, the Group increased 
its credit facilities to $650 million (31 
December 2012: $400 million) to provide 
significant liquidity to continue to grow 
our fleet, expand our global network, 
and quickly respond to the growing 
opportunities in our market, including the 
GE acquisition. At the year end, we had 
grown our total fleet capacity by 58% to 
2,074MW, (31 December 2012: 1,311MW), 
reflecting the 520MW of additional capacity 
acquired through the GE acquisition and 
313MW of organic capacity expansion 
funded by fleet capital expenditure of 
approximately $290 million.
The Group’s cash flow reflected these 
high levels of fleet investment and 
increased mobilisation costs, together with 
investments in working capital arising from 
the significantly higher activity in the second 
half, the timing of receivables and the 
acquisition of the GE business in October. 
As a result, the Group maintained a good 
financial position, with year-end net debt 
as announced in the January 2014 trading 
update of $556 million (31 December 
2012: $184 million) excluding capitalised 
financing fees. 
Our year end net debt position reflected 
the timing of the receipt of receivables, 
including those in respect of Libya. In the 
case of our Libyan project, we established 
upon contract signing an enhanced 
credit structure backed by a leading UK 
Financial Institution, through which the 
Group receives payment. I am pleased 
to report that in recent weeks we have 
seen significant progress - and have 
received $100 million to date from our 
customer in Libya, reflecting the receipt 
of all outstanding and due payments and 
significantly reducing our current net debt 
position.
Our provision for bad debts remains at 
a historic low level reflecting a strong 
customer payment record. The Group’s 
use of letters of credit, contract insurance 
policies and up front deposits, support 
the receipt of contract revenues, 
notwithstanding occasional timing issues 
given the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Acquisition of GE’s Power Rental 
Business
A key development during the year was our 
acquisition of GE’s Power Rental Business 
and GE’s investment in our Company. 
Through the transaction we acquired 520MW 
of power generation capacity, comprising 
five equipment-only rental contracts in 
Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Iraq and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, and four non-contracted 
mobile turbines.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
We are pleased with the results achieved in 2013, and believe 
our progress during the year has positioned us well to deliver 
sustainable growth into 2014 and beyond.
John Campion, Chief Executive Officer 8 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
In creating the world’s leading fast-track 
mobile turbine business, the acquisition 
advances us towards our strategic 
goals, strengthening and diversifying our 
business, while creating a valuable long-
term strategic partnership with GE. The 
transaction broadens our revenue base, 
and reduces our concentration risk, through 
exposure to new geographies and an 
established natural gas footprint.
While still early days, integration is 
progressing well. We have realised our first 
renewal, with a twelve-month extension 
on improved pricing of the 25MW mobile 
turbine contract in the US Virgin Islands. 
We are in discussions with customers in 
Bangladesh and Iraq, whose contracts are 
due for renewal in 2014. We intend to apply 
our standard approach and pricing to these 
contracts, transferring customers across to 
our full turnkey offering, which we believe 
provides an attractive power solution. In 
the event customers do not require this 
full offering, or we are unable to reach 
agreement, we will seek to redeploy these 
assets onto more favourable terms, in line 
with our historic turbine pricing.
The strategic partnership with GE gives 
us the ability to collaborate on business 
development opportunities, where APR 
Energy can offer complementary power 
solutions, while permanent GE plants are 
built. We have been pleased with the level 
of inbound requests and expect these 
opportunities to develop over the short to 
medium-term. Our partnership provides 
access to GE’s manufacturing capacity, 
through which we expect to be able to 
support our future growth opportunities 
more efficiently, reducing the time between 
order and delivery, as well as reducing the 
time between purchasing new turbines and 
their commissioning, and hence revenue 
generation. 
Using our technological  
advantage to deliver sustainable 
growth
We continue to differentiate ourselves by 
offering a broad choice of technologies 
in our fleet, with a particular strategic 
focus on dual-fuel mobile turbines, the 
technology best suited for the rapid 
deployment of large blocks of power. 
Turbines are an integral part of our growth 
strategy, providing a stronger offering 
into more attractive larger-scale, longer-
term projects. This technology presents a 
number of advantages to our customers. 
Its power density i.e., small footprint-
to-megawatt ratio, improves speed and 
logistics, while providing greater reliability, 
requiring less maintenance, and producing 
significantly less emissions than its 
reciprocating engine counterparts. The 
fuel flexibility of our mobile gas turbines 
provides an additional advantage for the 
customer, with the ability to switch quickly 
between diesel and natural gas depending 
on customer needs or preference. 
Furthermore, where gas is available to a 
customer, it can significantly reduce the 
generating costs of electricity, as well as 
reduce emissions. 
Our global strategic partnerships with GE 
and Caterpillar provide us with reliable, 
state-of-the-art technology, around the 
clock support across the globe, and 
beneficial pricing. Our partnership with GE 
provides the Group exclusive worldwide 
rights to offer its mobile turbines within our 
market, while deploying capital in a more 
timely manner.
Risk management
APR Energy operates in a market with 
strong structural growth opportunities. 
These opportunities often take us to 
challenging parts of the world, including 
countries that experience political, social, 
economic and security instability. And, 
as contracts become larger, longer and 
more complex, we recognise the need for 
ever more rigorous risk assessment and 
mitigation.
We are committed to creating a secure 
working environment for our people, 
while ensuring the security of our physical 
assets and surety of payment. We are 
proactive through our contract due 
diligence to address these issues through 
a variety of mitigating actions, including 
the purchasing of insurance, bonds, 
guarantees, and cash advances to protect 
both our financial and operational assets. 
To mitigate significant receivable risks, we 
also enter into enhanced credit structures, 
which through the use of letters of credit, 
guarantee customer payment. 
At times, we operate in countries that have 
recently emerged from significant political 
and social upheavals. The emerging 
governments, often require a period in 
which they establish the administrative 
processes, often via committee, through 
which they can effectively operate – this 
has been the case in Libya. Our customer, 
the state owned utility has been through 
a period of tremendous change, and it 
has taken time to establish the requisite 
committees and processes. To mitigate 
l Creates a long-term strategic alliance 
with GE, providing dedicated supply 
for the fast track, turnkey power 
segment, a collaborative business 
development platform, and expanded 
access to worldwide support services, 
subject to existing contractual 
arrangements
l Makes GE a key strategic investor in 
APR Energy
l Strengthens and diversifies APR 
Energy’s global footprint and contract 
revenue base, providing access 
to new developed and developing 
countries
l Enhances APR Energy’s large scale, 
fast track power business, positioning 
APR Energy well to take advantage 
of expanding opportunities with the 
fastest growing technology in the 
industry
l Improves APR Energy’s footprint in 
natural gas, a growing fuel source that 
is both cost-efficient and emissions 
friendly
l Strong financial rationale and is 
expected to be earnings accretive for 
the Company
l Delivers enhanced cash generation for 
the enlarged group
The acquisition of GE’s  
Power Rental Business  
created the world’s leading 
fast-track mobile turbine power 
business, strengthening and 
diversifying APR Energy’s 
business.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 9 
risk associated with this contract, we 
have an enhanced credit structure in 
place. Backed by a leading UK financial 
institution, our documentary letters of 
credit assure payment from a pre-funded 
escrow account upon presentation of 
approved invoices. At the year end date, 
a significant proportion of these invoices 
were outstanding. We acknowledge 
shareholders concerns and are pleased 
to report that following the receipt of 
all outstanding and due payments, our 
customer is current and our processes to 
mitigate risk have proved effective.
A year of progress across our 
global portfolio
We accomplished a number of 
achievements around the world that merit 
highlighting. The structural growth drivers 
within the Group’s business are intact and 
the prospects for fast-track, large-scale 
power in all our chosen geographies 
remain very strong.
Europe, Middle East, and Africa
During the year, our footprint across Africa 
more than doubled, with many notable 
successes. In March, we announced the 
signing of a new 250MW mobile turbine 
contract in Libya to provide a turnkey 
power solution, followed by the expansion 
of our 200MW diesel project announced 
in June, making this the largest single 
contract in the history of the fast-track 
power industry. 
This 450MW solution provides power 
to more than one million homes and 
helps meet demand during the critical 
summer high heat season, as well as 
provide interim power while the country 
continues to rebuild and improve its 
ageing infrastructure. The timescale was 
tight – and not without its challenges – with 
commissioning occurring across six sites 
in the peak heat of the summer and during 
Ramadan. Nonetheless, we were pleased 
to report that our plants were fully installed 
and commercially operational during the 
third quarter. Notwithstanding our sizeable 
power contribution, Libya continues to 
face a chronic and growing structural 
power deficit, requiring significant long-
term investment to address.
We delivered our first cross-border 
agreement, a 40MW diesel power module 
solution, with the Government of Mali. 
The solution was installed in Senegal and 
feeds into the interconnected grid that 
connects Mali, Senegal, and Mauritania. 
We also extended our 70MW diesel 
power module contract in Botswana for a 
further twelve months in late December. 
Our facility in Francistown has been a 
key component of the country’s power 
generation infrastructure since 2009, 
filling a critical gap in its drive toward 
permanent energy sufficiency. As part 
of this renewal, we anticipate to sell 
our installed fleet to the client, with the 
expected transfer of assets to occur post 
the end of the existing contract in Q4 2014. 
The sale represents a mutually attractive 
opportunity for the client to supplement 
its owned diesel power modules, while 
enabling the Group to dispose of older 
technology and legacy equipment. Going 
forward, we will consider the sale of other 
installed assets as opportunities arise.
Our continued presence in Angola 
exemplifies our market approach. In 
2012, we established our first project 
in the country, a 40MW plant located in 
Luanda using diesel power modules. 
After building a positive relationship with 
the customer and delivering a strong 
track-record of reliability, we successfully 
extended the contract for another term 
and expanded our capacity by a further 
40MW, doubling our footprint in country. 
Rather than expanding with more diesel 
power modules, the customer specifically 
requested to upgrade to mobile gas 
turbines, resulting in one of the first-ever 
semi-permanent mobile turbine projects 
in Sub-Saharan Africa and APR Energy’s 
first turbine deal following the GE strategic 
alliance. Through this relationship, we 
have established a strong platform from 
which we hope to expand our market for 
mobile turbine generation solutions across 
the region.
Oman’s hot summer season puts heavy 
demand on the country’s power grid from 
May to August, causing intermittent power 
outages. For the second consecutive 
summer, we provided power to meet 
this seasonal demand. Facilitated by our 
modular system and supported by our 
regional hub in Dubai, the Group’s 32MW 
plant in Oman was operational in under two 
weeks.
Asia Pacific
Indonesia represents one of the largest 
fast-track power markets in the world. 
During the year, we built on our existing 
contract, delivering an additional 40MW 
and 75MW to bring our total power 
capacity in the country to 130MW. Our 
plants provide much needed, reliable 
power to the islands of Nias and Sumatra, 
and by using the newest generation diesel 
power modules, we have been able to 
provide fuel-efficiencies to our customer.
Following the year end, we were pleased 
to announce two new significant contracts 
in Asia. Firstly, a landmark contract in 
Myanmar for 82MW, with plant capacity to 
deliver up to 100MW. The plant, featuring 
our gas power modules, is expected to 
be operational in the second quarter of 
2014 and will be one of the largest thermal 
plants in the country, providing power to 
more than six million people. This bridging 
power capacity is required whilst the utility 
builds a new combined cycle power plant 
to fulfil the country’s needs.
Today, we have announced our largest 
industrial contract. Producing a 
guaranteed 60MW, the mobile gas turbine 
plant will power the customer’s critical 
mining operations in the South Pacific. 
This technology was the customer’s 
preferred solution, meeting strict EU 
emissions requirements and able to fit 
within the challenging space constraints at 
the mine site. The plant will run on diesel, 
while offering our customer the flexibility 
to seamlessly switch to natural gas, if 
needed.
The project adds to APR Energy’s track 
record in the extractive industry sector 
that includes successful power projects in 
Mozambique, Guatemala, and Botswana. 
It is also represents the Group’s second 
large-scale turbine project following 
its acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business. The plant is expected to begin 
operations in late Q2 2014 and run through 
to late 2015. This contract reflects the 
versatility that mobile gas turbines provide, 
and the attractiveness of this technology 
not just to utilities, but to industrial 
customers as well.
Recently, we have been informed that 
our customer in Australia has filed for 
protection from its creditors. As such, 
the assets allocated to that project are 
tied up in the receivership process. 
Although it is still in the early stages, the 
Group is working with the administrators 
and receivers of Forge Group Limited 
regarding possession of those assets.
These contracts, together with our 
recent installation of 130MW of new 
power generation in Indonesia, reflect 
the success of our rapidly growing Asia 
Pacific business following the opening 
our Malaysian hub in 2012 and Singapore 
commercial office in 2013.  10 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Americas
In Uruguay, we were pleased to announce in 
late 2012 the extension of our existing 100MW 
plant and expansion of an additional 
200MW of mobile gas turbine capacity. 
The 100MW La Tablada site commissioning 
and 100MW Punta del Tigre site expansion 
went operational in the second quarter, 
bringing our total power generation 
capacity in the country to 300MW.
In December, we announced the first 
extension of a contract acquired as part 
of the GE transaction – a twelve-month 
extension of the 25MW mobile gas turbine 
contract in the US Virgin Islands, on 
improved pricing in line with APR Energy’s 
historic turbine pricing.
These contracts reinforce our success in, 
and commitment to, the provision of power 
across our global portfolio. We continue 
to see customers, including those in 
emerging markets, come back to APR 
Energy time and again, to take repeatable 
and often enlarged blocks of power to 
meet their ongoing needs.
 
Our people
Our people are the key to APR Energy’s 
success and our achievements are 
only possible through their hard work 
and dedication. With a rapidly growing 
business, maintaining and growing a 
highly motivated, trained, and efficient 
workforce is a top priority and is essential 
to deliver our vision.
I would like to thank everyone within the 
Group for their continued efforts. I am 
committed to ensuring that we continue to 
foster a collaborative working environment. 
Our employees live and demonstrate our 
values every day, helping to make APR 
Energy a productive and positive place to 
work. 
We have a reputation for integrity and 
honesty in all our business dealings, a 
factor that contributes positively to our 
long-term relationships with customers 
and suppliers. Maintaining our good 
reputation is, therefore, essential for our 
continued success.
With the prospect of significant growth 
ahead, we need to ensure the organisation 
is positioned to achieve this in a 
disciplined way. This includes investing 
in our people to enable them to work to 
the best of their abilities, supported by 
systems, policies, and procedures that 
ensure that our growth is achieved in a 
controlled and repeatable manner. We 
are evolving the organisation to ensure 
our global footprint is aligned to meet 
the needs of our customers quickly, 
while retaining its agility to capture 
opportunities.
A strong foundation for the 
future
We have long believed the market 
opportunity exists to provide customers 
with larger-scale power projects on a semi-
permanent basis in a way that helps them 
to address an often chronic imbalance in 
the supply of and demand for electricity in 
a faster, smarter way. 
Our approach is to build a strong, reliable 
and repeatable platform. We have made 
significant progress in this area in recent 
years, building the capabilities to meet 
our customers’ needs. We have invested 
in an advanced and scalable fleet. We 
have developed our proprietary modular 
building process and have put regional 
hubs in place to serve our strategic 
markets. All of these investments enable 
us to move at pace – winning new 
contracts and continuing to achieve high 
renewal rates, improving mobilisation and 
installation time, while retaining flexibility to 
be both scalable and customisable. 
We have developed strategic partnerships, 
which provide us with reliable, state-of-
the-art technology and around the clock 
support across the world. And, we have 
deliberately differentiated ourselves 
through our broad, technologically 
advanced and scalable fleet, with a 
particular focus on our mobile turbines. 
Through major projects such as Uruguay 
and Libya, we have shown that mobile 
turbine technology does, and will continue 
to, play an important role in the growth 
of the fast-track power solutions market 
as customers look for reliable technology 
with greater power-density and emissions 
control. We have also seen that, by 
employing technologies offering the latest 
advancements in fuel efficiency, we can 
reduce significantly the total operating 
cost for the customer over the use of older, 
more technologically-dated equipment. 
This advantage has helped us win projects 
over the course of the year.
With this strong foundation, we are 
focused on extending and expanding our 
existing portfolio of contracts and growing 
our global footprint via opportunities 
with new customers and in new markets. 
All the while, we continue to evolve and 
enhance our platform through a focus 
on operational excellence and continued 
investment in our people and our assets.
Outlook 
APR Energy believes that the outlook for 
the mobile gas turbine market remains 
positive. The Group continues to see strong 
structural demand for power solutions in 
Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and 
South East Asia where available new power 
capacity significantly lags growing demand.
The scalability of this technology allows 
large amounts of power to be deployed 
swiftly and efficiently. This, combined with 
low emissions and dual-fuel capability, 
makes turbines the technology of choice 
for customers requiring large-scale, rapidly 
delivered power. The Group is well placed 
to capture opportunities to provide larger-
scale, longer-term power.
Our focus for the year ahead includes 
securing a number of key contracts 
renewals, transferring the GE contracts 
that are due for renewal onto more 
favourable terms or re-deploying these 
assets, developing opportunities through 
our partnership with GE and importantly 
continuing to deliver an improved financial 
and operational performance.
Market expectations for 2014 reflect 
strong year-on-year growth for the Group. 
Subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, 
the Board’s expectations for the current 
financial year remain unchanged.
John Campion
Chief Executive Officer
25 March 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 11 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
The marketplace in which APR Energy 
operates is global and extensive. It 
benefits from strong growth drivers for 
the short, medium, and long term. It is 
a market where demand significantly 
outstrips supply, and this supply/demand 
gap is expected to continue to rise due 
to certain underlying factors, which are 
likely to persist for many years. Those 
underlying factors include rapid economic 
development and urbanisation in emerging 
markets, the advanced ageing of a 
number of power plants and infrastructure 
around the world, the lack of funds and 
available financing for construction of new 
permanent plants, geopolitical and natural 
events, and climatic impacts on rain-
dependent hydroelectric power generation. 
In addition, the variability of those factors 
compounds the planning and forecasting 
challenges for many countries, further 
exacerbating the problem. As a result, 
many countries are faced with critical 
electricity shortages, impacting economic 
growth and quality of life.
The solutions that APR Energy provides 
addresses only a portion of the global 
electricity deficit. In many cases, we are 
competing against the choice by some 
countries to take no action in solving their 
power gaps – i.e., to allow for black-outs, 
brown-outs, or provide no power at all 
to some of their constituents, leaving 
industries and private homes to compete 
for the small supply of power available. 
For these reasons, there is tremendous 
opportunity to drive and create new 
demand by offering innovative, accessible 
solutions and by educating our target 
customers on the benefits that these 
solutions provide. 
It has been seen in countries with low 
electrification rates that the introduction 
of electricity, in turn, leads to new 
incremental demand as constituents begin 
to modernise. This demand growth is 
driven by the introduction and proliferation 
of power-intensive appliances such as 
refrigerators, as well as the need for 
constant power access for charging mobile 
phones and other personal devices.
Our Market Space
While the overall market for electricity is 
large, broad, and diverse, APR Energy’s 
focus is on sovereign utilities, private 
utilities, and power-intensive industries 
located in both developed and developing 
markets. Our target projects typically run 
from 20MW to more than 400MW. 
Historically, our largest opportunities have 
been in high-growth, emerging, frontier, and 
underserved markets, located in the regions 
of Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, 
and Asia. However, as we have increased 
our fleet weighting in mobile gas turbines, 
this technology provides a strong play in 
developed markets, where power-dense 
and low-emissions technology is needed to 
counter ageing infrastructure and tightening 
emissions regulations. Power-intensive 
industries also have been an area of 
increased opportunity, particularly extractive 
industries, which often operate in remote 
locations distant from the power grid. 
Customer demand in our priority market 
spaces remains high. These customers 
have needs for a number of applications, 
including bridging power, peaking power, 
grid stability and support, industrial 
generation, and distributed generation. In 
addition, we remain ready to provide rapid 
response to event-driven need, wherever 
it may be required in the world, although 
the very nature of such events makes them 
difficult to predict and forecast. 
From a strategic perspective, APR Energy 
has broadened its market opportunities 
by offering utilities and industries a greater 
choice of technology to meet their needs. 
With a flexible offering that includes mobile 
gas turbines, our market opportunity 
expands beyond traditional temporary 
power and rental power markets to bridge 
customers to longer-term solutions. As 
seen from our 300MW project in Uruguay, 
many large utility customers prefer to 
work with the reliable, power-dense, and 
emissions friendly turbine technology with 
which they are most familiar. 
Drivers of growth
Our market
Demand for APR 
Energy’s solutions is 
driven by a number 
of factors, including 
rapid economic growth 
and urbanisation, 
lack of funding and 
financing for new plants, 
ageing infrastructure 
and variable weather 
patterns. 12 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Market growth
Over the last decade, meeting the world’s 
ever-growing energy needs has become 
a critical challenge. The need for power 
continues to rise, driven by growth in 
population and incomes, continued 
industrialisation and urbanisation of 
emerging markets, revisions to climate 
change policies, and a number of other 
factors. At the same time, decades of 
underinvestment in new and existing 
capacity have left governments and utilities 
in a position where they must not only 
catch up to current demand requirements, 
but also invest for future business and 
population growth.   
Against this backdrop, the structural 
opportunity for fast-track power and 
bridging power is expected to continue to 
expand, given the persistent supply-side 
constraints in certain regions, such as lack 
of financing for infrastructure projects, low 
electrification rates, and high transmission 
and distribution losses. A new permanent 
power plant takes years to plan, finance, 
and construct. It costs hundreds of millions 
of dollars, requires extensive permitting, 
and often has attendant network and 
infrastructure demands. 
According to recent estimates, the global 
power rental market is expected to grow 
from an estimated $8 billion in 2012 to 
$17 billion in 2017 with a compound 
annual growth rate of 17% during the 
same period. Due to the long lead time 
required for the construction of permanent 
power infrastructure and the innate 
need for standby power in the event of 
natural disasters, high seasonal demand, 
and maintenance, the marketplace 
opportunities for fast-track power projects 
will continue to grow.
Looking ahead, we expect this growth to 
continue due to the following key factors: 
The global demand for electricity 
continues to outpace supply
According to the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) 2013 World Energy Outlook, 
the demand for electricity is projected to 
outpace any other final form of energy, 
with over a 65% increase through 2035, or 
2.2% per year on average. Over four-fifths 
of this demand is required by non-OECD 
countries, due to faster population and 
economic growth, and rising standards of 
living. 
The growth in power consumption is 
led by developing countries, driven 
by industrialisation and by increasing 
numbers of people using devices that 
consume electricity, including refrigerators, 
televisions, and mobile phones. However, 
population growth also is an important 
driver of energy consumption, with the 
majority of growth taking place in Asia and 
Africa. Due to this continued population 
and economic growth, 1.2 billion people still 
remain without access to electricity, or 17% 
of the global population. According to the 
2013 World Energy Outlook, by 2030, nearly 
a billion people will still lack electricity, with 
the majority being in sub-Saharan Africa 
or developing Asia. Even though world 
electricity generation increases along with 
incremental demand growth, the increase 
of generation is lower than that of the 
demand, resulting in a continuous and 
growing gap. 
Lack of investment in power capacity
The investment in new generating capacity 
and the maintenance of existing capacity 
have each remained below levels required 
to keep supply in line with the accelerating 
demand. Given the ongoing uncertainty 
in the global economy and the complexity 
and cost of constructing large-scale 
power plants, investment in building new 
capacity and maintaining existing capacity 
has been unable to keep pace. Even with 
planned capacity additions in developing 
economies, construction lead-times for 
long-term plants may take three to five 
years before being commissioned and 
operational. Furthermore, construction 
costs run at an approximate range of 
$1.5 million to $7 million per megawatt 
constructed, depending on the technology 
employed. Construction of conventional 
plants also are contractually complex, 
requiring the hiring of specialists and 
understanding of the financial, technical, 
socio-economic, environmental, and legal 
aspects of the construction, as well as 
assessing the long-term impact of the 
plant. 
According to IEA’s 2013 World Energy 
Outlook, if existing policies continue and 
new policies are cautiously implemented, 
investment of $1 trillion is required in the 
world’s energy supply system through 
2035, or $740 billion per year, to ensure 
the availability of generation, transmission, 
and distribution systems needed to fulfil 
the global capacity requirements. Out 
of this, 58% of total investment is in new 
generating capacity, while the remainder 
is needed for transmission and distribution 
networks. According to the World Energy 
Outlook, around 50% of today’s grid 
infrastructure will have reached 40 years of 
age by 2035, requiring major investments 
in refurbishments. About 60% of capacity 
retirements are in OECD countries, where 
Our market
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
World energy consumption
Non-OECD by region
(Quadrillion BTU)
2020 2030 2040 2010
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2013
Asia
Europe and Eurasia
Middle East
Central and South 
America
Africa
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
 Global power rental market
by geography, 2011 – 2017
($ million)
201 1 201 2 201 7
Asia Pacific
North America
Europe
Africa
Source: MarketsandMarkets, 2012
Latin America
Middle East
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 13 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
about two-thirds of the coal fleet is over 30 
years old. As a result, developing nations 
increasingly will rely on interim or bridging 
power solutions to help meet rising demand 
until more permanent power sources can 
be financed and built.
Changing weather patterns driving 
major electricity shortages 
Energy-related CO
2
 emissions growth, 
driven in large part to increasing coal 
demand in non-OECD countries, has 
contributed towards the progression 
of climatic changes. A shift to low-
carbon technologies, thermal efficiency 
improvements of fossil-fuelled power 
plants, and coal-to-gas switching all 
contribute to an expected reduction of 
emissions growth through 2035, but 
immediate effects will be hard to see. 
Climate change is expected to increase 
the duration, frequency, and intensity 
of heat waves and droughts, causing 
electricity shortages in countries that 
obtain large shares of their electricity 
from renewable sources and, also, by 
stressing transmission infrastructure 
due to prolonged heat. This variability of 
rainfall, increased levels of evaporation, 
and changing wind cycles, may hinder 
economic growth and affect electricity 
pricing and sales revenue. Since renewable 
energy sources are more expensive than 
conventional sources and are unable to 
provide reliable dedicated power during 
peak demand, standby power solutions 
remain essential to provide stability and 
additional capacity when renewable 
sources are affected or during extreme 
weather periods.   
Ageing power infrastructure and the 
need for reliable backup 
Over the next decade, a significant 
investment is needed to refurbish or 
replace ageing distribution grids and 
generating plants to keep pace with rising 
electricity consumption. This is particularly 
pronounced in OECD countries, where 
over 60% of global capacity retirements 
through 2035 will occur in order to abide by 
generation and environmental regulations. 
OECD countries may face up to 530GW of 
capacity retirements through 2035. 
Given the environmental and safety 
concerns associated with an ageing 
power infrastructure, both developed and 
developing countries will be required to 
plan and finance extensive renovations 
in order to meet the growing demand for 
electricity. Of the new generation capacity 
that is expected to be built through 2035, 
around one-third is needed to replace 
plants that are retiring. The majority of new 
additions are projected to be gas-powered 
plants, with a majority expected to take 
place in non-OECD countries. This equates 
to an investment of $17 trillion, or $740 
billion per year through 2035 to develop 
new generation facilities and refurbish 
transmission and distribution networks. 
As a fast-track power solutions provider,  
APR Energy is ideally positioned to provide 
energy companies, municipalities, and 
federal agencies with additional power 
support for periods when current power 
facilities are undergoing maintenance, 
being upgraded, or replaced.
Event-driven opportunities
When disaster strikes, access to a fast, 
reliable backup power source becomes 
critical for the populations living in the 
affected areas. Natural catastrophes are on 
the rise worldwide, resulting in significant 
direct economic losses and impacting 
emerging economies the most. Weather 
phenomena such as extended droughts, 
high temperatures, high sea ice melt, and 
storm surges linked to heightening cyclone 
risk have increased over the past 10 years. 
Over 900 documented loss events in 2013 
were reported, of which 93% were weather-
related (storms, floods, and climatological 
events such as heat waves, cold waves, 
droughts and wildfires) and the remaining 
were caused by earthquakes and volcanic 
eruptions. The majority of events took place 
in Asia, although Africa saw a spike in loss 
events in 2012. When an unforeseen power 
failure due to a weather phenomenon or 
natural disaster occurs, emergency power 
is needed instantly to supplement the loss 
of grid power and to begin recovery efforts 
and effective humanitarian aid. APR Energy, 
with its advanced logistical expertise, can 
provide rapid assistance for the affected 
region and its citizens. 
Industrial power
According to The World Energy Outlook 
2013, industry remains the largest electricity 
end-use sector, accounting for 41% of total 
electricity demand and expected to increase 
over 2% per annum. With the redevelopment 
and capacity expansion of existing mines, as 
well as the opening of new mines, demand 
for power within the extractive industry will 
continue to grow. The rising demand for 
mineral resources from developing countries 
such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China 
(BRIC) should contribute further to this 
increase.
Age profile of installed thermal 
capacity by region
At year end 2012
OECD
OECD
OECD
OECD
Non-OECD
Non-OECD
Non-OECD
Non-OECD
50+ years 40-50 years
20-30 years
30-40 years
10-20 years <10 years
100%
75%
50%
25%
Nuclear
Oil
Gas
Coal
Sources: World Energy Outlook 2013 © OECD/IEA, 
2013
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
 Quarrying & mining 
Global power rental market
By geography, 2011-2017
($ Million)
201 1 201 2 201 7
Asia Pacific Americas Europe Africa
Source: MarketsandMarkets, 2012 14 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our business
A global leader in fast-track power solutions
APR Energy is a global leader in the under-
served market for rapidly deployable, large-
scale power, and is the world’s leading 
provider of fast-track mobile turbine power. 
Our highly mobile, turnkey power plants 
help run cities, countries, and industries 
around the world in both developed and 
developing markets. 
Without reliable electricity, countries and 
industries cannot function efficiently or, 
in many cases, safely. Unfortunately, 
traditional power plants typically take 
years to build and commission, and, due 
to lack of funding and complex financing 
requirements, many projects never break 
ground. In contrast, APR Energy’s plants 
can be installed in weeks, not years, 
supplying the electricity needed to power 
millions of homes. With a presence in 
over 25 countries, and supported by a 
network of regional hubs, APR Energy has 
the capability to respond quickly to needs 
across most of the world, getting power to 
our customers fast – when and where they 
need it. 
Large-scale, fast-track power
Rapidly delivered, large-scale power 
projects are our sole focus. Our business 
model is based on selling the capacity 
for power generation as well as the 
power itself. APR Energy installs, owns, 
operates, and maintains its power plants, 
providing the customer with a complete 
turnkey solution. Through this approach, 
APR Energy helps customers by rapidly 
deploying the power capacity to address 
their supply gaps without requiring the 
customer to fund the up-front capital 
investment. 
APR Energy’s power plants are typically 
deployed on an interim or semi-permanent 
basis, and are used for many applications, 
ranging from supplemental base-load 
capacity and seasonal peaking power, 
to distributed generation, and dedicated 
industrial power. Our solutions are 
scalable to over 400MW and use the 
latest advancements in mobile generation 
technology. Contracts typically run from a 
period of 12 months to five years, although 
the majority of our contracts typically 
APR Energy delivers 
large-scale power fast 
– when and where 
customers need it.
Deliver Sustainable Growth
Customer
centricity
Operational
excellence
Financial
performance
Responsible
behaviour
Turnkey
power plants
Rapid
delivery
Bespoke
approach
Advanced
technology
Priority
regions
Targeted
segments
Applications
Through the Sale of Electricity, Leveraging…
Across Markets, Segments, and Opportunities…
Enablers Competencies 
& skills
Governance
Underpinned by… Driven by… Supported by…
The APR Energy business model Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 15 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
New 
Markets
Extension 
& Expansion
Initial
Project 1
2
3
Replicate success
Leverage proven capabilities
Expand footprint
Extend term
Build out platform
Establish presence
Case study: Angola
APR Energy’s Angola project exemplifies our go-to-market approach. In 2012, we 
established our first project in the country, a 40MW plant located in Luanda using diesel 
power modules. After building a positive relationship with the customer and delivering a 
strong track-record of reliability, APR Energy was able to extend the contract for another 
term, as well as expand our capacity in country by an additional 40MW, doubling the 
size of our operations. 
The customer specifically requested to upgrade technology to mobile gas turbines for the 
additional 40MW, resulting in one of the first-ever mobile turbine projects in Sub-Saharan 
Africa and APR Energy’s first turbine contract following its strategic alliance with GE. 
Through the Angola win, extension, and expansion, APR Energy has established a strong 
platform from which we can expand our market for mobile turbine generation solutions, 
and will use the project as a model for future business opportunities in the region.
renew one or more times, with some 
customers remaining under contract for a 
number of years. 
We serve a wide range 
of customers across the globe 
APR Energy’s customers range from 
sovereign utilities in high-growth emerging 
or frontier markets that face a structural 
imbalance in their supply and demand of 
electricity, to public and private utilities in 
developed markets looking to replace and 
upgrade their ageing power infrastructure. 
While utilities represent our largest 
customer base, APR Energy also serves a 
wide range of industrial customers seeking 
reliable large-scale power solutions. 
Extractive industries, like mining, often 
require dedicated power solutions given 
that their operations are highly power 
intensive and frequently take place in 
remote locations with limited or no access 
to the power grid. 
Since many customers often require their 
own unique configurations, APR Energy’s 
engineers work to deliver customised 
solutions that meet regulatory requirements, 
create minimal impact on the surrounding 
community, and combine the right mix of 
generation technology to achieve peak 
efficiency. The diversity of APR Energy’s 
customer base, both in terms of geography 
and market segment, reduces our exposure 
to downturns in any particular market 
segment.
A repeatable, scalable process
Once APR Energy establishes a local 
presence through the installation of a 
power plant, we leverage that presence 
as a platform from which we extend or 
expand our business. Offering flexible and 
long life-cycle technology, such as mobile 
gas turbines, together with our turnkey 
approach, helps provide longevity and 
‘stickiness’ to our contracts. As a result, 
the majority of our contracts renew, and 
we have had several notable expansions 
of projects, including Libya, Uruguay, and 
Indonesia. We apply this model in all of 
our markets and it serves as a repeatable 
process. The market credibility we gain 
through the successful delivery of our 
projects helps open doors to new business 
opportunities, both within and beyond our 
existing markets. 16 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Botswana Libya Indonesia
Our business applications
Bridging power
Utilities often require additional power 
support for periods when current 
power facilities are undergoing 
maintenance or being replaced or 
upgraded to newer, more efficient 
technologies. APR Energy’s power 
solutions provide a reliable power 
alternative in such scenarios, 
minimising the interruption to a 
community’s electricity supply 
during scheduled periods of 
outages or bridging until permanent 
infrastructure comes on line or can be 
constructed.
Base load operation
In some countries, the 
underdevelopment of power 
generation infrastructure is so severe 
that they need a power provider 
such as APR Energy to help cover 
significant portions of their national 
power production. In such cases, 
APR Energy may operate its facilities 
as base load plants, running on 
a continuous basis to meet its 
customers’ critical power needs. For 
example, in Senegal, APR Energy has 
accounted for as much as 30% of the 
country’s available capacity. Other 
such recent projects have included 
Yemen, Libya, and Angola.
Grid stability 
and support
APR Energy’s grid optimisation and 
stabilisation projects help global 
customers operate more efficiently 
and ultimately enable a more reliable 
and secure supply of energy. They 
incorporate distributed generation 
solutions at strategically located 
substations to help reduce the load 
on existing substation equipment and 
release capacity on the transmission 
grid. Grid optimisation and stabilisation 
projects greatly improve the efficiency 
of the customer’s substation and 
electrical networks, often by over 20%. 
Experiencing electricity shortages 
driven by demand growth and supply 
constraints, the Botswana Power 
Corporation (BPC) needed bridging 
power until a permanent plant could 
be constructed. In 2009, APR Energy 
was contracted to provide 70MW of 
reliable electricity to the national grid in 
order to counteract power shortages. 
The plant has remained in operation 
following multiple contract extensions, 
and is scheduled to continue running 
through 2014.
APR Energy operates six plants 
in Libya to alleviate its chronic 
and growing supply and demand 
imbalance while the country builds 
and repairs its infrastructure. These 
plants, located within the metropolitan 
Tripoli region and in the southern 
part of the country, operate at or 
near base-load capacity and are 
critical to keeping the lights on for the 
communities they serve. With over 
450MW of power generation in Libya, 
APR Energy makes a significant 
contribution to the country’s overall 
electricity production. 
During 2013, APR Energy designed, 
constructed, and installed four power 
plants in Indonesia totalling 130MW. 
Indonesia, with its vast geography 
and underdeveloped infrastructure, 
is one of the world’s largest markets 
for distributed power and grid stability 
projects. APR Energy’s plants provide 
much needed, reliable power to 
the islands of Nias and Sumatra. 
In addition, leveraging its newest-
generation diesel power modules, 
APR Energy was able to provide fuel-
efficiency cost savings compared to 
other solutions.
Our business Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 17 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Oman Argentina Guatemala
Peaking power
In markets where the demand for 
electricity exceeds the available power 
generation capacity, utilities need 
to consider the practicalities of load 
management and load shedding 
during peak demand times of the day. 
In some cases, this need is seasonal, 
driven by extreme temperatures or, in 
hydro-dependent countries, by lack of 
rainfall. In a peaking power solution, 
APR Energy’s power plant would 
operate during peak demand periods, 
normally only for a few hours each day 
to alleviate these power outages.
Distributed generation
In scenarios where the delivery 
of electricity to a city or region is 
restricted by inadequate or inefficient 
transmission lines, a utility company 
may need to place power generation 
closer to the point of consumption to 
avoid blackouts. APR Energy’s flexible 
turnkey plants can be placed where 
they are most needed, generating 
the required electricity and injecting 
it either directly into the local medium 
voltage distribution network or the 
main high voltage grid. Also referred 
to as rural electrification, distributed 
generation provides an efficient and 
secure method of delivering additional 
electricity at a local level, while helping 
to improve the overall efficiency of the 
customer’s electrical system.
Industrial generation
Industrial companies and mining 
facilities often require a dedicated 
source of electricity. An unreliable 
supply from a local grid or limited 
access to the main transmission 
network may impair the delivery of 
electricity required for the customer 
to sustain its operations. Industrial 
and mining customers are dependent 
upon constant power to ensure that 
maximum operational capacity is 
achieved and costly plant outages are 
avoided. Power generation projects 
also supply camps with a secure 
source of electricity, supporting the 
camp’s operational activities and 
ensuring the safety of personnel.  
Oman’s hot summer season puts 
heavy demand on the country’s power 
grid from May to September, causing 
intermittent power outages. Following 
APR Energy’s successful execution 
of a similar project in Oman the year 
before, the Group was awarded a new 
contract to supply power and backup 
capacity to the eastern part of the 
country. Leveraging its Dubai hub for 
rapid distribution and using its patent 
pending modular block system for 
plant design, APR Energy installed 
the Oman site within days, one of the 
fastest in the Group’s history.
The Argentine government-owned 
electricity company, Energía Argentina 
S.A. (ENARSA), required additional 
power sources as a result of slow-
paced investment, transmission 
line restraints, a continuous rise in 
electricity demand, and territorial 
expansion. Over the course of 
numerous phases, APR Energy 
provided ENARSA with over 90MW 
of power distributed at five separate 
locations. The plants feed into regional 
substations and supply critical power 
needed for seasonal peak demands 
and grid support
Powering the Escobal silver mine’s 
critical operations, APR Energy’s 
turnkey plant delivers electricity 
independent from the local grid 
system. Located about 40km outside 
of the capital Guatemala City, APR 
Energy’s power plant is the sole 
provider of energy for the mine and 
keeps its critical operations running.   
The Guatemala plant follows other 
successful industrial generation 
projects APR Energy has executed, 
including the Moatize Coal Project 
in Mozambique for Vale, one of the 
largest mining companies in the world, 
and the Boseto mine in Botswana. 18 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our value propositions
Large-scale power – fast
The essence of our business is to deliver 
large-scale power fast, when and where our 
customers need it. With mobile technology, 
regional distribution hubs near our key 
markets, and advanced engineering, 
logistics, and installation processes, we can 
deploy, install, and commission a large-scale 
power plant within days or weeks.
With our growing fleet and our global 
network of APR Energy offices and 
distribution hubs, we are able to respond 
quickly to opportunities as they happen 
and are able to mobilise equipment and 
our support teams to areas of urgent need 
or emerging opportunity. Moreover, we 
have extensive experience in the rapid 
deployment of equipment to customers via 
air, sea, and road transport, and we work 
closely with recognised global logistics 
providers to readily deploy our equipment. 
Available, mobile fleet 
With over 2GW of power generation 
capacity, APR Energy benefits from one 
of the largest mobile fleets in the industry, 
including mobile gas turbines, and gas and 
diesel power modules. Our high power-
density, fuel-flexible turbines offer customers 
a unique advantage in that they can be cost 
effectively transported and rapidly installed 
to deliver up to 30MW per turbine. 
Regional distribution and logistics
Our full-service distribution hubs in Dubai, 
Panama, and Malaysia provide us proximity 
to our key markets, and enable us to rapidly 
deploy a complete, large-scale turnkey 
power plant anywhere in the world. Through 
partnerships with world-class logistics 
companies, we are able to quickly deploy 
our fleet via air, sea, or land. Also, we 
leverage a highly skilled, flexible workforce 
stationed across the Americas, Africa, the 
Middle East, and Asia, which can be rapidly 
mobilised to meet urgent customer needs.
Modular plant design
APR Energy uses a proprietary modular 
building system that significantly improves 
mobilisation and installation time, while 
reducing labour and installation costs, and 
improving margin. These systems enable us 
to build plants of 400MW or more. For plants 
using reciprocating engine generators, 
the customised plug and play system is 
scalable in 6MW blocks. For turbine plants, 
power capacity is delivered in 25MW or 
30MW blocks. All equipment is packaged 
for standard ISO shipping containers. 
The plants are completely automated and 
remote controllable, with flexible application 
(50/60 hertz). 
Customised, turnkey approach 
APR Energy combines leading-edge 
technology with flexible plant design, 
fast-track installation, and around-
the-clock service and maintenance to 
provide our customers with customised, 
turnkey solutions to meet their specific 
requirements. From the design and 
installation of our plants, through their 
eventual decommissioning, our highly 
trained engineers and support staff stationed 
across the globe provide our clients with 
reliable 24/7/365 service and uninterrupted 
power capacity. APR Energy’s solutions 
are customised to accommodate customer 
requirements respective to application, 
scale, generation technology preference, 
fuel type, voltage range, and configuration 
needed to fit a given site. 
As part of our full turnkey power solution, 
APR Energy provides a comprehensive 
Balance of Plant offering that is tailored to 
each site and to each customer’s unique 
requirements. From transmission technology 
to remote monitoring capabilities, the 
ancillary equipment we provide plays a 
critical role in maximising power delivery to 
our clients while minimising downtime and 
operating costs. T o assess full requirements 
of each site, APR Energy’s project engineers 
and technical experts work closely with the 
customer and local entities to conduct site 
analysis and evaluation, considering factors 
such as space availability, preferred fuel 
type, altitude, climate, and delivery voltage. 
Within our turnkey solution, Balance of 
Plant and ancillary equipment offerings may 
include:
l Design and commissioning of 
substations, transformers and other 
electrical infrastructure
l Fuel storage, offloading, transfer, and 
efficiency monitoring  
l Deployment of all necessary supporting 
infrastructure including mobile offices, 
mobile maintenance containers, mobile 
housing, water, power, and climate control 
l Security perimeter with CCTV and security 
personnel 
l Remote monitoring capabilities, including 
oil temperature, coolant temperature, 
turbo temperature, fuel levels, power 
relays, and grid information 
l Remote switching between grid mode 
and island mode 
Advanced technology
APR Energy’s young, diverse fleet offers 
customers the broadest choice of power 
generation technologies in the market today, 
including fuel-flexible mobile gas turbines 
and the latest-generation reciprocating 
diesel and natural gas generators. The 
diversity of our fleet enables us to match 
customers’ specific requirements related to 
fuel type, voltage range, power generation 
technology, scale, and power density. 
Using our modular building system, APR Energy 
installed a 32MW plant in Oman in under two weeks. 
Our business Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 19 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
During a contract, APR Energy provides all engineering, 
procurement, and construction, including a turnkey suite of services 
tailored to customer need:
Site and civil
From civil and foundation work to perimeter fencing, lighting, and comprehensive security 
systems, APR Energy can provide all site preparation work for each power project. We 
also provide all necessary control rooms, offices, workshops, and warehousing to maintain 
optimal operation of the plant.
Mechanical
APR Energy can supply all equipment necessary for fuelling the operation of our power 
generation equipment. Our systems include all piping, pumping, and filtering as well 
as continuous metering to help ensure the performance of the equipment is closely 
monitored.
Electrical 
At each site, APR Energy provides a complete electrical system in order to meet the 
customer’s design specifications. This includes all cabling, protection and metering, as 
well as a custom-designed ground grid and any required step-up transformers.
Advanced controls
APR Energy utilises advanced controls systems via satellite uplink, using remote control 
and monitoring systems along with project specific utility relaying. We also supply all 
protection and operational interfaces.
Indonesia: Leveraging the newest generation diesel 
power modules from CAT , APR Energy was able to 
provide significant fuel-efficiency cost savings.
Day 1: Works commence
Day 42: 100MW plant in Uruguay commissioned and 
operating.
The young age of our fleet enables us to 
provide our clients with reliable power, 
a cleaner operation, and greater fuel 
efficiency. Our technology offers the latest 
advancements in reliability, fuel efficiency, 
and emissions control, while providing 
remote automation and monitoring 
capabilities, and automatic reactive power 
control for voltage support and grid stability.
Through our strategic supplier relationships 
with GE and Caterpillar Inc., two of the 
world’s leaders in mobile power generation 
technology, we offer the clear visibility of an 
integrated supply line capable of fulfilling 
the diverse needs of the growing fast-track 
power market.
Fuel efficiency
When it comes to power generation, fuel 
represents one of the highest operating costs, 
which is why APR Energy has placed a heavy 
focus on fuel efficiency. With the youngest, 
most advanced fleet in the industry, APR 
Energy is uniquely positioned to utilise some 
of the most fuel-efficient mobile technology 
available in our market today, thereby helping 
customers reduce the overall total cost of 
their power projects. As the price and volatility 
of fuel continues to rise, so will the need for 
more fuel-efficient solutions. T o meet this 
demand, APR Energy continues to invest 
in advanced technology and innovative 
engineering that help customers operate 
more profitably and efficiently.
Emissions control 
At APR Energy, we continuously strive 
to find new ways to lower our emissions 
footprint. Given the young age of our fleet 
and its flexibility in terms of technology 
and fuel-type, we are able to provide 
some of the cleanest solutions available 
in the fast-track power industry today. 
All our equipment is designed to comply 
with emissions standards set forth by The 
World Bank. We apply advanced mitigation 
techniques where more stringent emissions 
levels are required for local markets. Our 
generating equipment is controlled by 
state-of-the-art electronic engine and 
generator management systems, which 
are automated to increase flexibility and 
decrease emissions levels. This means 
no matter where our clients need us, we 
can deliver optimised emissions solutions 
tailored for each application.
Day 1
Day 8
Day 24
Day 42 20 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
As the world’s leading provider of fast-track 
mobile turbine power, APR Energy uses 
some of the most rapidly deployable and 
reliable mobile gas turbine technology in 
the market today. The term ’gas‘ in their 
name comes not from the fuel the turbines 
consume (although they can operate on 
natural gas), but from the gas compres-
sion (mostly air) which drives the turbine. 
Using the same aero-derivative technology 
found in many jet airliners, APR Energy’s 
mobile gas turbines are highly reliable. 
They require much less maintenance, and 
produce significantly less emissions than 
their reciprocating engine counterparts. 
The high power density and reliability of these 
units allows APR Energy to deliver scalable 
solutions of 400MW or more that can integrate 
into existing infrastructure and operate on a 
semi-permanent basis. A key advantage of 
a mobile turbine solution is the fuel flexibility 
it brings, with the ability to switch seamlessly 
between diesel and natural gas. Mobile 
turbines also produce significantly less  
emissions than reciprocating engine solutions, 
making them a good fit for environmentally 
conscious customers and developed markets 
with stringent regulatory controls.
APR Energy’s mobile turbine fleet features 
the GE TM2500+™. The power-dense turbine 
is capable of producing up to 30MW of power 
– the equivalent of approximately 18 - 30 
diesel or gas reciprocating generators – 
and is quick to dispatch, achieving full power 
in less than 10 minutes.The TM2500+ can 
be easily transported anywhere in the  
world and set up on a significantly smaller  
footprint than an equivalent-MW  
reciprocating generator plant.
Through our strategic alliance with GE,  
a world leader in turbine technology,  
APR Energy has access to the fleet and  
technology needed to grow into the long-term.
Diesel and natural 
gas power modules
The APR Energy diesel power module is an 
industry leader in terms of fuel efficiency, 
reliability, and emissions control, while the 
APR Energy gas power module is one of the 
most reliable and fuel-efficient natural gas 
power module packages within the fast-track 
power industry. These reliable and compact 
modules can support a wide range of utility 
and industrial power generation applications. 
Whether operating continuously in base 
load or as part of a peaking plant, these 
generators, combined with APR Energy’s 
comprehensive operation and maintenance 
support, help ensure a reliable and efficient 
supply of electricity to our customers. 
Thanks to our global framework agreement 
with Caterpillar Inc., one of the world’s 
best-known heavy equipment brands, and 
CAT® dealer Ring Power, APR Energy is 
able to source Caterpillar’s diesel and gas 
reciprocating power modules at beneficial 
pricing. The partnership enables us to 
maintain a robust fleet infrastructure to help 
fulfil project opportunities, gives APR Energy 
clear visibility to Caterpillar’s integrated supply 
chain, and provides us ready access to its 
world-class aftermarket sales and support. 
Mobile gas turbines
Gas power module
Reliable and fuel efficient engine
Rugged and robust construction
Automatic or manual paralleling
Automatic loading control
Local or remote operation
High ambient operating conditions
Low emissions
Fuel type: natural gas
Dual frequency: 50/60Hz
Diesel power module
Reliable and fuel efficient engine
Rugged and robust construction
Automatic or manual paralleling
Automatic loading control
Local or remote operation
Low emissions
Fuel type: diesel
Dual frequency: 50/60Hz
Our technology
APR Energy’s mobile turbine fleet features the GE TM2500+ ™ , one of the world’s leading gas turbine solutions 
for fast-track applications.
Mobile gas turbine
Reliable, low emissions and
fuel-efficient engine
Installation in less than 24 hours
Easily transportable by
ground, ocean or air
No foundation or concrete pad required
Remote operation
Optional black start capabilities
Dual fuel: natural gas and liquid fuels
Dual frequency: 50/60Hz
Our business Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 21 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Our competencies
APR Energy designs and 
assembles its own control 
panels, which provide our 
power plants with remote 
controls and monitoring 
capabilities
Power project development
APR Energy’s business development team 
comprises experienced power project 
developers, not equipment salespeople. 
APR Energy project developers are 
knowledgeable across all aspects of 
project development, project financing, 
engineering, procurement, and construction 
(EPC), and operations. Located within their 
geographic markets, our teams build long-
term relationships by understanding local 
market needs and identifying solutions that 
best serve the needs of our customers.
Global experience
APR Energy has installed over 2.5GW 
of power capacity across more than 25 
countries around the world. Our full-service 
distribution hubs in Dubai, Panama, and 
Malaysia give us proximity to our key 
markets, and enable us to rapidly deploy 
complete, large-scale turnkey power plants. 
Our highly skilled people have experience 
executing projects across all corners of 
the globe, and speak over 25 different 
languages. With a flexible workforce 
stationed across the Americas, Africa, the 
Middle East, and Asia, APR Energy can 
rapidly mobilise to meet urgent needs 
anywhere in the world. 
Advanced plant design and  
engineering
APR Energy’s experienced engineering 
team designs turnkey plants that scale to 
over 400MW and configure them to meet 
our customers’ unique requirements. Each 
APR Energy power solution has been 
developed to enable rapid mobilisation and 
installation, while ensuring performance 
that operationally meets all guaranteed 
availability and efficiency requirements 
throughout the life of a project. The 
proprietary systems and technology we 
develop enable us to remotely control 
and monitor each plant, optimise site 
and infrastructure, increase generation 
efficiency, and reduce emissions. This 
attention to engineering detail and system 
compatibility ensures that the power plant, 
its interconnection point, and the ultimate 
quality of the delivered electricity meet 
customers’ expectations.
Mobilisation and logistics
Our highly developed processes integrate 
across all logistics, planning, engineering, 
installation, legal, and commercial teams to 
help ensure seamless and rapid execution. 
Through partnerships with world-class 
logistics companies, we are able to quickly 
deploy our fleet via air, sea, or land. In 
addition, through our proprietary, modular 
building system, we are able to deploy, 
install, and demobilise plants with the 
highest level of speed and efficiency.   
An experienced management 
team
APR Energy benefits from a strong and 
experienced management team led by 
the co-founders of the business, John 
Campion and Laurence Anderson. With 
over 120 years of collective industry 
experience, our management team has a 
strong understanding of the global power 
market, its technologies, and the complex 
nature of project delivery requirements. 
This extensive sector knowledge plays 
an important part in maintaining long-
term relationships with key customers 
and suppliers, as well as being crucial to 
achieving new contract wins.  22 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our strategy
APR Energy will achieve 
its vision by driving 
sustained growth and 
operational excellence, 
generating customer 
value and developing 
world-class infrastructure 
and people.
APR Energy’s vision is to be the leading 
provider of large-scale, rapidly-deployed 
power solutions. We do this by providing 
cost-efficient reliable electricity, on a fast-
track basis, where our customers need it. 
We leverage state-of-the-art technology and 
industry-leading expertise to provide fuel-
efficient turnkey power plants that are rapidly 
deployed, customisable, and scalable. 
With a proven record of success, a sole 
focus on large-scale power projects around 
the globe, and a strong balance sheet, we 
are confident in our ability to achieve our 
vision. We will build upon our legacy of 
trusted expertise, leading-edge technology, 
and rapid deployment by carefully executing 
our strategy for growth – the success of 
which will be measured against our three 
core strategic corporate objectives:
Grow long-term shareholder value
We drive business growth that is consistent 
and sustainable. We effectively deploy 
capital to expand our fleet and our global 
footprint – driving revenue, profit expansion, 
and long-term shareholder value. We strive 
for operational efficiencies, using process 
innovation and improvements to lower costs 
and improve margins. 
Help our customers 
and their communities grow 
The power and capacity APR Energy 
provides do more than just keep the lights 
on. Our fast-track power solutions enable 
economic and social progress in the parts of 
the world that need it the most. As a trusted, 
responsible partner with our communities, 
we are proud of our reputation as a good 
corporate citizen. We will continue to support 
the communities in which we operate and, 
as always, strive to provide the highest level 
of customer satisfaction. 
Develop our people and our capabilities
Our growth plans, coupled with the complex 
challenges facing our customers, require 
a well-trained, highly motivated workforce 
with the ability to execute effectively at a 
Delivering value to our shareholders, 
communities and people
Grow long-term
shareholder value
Develop our people
and our capabilities
Vision
Strategic Objectives
Strategy
Enablers Competencies 
& skills
Strong governance
Underpinned by… Driven by… Supported by…
APR Energy’s vision is to be the leading global provider 
of large-scale, rapidly-deployed power solutions.
Help our customers
and communities 
grow
Drive 
sustained 
growth
Strive for 
operational
excellence 
Generate 
customer 
value
Develop 
world-class 
infrastructure,
organisation 
& skills Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 23 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
global level. APR Energy operates upon 
a foundation of strong core values that 
helps cultivate a work environment that 
encourages growth in skills, capabilities, 
and satisfaction. We implement and utilise 
global systems and processes that help our 
employees be successful and accountable.
Our strategic focus areas:
Drive sustained growth
Grow our mobile gas turbine business 
Mobile gas turbines are an integral part of 
APR Energy’s growth strategy, providing a 
stronger play into more lucrative larger-
scale, longer-term projects. Through 
our acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business in October 2013, APR Energy 
is now the world’s largest provider of 
fast-track mobile turbine power. We 
have deliberately chosen to differentiate 
ourselves in the market through our 
decision to invest in this technology, which 
now represents 56% of our total fleet mix. 
In comparison to gas reciprocating 
engines, mobile gas turbine technology 
provides greater reliability, requires much 
less maintenance, needs significantly fewer 
people to operate, occupies a smaller 
installed footprint per MW, and produces 
a fraction of the emissions. They also 
provide the added flexibility of being able to 
seamlessly switch between natural gas and 
diesel fuel as needed by the customer.
These aero-derivative turbines can each 
produce up to 30MW of power and their 
integrated, high-density design radically 
improves the speed and logistics of 
transport. They can be transported 
anywhere in the world for projects and 
require approximately one-third of the 
space as the equivalent number of 
reciprocating generators. 
As a result of these advantages, the mobile 
gas turbine share of the fast-track power 
market has grown rapidly over the last three 
years, representing approximately 20% of 
all deals since 2012, excluding projects in 
the BRIC countries. For deals of 100MW 
and greater, mobile gas turbines reached 
over a third of the market, with 138% CAGR 
over a three-year period. Some of this 
growth is due to fast-track power customers 
shifting preference on technologies. 
However, in many cases, turbines have 
expanded the playing field in our market, 
opening up opportunities with customers 
who would have otherwise not considered 
large-scale, fast-track power previously, 
either due to emissions requirements, 
scale, space constraints, or requirements 
for fuel flexibility. 
Leverage the GE Strategic Alliance 
In October 2013, APR Energy completed 
a transformational deal with GE, acquiring 
GE’s Power Rental Business in exchange 
APR Energy stock and cash and entering 
into a long-term strategic alliance. The 
deal created the world’s leading fast-
track mobile turbine business, further 
strengthening APR Energy’s leadership 
position in large-scale, fast-track power, 
and provided the Group with the fleet and 
technology to support our growth plans 
into the long term. The strategic alliance 
and equity commitment reflects GE’s 
endorsement of APR Energy’s prospects to 
lead the fast-track power space. 
APR Energy’s strategy with regards to 
the GE strategic alliance includes the 
following:
l Leverage the acquired GE turbine fleet, 
worldwide support services, and long-
term supply agreement to focus further on 
turbine opportunities in both developed 
and developing markets
l Use the GE brand to build credibility for 
APR Energy as the Group enters new 
markets and positions its technology and 
fast-track turnkey solutions
l Collaborate on business development 
opportunities with GE where APR Energy 
can offer complementary bridging power 
solutions while permanent GE plants are 
built
l Convert the acquired GE power rental 
contracts to APR Energy’s full turnkey 
contracts with add-in services
Since the closing of the GE deal, APR 
Energy has signed a new 40MW contract 
in Angola featuring GE turbines and has 
also renewed its US Virgin Islands contract, 
assumed through the acquisition, at 
improved pricing consistent with APR Energy 
historic turbine pricing levels.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Gas turbine share (MW)
Fast-track power market:
100MW+ sized deals*
6%
Source: Company analysis
* excludes BRIC countries
27%
138% CAGR
34%
2010 2011 2012 2013 24 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Strategic benefits of the GE Power Rental Business 
acquisition
Advances APR Energy towards its strategic vision to be the leader in large-
scale, rapidly deployed power
The acquisition has made APR Energy the world’s leading supplier of fast-track mobile 
turbine power. Mobile turbines play a key part of our strategy to focus on larger-scale, 
longer-term projects and have been a growth driver in our industry. With the backing of 
the GE brand name, a long-term supply agreement, collaboration on opportunities, and 
expansion of our global footprint, APR Energy is well positioned to grow its leadership 
position in the industry.
Provides the technology and fleet capacity for growth 
The acquisition has expanded APR Energy’s turbine capacity by 520MW to 1.2GW, 
creating the world’s largest fleet of fast-track mobile gas turbines. This, together with 
a long-term supply agreement that provides favorable terms and broader access 
to technical service and support around the globe, will support APR Energy’s ability 
to address growing demand for large-scale, fast-track power. The deal also has 
diversified the Group’s fleet, with over 50% having dual-fuel capability.
 
Establishes a long-term strategic alliance with GE 
As a result of the Acquisition, GE has become a strategic shareholder in the Group 
with approximately 16.5% of the share capital demonstrating GE’s intent to assist in 
value creation. APR Energy has already begun benefiting from its GE Partner brand 
designation. Additionally, since the alliance provides us access to GE’s sales and 
commercial network, APR Energy benefits from the opportunity to complement GE’s 
longer-term projects with a fast-track offering leveraging GE technology.
Expands and diversifies APR Energy’s global footprint 
The GE deal included contracts in Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Iraq, and the US, 
Virgin Islands, expanding APR Energy’s footprint in both developing and developed 
countries, and providing immediate access to key targeted markets. The acquisition 
also diversifies APR Energy’s customer base and significantly enhances our natural 
gas footprint, with the majority of the turbine contracts being acquired running on 
natural gas. 
Enhanced cash generation 
It is expected that the enlarged business will have an enhanced cash generation profile 
helping to contribute to the future de-leveraging of the Group’s balance sheet. 
Advantages of mobile 
gas turbines
Scalable in large power blocks
Mobile gas turbines such as the GE 
TM2500+ can deliver up to 30MW of 
power per unit. This is the equivalent of 
anywhere from 15 to 25 reciprocating 
engines. Using multiple turbines, plants 
can be configured easily to deliver more 
than 400MW of power.
Require less space
Due to its high power density, a mobile 
turbine plant requires less than a third 
of the space of an equivalent megawatt 
diesel reciprocating engine plant. This can 
be a critical consideration when sites have 
limited space, such as found at existing 
utility plant sites or in urban locations. 
Fuel flexibility
The dual-fuel nature of mobile gas 
turbines offer customers greater flexibility 
as fuel availability, quality, or pricing 
changes over time, without the need for 
changing equipment. Customers often 
choose to start operations with readily-
available diesel fuel and then later switch 
to cheaper natural gas as reserves and 
infrastructure are developed. 
Semi-permanent technology
Mobile gas turbines are highly durable 
and integrate well into existing plant 
infrastructure. Since many power 
plants already use gas turbines, utilities 
are familiar and comfortable with the 
advanced technology. Their long life 
span, in contrast to reciprocating engine 
generators, allows them to be installed on 
a semi-permanent basis for longer-term 
contracts.
High mobility
A major advantage of mobile gas turbines 
is the mobility they provide. They can 
be rapidly transported by air or ocean 
through their containerised configuration 
and can be quickly installed by APR 
Energy into a turnkey power plant.
Better for the environment
Mobile gas turbines only produce a 
fraction of the NO
x
 and other pollutants 
that diesel reciprocating engines 
generate and significantly less noise. In 
many markets with strict environmental 
regulations, including most developed 
markets, turbines offer the most viable 
large-scale, fast-track solution. 
Our strategy Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 25 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Penetration of priority markets and 
segments 
APR Energy’s strategy is to serve both 
developed and developing markets, 
with the largest segments being large 
sovereign and private utilities, together 
with power-intensive industries such as 
mining. Customers located in high-growth 
emerging, frontier, and underserved 
markets remain a major focus. Those 
customers face a structural imbalance 
in their supply and demand of electricity 
due to high growth, ageing infrastructure, 
lack of infrastructure investment, and/
or dependence on unreliable foreign or 
hydroelectric sources of electricity. 
Benefitting from our power-dense and low-
emissions turbines, APR Energy provides 
a strong offering for developed markets 
that require bridging or backup power 
due to decommissioning and renovations 
of plants caused by ageing, tightening 
environmental regulations, and/or public 
opposition. In addition to our primary 
markets, APR Energy is ready and capable 
to respond to event-driven requirements 
and emergencies anywhere in world.
Market expansion and diversification within 
our priority markets, whether by geography, 
the industries we serve, or the fuel types 
our power solutions support, are critical for 
our long-term growth. This multi-faceted 
diversification will enable us to expand 
our revenue base in rapidly growing, 
high-demand, and untapped markets and 
segments. It will allow us to build operating 
efficiencies with a greater scale in terms 
of talent pools, supply bases, and fleet. In 
addition, by reducing dependency on any 
single market or customer, APR Energy 
will be in a stronger position to minimise 
business, political, and economic risk, 
which, in turn, should reduce volatility and 
variability in revenue over time. 
Africa
Africa remains a strategically important 
region for APR Energy. We have engaged 
in a number of fast-track, turnkey power 
projects throughout the western, eastern, 
and southern regions of the continent 
since 2006, including in Angola, Botswana, 
Burkina Faso, Gabon, Libya, Mali, 
Mozambique, Senegal, and Tanzania. We 
see strong opportunities in Africa due to the 
rapidly growing demand for electricity and 
an acute lack of investment and planning 
for permanent power plants. 
Rapid expansion of the commodities, 
mining, and construction industries is also 
expected to drive economic growth and the 
need for more permanent power generation 
infrastructure. Many industrial firms and 
countries dependent on hydroelectricity 
are also switching to off-grid dedicated 
power generation facilities to reduce lost 
production caused by power interruptions. 
In addition, regional dependence on 
hydroelectric resources makes the power 
generation capacity of many African 
countries vulnerable to prolonged droughts. 
Our Dubai hub has positioned us well 
to pursue new opportunities across the 
continent. We continue our focus to secure 
new contracts within Africa, which has 
significant natural gas reserves that present 
good opportunities for our mobile gas 
turbines. In December 2013, APR Energy 
announced its first-ever mobile turbine 
project in sub-Saharan Africa, a 40MW 
plant in Angola, which follows the Group’s 
execution of a 40MW plant using diesel 
reciprocating engines earlier in the year.
The Middle East
This region offers strong growth potential 
and continues to be a focus for new 
strategic investment by the Group. The 
‘Arab Spring’ has created a number of 
opportunities for APR Energy’s fast-track 
power solutions throughout the region. 
These opportunities are driven by the need 
for seasonal power, ageing and damaged 
infrastructure, and shifting political climate. 
Our Dubai hub and commercial office has 
already played a key role in expanding our 
footprint in the region, playing a key role in 
the development, deployment and support 
of projects in Oman and Yemen. 
Ongoing infrastructure development, 
industrial expansion in the energy and 
chemicals sectors, and event-driven needs 
are expected to drive significant demand 
growth in the region over the next few 
decades. According to the EIA, numerous 
‘mega’ petrochemical projects are currently 
underway in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, 
and the UAE. 
In 2012, the Gulf Cooperation Council 
region experienced large increases in peak 
demand due to an influx of refugees in 
some countries, growth of the middle class, 
and prevalence of subsidies. This trend 
is set to continue with on-going political 
strife and uprising. According to the MEED 
Insight Mena Power 2013 report, the Middle 
East and North African region is facing 
annual demand growth rates in excess of 
10% due to rising populations, oil prices 
and high economic growth. This demand 
coupled with lack of tariff reform is pushing 
utilities to find immediate solutions and 
invest in new generation capacity to restore 
or maintain their 15% reserve margin. 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
African power rental market
by end-use, 2011-2017
($ million)
201 1 201 2 201 7
Utilities
Oil & Gas
Industrial & Construction
Quarrying & Mining
Others
Source: MarketsandMarkets, 2012
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000 26 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The projected demand for fast-track and 
bridging power within the Middle East 
market represents great potential, and 
the demand for electrical capacity in this 
dynamic region is projected to increase 
dramatically in the medium to long-term.  
Latin America and the Caribbean
Similar to Africa, Latin America’s reliance on 
hydroelectric power presents opportunities 
for the deployment of mobile power 
generation facilities. Many regions have 
experienced widespread blackouts due to 
power deficits and local utilities routinely 
schedule power interruptions. In addition, 
poor investment in infrastructure and 
steady economic growth has resulted in 
inadequate power generating resources.
Representing one of the world’s largest 
markets for fast-track power, there are 
large disparities in electricity access across 
the countries of Latin American and the 
Caribbean. APR Energy has delivered 
successful power projects in Argentina, 
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Haiti, Martinique, 
Peru, and Uruguay, and, through the 
acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business, the US Virgin Islands. At the 
same time, we see strong opportunities 
to provide fast-track and dedicated power 
solutions for industries such as mining and 
other extractive operations – a growing and 
important sector in countries like Brazil, 
Chile, and Peru.
Asia-Pacific 
The Asia-Pacific region has been one of the 
fastest-growing markets for APR Energy 
and remains a strategic priority for Group 
growth and investment. Our regional hub 
in Malaysia, together with our commercial 
office in Singapore, positions us well for 
further regional expansion in the region. 
Our investment has helped us penetrate 
strategically important markets in the 
region, including Indonesia and Myanmar. 
APR Energy has had success in both 
the utility and industrial sectors in other 
Asian countries, including Sri Lanka, and 
Japan – where we have demonstrated our 
operational flexibility by delivering solutions 
based upon both reciprocating engine 
power modules and mobile gas turbines. 
Our GE strategic alliance will serve as 
a platform from which we can generate 
additional business in the region. The 
increasing availability of natural gas 
throughout this geography will help us 
further drive mobile gas turbine power 
opportunities.
Notwithstanding ambitious power 
expansion plans, rapid consumption and 
demand in this region will strain efforts 
to ensure reliable electricity supply on a 
continuous basis. Already, countries like 
Indonesia, with the largest economy in 
Southeast Asia, are facing difficulties in 
ensuring the reliability of its power delivery 
and distribution networks. Another example 
is Myanmar, where approximately 75% of 
the population does not have access to 
reliable power. 
Developed markets
Developed markets such as South Korea, 
Japan, the UK, Poland, and even the US 
have a rising need for bridging and backup 
power generation. This is being driven by 
the decommissioning and renovations 
of plants due to ageing, tightening 
environmental regulations, and public 
opposition to certain types of power.
Due to strict environmental regulations, 
limited space, and need for integration with 
existing plants, mobile gas turbines are the 
most attractive option for these customers. 
Benefitting from our power-dense and 
low-emissions turbines, APR Energy 
provides a strong scalable offering for the 
high megawatt demands of large utilities, 
and offers the technology with which these 
customers are most comfortable and 
familiar.
Industrial applications
Industrial customers remain an important 
segment for APR Energy, and provide 
diversification for the Group’s customer 
base. APR Energy will continue to target 
large industries, particularly Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (EPC), 
oil and gas, and extractive industries. 
The extractive industry, e.g., mining, is 
particularly attractive as it consumes high 
amounts of electricity and often operates 
in remote locations distant from the power 
grid. Such companies need dedicated 
power solutions in order to maintain 
production and optimise their operations.
APR Energy’s success in this sector 
includes projects delivered in Botswana, 
Guatemala, and Mozambique. 
The industrial sector is expected to remain 
the largest electricity consumer of all 
end-use sectors, accounting for over 40% 
of total electricity demand in 2035. Due 
to increasing electrification of industrial 
processes, especially in non-OECD 
countries, industry electricity demand is 
expected to grow over 2% per year through 
2035. 
Energy consumption by fuel
South & Central America
Oil
Other
Natural Gas
 46%
22%
4%
25%
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Total rental power market: 
revenue forecast
Asia-Pacific, 2012-2017
($ million)
201 4 201 5 201 6 201 2 201 3
Source: Frost & Sullivan
201 7
Our strategy
Source: BP - Statistical Review of World Energy, 2013
Southeast Asia
rental power market
Indonesia
Singapore
Philippines
Thailand
Vietnam
Malaysia
9%
 46%
11% 4%
17%
13%
Source: Frost & Sullivan, 2013
3%
Hydro-
electric
Coal Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 27 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
APR Energy’s fast-track mobile systems 
can provide electricity for space-restricted 
facilities located far beyond the reach of 
utility power grids. Our state-of-the-art 
equipment and experienced support teams 
offer private and state-owned companies a 
cost-effective and reliable source of power 
for even the most remote operations and 
harshest conditions. 
Looking ahead, we see good opportunities 
to grow our base of industrial customers 
to include applications such as oil and gas 
exploration, mining, chemical processing 
plants, and other remote operations without 
grid access but where a reliable supply 
of power is essential to a customer’s 
operations.
Penetrating the natural gas market
As part of our strategic growth strategy, 
APR Energy remains committed to 
increasing its natural gas power generation 
footprint. As worldwide production of 
natural gas continues to grow, and as 
both developed and developing countries 
increase their production capacity, APR 
Energy is well positioned to take advantage 
of this readily available fuel source. Our 
mobile gas turbines and gas reciprocating 
engines offer customers a cleaner, more 
cost-effective, and lower impact option. 
Fuel cost is often a major driver for our 
customers, and natural gas presents a 
significantly cheaper alternative to diesel 
fuel in many markets. 
Natural gas will continue to play an 
increasingly vital role in the world’s supply 
of energy. It is one of the cleanest and  
most useful of all non-renewable energy 
sources. Compared to large-scale diesel 
generators, natural gas powered generators 
can produce significantly lower amounts of 
harmful emissions such as NOx, particulate 
matter, and pollutants.
In its World Energy Outlook 2011, the 
IEA forecasts the demand for natural gas 
growing by 2% per year between 2009 
and 2035. Natural gas offers significant 
competitive advantages over other fuels. 
It is seen as economically more efficient 
because only about 10% of the natural gas 
produced is wasted before it is consumed. 
In addition, technological advances 
are constantly improving efficiencies in 
extraction, transportation, and storage, as 
well as in equipment that uses natural gas, 
such as APR Energy’s mobile gas turbines. 
Develop the APR Energy brand  
Our brand strategy is designed to present 
the Group’s values and propositions in 
ways that will help us drive business, attract 
and retain the best people, and increase 
shareholder value. Our brand promise, 
Powering Your Progress® captures the 
benefits APR Energy provides for the 
businesses and communities that depend 
on our ability to provide power under even 
the most extreme circumstances. As we 
continue to build our global footprint, our 
ability to generate awareness around our 
capabilities and capture new business 
opportunities is enhanced by our 
continued success in fostering meaningful 
connections with the communities we 
serve. 
Our brand strategy focuses on reaching 
targeted customers  in the places where 
they look for information, creating relevant 
content that demonstrates our expertise 
and thought-leadership, and generating 
conversation around the value our fast-
track turnkey power solutions can provide. 
We will continue to evolve and elevate our 
brand presence in priority regions, and will 
further leverage the brand credibility our GE 
strategic alliance brings. 
 
Economies 
can’t grow 
in the dark.
Electricity shortages cost the global economy more 
than a half of a trillion dollars each year in lost GDP .
At APR Energy, we help keep the lights on. As the world’s leading 
provider of fast-track mobile turbine power, we power cities around 
the world, keeping countries and economies growing. Unlike con-
ventional power plants, which take years to fund and construct, our 
mobile plants are built in a matter of days. Don’t let the lights go out.  
Learn more at 
aprenergy.com/powernow
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
Natural gas production 
and consumption
World regions, 2012
 (Quadrillion Btu)
Dry NG Consumption 
(Quadrillion Btu)
Dry NG Production 
(Quadrillion Btu)
North America
Central & South America
Europe
Eurasia
Middle East
Africa
Asia 
& Oceania
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2012
Source: International Council on Mining & Minerals, 
2012
Africa Energy Forum 2013
Global advertising Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2013
0
30
60
90
120
150
Reserve lifetime of natural gas
(years)
Africa
Asia Pacific 
Europe & Eurasia
Middle East 
North America
67
31
56
147
43
12
S. & Cent. America 
Largest mineral producing 
economies
by production value
 (in current $ million)
 Country Production value
Australia 71,955
China 69,281
Brazil 47,027
Chile 31,275
Russian Federation 28,680
South Africa 27,116
India 26,042
United States 22,957
Peru 18,832
Canada 13,984
Indonesia 12,225
Ukraine 9,283
Mexico 8,361 28 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Operational excellence
APR Energy strives for operational 
excellence in everything it does, optimising 
speed, quality, and cost to deliver value to 
both our customers and shareholders. The 
cornerstones to this strategy are speed of 
execution, technology leadership, scalable 
global processes and structure, and 
efficient management of assets.
Speed of execution
Speed is a key driver behind our business 
model. Whatever the cause, a loss or 
deficiency of power can have a devastating 
impact on communities and businesses 
– quickly leading to negative economic 
consequences, deteriorating government 
functions, and potential social unrest. When 
customers have a critical need for power, 
they need a fast response. APR Energy 
remains committed to getting plant and 
power capacity in place when and where 
our customers need it most, a commitment 
we have achieved for over ten years.
Key elements of this strategy:
l	 A global network of equipment and 
personnel, with the ability to fully deploy 
a large-scale, turnkey power plant with 
best-in-class speed to anywhere in the 
world
l Access to one of the largest mobile 
fleets in the industry, including mobile 
gas turbines that can be cost-effectively 
shipped by air and rapidly installed to 
deliver up to 30MW per unit – versus 
1-2MW for a traditional reciprocating 
engine
l Partnerships with world-class logistics 
companies that offer far-reaching 
logistical capabilities and which are able 
to deploy our fleet via air, sea, or land
l Proprietary modular building systems 
optimised for rapid and cost-efficient 
mobilisation and installation of scalable 
plants
l Highly skilled electrical and mechanical 
engineering capabilities, including 
proprietary designs and testing 
methodologies, which allow us to meet a 
wide range of customer needs, such as 
high voltage and custom transmission or 
monitoring and metering systems
l A highly skilled, flexible workforce 
stationed across the Americas, Africa, 
the Middle East, and Asia, which can 
be rapidly mobilised to meet urgent 
customer needs 
l Highly developed, cross-functional 
processes working seamlessly together 
across our commercial, engineering, 
financial, legal, supply chain, and HR 
departments
l Effective project management integrating 
and tracking all aspects of execution, 
including scheduling and cost
T echnology leadership
For APR Energy, differentiation through 
technology leadership remains a key part 
of our strategy. Our customers depend on 
our fleet as a reliable and efficient source 
of power and capacity. APR Energy seeks  
to offer customers the most reliable and 
technologically advanced and diverse 
fleet in the industry, including mobile 
gas turbines, and reciprocating-engine 
diesel and natural gas power modules. 
By offering utilities and industries the best 
and broadest choice of technology in the 
industry, we are able to expand the playing 
field of opportunity, and provide solutions 
that best serve our customers’ needs.
Benefitting from the newest fleet in the 
industry and APR’s internally designed 
monitoring and control systems, we offer 
leading-edge, “smart” technology with 
the latest advancements in reliability, 
fuel efficiency, and emissions control, 
while providing remote automation and 
monitoring capabilities, and automatic 
reactive power control for voltage support 
and grid stability. Our plants offer some 
of the best fuel efficiencies in the industry, 
enabling us to provide our customers with 
an overall lower cost of generation. 
Asset Management
With a business model that requires large 
investments in fleet and balance of plant, 
effective asset management is a vital 
part of our overall operational excellence 
strategy. APR Energy differentiates itself 
through technology that offers the latest 
advancements in fuel efficiency, emissions, 
and operation. As part of this approach, 
we make ongoing investments in new 
next-generation fleet to support our growth, 
while retiring older equipment that reaches 
the end of its useful life as appropriate. 
To protect our investment, and to ensure 
we continue to provide reliable electricity 
to our customers, we keep our fleet well 
maintained through stringent maintenance 
regimes. We also ensure we have the 
training, tooling, and logistics capabilities 
in place to service effectively the fleet mix. 
Through our ability to collect operating data 
on our equipment in real time, we are able 
to conduct research and development on 
ways to operate our assets more efficiently 
and effectively.
Our strategy Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 29 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Strategic Partnerships
Sourced through strategic partnership 
agreements with GE and Caterpillar Inc., 
our power generation technology enables 
us to deploy and service new, efficient units 
that provide our clients with peace of mind 
that they will have reliable power. 
APR Energy’s global framework 
agreements with Caterpillar, Inc., one of 
the world’s best-known heavy equipment 
brands, and CAT® dealer Ring Power, 
enables us to source Caterpillar’s diesel 
and gas reciprocating power modules 
at beneficial pricing. These reliable and 
compact modules feature some of the 
latest reciprocating engine technology in 
the market and can support a wide range 
of utility and industrial power generation 
applications. The partnership enables us 
to maintain a robust fleet infrastructure 
to help fulfil power plant opportunities, 
gives us access to Caterpillar’s world-
class aftermarket sales and support, and 
provides APR energy clear visibility to 
Caterpillar’s integrated supply chain.
As part of APR Energy’s acquisition of 
the GE Power Rental Business and GE 
strategic alliance, the Group has a long-
term supply and services agreement 
for mobile gas turbines, including GE’s 
TM2500+, one of the leading mobile 
turbine products on the market. The GE 
agreement includes the opportunity for 
supply of related parts and services, and 
on-going technical support and training. 
As such, this agreement gives APR Energy 
a reliable supply of available fleet and 
capacity needed to support our growth 
ambitions into the long term.
Generate customer value
Given the broad range of customer needs, 
which vary in terms of application, site 
conditions, scale, and fuel availability, APR 
Energy is flexible in working with each 
customer’s unique requirements. APR 
Energy balances speed, quality, service, 
and cost in ways designed to generate 
customer value, by providing solutions that 
address fully our customers’ needs and 
ultimately drive their satisfaction. 
As part of this strategy, APR Energy takes 
a customer-centric approach by combining 
leading-edge technology with fast-track 
installation, around-the-clock service and 
maintenance, and flexible plant design, to 
provide our customers with customised, 
turnkey solutions to meet their specific 
requirements. Customers are able to 
benefit quickly from reliable power – worry 
free – without waiting for the up-front capital 
investment needed for permanent facilities.
Customer centricity helps APR Energy build 
a strong reputation in the industry and 
drives loyalty. Renewals are a key part of 
our business, with over 80% of our initial 
contracts renewing for additional term. 
Key elements of this strategy include:  
l 24/7 Service and support
 Through the turnkey nature of our plants, 
APR Energy handles all operation, 
maintenance, and service. This, together 
with skilled operators knowledgeable on 
our plants and technology, relieves our 
customers from the day-to-day concerns 
of running and maintaining a power 
plant. Also, with a network of regional 
hubs and commercial offices located in 
our key markets, we are able to respond 
quickly to urgent customer needs, 
wherever they may be.  
l Customised approach
 APR Energy works with our customers 
to accommodate specific requirements 
respective to application, scale, 
generation technology preference, fuel 
type, voltage range, and configuration 
needed to fit a given site. Depending 
on each project’s unique set of needs, 
our customer-centric staff works closely 
on the ground to design and deliver a 
turnkey process that includes installation, 
operation, and maintenance services for 
the entire life of the power project. 
l Scalability
 APR Energy’s strategy is to focus on 
larger-scale, longer-term projects, which 
in turn equate to higher value contracts. 
We design our plants to be scalable to 
serve customers with high megawatt 
needs. Through our power-dense 
mobile turbine technology and modular 
building processes, our projects can be 
readily scaled to over 400MW and can 
be configured to meet our customers’ 
unique requirements. 
l Flexible technology offering
 APR Energy offers customers the 
broadest choice of power generation 
technologies in the market, including 
diesel and natural gas power modules, as 
well as mobile gas turbines. This choice 
allows us to match each customer’s 
specific requirements related to fuel 
type, voltage range, power generation 
technology, scale, and power density. 
With our gas turbines, we provide the 
added flexibility of being able to switch 
seamlessly between natural gas and 
diesel fuel as needed by the customer. 
The energy efficiency of our technology 
can also drive an overall lower cost of 
electricity generation for our customers. 30 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our strategy
Develop world-class 
infrastructure, organisation 
and people  
Developing our people
With any rapidly growing company, 
maintaining and growing a highly 
motivated, trained workforce is a top 
priority and is essential in order to meet 
APR Energy’s strategic goals. Over the 
long-term, we will grow our global sales, 
engineering, finance, legal, HR, marketing, 
and logistics teams in order to meet the 
rising demand for turnkey fast-track power 
projects. To operate in the fast-paced, 
unpredictable climate of our market, it 
is critical to have the right people on the 
ground in the regions we serve – armed 
with all the resources they need to take 
care of our customers. As our business 
continues to grow and diversify, we will 
provide our staff with the motivation, 
training, and positive career incentives they 
need to perform at the highest level. This 
will help ensure skill development, provide 
stability, and minimise staff turnover.
Expanding our regional presence
In order to support our objectives of 
rapid solutions delivery and best-in-class 
customer responsiveness, APR Energy will 
continue to develop and expand its global 
footprint of regional hubs and offices. The 
investments we have already made have 
helped us win new contracts and provide 
some of the industry’s fastest response 
times for large-scale power projects. 
By stationing teams of logistics, 
purchasing, and engineering staff on the 
ground in the regions in which we operate, 
APR Energy can provide customers the 
kind of informed, responsive partner they 
need and expect. In addition to further 
developing our distribution and service 
hubs, we will continue to develop our 
regional commercial offices to help us to 
better serve and respond to our customers, 
stay attuned to the local markets, build 
strategic business relationships, and serve 
as a base for developing new projects.
Our global network of fleet and service 
offices serve as vital hubs for quickly 
responding to new business opportunities 
and the needs of customers around the 
world. To expand our market presence 
in strategic markets, we operate facilities 
in Panama, Dubai, and Malaysia. These 
full-service hubs house APR Energy’s 
expanding fleet of power generators 
and transmission units – enabling rapid 
deployment and technical support at a 
moment’s notice.
Finance and administration
We continue to invest in our accounting and 
finance function to strengthen the skills, 
experience and depth of our team, while 
driving significant improvement across our 
process, reporting and analytical systems. 
We have complemented this with key hires 
in the areas of tax, treasury, and investor 
relations, as well as establishing regional 
finance teams. We have also enhanced the 
support finance provides to our operations 
teams throughout the lifecycle of our 
projects, including the early stages of bid 
compilation and approval, ongoing project 
cost control, and ongoing local support to 
our project teams via our regional finance 
teams. 
 
In December, the Group established 
an internal audit function, including the 
appointment of a senior, experienced 
individual as the lead of our internal 
audit function. The primary responsibility 
of internal audit is to provide objective 
assurance and consulting services 
designed to help the Group accomplish 
its objectives by bringing a systematic, 
disciplined approach to evaluate 
and improve the effectiveness of risk 
management, control, and governance 
processes. Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 31 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
URUGUAY
The electricity sector of Uruguay is largely 
based on domestic hydropower. This leaves 
the country vulnerable to seasonal rainfall 
patterns and often requires importation 
of electricity from its neighbours. Urgently 
needing a strategic defence against hydro 
dependency until a new power plant could 
be constructed, Uruguay’s national utility, 
UTE, contracted with APR Energy in 2012 
for an initial 100MW turnkey plant. The 
utility had a strong preference for dual-
fuel gas turbines given its familiarity with 
the technology and the country’s strict 
environmental regulations. It also needed a 
solution that would integrate into its current 
site and infrastructure.
Pleased with APR Energy’s solutions and 
technology, UTE contracted APR Energy for 
an additional 200MW, installed in early 2013 
across two sites. Through the fast-track 
deployment, eight mobile turbines travelled 
via a mix of ocean and air freight to meet 
a tight operational schedule. The full 
turnkey 100MW solution at Punta del Tigre 
commenced operations in May, bringing 
APR Energy’s total capacity at the site to 
200MW. The 100MW plant at La Tablada, 
which became operational in April, includes 
150kV substation equipment for protection 
and metering. 
The semi-permanent plants integrate 
seamlessly into UTE’s existing infrastructure 
and utilise demineralised water solutions to 
comply fully with Uruguay’s strict emissions 
standards. The plants are run as needed 
for peaking power and backup generation. 
APR Energy now represents 30% of 
Uruguay’s backup thermal generation 
and has helped the country become self-
sufficient in power production for the first 
time in 15 years. 
“I was marvelled with 
the response that this 
company has given. We 
now begin a commercial 
stage in which we are 
strategic partners. With 
the availability of these 
machines, we will supply 
the demand in Uruguay 
and it will allow us to 
optimise our system. 
Sincerely, with APR we 
have had a very good 
experience.”
 
Gonzalo Casaravilla
President of UTE
Strategy in action
APR Energy
Permanent 
UTE plant
www.aprenergy.com/uruguay-bridging-power 32 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Our strategy
LIBYA
As Libya worked to build and repair its 
power infrastructure, APR Energy was there 
to help the Libyan people keep the lights 
on. In March 2013, APR signed with the 
Libyan government what would become the 
largest single contract ever in the fast-track 
power industry. Executed across six plant 
sites in the western and southern parts of 
the country, the 450MW solution included 
250MW of dual-fuel mobile gas turbines 
and 200MW of fuel-efficient diesel power 
modules.
Using APR Energy’s regional hubs in 
Malaysia, Dubai, and Panama, our logistics 
team mobilised and routed the equipment 
through three Libyan seaports and three 
Libyan airports to ultimately make deliveries 
to the six sites. The enormous size of the 
project required shipment of over 8,000 line 
items and included 76 transformers and 21 
total substations. Control rooms complete 
with IT systems were delivered to each 
site, as were fuel distribution systems and 
fuel storage facilities. Two of the remote 
desert sites included man-camps with living 
facilities.
Despite a challenging socio-political 
environment, extreme climatic conditions, and 
installation over the holy month of Ramadan, 
APR Energy successfully commissioned 
450MW of generation capacity across the 
six plant sites within 75 days from the time 
equipment arrived at the various sea and air 
ports in Libya. The electricity that is generated 
powers approximately one million Libyan 
homes, helping the country develop its new 
economy and stay connected with the world.
The 450MW project in 
Libya spans across six 
sites, involves multiple 
technologies, and was 
delivered within a very 
tight schedule to meet the 
customer’s requirements.
Strategy in action
www.aprenergy.com/libya-large-scale-fast-track-power Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 33 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Key Performance Indicators
The Directors regularly review these key performance indicators in managing the 
business and measuring the Group’s performance.
Capacity (MW)
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%)
Order book (MW-Months)
Adjusted ROCE (%)
Adjusted EBITDA ($m)
Adjusted Earnings per share ($)
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
2013
2012
2011
2,074
1,311
900
59%
59%
52%
15,730
11,592
6.429
8%
11%
17%
181.2
157.0
110.6
0.60
0.68
0.52
‘Capacity’ represents the aggregate 
megawatt capacity that APR Energy’s power 
generating equipment, including both owned 
and leased equipment, would be capable of 
delivering when operating at 100% of their 
power output. 
The Directors consider committed capacity 
to be an important indicator of APR Energy’s 
revenue generating capability.
Adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted 
EBITDA, as defined, divided by revenue.
The Directors consider Adjusted EBITDA 
margin to be an important indicator because 
it demonstrates the Groups underlying 
operating profitability.
Order book represents contracted future 
orders expressed as megawatt months. 
The Directors consider order book to be an 
important indicator of APR Energy’s secured 
future revenue.
Adjusted return on capital employed 
represents operating profit for the previous 
twelve months adjusted to add back 
amortisation of intangible assets and 
exceptional items dividend by the average of 
the net operating assets at the three balance 
sheet dates (for example, for 31 December 
2013 this comprised 31 December 2013, 
30 June 2013 and 31 December 2012). ‘Net 
operating assets’ is defined as total equity 
adjusted to exclude goodwill, intangible 
assets, borrowings, Founders shares and 
securities, deferred tax assets and liabilities 
and current tax assets and liabilities.
In a capital intensive business such as APR 
Energy, ROCE provides a measure that 
reflects both margin performance and capital 
productivity.
Adjusted EBITDA represents operating 
profit adjusted to add back depreciation of 
property, plant and equipment, equity settled 
share-based payment expense, amortisation 
of intangible assets and exceptional items. 
Exceptional items are those items believed to 
be exceptional in nature by virtue of size and/
or incidence.
The Directors consider Adjusted EBITDA to 
be an important indicator because it provides 
a proxy for free cash generation.
Adjusted earnings per share represents 
adjusted net income divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares. The 
weighted average number of ordinary shares 
used to calculate the 2013 Adjusted EPS was 
80.1m (2012: 78.2m; 2011: 78.2m).
The Directors consider earnings per share 
to be an important indicator as it provides a 
comparable means to measure the returns 
the Group generates for its shareholders. 
The Directors have included these measures because they are used by the Group in managing the business and measuring the Group’s core 
performance. These measures will also be beneficial to potential investors in understanding the Group’s business. However, the figures disclosed 
herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures disclosed by other companies, as non-IFRS measures are not uniformly defined.  34 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Financial Review
  Reported  Reported Adjusted Adjusted
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 $ million   (Audited) (Audited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited)
Revenue   308.3 265.7  308.3 265.7 
Cost of sales   (197.3) (165.0) (197.3) (165.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets   (8.8) (58.0) - - 
Gross profit   102.2 42.7  111.0 100.7 
Selling, general and administrative expenses   (33.2) (33.5) (33.2) (33.5)
Operating profit   69.0 9.2 77.8 67.2 
Acquisition related costs  (14.4) - - -
Founder securities revaluation   (3.3) (10.2) - -
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain   (0.4) 0.4  (0.4) 0.4 
Finance income   0.2 0.3  0.2 0.3 
Finance costs   (23.6) (4.6) (21.6) (4.6)
Profit/(loss) before taxation   27.5 (4.9) 56.0 63.3 
Taxation   (7.7) (10.0) (7.7) (10.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year   19.8 (14.9) 48.3 53.3 
Total comprehensive profit/(loss) for the year  19.8 (14.9) 48.3 53.3 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share  $0.24 ($0.19) $0.60 $0.68
Diluted earnings per share  $0.24 ($0.19) $0.59 $0.68
On 28 October 2013, APR Energy completed the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business. In accordance with IFRS 13 “Fair Value 
Measurement”, the value of the transaction reflected the closing share price at completion of 1,155p per share. As a result, for accounting 
purposes, total consideration was $362 million, reflecting the issuance of 15,453,129 million new Ordinary Shares and $73 million in cash,  
as recognised in the financial statements.
The Group recognised the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to this transaction in accordance with IFRS 3 
Business Combinations. Further details can be found in Note 29 ‘Acquisition of Subsidiaries’.
Adjusted financial results and performance review
T o provide investors with greater clarity on the performance of the Group, adjusted unaudited financial information has been prepared to show 
the results for the Group, excluding certain items: amortisation of intangibles, Founder securities revaluation movements, and GE related 
transaction and integration costs. The adjusted unaudited financial information has been prepared as follows:
        
 Revenue Operating  Profit for 
$ million  profit the year
12 month statutory results to 31 December 2013 308.3 69.0 19.8
Amortisation of intangible assets -  8.8 8.8
Founder securities revaluation -  -  3.3 
Acquisition related costs -  - 14.4
Acquisition related finance costs - - 2.0
12 month adjusted results to 31 December 2013 308.3  77.8 48.3  Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 35 
 Revenue Operating  Profit for 
$ million  profit the year
12 month statutory results to 31 December 2012 265.7 9.2 (14.9)
Amortisation of intangible assets - 58.0 58.0
Founder securities revaluation -  -  10.2
12 month adjusted results to 31 December 2012 265.7  67.2  53.3
Revenues for the year increased 16% to $308.3 million (2012: $265.7 million) driven primarily by new contract wins, contract extensions and 
high utilisation levels on an enlarged fleet, following the commissioning of a number of significant contracts during the year. The timing of these 
projects becoming operational resulted in revenue being heavily skewed to the second half of the year, as expected.
Revenue included $9 million (2012: $nil) from the GE business post acquisition and $14 million arising from the finance lease accounting in 
connection with the planned disposal of assets in Botswana. Excluding these items, revenue increased 7% year on year.
Adjusted operating profit increased 16% to $77.8 million (2012: $67.2 million) reflecting the higher revenue and gross profit offset by 
proportionally lower selling, general and administrative expenses. The depreciation charge as a percentage of revenue remains in line with the 
previous year and reflects capital expenditure on the fleet during the year.
Adjusted net interest expense for the year was $21.4 million (2012: $4.3 million) reflecting drawings made on the enlarged credit facility as part 
of the purchase of fleet capital expenditure, the timing of receipt of receivables and the $150 million term-loan drawn down in May 2013. This 
excludes the cash consideration of $73 million (2012: $nil) for the GE acquisition and fees associated with the additional $100 million term-loan.
The 2013 tax charge on an adjusted basis was $7.7 million (2012: $10.0 million), reflecting an effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax of 
14% (2012: 16%). The reduction in the effective tax rate reflects the Group booking previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK as a result of 
contract wins during the year.
Adjusted profit for the year was $48.3 million (2012: $53.3 million) reflecting the increased adjusted operating profit, offset by the higher 
adjusted net interest expense. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share were $0.60 (2012: $0.68) based on a weighted average number of shares of 81.0 million (2012: 78.2 million 
shares). Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.59 (2012: $0.68) based on a weighted average number of shares of 81.9 million (2012: 
78.2 million shares).
Adjusted EBITDA increased 15% to $181.2 million (2012: $157.0 million), resulting in an adjusted EBITDA margin of 59% (2012: 59%).
As at 31 December 2013, total fleet capacity was 2,074MW, an increase of over 58% compared to 31 December 2012 (1,311MW), reflecting the 
520MW of additional capacity acquired through the GE power rental acquisition and 335MW of gross organic capacity expansion, funded by 
fleet capital expenditure of $294 million (2012: $317 million). 
Fleet capital expenditure of $294 million (2012: $317 million) excluding assets acquired through the GE acquisition, reflects fleet investment 
primarily in mobile gas turbines resulting in gross organic fleet capacity expansion of 335MW to support new projects wins 
As part of the renewal of the 70MW contract in Botswana in late December, APR Energy has agreed to sell its 70MW installed fleet to the 
customer. The transaction has been treated as a finance lease, with the sale recognised in December 2013, and with the legal transfer 
of assets expected to occur post the end of the existing contract in Q4 2014. The sale represents a mutually attractive opportunity for the 
customer to supplement their owned diesel reciprocating power in country, while enabling APR Energy to dispose of legacy equipment. In the 
interim, we continue our strong relationship with the Botswana Power Corporation.   36 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Financial Review
Financing and bank facilities
The Group has commenced discussions with its existing group of relationship banks regarding its refinancing strategy and expects to execute 
this strategy over the coming nine months, in light of the term-loan which matures on 1 January 2015..
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had gross debt of $590 million (excluding capitalised finance costs) (31 December 2012: $205 million) 
and cash of $34 million (31 December 2012: $21 million), resulting in a net debt of $556 million (31 December 2012: $184 million). This net 
debt position partially reflects the timing of the receipt of receivables in respect of the Libyan contracts. Receivables of $100 million have been 
received in respect of the Libyan contract since contract commencement. As previously communicated, Management continues to focus on 
cash management and balance sheet efficiency. The Group’s bad debt position is unchanged and in line with historical low levels representing 
less than 1% of total receivables.
Adjusted Return on Capital Employed
Adjusted Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) is a key performance metric for the business. Given the significant increase in net operating 
assets associated with the growth of the business, adjusted ROCE decreased to 8% (2012: 11%), primarily reflecting the timing of the 
significant asset increase, including the 520MW acquired through the GE acquisition in the fourth quarter.
Currencies
Nearly all operating costs are matched with corresponding revenues of the same currency and as such there is minimal transactional currency 
risk in the Group.
Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to adjusted EBITDA:
  Adjusted Adjusted
$ million 2013 2012
Adjusted operating profit 77.8 67.2
Depreciation 99.0 86.3
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 4.4 3.5
Adjusted EBITDA 181.2 157.0
Statutory financial results and performance review
The statutory results for APR Energy covers the year ended 31 December 2013.
Revenue
Revenue for the year was $308.3 million (2012: $265.7 million), as described above.
Operating profit
Reported operating profit was $69.0 million (2012: $9.2m) reflecting increased revenues and the lower charge arising from the impact of the 
amortisation of intangible assets.
Acquisition related costs
Expenses of $14.4 million (2012: $nil) were recognised in respect of the transaction and integration fees associated with the GE acquisition, 
which completed during the year.
Amortisation of intangible assets
As a result of the GE acquisition, the Group completed a provisional fair value analysis of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired. 
Combined with historic intangibles, this resulted in the recognition of a charge of $8.8 million (2012: $58.0 million). Included within this amount 
for 2013 is a total of $3.2 million (2012: $nil) of amortisation expense related to intangible assets associated with the GE acquisition. 
Bad debt expense
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date 
credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period. There is a concentration of credit risk because there are a limited number of 
customers and as at 31 December 2013 the two individually significant aggregate amounts owed by individual customers were $65 million and 
$15 million (2012: $16 million and $10 million). The risk associated with individual customers is mitigated by the letters of credit we obtain from 
customers on commencement of a contract. Management reviews concentration credit risk on a regular basis and ensures that where the net 
exposure exceeds certain thresholds appropriate actions are taken. This is done on a customer by customer basis and takes account of the 
billing terms, letters of credit and local customs and practices. Bad debt expense was $nil million in the period (2012: net credit of $1.5 million) 
reflecting the Group’s use of letters of credit, contract insurance policies and up front deposits to support receipt of contract revenues. Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 37 
Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of $4.4 million (2012: $3.4 million) was recognised related to equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions. This expense relates to equity grants made under the Company’s Performance Share Plans.
Interest and finance cost
Net interest expense for the year was $23.4 million (2012 $4.3 million), reflecting drawings made on the enlarged credit facility as part of 
the purchase of fleet capital expenditure, the timing of receipt of receivables, the cash consideration of $73 million (2012: $nil) for the GE 
acquisition and fees associated with the enlarged facility.
Taxation
The Group’s reported tax charge for the year was $7.7 million (2012: $10.0 million). The charge primarily comprises withholding taxes of $3.2 
million (2012: $4.8 million) and foreign income taxes in overseas jurisdictions of $4.5 million (2012: $6.7 million). 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share was $0.24 (2012: loss per share of $0.19) based on a weighted average number of shares of 81.0 million (2012: 78.2 
million shares). Diluted earnings per share was $0.24 (2012: loss per share of $0.19) based on a weighted average number of shares of 81.9 
million (2012: 78.2 million shares).
Liquidity and capital resources
Net debt (excluding capitalised finance fees of $10.7 million) as at 31 December 2013 was $556.1 million (2012: $184.0 million). This reflects 
the Group’s continued investment in its fleet and is consistent with the Group strategy. A summary analysis of cash flows is set out in the table 
below.
$ million  2013 2012
Net cash from operating activities 57.8 117.3 
Net cash used in investing activities (410.8) (347.1)
Net cash from financing activities 365.9 187.8 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 12.9 (42.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 21.0 63.0 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 33.9 21.0 
During the period, net cash flow from operating activities totalled $57.8 million (2012: $117.3 million). The reduction reflected investments in 
working capital as a result of the significantly higher activity during the second half and the acquisition of the GE business in October 2013.
Cash flow used in investing activities primarily comprised the increased purchases of property, plant and equipment due to higher levels of 
organic investment in the fleet and increased mobilisation costs arising from projects commencing operations during the year and the $73.1 
million due to the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business. 
Cash from financing activities included a net $385.0 million of debt draw-downs. The cash balance at year end was maintained at a level 
commensurate with the month ahead forecasted cash flows, plus leaving a sufficient amount of cash on hand to cover any eventualities and 
 to minimise borrowing costs.
Acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business
On 28 October 2013, the Group acquired the GE Power Rental Business. The total consideration for the acquisition was $361.5 million payable 
in cash ($73.1 million) on completion and 15,453,129 ordinary shares allotted and issued credited as fully paid up to the sellers. The fair value 
of this share issue was $288.4 million, which was equal to the share price on the closing date of the transaction multiplied by the number of 
shares issued. The GE Power Rental Business contributed $9.2 million revenue and $2.4 million to the Group’s profit for the period between the 
date of acquisition and the 31 December 2013. Further details can be found in Note 29 ‘Acquisition of Subsidiaries’.
Statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had goodwill of $622.6 million (2012: $547.1 million), the increase reflecting goodwill of $75.5 million 
acquired through the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business in October 2013. Further details can be found in Note 29 ‘Acquisition of 
Subsidiaries’.
  38 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 December 2013, the Group held property, plant and equipment of $1,194.3 million (2012: $671.5 million), reflecting significant 
additions of $536.2 million including $242.3 million arising from the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business and $293.9 million from fleet 
capital expenditure. Disposals of $14.4 million (2012: $0.4 million) primarily relate to the expected sale via a finance lease of 70MW of legacy 
diesel reciprocating power modules in Botswana, as part of the December 2013 renewal.
Equity
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s total equity increased 28% to $1,396.6 million (31 December 2012: $1,091.8 million) principally as a 
result of the share capital issuance in respect of the GE acquisition of $286.6 million, and the profit for the year.
Treasury policies and risk management
The Group’s activities give rise to a number of financial risks, particularly market risk comprising foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit 
risk, liquidity risk, and capital risk management.
Market risk
Market risk includes foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk. The Group seeks to manage these risks to acceptable levels by maintaining 
appropriate policies and procedures. In its determination to enter into a contract, the Group will carry out a risk assessment and determine the 
appropriate risk mitigation strategies. Market risk also includes the risk that cash derived from income for services fulfilled under contract terms 
will become restricted and not available for use in the on-going activities of the business. 
Foreign exchange risk
The Group has an exposure to transactional foreign exchange from purchases or sales in currencies other than US dollars. In order to minimise 
exposure to foreign exchange risk, the Group primarily contracts in US dollars or in contracts with a price based on US dollars at the date of 
transaction or payment if possible. In some cases, the Group transacts in local currencies when purchasing materials and supplies for project 
operations. 
In limited circumstances, the Group may use derivative instruments to economically hedge against foreign exchange risk. Any hedges are 
limited in duration and correspond to the applicable contract payments or receipts to which the derivatives are associated. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is primarily exposed to interest rate risk on its borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow 
interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. When applicable, the Group may elect to 
hedge interest rate risk associated with debt or borrowings under the credit facility by purchasing derivative instruments. As at 31 December 
2013 and 2012 there were no interest rate hedges in place.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as exposures to outstanding 
receivables from customers. Due to the nature of the Group’s business in emerging markets, management believes the most significant of 
these to be exposures to outstanding receivables from customers.
T o minimise the risk of a significant impact on the business due to a customer defaulting on its commitments, the Group closely monitors trade 
receivables. In addition, the Group utilises letters of credit, contract insurance policies and up front deposits to mitigate this risk.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk results from insufficient funding being available to meet the Group’s funding requirements as they arise. The Group manages 
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves of cash and available committed facilities to meet the Group’s short and long-term funding 
requirements. The Group monitors the short-term forecast and actual cash flows on a daily basis and medium- and long-term requirements in 
line with the Group’s long-term planning processes. 
Financing and bank facilities
In 2013, the Group extended its committed, secured credit facility by $250 million to $650 million comprising a $400 million revolving credit 
facility and a $250 million term-loan. The facility, with an expanded group of international banks, provides significant liquidity to allow the Group 
to continue to grow its fleet, expand its global network and respond quickly to opportunities in the market. The $250 million term-loan is due for 
repayment on 1 January 2015. 
The Group has commenced discussions with its group of existing relationship banks regarding its refinancing strategy and expects to execute 
this strategy over the coming nine months.
Financial Review Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 39 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Going concern
The Group has committed, secured credit facilities of $650 million comprising a $400 million revolving credit facility and a $250 million term-
loan. The $250 million term-loan is due on 1 January 2015, within the timeframe of the going concern review. The Group is currently forecasting 
to meet the repayment of the term-loan and, while the Group expects to refinance the $250 million term-loan, the Group’s forecast cash flow 
headroom is sufficient to allow repayment of the loan on the maturity date.
In order to ensure it remains within the terms of this facility (including covenant requirements), the Group regularly produces cash flow 
statements, and forecasts and sensitivities are run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes to contract start dates, pricing 
and expected contract duration. In the event of unexpected adverse changes to the Group’s cash flows, the Directors are confident that 
the Group could manage its financial affairs, portfolio management and deferring of non-essential capital expenditure, so as to ensure that 
sufficient funding remains available for the next twelve months.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in assumptions, 
show that the Group will be able to operate within the terms of its financing and bank facilities for the foreseeable future, being twelve months 
from the date of this report.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report 
and consolidated financial statements.
Dividends proposed
At the upcoming Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2014, the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve 
payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.7 pence per share (2012: 6.7 pence per share). With the interim dividend 
of 3.3p (2012: 3.3p) this results in a full year dividend of 10.0p (2012: 10.0p). Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 20 May 2014 the final dividend will be payable on 3 June 2014 to shareholders on the register as at 4 April 2014. 
The Board will continue to maintain a regular review of its dividend policy and reiterates its intention to pay an annual dividend.
Andrew Martinez
Chief Financial Officer
25 March 2014 40 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Corporate responsibility
At APR Energy, we firmly believe that acting 
responsibly makes good business sense. It 
helps drive our interactions with employees, 
customers, suppliers, and our communities. 
It is a fundamental part of who we are and 
how we operate. Demonstrating our core 
values, each and every day we build lasting 
relationships with our customers and deliver 
safe and consistent operations. This will 
support our vision to be the leader in our 
chosen market.
Having a strong set of corporate 
responsibility (CR) policies and practices 
is critical. We have a growing and 
geographically diverse employee base. We 
do business in many countries around the 
world, each with differing cultures, practices, 
and regulations.
Given the nature of our fast-track power 
projects, we may deploy our power solutions 
to remote, inhospitable environments, 
sometimes following the wake of a natural 
disaster. We use equipment which, if 
improperly handled, could be potentially 
harmful to people and to the surrounding 
communities and environment.
T o ensure that APR Energy operates in a 
safe, ethical, and responsible manner, we 
have adopted a number of policies designed 
to ensure the health, safety, and well-being 
of our employees, our customers, and 
the communities in which we operate. We 
have developed a comprehensive range of 
operating procedures and processes to help 
minimise the risks inherent in our industry. 
We work collaboratively with our vendors 
and suppliers to help ensure alignment 
with, and adherence to, our CR goals and 
objectives.
People
Our people are our most valuable resource. 
With a workforce that spans the globe, our 
objective is to create a positive workplace 
and culture where people feel valued, enjoy 
the challenge of exciting and rewarding 
work, and can grow in their careers. 
APR Energy is proud of its skilled and 
experienced workforce. We aim to be 
an employer that attracts and retains 
high-performing people whose diversity 
is representative of all the regions in 
which we operate. With our global reach, 
recruiting and developing the best people 
are essential components to our growth 
aspirations and we continue to invest in 
ensuring that our employees are able to 
work to the best of their abilities.
We provide our people the training and 
development they need to be successful. 
Training programmes are tailored to 
the employee’s role, environment, and/
or functional area, and cover a broad 
number of subject areas, including skills 
development, processes and tools, 
environment, ethics and compliance, health 
and safety – to name just a few. APR Energy 
also supports employee growth as part of 
development planning. 
APR Energy strives to ensure that our 
employee policies and procedures reflect 
best practices and are implemented and 
followed by all our employees across the 
regions in which we operate. Our policies 
and procedures cover a broad range of 
areas, including health and safety, travel, 
gifts and entertainment, and anti-corruption. 
APR Energy has adopted a zero tolerance 
policy with regard to any compliance policy 
violations.
We expect our employees to act 
appropriately and ethically in everything they 
do. Guidelines are set out in APR Energy’s 
Code of Conduct, which all employees are 
required to read and sign as a pre-condition 
of employment.
We have a growing and geographically 
diverse employee base. We do business in 
many countries around the world, each with 
differing cultures, practices, and regulations. 
We believe our diversity is an essential 
part of how we do business and meet the 
needs of our equally diverse customer 
base. We do not tolerate any form of 
discrimination and aim to reflect the diversity 
of the communities in which we operate. 
We are committed to treating people 
fairly and ensuring that our employment 
policies are free from any form of unlawful 
discrimination against any employee on 
the grounds of sex, gender reassignment, 
sexual orientation, pregnancy, race, colour, 
nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion 
or belief, age, or disability.
Transforming the future 
for our people, our 
customers and our 
communities. Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 41 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
APR Energy core values
We proactively encourage communications 
between our employees across the 
globe and work to ensure all employees 
understand the values, goals, and strategies 
that are important to our business.
Through our internal company newsletter, 
we regularly share successes and best 
practices across our global operations, 
giving employees in each region visibility into 
what others are doing. Additionally, we strive 
to ensure information is shared between field 
operations and headquarters.
Our Promises to our Employees:
l We provide a positive workplace that 
fosters teamwork, supports career 
growth, and celebrates achievements and 
success
l We provide ongoing training and 
development that creates a bench of 
talent to meet our growth strategies 
l We attract top tier talent and we reward 
and recognise high performance to 
improve our competitive position
l We embrace diversity across all the 
regions in which we operate, and prohibit 
discrimination on the grounds of race, 
religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, 
nationality, or ethnic origin
l We provide our employees with clear 
direction, tools, systems, and the 
processes they need to provide superior 
products and services to our customers
As stated, our people are our most valuable 
resource. As such, we openly encourage 
and welcome employee feedback, and 
do so through a number of initiatives. This 
feedback is solicited regularly, and we take 
every measure to capture and follow-up 
on any inputs and concerns received. The 
following are examples of ways we engage 
with employees to receive and address 
feedback:
l We conduct quarterly T own Hall meetings 
with all employees to discuss Company 
strategy and plans and new initiatives to 
provide focus across the organisation to 
our plans and recognise achievements 
of individuals who have made significant 
At APR Energy, we take our values seriously. For us, they are more than a belief system – 
they are the heart of our Company. They serve as the foundation upon which we work and 
interact with our co-workers, partners, customers, and communities.
Integrity
Our relationships are built on a foundation of trust, honesty, dependability, and transparency. 
We stay true to our word, and deliver what we commit. We follow the highest ethical and 
moral standards and take responsibility for our actions.
Speed
Speed is the essence of our business. We deliver with pace, ensuring a level of 
responsiveness to our customers, stakeholders, and teammates that meets or exceeds 
expectations. We break through barriers and bureaucracy to meet our goal of delivering on 
time, every time.
Entrepreneurial spirit
We foster a kindred entrepreneurial spirit that values passion, innovation, and calculated 
risk-taking. We embrace change as a necessary part of driving growth, and approach each 
challenge with creativity, courage, collaboration, and a ‘can-do’ attitude.
Mutual respect
We care for our people, communities, and customers, and conduct all dealings in a 
manner that reflects fairness and diversity. We behave in a professional, courteous manner 
and show respect for the individual at all times.
Teamwork
We enjoy a collaborative and collegiate work environment that fosters open 
communication, learning, and the sharing of information and ideas. We promote close 
cooperation across business functions and strive to be a flexible and customer-centric 
business partner.
Stewardship
We value the health, safety, and well-being of our people and the communities in which 
we work, and act as a steward to the environment. We carefully manage our resources 
while minimising waste, and actively partner in the progress of our communities through 
community development. 42 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Corporate responsibility
contributions to the Company.
l The APR Energy Open Door Policy 
helps ensure that employees can feel 
comfortable in sharing concerns and 
issues openly with their management. 
Employees can take comfort in knowing 
that no one at APR Energy may, in any 
manner, retaliate against any employee for 
utilising APR Energy’s Open Door Policy 
to raise issues or concerns.
l Additionally, APR Energy has a HR/
Compliance hotline that can be called 
anonymously and, in any event, would 
not allow for retaliation by one who was 
referenced on that hotline.
l Through the President’s Council, APR 
Energy employees representing a 
cross-section of our business, including 
Operations, Business Development, 
Finance, IT , Marketing, HR, and 
Administration, are able to have open 
and candid dialogue directly with senior 
management on issues most important to 
them and the business.
l The President’s Council provides an 
opportunity for any of our employees 
to bring ideas, voice concerns, and 
discuss how we can continue to grow a 
successful business. Ideas are captured 
and shared within the organisation, with 
action items noted and tracked by senior 
management.
Corporate Ethics
We operate in a wide range of countries 
around the world and it is APR Energy 
policy to always conduct our activities 
in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations. We always work in a safe, 
ethical, and professional manner across all 
our operations and to the highest standards 
of corporate governance, in many cases 
setting standards well above that required 
by local law.
Business ethics and compliance, particularly 
in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption, 
are increasingly important to regulators, 
customers and stakeholders who need the 
assurance of knowing they can trust us to do 
the right thing. Complying with the law in this 
important area, as well as maintaining our 
good reputation is, therefore, essential for 
our continued success.
APR Energy has a reputation for integrity and 
honesty in all our business dealings, a factor 
that contributes positively to our long-term 
relationships with customers and suppliers. 
All APR employees, as well as consultants, 
suppliers, and agents with whom we work, 
are required to behave ethically, and our 
expectations of them are set forth in our 
Corporate Ethics Policy which applies to all 
Group employees.
The principal objectives of our ethics policy 
are:
l Make APR Energy a good company for 
which to work 
l Maintain our reputation for exceptional 
customer service and ethical business 
dealings
l Enable APR Energy to compete to the 
highest standards in an ethical manner
l Ensure the business is managed with the 
highest standards
The Board, its Committees, the Chief 
Executive Officer and its Chief Compliance 
Officer play key roles together with 
management in promoting and monitoring 
ethical behaviour and safeguarding our 
reputation. Compliance training is provided 
to all employees in order to support their 
understanding of, and commitment to 
comply with the law and to protect and 
enhance the Company’s reputation. 
The training educates managers in their 
responsibilities for employees, commercial 
contracts and company assets and is 
delivered globally.
APR Energy has an Anti-Bribery Policy which 
applies to all Group entities worldwide, and 
to all directors, employees, workers, agents 
or any other persons acting for, or on behalf 
of, the Group and which includes a clear 
statement of commitment to anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption practices. We have has also 
raised awareness and extended anti-bribery 
training, including the need for due diligence 
when entering into third party arrangements 
and monitoring at a senior level.
APR Energy’s Ethics Committee is 
responsible for, among other things, making 
recommendations to the Board to establish 
a culture of integrity and honesty in all of the 
Group’s business dealings. 
Additionally, APR Energy operates a 
published Share Dealing Code, which 
explains to directors, employees, and 
certain contractors their obligations with 
respect to buying and selling the Company’s 
securities in order to ensure compliance with 
relevant laws and to protect the interests 
of the Company and includes the dates of 
the Company’s close periods on trading 
in its shares. The Ethics Committee, in 
conjunction with our General Counsel & 
Chief Compliance Officer, has developed 
vendor, agent and customer certifications, 
sign-offs, agreements, checklists, and other 
forms of due diligence in connection with 
engaging our third party providers. 
Those materials are located in one central 
electronic repository, available to all APR 
Energy employees who require access to 
them anywhere in the world.
Human Rights
The Group operates in accordance with 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and take account of other internationally 
accepted human rights standards. We 
also promote human rights through our 
employment policies and practices, 
through our supply chain and through 
the responsible use of our products and 
services. APR Energy is confident of the 
human rights performance of its own 
operations but recognises that business 
practices in the supply chain are not always 
transparent and represent a risk that we aim 
to manage. Every effort is made to ensure 
that the issues are managed effectively.
Environment
APR Energy is dedicated to minimising our 
environmental impact throughout all business 
activities it undertakes around the globe. We 
seek to incorporate the latest technologies 
in order to lower emissions and noise levels, 
while increasing fuel efficiencies. APR Energy 
offers generating equipment capable of 
producing one of the highest fuel efficiency 
levels within our industry, significantly cutting 
total cost for our customers while providing 
reduced carbon emissions.
Emissions
APR Energy’s equipment is designed 
to function in all types of terrain, and 
by careful design and use of the most 
suitable technology, we aim to minimise the 
environmental impact of that equipment. All 
our equipment is designed to comply with 
applicable laws, regulations, and industry 
standards wherever we operate in the world. 
Our generating equipment is controlled by 
state-of-the-art Programmable Logic Control 
(PLC) Systems, which are automated to 
increase flexibility and decrease emission 
levels. APR uses the international recognised 
air emissions modelling software ‘AERMOD’ 
to identify air emissions patterns for the 
project site. This modelling allows APR to 
choose equipment that best matches the 
use and environment.
When it comes to power generation, fuel 
represents one of the highest operating 
costs, which is why APR Energy has placed 
a heavy focus on fuel efficiency. With its 
technologically advanced fleet, APR Energy 
is uniquely positioned to utilise the most fuel-
efficient equipment available in the fast-track 
power market today, thereby helping our 
customers to reduce the overall total cost of  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 43 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
their power project. As the price and volatility 
of fuel continues to rise, so will the need for 
more fuel-efficient solutions. T o meet this 
demand, we continue to invest in leading-
edge technology and innovative engineering 
that help customers operate more profitably 
and efficiently, without sacrificing on 
emissions control. 
Our fleet of diesel and gas power modules 
and gas turbines combine advanced 
engine technology with our own proprietary 
processes and modifications to provide 
customers with cleaner and more fuel-
efficient solutions. 
As fuel efficiency rates can vary depending 
on factors like temperature, altitude, and 
fuel quality, APR Energy’s engineering and 
plant operations teams conduct ongoing 
reviews of our operations and perform fuel 
efficiency calculations. By taking readings 
of fuel burned throughout a 24-hour period 
and then comparing those numbers to the 
amount of energy produced, we are able to 
provide an accurate forecast of fuel savings 
throughout the life of a project and make 
necessary adjustments to further boost the 
efficiency of our equipment.
At APR Energy, we continuously strive 
to find new ways to lower our emissions 
footprint. Given the young age of our fleet 
and its flexibility in terms of technology and 
fuel-type, we are able to provide some of the 
cleanest solutions available in the fast-track 
power market today. All of our equipment 
is designed to perform in accordance 
with various internationally recognised 
standards, including The World Bank. We 
apply advanced mitigation techniques 
and can meet more stringent emissions 
levels where required for local markets. 
Our generating equipment is controlled 
by state-of-the-art electronic engine and 
generator management systems, which 
greatly contributed to the mitigation of 
emissions levels. This means no matter 
where our clients need us, we can deliver 
optimised emissions solutions tailored for 
each application.
Our turbine technology provides a number 
of ways in which it can lower emissions, 
including water injection, which can increase 
power output, improve fuel efficiency and 
decrease nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions.  
Gas turbines also use fewer consumables 
than other technologies.
A key part of our strategy towards 
emissions control is our focus on natural 
gas. APR Energy enables customers to 
take advantage of this cleaner, readily 
available fuel source through our mobile 
gas turbines, as well as through our 
next-generation natural gas reciprocating 
power modules. These technologies offer 
customers a cleaner, more cost-effective, 
and lower impact alternative to diesel-fuelled 
generators. 
Natural gas is one of the cleanest of all 
non-renewable energy sources. Its use 
in place of the other fossil fuel types will 
emit fewer harmful pollutants. Natural gas 
is considered an environmentally-friendly 
clean fuel, offering important environmental 
benefits when compared with other fossil 
fuels, including significantly lower levels of 
NOx, carbon dioxide (CO
2
), and virtually no 
sulphur oxides (SOx). The near non-existent 
SOx emission rates means it is not a major 
contributor towards the cause of acid rain.
For those customers requiring a diesel 
solution, our dual-fuel mobile turbines and 
diesel power modules provide market 
leading low emissions. For example, 
the average diesel truck produces more 
emissions (in the form of NOx and 
particulate matter) than one of our diesel 
power modules. 
Our focus is to deliver power solutions. We 
achieve this by providing our customers with 
the applications and technologies that best 
meet their requirements and preferences 
with regards to fuel type, fuel efficiency, and 
emissions. We work with our partners (GE 
and Caterpillar) to improve fuel efficiency 
technology and equipment for application. 
Also, by investing in alternative fuels such as 
gas and fuel-efficient engines, we can seek 
to mitigate the impact of emissions arising 
from our growing business.
Almost all of the Group’s ‘related’ emissions 
arise from those produced by the fleet. There 
are three main factors driving APR Energy’s 
total annual greenhouse gas (“GHG”) 
emissions, which include the fuel type our 
customers choose to use, the fleet mix and 
usage pattern, and the fuel efficiency of the 
equipment we use. As the decision of fuel 
choice and fleet usage remains with the 
client, it is only the last of these factors that 
is within APR Energy’s control. 
As a growing business, we expect the 
absolute amount of GHG emissions will 
increase as fleet capacity and utilisation 
increases. In addition, there is another trade-
off to be considered – lower NOx emissions 
come at the cost of higher fuel consumption. 
Therefore, our customers’ focus on fuel 
efficiency could result in higher emissions.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013, our Greenhouse Gas  44 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
emissions for the period 1 January to 31 
December 2013 are reported in the Directors 
Report on page 73.
Noise
Through the use of custom-built acoustic 
enclosures, as well as high-performance 
isolation and attenuation systems, APR 
Energy actively seeks to minimise the noise 
levels associated with our power plants. 
When our equipment is located in or near 
a local population, we have a system of 
regular noise monitoring and community 
coordination to help ensure that we are in 
compliance with all noise regulations and 
are not negatively affecting the surrounding 
quality of life.
Our reciprocating power modules typically 
operate at decibel levels between 72 and 
76 dB(A) at a standard distance of 15 
metres under normal operation and ambient 
conditions. APR Energy provides a standard 
noise solution package, which minimises 
external noise by the installation of sound 
attenuating louvers and insulation as well 
as providing top-quality internal mufflers if 
necessary. APR’s engineering staff is trained 
in noise mitigation and has the capability 
to decrease standard noise levels to meet 
critical noise specifications.
Waste
The APR Energy engineering team has 
placed a major focus on designing our 
power plants to minimise waste during 
the installation phase. We accomplish this 
through the use of more reusable and 
durable materials, as well as by pre-cutting 
and fabricating as many items in advance as 
possible. These efforts decrease the amount 
of materials that we have to dispose of at the 
end of the project.
APR Energy actively promotes recycling 
within its processes, facilities and 
operations, and implements a Waste 
Management Policy to focus on the recycling 
of all wastes. As an example, each APR 
plant recycles the oil that it produces every 
month.  
Health and Safety
APR Energy is committed to high standards 
of occupational health and safety to protect 
its employees, contractors, customers, 
suppliers, and visitors. The health and 
well-being of those who work in and around 
each power project site is of the utmost 
importance to us. We not only ensure that 
basic requirements are met, but aim to go 
above and beyond those requirements to 
provide employees with the most optimal 
work environment possible. As a result 
of these efforts, we are pleased to again 
report that we had no employee on-the-job 
fatalities in 2013.
A well-structured Health and Safety 
programme is key to our business success, 
and serves as a prescribed requirement of 
the APR Energy EHS policy. The programme 
is led by a dedicated team of EHS leaders 
and specialists located throughout our 
on-site operations worldwide. Our EHS 
programme is in accordance with leading 
international standards, including the US 
Occupational (OSHA) guidelines and the UK 
Health and Safety at Work Act 1974.  
We implement and enforce this  
programme throughout our global 
operations. The standards we follow serve to 
ensure that our facilities provide the highest 
level of protection for our employees and 
sub-contractors. Also, we use the latest 
technologies in equipment and tools that 
are control checked to the highest safety 
standards.
The APR Energy EHS director, together 
with engineering and other area subject 
matter experts, maintains APR Energy’s 
EHS policy and reviews procedures and 
risk management standards on a yearly 
basis to identify opportunities for further 
improvement.
We keep our health and safety initiative 
up-to-date by requiring regular safety 
training and certification for the day-to-day 
operations of each of our power plants 
worldwide. Moreover, each APR Energy 
power plant is inspected regularly by both 
internal and independent safety committees 
to ensure that every facility is operating 
in compliance with the latest industry 
standards.
During 2013, APR Energy updated its crisis 
management plan and procedures together 
with the support of one of the world’s leading 
crisis management consultants. The process 
included training across the Company, as 
well as plant emergency response practical 
exercises with the APR crisis management 
team and key areas of the business. 
Security
Demand for power can often be the result of 
event-driven forces or emergencies, whether 
caused by human events or forces of nature.  
Consequently, the environment in which APR 
Energy operates can often contain a number 
of social, political, and environmental risks 
which present operational challenges. 
APR Energy is committed to creating 
a secure working environment for all 
Corporate responsibility Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 45 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Y emen girls’ schools
APR Energy is proud to have sponsored a community project in Yemen to provide resources 
and assistance to two local schools within the Aden community. Done in cooperation with 
our local partner, Griffin Group, the project provided the schools with educational resources 
that included computers, sewing machines, copiers, and school supplies, as well as air 
conditioning units, kitchen materials, lockers, tables and chairs. These contributions will help 
to support the development of valuable life skills through the incorporation of technology 
into the daily curriculum, and will contribute towards a higher quality of life for the students, 
teachers, and families.
Y outh athletics 
During the year, APR Energy contributed to a number of initiatives supporting young people 
in our communities, including renovating a playground at a local school near our site at Punta 
del Tigre, Uruguay, supporting youth football in Morro Bento, Angola, and providing new 
uniforms for youth football in Nias, Indonesia.
Philippines relief
APR Energy and its employees made a significant donation to a disaster relief fund in support 
of victims of T yphoon Haiyan, which caused significant destruction in the Philippines. Over a 
two-week period, APR Energy and its employees combined to donate over $124,000 to relief 
efforts. APR Energy’s donation helped to provide consistent treatment to more than 40,000 
people who were impacted. 
United States local initiatives
In 2013, APR Energy employees at the Jacksonville corporate office contributed significant 
time and money to local community causes. This includes volunteering, donations, and 
collecting non-perishable food for the Second Harvest Food Bank, providing meals for local 
underprivileged families. 
Employees, friends and relatives of APR Energy joined together as “T eam APR Energy” for 
the 2013 Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) Walk to Cure Diabetes, raising 
over $7,800. APR Energy employees also volunteered significant time in support of the local 
Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, including participation in the annual Light the Night Walk, 
which helps bring awareness to the cause.
personnel, while also ensuring the security 
of our physical assets. During 2013, we 
strengthened our security posture with the 
introduction of a Group Security Director, 
as well as a Regional Security Manager in 
our highest risk region. We also introduced 
security standards setting out mandatory 
principles and procedures for all our 
locations.
We maintain practices, policies, and 
procedures to mitigate risk of potential 
incidents. This includes contracting 
protection services from global security 
providers where warranted, as well 
as providing traveller assistance and 
establishing traveller protocols. We monitor 
security intelligence on a real time basis 
and ensure that appropriate risk mitigation 
measures are in place pursuant to the 
corresponding risk climate.
We have robust systems for assessing and 
monitoring security in all countries of interest 
to APR Energy, with systematic security 
analysis now an integral component of risk 
management for both existing operations 
and new markets.
Community Development 
APR Energy is dedicated to the development 
and well-being of the local communities in 
which we operate, and we strive to build 
close relationships with the people whom we 
serve and work amongst. APR Energy not 
only helps our communities by hiring from 
the local workforce and providing valuable 
skills training, but also looks to contribute in 
ways that help local communities improve 
their overall quality of life. 
Through our Community Development 
Programme, we regularly identify service 
projects with the needs of our neighbouring 
communities in mind, and actively 
encourage staff and customer involvement. 
The projects are primarily focused on 
improving infrastructure, health, and 
education, and usually take place in the 
neighbourhoods near our power plant sites. 
In 2013, we completed a number of 
community and charitable initiatives. We 
are honoured to have the opportunity to 
create these partnerships and implement 
projects that benefit local members of the 
community, our customers, and global APR 
Energy personnel. We expect to undertake 
further projects in 2014, across many of the 
communities in which we operate. 46 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 46 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
A key responsibility of the Board and 
the Management Team is the effective 
identification and management of risks 
facing the business now and in the future. 
Managing risk effectively is a key element of 
achieving the Group’s strategic objectives 
and maintaining high-quality services to 
customers.
The Group’s risk management approach is 
designed to support the successful running 
of the business and provide assurance 
to the Board by identifying and managing 
risks to an acceptable level. Proactive 
assessment of risks across strategies, 
markets, operations, and finance – and the 
establishment of mitigating actions – are 
recognised as critical to the successful 
delivery of APR Energy’s objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
establishing the risk appetite of the Group, 
for identifying risks, and for ensuring that 
risk mitigation processes are in place and 
that they are being managed effectively. 
The Board has delegated this responsibility 
for monitoring the risk management system 
to the Audit Committee, including the 
review of annual risk assessments and the 
effectiveness of systems and processes of 
internal control. 
Management is responsible for the 
diligent execution of risk management 
processes, including the maintenance 
of active risk registers, and the system 
of internal controls. In order to help fulfill 
this responsibility, management operates 
a Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) 
comprising the Group’s Management 
Team. The RMC assists the Chief Executive 
Officer, Audit Committee and the Board 
in providing information on the key 
elements of the Group’s risks and provides 
guidance to Group leadership on the risk 
management framework.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that 
the Group’s risks are properly identified, 
monitored, and managed. The RMC 
provides oversight and guidance. The 
duties of the RMC include the following:
l Reviewing the major risks to the Group, 
such as strategic, operational, financial, 
Risk management
Risk management 
is an integral part of 
our business and is 
fundamental to how we 
create value and deliver 
sustainable returns to 
shareholders.
market and reputational risk, as well as 
the guidelines, policies, and processes 
for monitoring and mitigating such risks
l Maintaining and reviewing regularly the 
Group’s risk register
l Discussing with Management the 
Group’s risk assessment process, 
management’s plan to mitigate or 
control the identified risks, and proper 
disclosure of the risks to the Board and 
its committees
l Monitoring the identified risks and 
reviewing with Management the amount 
of overall risk that the Group is willing to 
accept or retain
l Reviewing the scope and adequacy of 
the Group’s insurance and providing a 
route to escalate the financial impact 
of any risks identified that exceed 
established acceptable thresholds
A key element of the Group’s risk 
management framework is the Group’s 
risk register. This is compiled by the 
RMC based on input from all parts of 
the business, together with a top-down 
review undertaken by the RMC, prior to the 
Board’s regular review. It forms the basis 
of the mitigation strategies identified for 
all key risks. The risk register supports the 
identification and mitigation of the principal 
risks and uncertainties outlined on pages 
48 to 51.
Through the RMC, the Group continues 
to enhance its focus on the identification 
of risk and its mitigation, including 
strengthening internal controls and 
improving the reporting of risk related 
management information, to ensure that the 
management of risk is fully embedded in 
the strategic and operational processes of 
the Group. 
The Group recognises that it operates 
in some challenging parts of the world 
and takes the security and welfare of its 
people and assets very seriously. The 
Group continues to review its security 
arrangements, including assessing security 
risk in all high-risk territories before entering 
into specific contracts. During the year, the  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 47 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 47 
Group recruited experienced senior security 
experts, including a Global Director of 
Security, to oversee all aspects of securing 
our people, property and security vendors 
throughout the world.
Internal Controls
The Board of Directors acknowledges 
its responsibility for the oversight of the 
Group’s system of internal controls and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. The Group’s 
system of internal controls is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risk. It 
provides reasonable, but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
To assist in its execution of these 
responsibilities, the Group has recently 
established an Internal Audit function, 
responsible for the independent review of 
the Group’s risk management and control 
environment. Its objective is to provide 
reliable, valued and timely assurance to the 
Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, 
the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior 
Management Team as to the effectiveness 
of controls in mitigating current and 
evolving risks and in so doing enhancing 
the controls environment within the Group.
In particular, Internal Audit will assist the 
Senior Management Team by performing 
independent appraisals of the effectiveness 
of the internal control environment and 
making recommendations for improvement, 
and support the Group’s business 
management system. The Audit Committee 
will review and approve Internal Audit’s 
programme and resources, review and 
discuss major findings of audit reviews, 
together with management responses, and 
evaluate the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function.
Further details on the Board and its 
Committees can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 58 to 67.
Risk Factors
APR Energy’s performance and prospects 
may be affected by a number of risks and 
uncertainties that relate to the industry and 
the environments in which it undertakes its 
operations around the world. The Group is 
aware of and sensitive to the issue of risk, 
and has systems and procedures in place 
across the Group to identify, assess and 
mitigate major business risk.
The Group undertakes a formal review of 
risks, at least annually, which could impact 
its area of business. Identified risks are 
formally reviewed on a regular basis and 
recorded in an active risks register, with 
mitigating actions. The Group continues 
to develop its risk management systems 
and processes to help to ensure that its 
responses remain appropriate to the range 
of risks that the Group faces.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The following factors and other information 
contained in this Annual Report should 
be considered carefully. The following is 
a description of the risks that may affect 
some or all of the Group’s activities and 
which may affect the value of an investment 
in the Company’s securities. If any of 
the events described below occurs, the 
business, financial condition or results of 
operations of the Group could be affected 
adversely in a material way.
Additional risks and uncertainties that the 
Group is unaware of, or that it currently 
deems immaterial, may also in the future 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, results of operations and 
financial condition.
Effective risk management
The effective identification and 
management of risk is critical to APR 
Energy’s success and the following 
systematic approach is applied across 
the Group:
l Identifying key risks: The Group 
applies the same methodology to 
identifying risk at all levels across the 
Group. Key and emerging risks are 
reviewed on a regular and ongoing 
basis
l Analysing risks and controls: Risks 
are evaluated to assess financial and 
non-financial impacts, the likelihood of 
occurrence and the potential impact. 
This results in a prioritised register 
of risks, against which management 
will review the nature, adequacy and 
appropriateness of current controls to 
mitigate these risks 
l Determining management actions: 
If new, different or additional actions 
are identified, these are analysed and 
appropriate responsibilities to execute 
them are assigned
l Reporting and monitoring: 
Management is responsible for 
monitoring the effectiveness of 
controls and progress of actions 
taken to mitigate key risks; this will 
be assessed through the Group’s 
recently established internal audit 
programme.  48 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 48 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Principal risks and uncertainties
Strategic
Market
The Group’s strategy is primarily based on 
organic growth via the deployment of capital 
into new temporary power projects that are value 
accretive. This organic growth is dependent 
on the Group’s ability to effectively secure new 
projects and to scale the infrastructure of the 
business to support execution.
The Group operates in an industry where the 
majority of contracts are short-term (typically 
12 -18 months) and there are no assurances 
that any particular customer will renew or extend 
a contract.
Given the scale of the Group’s, albeit growing, 
customer base, the loss of any single major 
customer, and/or high concentration of assets 
could have an adverse impact on the results of 
its operations.
The global footprint of the Group’s business 
exposes it to risks of change in economic condi-
tions and political regimes.
Customer demand inherently fluctuates and, in 
many cases it is driven by external events that 
are difficult to predict.
While barriers to entry in the temporary power 
space remain high, there is the potential for new 
or expanding entrants to compete with the Group.
The inability to deploy successfully capital into 
new projects and maintain its growing fleet could 
have a material adverse effect on the financial 
results of the Group.
Assets may be idle for a period of time before they 
are redeployed in a revenue generating capacity.
Any such loss of a major customer contract 
could materially impact revenues and associ-
ated profitability.
Declines in economic activity, slowing of growth 
rates and customer access to funding could 
impact the growth strategies of the business. 
Additionally, changes in political regimes pose 
potential risk to existing contracts and/or the 
timing of potential new contract opportunities.
Fluctuating demand can create volatility in trading 
results. Higher margin event (emergency) driven 
contracts may not be sustainable on a consistent 
basis.
New entrants may create pricing pressure in the 
market and lead to reduced margins.
Failure to deliver the 
growth plan envisaged as 
part of the recent capital 
injections
Volatility in customer 
demand, including event 
driven demand
Increase in competitive 
environment
Contracts are temporary 
in nature
Asset concentration
Global political 
and economic conditions
     
 KEY RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 
Risk management Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 49 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 49 
The following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The 
following is a description of the risks that may affect some or all of the Group’s activities and which may affect the 
value of an investment in the Company’s securities. If any of the events described below occurs, the business, financial 
condition or results of operations of the Group could be adversely affected in a material way.
Additional risks and uncertainties that the Group is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also in the 
future have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
- A detailed annual operating plan has been established, approved by the Board, and is monitored monthly.
- A longer range (3-5 year) plan has been put in place and is updated annually to incorporate market changes.
- Regional business development organisation fully deployed and operational. Pace of capital expenditures is 
aligned with the commercial pipeline.
- The Group’s commercial team takes a dual approach, which involves pursuing contract extensions with existing 
customers whilst also pre-marketing assets that may soon become available.
- A commercial pipeline process tracks new contract opportunities from opportunity identification through to final 
contract signature.
- Asset utilisation models are used to manage fleet assets.
- The Group is pursuing a strategy of geographic and market diversification as demonstrated via our hub strategy, 
with a focus on continued expansion of its customer base in order to lessen the impact of any single customer 
loss. The placing of assets across multiple sites, helps to mitigate the impact pertaining to any given location.
- Commercial opportunities are segmented across regions, customer segments and technology to align with 
strategic growth objectives.
- The Group maintains a regular dialogue with major customers at a senior level to help understand and anticipate 
their future plans.
- The acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business increased the scale and diversification of APR Energy’s business.
- The Group is pursuing a strategy of geographic and market diversification with a focus on continuing to expand 
its customer base in order to lessen the impact of economic cycles and/or political changes.
- A commercial pipeline process has been established to track new contract opportunities and includes risk 
management elements.
- APR recognises that some of the countries in which it operates have experienced political, social, economic and 
security instability. The Group is proactive about mitigating all or a portion of its international currency and asset expo-
sures through various risk mitigation tools, including the use or purchasing of insurance, bonds, guarantees, and cash 
advances to protect its assets, both financial and operational.
- By developing a global expanded customer base, the impact of any single event can be mitigated.
- A regional hub strategy has been implemented to help ensure that equipment is available nearby to customers 
and that it is able to be utilised in the event that a short-term market opportunity arises.
- The Group’s commercial team regularly monitors competitive activity and publicly available pricing dynamics to 
help understand changes in the market.
- The Group focuses on maintaining a world-class competitive offering using best-in-class technology to provide 
a responsive customer service and pricing which is aligned with our overall value proposition.
     
 KEY RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION  50 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 50 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Group’s operations are highly capital inten-
sive and, in many cases, projects require the 
placement of high-value equipment into volatile 
environments.
The Group’s operations are highly decentralised 
and in many cases the Group operates in regions 
of the world where corruption and bribery are 
commonplace.
The Group depends on the recruitment and 
retention of key senior management in order to 
effectively manage the business.
The Group’s operations involve the movement, 
installation, and operation of large electrical 
equipment, which often operates at high voltage. 
In addition, the handling of fuel, oil and other 
hazardous materials is a common part of the 
day to-day activity.
The business model is dependent on the procure-
ment of capital equipment, services, labour and 
other cost inputs to operate temporary power 
plants around the world.
The Group has a number of contracts with 
customers in developing countries where 
payment practices can be lengthy and unpre-
dictable.
The business model is dependent on external 
funding for the procurement of capital equipment, 
services, labour, and other costs to operate the 
business.
The potential exists for nationalisation, expropri-
ation and/or theft of high-value assets. 
This may expose the Group to unethical behav-
iour and potential legal/regulatory violations that 
could have a significant financial and reputational 
impact.
The loss of key senior individuals in the organ-
isation or the inability to recruit sufficient talent 
could jeopardise APR Energy’s ability to execute 
its growth plans.
Plant personnel could be subject to safety 
hazards that lead to injury or loss of life. 
Operations could be subject to an accidental spill 
of fuel or other hazardous materials.
Changes in the cost of key inputs could have a 
material adverse effect on the operating margins 
of the business.
Delay in payments or default could adversely 
affect the financial performance of the business.
Adverse changes affecting access to funding 
or the higher costs associated with replacing 
maturing debt could have a material adverse 
effect on the business.
Asset security 
Focus on developing 
markets – operations in 
difficult regions of the world
Recruitment and retention of 
key staff
Environment, health and 
safety
Movements in cost inputs
Payment default
Funding risk
Risk management
Operations
Financial
     
 KEY RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 51 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 51 
- The Group maintains a comprehensive global property insurance programme.
- In addition, there is a global political risk insurance programme that can be implemented on a country-by-country 
basis to protect against government actions relative to assets such as expropriation or nationalisation.
- In many cases, standby letters of credit from customers are required for asset security.
- The Group has instituted a comprehensive compliance programme that includes a broad anti-corruption policy, 
extensive training, and monitoring on a regular basis, with all new employees required to undertake training upon 
joining.
- Third-party agents/ contractors are thoroughly vetted prior to any engagement and are required to provide compli-
ance certifications.
- Competitive remuneration policies, including a performance share plan, have been put in place to attract and 
retain key personnel.
- A talent review and development process is in place across the organisation with a focus on providing growth 
opportunities across the organisation.
- The Group has implemented comprehensive health and safety policies and procedures at all sites. An extensive 
training programme has been rolled out to all personnel.
- The Group has strengthened its security arrangements, including the introduction of a Group Security Director, 
Country security managers in higher-risk countries and the introduction of a Group security standard setting out 
mandatory principles and procedures for all our locations.
- The development of environment, health and safety performance indicators is ongoing and will be reviewed 
regularly with the Board. 
- The Group has two key supplier framework agreements with GE and Caterpillar that have fixed pricing and are 
indexed to an annual inflation indicator thereafter.
- Significant cost efficiency projects are underway to post standby, and in some cases, documentary letters of 
credit as payment security.
- Prior to contracting with a customer, a thorough risk assessment is completed including a credit risk review.
- In many cases, the Group requires the customer to post standby, and in some cases, documentary letters of 
credit as payment security, decreasing the impact of any individual contract default.
- The Group’s strategy is focused on increasing the scale and diversification of the business.
- The Group increased its credit facility to $650 million during 2013 with its group of lending banks. The credit facility 
includes provisions allowing for amendments to be requested, if necessary.
- The Group enjoys good ongoing relationships with its lenders and has commenced discussions regarding its 
refinancing strategy in light of the term-loan which matures on 1 January 2015.
- Alternative financing opportunities which are available to APR Energy are continuously evaluated by the Group.
     
 KEY RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 
The Strategic report on pages 2 to 51 was approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by Andrew Bradshaw, Company Secretary on 25 March 2014. 52 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 52 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’s letter
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) states that a board’s role is 
to provide entrepreneurial leadership for 
a company in setting its strategic aims. 
APR Energy has a well-developed strategy 
and planning process that involves the 
Board throughout the year. The Company’s 
strategy is the subject of regular review that 
involves both the Management T eam and 
Board members in analysis and discussion. 
With a robust strategy and business plan, 
the Board recognised that the acquisition of 
the GE power rental business provided an 
opportunity to accelerate the achievement of 
this strategy. That was a decision reviewed 
in detail by the Board and executed 
successfully. We are pleased to welcome 
the GE-appointed observer to our Board 
meetings.
The Code also aims to promote effective 
board decision-making. The Company is 
committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, and seeks to apply voluntarily 
the Code, as it demonstrates commitment 
to the continuing maturing of the Company’s 
corporate governance structures, and 
maintains the Company’s ability to seek 
Premium Listing at the appropriate time.
During the year, the Chairman, alongside 
the Chief Executive Officer, enhanced the 
Company’s processes to maximise the 
Board’s performance, including ensuring 
that meetings are scheduled to allow 
adequate time for discussion of each 
agenda item at the relevant meeting; that 
reporting packs are distributed in advance of 
each meeting; and that board discussions 
are held in a collaborative atmosphere, with 
open discussion allowing for questions, 
scrutiny and constructive challenge. 
T ogether with well-constituted board 
with a clear division of responsibilities 
between Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, these enhancements enabled 
well-informed decisions to be made on the 
basis of collective debate and deliberation, 
and, once a decision has been made, 
effective and ongoing board oversight and 
supervision.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board, has also sought to improve 
the Group’s governance framework and 
regularly reviews its risk management and 
internal control processes. Further details 
can be found on page 47.
During the year, the Company’s governance 
framework has been enhanced to take 
into account the changes introduced by 
the September 2012 edition of the Code 
and the commencement of The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). The 
most significant reporting changes have 
been to the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
together with the introduction of a binding 
vote on the Directors’ remuneration policy at 
the Company’s 2014 AGM. 
This additional reporting also includes the 
statement made by the Directors on page 
74 that they consider the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and that 
it provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Additional disclosures in respect of how 
our Audit Committee addresses significant 
issues within the Annual Report and 
Accounts can be found on pages 62 to 65.
Ensuring we do the right things in the right 
way requires the right leadership. We believe 
that the Board and its committees have the 
required balance of impartiality, skills and 
experience to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. 
Mike Fairey 
Chairman
25 March 2014
The Company is 
committed to high 
standards of corporate 
governance and seeks to 
apply voluntarily the UK 
Corporate Governance 
Code Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 53 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 53 
One of the Board’s primary responsibilities 
is to ensure that the Company is run in the 
best long-term interests of the Company’s 
shareholders, with appropriate regard also 
to its wider stakeholders. This can only 
be achieved if the activities of the Group 
are supported by appropriate governance 
processes applied across the Group. These 
processes are illustrated below and in the 
individual Committee reports.
The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance, and 
therefore seeks to comply with the Code on 
a voluntary basis, as it reflects the continuing 
maturing of the Company’s corporate 
governance structures. 
During the year, the Company took a 
number of steps to address these areas 
in respect of the internal control and risk 
management framework required to achieve 
full compliance with the Code, including the 
establishment of an Internal Audit function in 
late 2013. 
The Board is actively investigating its current 
status as a standard listed company. It has 
taken the steps, including establishing a 
taskforce headed by the Senior Independent 
Director to understand the requirements 
necessary to achieve premium listing status.
Application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting 
Council published the 2012 edition of the 
Code, which contains broad principles and 
specific provisions to help boards operate in 
the best interests of their companies. Given 
its standard listing, the Company is not 
required to comply fully with the Code. With 
a view to the future, the Company continues 
to voluntarily apply the Code. Through the 
financial year ended 31 December 2013, 
the Company complied with a majority of 
provisions of the Code.
At the year end, the areas where the 
Company did not comply include: 
l Provision B.1.2 – the Board does not 
comprise at least one-half in number 
(excluding the Chairman) of independent 
Non-Executive Directors;
l Provision B.1 – the Board, given its 
primarily supervisory role, has only one 
Executive Director;
l Provision B.2.1 – the Board acts as the 
Nomination Committee, and as such does 
not comprise a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors; and
l Provision B.3.1 – the Chairman of the 
Company is a member of the Audit 
Committee.
Matters reserved for the Board
There is a schedule of matters which are 
dealt with exclusively by the Board and on 
which it must make the final decision. These 
include approval of the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements; the Group’s 
business strategy; the annual capital 
expenditure plan; major capital projects; 
major changes to the Group’s management 
and control structure; material investments 
or disposals; risk management strategy; 
sustainability and environmental policies; the 
appointment or removal of Directors and the 
Company Secretary; and treasury policies.
Day-to-day management is the responsibility 
of the Executive Director and of the 
Management T eam.
The Board of Directors
The role of the Board
The Board and the Operating Board have 
clearly defined roles and responsibility levels 
for the governance of the Group. The Board 
is responsible for the Group’s objectives 
and business strategy, including matters 
such as approval of business plans and 
budgets, capital structure, acquisitions and 
disposals, capital expenditures per defined 
limits, and significant compensation matters. 
In addition, the Board has responsibility 
for overseeing the establishment of a 
comprehensive risk management and 
internal control framework. The Non-
Executive Directors are encouraged and 
expected to challenge the Management 
T eam and each other constructively in the 
development of the Group’s strategy.
The Operating Board has responsibility for 
reviewing and recommending to the Board 
business plans and budgets, monitoring 
the Group’s performance against plans, 
approving investment programmes per 
defined limits and reviewing significant 
contracts and commitments. The Operating 
Board (the Board of APR Energy Holdings 
Limited, the immediate subsidiary of the 
Company) comprised the Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, as well as nominees from 
the Company’s key shareholders.
Responsibilities are clearly separated 
between the Non-Executive Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer. The 
Chairman’s primary role is to manage Board 
effectiveness and ensure that each Director 
fulfills his or her role effectively. The Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for executing 
the strategy as set by the Board and for 
leading the day-to-day activities of the 
Management T eam.
The Board is specifically responsible for: 
l guiding the Group’s strategic aims, 
leading to its approval of the Group’s 
strategy and its budgetary and business 
plans;
l approval of significant investments and 
capital expenditure;
l approval of annual and half-year results 
and interim management statements, 
accounting policies and, subject to 
shareholder approval, the appointment 
and remuneration of the external auditors;
l approval of the Group’s dividend policy 
and the payment of interim and the 
recommendation of final dividends;
l changes to the Group’s capital structure 
and the issue of any securities;
l establishing and maintaining the Group’s 
risk appetite, system of internal control, 
governance and approval authorities; and
l monitoring executive performance and 
succession planning.
The role of the Management Team
The Management T eam, led by the 
Chief Executive Officer, has day-to-day 
responsibility and oversight of the primary 
operating and support functions of the 
Group, including operations, commercial, 
business development, marketing, finance, 
legal, compliance, human resources and IT . 
Biographies are provided on pages 56 to 57.
Governance 54 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 54 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Board of Directors
Mike Fairey 
A,R
 1
Independent Non-Executive Chairman 
(aged 65)
Mr. Fairey was formerly Deputy Group Chief 
Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc before 
retiring from the position in June 2008. 
Mr. Fairey had joined TSB Group in 1991 
and held a number of senior and general 
management appointments before being 
appointed to the board in 1993. Following 
the merger with Lloyds Banking Group in 
1995, he joined the board of Lloyds TSB 
Group plc in 1997 and became deputy 
group chief executive in 1998.
Previously, Mr. Fairey was at Barclays Bank 
plc where, having joined them in 1967, 
he went on to hold a number of senior 
and general management appointments, 
including managing director of Barclays 
Direct Lending Services from 1990 to 1991. 
The Chairman’s current commitments are 
non-executive directorships at The Energy 
Saving Trust, Legal & General Group 
plc, MGM Advantage Plc and the role of 
Chairman of the LTSB Pension Scheme.
John Campion 
E
 2
Chief Executive Officer (aged 51)
From 1987 to 1999, Mr. Campion served as 
the Chief Executive Officer of Showpower 
Inc., a portable generator company 
based in California that primarily served 
the entertainment industry. In December 
1999, Showpower was acquired by GE 
Energy Rentals. After GE Energy Rentals’ 
acquisition of Showpower, Mr. Campion 
stayed on until towards the end of 2001 
as GE Energy Rentals’ Executive Vice 
President of Sales and Marketing. In early 
2002, Mr. Campion was hired to serve as 
the President of Alstom Power Rentals. 
Alstom Power Rentals was a subsidiary of 
Alstom Power Inc., a Paris-based company 
focused on energy and transportation 
infrastructure. In March 2004, Alstom Power 
Rentals’ ownership was transferred to APR 
LLC, a company owned and operated by 
John Campion and Laurence Anderson. Mr. 
Campion has served as the Chief Executive 
Officer of the APR Group since 2004.
Matthew Allen 3
Non-Executive Director (aged 57)
Mr. Allen is a qualified chartered 
accountant and has been the director of 
a range of public companies including 
Gold Greenlees Trott plc, the advertising 
agency, PizzaExpress plc, a leading UK 
based restaurant business, and Precoat 
International plc, a quoted holding 
company for a group of businesses in UK 
and Canada that processed and distributed 
pre-painted steel to industrial consumers. 
He has extensive international experience 
in the USA, Europe and Asia. Matthew is 
a director of Sun Capital Partners and was 
a founder of Pearl Group, Punch Group 
and Integrated Dental Holdings plc where 
he was chairman. Most recently, Matthew 
co-founded Horizon Acquisition Company 
plc, which subsequently completed 
the acquisition of APR Energy in June 
2011. Matthew holds a BA in law from St 
Catharine’s College, Cambridge.
Gregory Bowes 
R
 4
Non-Executive Director (aged 53) 
Mr. Bowes serves as the Managing 
Principal and Chairman of the Management 
Committee of Albright Capital Management. 
He has over 26 years of experience in 
the financial services industry, beginning 
with Bankers Trust in 1983 and continuing 
with senior roles in institutional capital 
markets/alternative asset management 
firms. In 1988, he joined Greenwich Capital 
Markets (now RBS Greenwich), where he 
served in multiple roles, including acting 
as Senior Executive Officer of Greenwich 
International and, after acquisition of 
the firm by National Westminster Bank, 
Co-Head of NatWest Capital Markets. In 
2003, after serving in other capacities in the 
alternative investment industry, Mr. Bowes 
co-founded and has since headed Albright 
Capital Management LLC, a US-registered 
investment adviser and alternative asset 
manager focused exclusively on the 
emerging markets. Mr. Bowes currently 
serves on the Board of Trustees of Bowdoin 
College in Brunswick, Maine.  
Edward Hawkes 5
Non-Executive Director (aged 37)
Mr. Hawkes is a founder and Director 
of the Company. Together with his 
co-founders, Mr. Hawkes played an 
important role in identifying various 
acquisition opportunities and in acquiring 
the APR Group. Mr. Hawkes is currently 
a director of Sun Capital Partners and 
was a co-founder of Phoenix Group, 
a UK life insurance business with 
approximately 6 million policyholders 
and approximately £67.5 billion under 
management. Mr. Hawkes started his 
career at PricewaterhouseCoopers 
working on financial and commercial 
due diligence assignments. He left 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2001 to join 
Sun Capital Partners, where he has been 
involved in various companies and has 
raised over £7 billion for acquisitions. 
Vipul Tandon 
E 
6
Non-Executive Director (aged 40)
Mr. Tandon is a Managing Director in 
the Private Equity Group of Soros Fund 
Management. Previously, he served as 
a vice president in the special situations 
group of American Capital Strategies, a 
vice-president of Foamex International 
and an associate at both Frontline Capital 
Group and Trace International and an 
analyst at DLJ Merchant Banking Partners. 
Mr. Tandon is currently a director of 
Waypoint Leasing (Ireland) Ltd., Essent 
Group Ltd and Civic Builders.
10 6 8 9 4 1 3 7 5 2
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 55 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 55 
Mr. Tandon holds an MBA from INSEAD 
and a BA in International Relations from 
University of Pennsylvania and a BS in 
Economics from University of Pennsylvania 
Wharton School of Business.
Baroness Denise Kingsmill  
CBE 
R,E
 7
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director (aged 66)
Baroness Kingsmill is a non-executive 
director of International Consolidated 
Airlines Group, S.A,. She also sits on the 
supervisory board of E.ON AG and is 
Deputy Chairman of the PwC Advisory 
Board. From 1997 to 2004, she was Deputy 
Chairman of the Competition Commission 
(formerly the Monopolies and Mergers 
Commission). Baroness Kingsmill chaired 
the UK Department of Trade’s Accounting 
for People Taskforce. In June 2006, 
Baroness Kingsmill was appointed to the 
House of Lords as a Labour Peer and 
sits on the Economic Affairs Committee. 
Baroness Kingsmill holds an MA from 
Cambridge University, UK.
Jim Hughes 
A,R
 8
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(aged 51)
Mr. Hughes has extensive experience in 
the energy market, and joined First Solar in 
March 2012 as Chief Commercial Officer 
and was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
in May 2012. Prior to joining First Solar, Mr. 
Hughes served, from October 2007 until 
April 2011, as Chief Executive Officer and 
Director of AEI Services LLC, which owned 
and operated power distribution, power 
generation (both thermal and renewable), 
natural gas transportation and services, 
and natural gas distribution businesses in 
emerging markets worldwide. From 2004 
to 2007, he engaged in principal investing 
with a privately held company based in 
Houston, Texas that focused on micro-cap 
investments in North American distressed 
manufacturing assets. Previously, he 
served, from 2002 until March 2004, as 
President and Chief Operating Officer of 
Prisma Energy International, which was 
formed out of former Enron interests in 
international electric and natural gas 
utilities. Prior to that role, Mr. Hughes spent 
almost a decade with Enron Corporation in 
positions that included President and Chief 
Operating Officer of Enron Global Assets, 
President and Chief Operating Officer of 
Enron Asia, Pacific Africa and China and 
as Assistant General Counsel of Enron 
International. Mr. Hughes is a member of 
the Board of Directors of the Los Angeles 
branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, the Advisory Board of the 
United States Export-Import Bank and the 
International Committee of the American 
Heart Association.  
From 1999 to 2008, Mr. Hughes was a 
non-executive director of Quicksilver 
Resources, an exploration and production 
company and from 2007 until 2010 of 
Elektro, a Brazilian electric utility listed on 
the Bovespa. He holds a BA, Business 
Administration at the Edwin L. Cox School 
of Business at Southern Methodist 
University in Dallas, participated in the 
Foreign Exchange Programme with Queen 
Mary’s College, University of London and 
has a Juris Doctor from the School of Law 
at the University of Texas.
Haresh Jaisinghani 
A 
9
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(aged 47)
Mr. Jaisinghani is the owner and Managing 
Director of 3R Capital Private Limited, 
an investment advisory and project 
development firm focused on the energy, 
environmental and infrastructure sector in 
Asia. From 1994 to 2007, Mr. Jaisinghani 
held a number of senior leadership 
positions with the AES Corporation, an 
NYSE listed Fortune 500 global power 
company, including President of Asia, 
Middle East, and CIS, and served as 
a member of the Corporate Executive 
Committee. He currently also serves on the 
board of the CitySpring Infrastructure Trust, 
a Singapore-listed infrastructure trust fund, 
and chairs the board of CityLink Investment 
Private Limited, the holding company of 
the Basslink subsea electricity transmission 
interconnect in Australia. Mr. Jaisinghani 
is a graduate of University of Maryland 
and has an engineering degree from the 
University of Bombay.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 
A, E 
10
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(aged 53)
Ms. Jemmett-Page qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with KPMG in 1984, becoming 
a partner in 1992. In 2001, she joined 
Unilever plc as Senior Vice President, 
Finance and IT for Home and Personal 
Business for Asia, based in Singapore 
and, in 2005, became Global Senior Vice 
President, Finance and IT for Home and 
Personal Care and an Executive Board 
member of Unilever’s HPC Business. In 
2009, she moved to CDC Group plc, the 
UK government-backed private equity 
development finance company investing in 
developing countries, where she was Chief 
Operating Officer until leaving the group in 
2012. 
From 2008 to 2010, Ms. Jemmett-Page 
was a non-executive director of Havelock 
Europa plc. Ms. Jemmett-Page is currently 
a non-executive director of GKN plc, Close 
Brothers Group plc, Amlin plc, Origo 
Partners plc and Greencoat UK Wind plc. 
She holds an MA in Natural Sciences from 
Cambridge University, UK.
Committee membership
A. Audit Committee
R. Remuneration Committee
E. Ethics Committee 56 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 56 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Management Team
In addition to Mr. John Campion, the 
Management Team comprises:
Laurence Anderson 1
President and Chief Operating Officer
Mr. Anderson joined Showpower Inc in 
1987 as a Vice President and Director of 
Operations. In 1996, he was appointed 
the President of Showpower, a position he 
held until the company was acquired by GE 
Energy Rentals in December 1999. As part 
of the acquisition, Mr. Anderson became a 
Vice President of Fleet Operations for GE 
Energy Rentals. In 2002, he was hired as 
Vice President of Alstom Power Rentals. 
Alstom Power Rentals was a subsidiary of 
Alstom Power Inc., a Paris-based company 
focused on energy and transportation 
infrastructure. In March 2004, Alstom Power 
Rentals’ ownership was transferred to APR 
LLC, a company owned and operated by 
John Campion and Laurence Anderson.
Mr. Anderson has served as the President 
and COO of the APR Group since 2004.
Andrew Martinez 2
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Martinez has over 20 years of 
international public accounting and public 
company experience, including with Ernst 
& Young and PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
and has held various global financial 
leadership roles, including seven years 
with the Cendant Corporation, where 
he served as VP of Financial Reporting, 
Planning & Analysis, and later as the Group 
Vice President of Finance for Cendant’s 
Travelport Inc. group. Mr. Martinez is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales, and 
holds a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Banking & International Finance from the 
Cass Business School at City University 
London. Mr. Martinez joined APR Energy 
in October 2011 and was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer in August 2012.
Lee Munro 3
Senior Vice President
Mr. Munro joined General Electric Company 
(GE) working as a corporate auditor. He 
worked his way through the organisation 
becoming the Chief Executive Officer of 
GE European Operations Services. After 
departing from GE in June 2005, Mr. Munro 
founded LifeCare BV, a health and wellness 
company. Mr Munro holds a MBA from the 
University of North Texas. Mr. Munro joined 
the APR Group as a Senior Vice President 
in December 2008. 
Brian Rich 4
Senior Vice President – Business 
Development
Mr. Rich brings over 20 years of 
international energy and utility infrastructure 
experience to his role at APR Energy. 
Prior to joining APR Energy, Mr. Rich was 
Chief Financial Officer of Lebara Ltd, a 
$1 billion telecommunications company 
based in London and earlier served as 
Chief Executive Officer, AES Africa Power 
Corporation, where he managed AES 
Corporation’s fully integrated utility in 
Cameroon, generation assets in Nigeria, 
and business development throughout 
the region. Mr. Rich also held senior 
management positions in Moscow, 
Russia, as Senior Vice-President, Chief 
Financial Officer and Treasurer of NASDAQ-
listed Golden Telecom, Inc., and in 
Hong Kong as Chief Financial Officer of 
Mirant Corporation’s International power 
businesses. Mr. Rich holds his Bachelor 
and Juris Doctor degrees from Tulane 
University in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Mr. Rich has served APR Energy as Senior 
Vice President of Business Development 
since 2012.
Corporate Governance Report
6 8 4 1 3 7 5 2 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 57 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 57 
Steve List 5
General Counsel and Chief 
Compliance Officer
Mr. List has over 25 years of legal 
experience. Most recently, Mr. List was 
based in Sydney, Australia, as the Asia 
Pacific General Counsel for Accenture, 
where he supported the company’s $3.5 
billion Asia Pacific business with over 
80,000 employees in that region. During 
Mr. List’s tenure at Accenture, he had 
global responsibility for their Health & 
Service Practice, was the company’s first 
Government Compliance Officer and led 
its North American Utilities legal team. 
Additionally, Mr. List worked as Senior 
Counsel for Peoples Energy Corporation 
based in Chicago and began his career as 
an associate at a boutique law firm in the 
Chicago area. At APR Energy, Mr. List is 
responsible for compliance, the in-house 
legal practice, as well as managing the 
Company secretarial responsibilities. 
Mr. List has an undergraduate degree 
in Psychology from the University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, and holds his law 
degree from DePaul University. Mr. List 
joined APR Energy in December 2011.
Chris Himebauch 6
Chief Human Resources Officer
Mr. Himebauch has over 20 years of 
progressive human resources leadership 
experience in a variety of industries. Mr. 
Himebauch began his career in human 
resources with Hyatt Hotels Corporation 
in Southern California. Subsequently, he 
spent 12 years at Darden Restaurants, 
where he was the Director of Staffing and 
then Director of Employee Relations for 
60,000+ employees and managers in over 
625 locations across the United States. 
Mr. Himebauch then served as Regional 
Vice-President of Human Resources for 
Wyndham Worldwide, where he oversaw 
HR for 26 properties throughout the U.S. 
East Coast and the Caribbean. Most 
recently, Prior to joining APR Energy, Mr. 
Himebauch led the Field Human Resources 
team for Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., supporting 
521 Stores, 5 Distribution Centres and 
420 Pharmacies, employing over 48,000 
employees. Today, Mr. Himebauch 
leads a Human Resources group that is 
responsible for identifying, developing 
and engaging people who live the APR 
Energy values and deliver on the Group’s 
strategy. Mr Himebauch holds a BA from 
the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill and an MBA from the University of 
Southern California. Mr. Himebauch joined 
APR Energy in January 2012.
Wayne Friederich 7
Vice President of Information Technology
Mr. Friederich has over 25 years of IT 
technical and leadership experience 
spanning the chemical, consumer goods 
and energy industries. Mr. Friederich held 
senior IT leadership positions as Vice 
President of IT with Playtex Products, 
Director of Global Infrastructure at 
Energizer Holdings and Senior Director of 
IT at Abound Solar. Mr. Friederich holds a 
Bachelor of Science degree in Business 
Administration – Information Systems from 
Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville. 
Mr. Friederich joined APR Energy in July 
2012 as Vice President of Information 
Technology.
Silvio Cavaceppi 8
Vice President of Marketing & 
Communications
Mr. Cavaceppi has over 20 years of 
progressive leadership experience in 
international marketing and market 
development, and has a strong track record 
in developing and executing international 
marketing programmes and brand strategy.
His experience includes 16 years with 
Lexmark International, a Fortune 500 
information technology company, where 
he held a number of management 
roles, including Director of Marketing 
Communications, a position he held 
immediately prior to joining APR Energy. 
Mr. Cavaceppi holds a BS degree from 
the University of Florida in Business 
Administration and an International MBA 
from the University of South Carolina. Mr. 
Cavaceppi joined APR Energy in December 
2011. 58 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Board meetings
The Board typically meets at least six times a year in the US and in the UK, both in person and by telephone. Supplementary meetings are 
held as and when necessary. At each scheduled meeting, the Board evaluates regular reports focusing on amongst other things, the financial 
structure and performance of the business, the order pipeline and the Group’s safety record. At particular points in the year, the Board reviews 
budgets, capital expenditure, risks and financial statements.
The Board receives regular updates on strategy, acquisition opportunities, and the competitive landscape. Most Board meetings include 
presentations from specific parts of the organisation in order to give the Directors an opportunity to examine the Group’s business model in 
detail.
Attendance at meetings
The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in the year to 31 December 2013 is set out below:
 Board Ethics  Audit Remuneration
  Committee Committee Committee
No. of meetings 13 1 4 5
Mike Fairey 13 - 3 5
John Campion
1
 13 1 -  1
Matthew Allen 13 - - -
Edward Hawkes 13 - - -
Denise Kingsmill 11 1 - 3
Vipul Tandon 12 1 - -
Gregory Bowes 10 - - 5
Haresh Jaisinghani 13 - 4 -
Jim Hughes 13 - 3 5
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 13 1 4 -
1 John Campion stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 24 July 2013. He was eligible to attend two meetings during the year.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Director present; and, at least once a year, the 
Senior Independent Director chairs a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman. Additionally, KPMG completed a Board 
effectiveness review which was shared with the Board.
Board committees
The Board has put in place various committees to aid in the governance of the Company, including Audit, Remuneration and Ethics (the 
“Committees”). Details regarding the composition, responsibilities, and meetings of these Committees are provided on pages 62 to 67.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference reviewed and approved annually by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee 
meetings are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board. The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Group’s website www.
aprenergy.com
The Code recommends that the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee should comprise at least three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Company is compliant with these guidelines in relation to the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board considered that the matters previously delegated to the Nominations Committee, were of sufficient importance that they should be 
considered by the Board as whole. Therefore, during the year these matters were considered, as necessary by the Board.
Frequency of Committee meetings
The Committees meet as frequently as is required to perform their delegated responsibilities (with the intention that the Audit Committee meets 
at least four times a year and the remaining Committees at least twice a year). Details of Committee meetings and attendance of members is 
provided above.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 59 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Leadership
How the Board operates
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, and eight Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are considered independent. 
Given the Chairman Mike Fairey’s very senior roles within the UK banking industry, the Board, although mindful of the provisions of the Code, 
considers him to be independent. 
Baroness Denise Kingsmill CBE is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and is available to meet shareholders if they have concerns 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication (including with the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer) or if it is 
not appropriate to use such channels.
Mike Fairey (Chairman), Jim Hughes, Haresh Jaisinghani, Shonaid Jemmett-Page and Denise Kingsmill bring a wealth of experience and 
expertise from the wider business world, and are considered by the Board to be independent. The remaining Non-Executive Directors, Matthew 
Allen, Gregory Bowes, Edward Hawkes, and Vipul T andon, are nominated by key shareholders, so are not considered to be independent.
The Board remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 December 2013. Details of the Board including biographies are provided on 
pages 54 to 55.
The Company’s governance structure also encompasses an Operating Board (the Board of APR Energy Holdings Limited, the immediate 
subsidiary of the Company) which comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer as well as 
nominees from the key shareholders referred to above.
Board balance and independence
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and division of responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separated, with clear written guidance to support the division of responsibilities. A 
copy of the document setting out the division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer can be found on the Group’s 
website.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board, which is the Chairman’s primary duty, and the day to day 
management of the Group’s business, which is the Chief Executive Officer’s primary responsibility. No one individual has unfettered powers of 
decision.
The role of the Chairman
The Chairman leads the Board. He is responsible for creating the conditions for, and for ensuring, an effective Board and effective contributions 
from individual Directors, particularly Non-Executive Directors, based on a culture of mutual respect, open debate and constructive challenge.
T o achieve this, it is necessary for the Chairman to facilitate and encourage open communication and constructive working relations between 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman seeks to ensure that the Executive Director is open and responsive to constructive 
challenge of proposals by the Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman is in frequent contact with the Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman 
also keeps the Non-Executive Directors up to date with significant developments between Board meetings. Moreover, the Chairman is also 
responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and this is discussed further under ‘Relations with shareholders’ on page 
69.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is dedicated for discussion of all agenda items, particularly strategic 
issues and risk appetite. Since his appointment as Chairman, Mr. Fairey has led a detailed process of Board agenda review and planning, 
working with the Company Secretary, the Company’s General Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer, the Chairmen of the Board Committees 
and the Chief Executive Officer. During the year, the Board approved an annual agenda plan designed to ensure that all necessary matters are 
reserved for Board decision and are afforded adequate time for discussion throughout the year. The Chairman monitors, with assistance from 
the Company Secretary, the information distributed to the Board to ensure that it is of high quality, accurate, clear and timely.
During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chief Executive Officer being present in order to review the 
Chief Executive Officer’s performance. 60 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The role of the Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer has day to day management responsibility for the running of the Group’s operations, for the application of Group 
policies and for the implementation of the Group’s strategy and policies agreed by the Board.
The Board has given the Chief Executive Officer broad authority to operate the business of the Group and he is accountable for, and reports 
to the Board on, the performance of the business. The Chief Executive Officer also has a key role in the process for the setting and review 
of strategy. More broadly, the Chief Executive Officer promotes the Company’s culture and standards including appropriate governance 
standards throughout the Group. In addition, he ensures that the views of the Management T eam on business issues and, as appropriate, 
employees’ views on relevant issues are communicated to the Board in a balanced manner. 
In carrying out his responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer is supported by the Management T eam, who together, are responsible amongst 
other things for ensuring that accurate information is provided to the Board on the Company’s financial performance.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer and the Management Team
The biographical details of the Chief Executive Officer and the Management T eam and details of their relevant experience and other significant 
commitments are set out on page 54 and pages 56 to 57.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Management T eam have specific executive responsibilities but their duties extend to the whole of the 
Group’s operations and activities and are not confined to the parts of the business encompassed by their specific executive role.
The role of the Non-Executive Directors
The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and to monitor 
the reporting of performance. Their role is also to satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that the financial and non-
financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
The role of the Senior Independent Director
Baroness Denise Kingmill was appointed Senior Independent Director in 2011. The role of the Senior Independent Director is to provide a 
sounding board for the Chairman, to serve as a focal point to assist in resolving shareholder concerns which have not been resolved by the 
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, or in circumstances where a shareholder considers that communication with any of these Directors would 
be inappropriate. No such matters of concern were raised by shareholders during the year ended 31 December 2013. The Senior Independent 
Director also oversees the assessment of the effectiveness of the Chairman’s performance, and is available for the other Non-Executive 
Directors to raise any issues or concerns.
The role of the Company Secretary
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance 
matters, ensuring good information flows within the Board, its Committees and Senior Management and ensuring that Board processes are 
complied with. Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
Conflicts of interest
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are permitted to serve on the boards of non-Group companies provided it does not impinge 
upon their required time commitment to the Group. The Directors are required to declare any directorships for non-Group companies or other 
appointments which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest. The Group records and declares interests in a Directors’ Interests 
Register.
The Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Group unless 
that conflict has been approved by the Board. The Articles give the Directors power to approve conflicts of interest, subject to certain 
conditions, such as, the meeting being quorate without the Director in question participating and/or that the relevant Director does not 
participate in the vote. No conflicts of interest were declared during the year.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have devoted the required time to the proper performance of their duties 
for the Group throughout the year. Attendance at Board and Committee meetings is set out on page 58.
Effectiveness
Board evaluation and effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group. The Board considers that it and its Committees have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence, and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and 
responsibilities effectively. In addition, processes are in place for evaluation of the Board’s performance including self-assessment and external 
referencing with third parties to ensure its performance is maintained. The Board believes that it presents a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects through its communications with shareholders.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 61 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Since the last report, the Company has undertaken a review to evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors 
and in order to ensure the Non-Executive Directors maintain sufficient skills and knowledge to be suitable for re-election. This review was 
undertaken internally, with the Chairman being responsible for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and the Senior Independent Director 
being responsible for the review of the Chairman’s effectiveness. Additionally, KPMG completed a Board effectiveness review, which was 
shared with the Board.
Diversity
The Company and its Board are committed to diversity and inclusion. In terms of its composition, the Board has created a culture of inclusion 
where difference is recognised and valued. The Board will retain this commitment in its selection criteria, including diversity in nationality, 
gender, and industry experience.
In fostering, cultivating and preserving a culture of diversity and inclusion throughout the Group, the Board recognises that our human capital is 
the most valuable asset we have. The collective sum of the individual differences, life experiences, knowledge, inventiveness, innovation, self-
expression, unique capabilities, and talent that our employees bring to their work represents a significant part of our culture and plays a key role 
in helping us achieve our strategic goals.
We embrace and encourage our employees’ differences in age, colour, disability, ethnicity, family or marital status, gender identity or 
expression, language, national origin, physical and mental ability, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, 
veteran status, and other characteristics that make our employees unique.
APR Energy’s diversity initiatives are applicable, but not limited, to our practices and policies on recruitment and selection, compensation and 
benefits, professional development and training, promotions, transfers, social and recreational programmes, layoffs, terminations, and the 
ongoing development of a work environment built on the premise of gender and diversity equity that encourages and enforces:
l Respectful communication and cooperation between all employees
l T eamwork and employee participation, permitting the representation of all groups and employee perspectives
l Work/life balance through flexible work schedules to accommodate employees’ varying needs
l Employer and employee contributions to the communities we serve, to promote a greater understanding and respect for diversity
Selection, appointment, review and re-election
Succession
The Board has a number of procedures in place for both executive and Board level succession. These include supervising the career 
development of key personnel to ensure they possess the correct mix of skill and experience to fulfil their potential. In addition, the 
Management T eam includes a number of highly capable individuals with the ability to move in due course into more senior roles on the 
Operating Board and/or on the Board itself.
Appointment, retirement and re-appointment of Directors
Board appointments are made only after a thorough and orderly process of candidate identification, interview, and final selection. An initial 
shortlist of candidates is developed via a mix of external advertising and consultancy in specific fields.
A thorough screening process is utilised to narrow the candidate pool to a selection that is then vetted through personal interviews with 
members of the Board. Final candidate recommendations are presented to the full Board for approval. Individuals are required to have the 
necessary experience and integrity in relation to their sector knowledge or skills and to have sector knowledge or skills which complement 
those already within the Board. The terms of appointment for Directors is set out on page 81.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that each Director shall retire from office at the third AGM after appointment and that, if the 
Company does not fill the vacancy of the retiring Director at that AGM, then that Director shall be deemed to have been reappointed unless 
the Company resolves not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution (to re-appoint that Director) is put to the Shareholders and is not passed.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board has decided that all Directors shall be subject to annual re-election by Shareholders at the AGM.
 
As is customary in listed companies, the independent Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve two three year terms (plus, 
exceptionally, one additional three year term if both the Company and the Director in question agree).
Board Induction and training 
A review of Board performance is managed by the Chairman. In addition, training and development needs are identified by the Chairman, 
Committees and individual Directors, and relevant guidance is taken. Historically, Board members have participated in a training programme 
led by both the General Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer, as well as the Company’s brokers. This training covered a broad range of topics, 
including anti-corruption and compliance (the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act) and Directors’ responsibilities. 
The Chairman and the Board provide ongoing assessment of the Board and Management T eam performance. 62 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee plays a key role in ensuring the integrity of our financial 
statements and the effectiveness of our risk management processes and internal 
controls.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
Chairman, Audit Committee
The Audit Committee plays a fundamental role in monitoring and reviewing certain aspects of management and auditor conduct which 
could financially impact upon shareholders. This includes reviewing the integrity of the Group’s financial statements to determine whether the 
judgements and policies of management are appropriate, as well as monitoring the independence of the external auditors and effectiveness of 
the audit process. The Committee’s responsibilties also include oversight of the Group’s systems of internal control and risk management. This 
report details the activities we undertook during the year in fulfilling our responsibilities.
The Committee comprises four members. Three members are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors 
and at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience. The Chairman of the Company, who serves on 
the Committee, was considered independent on appointment as Chairman of the Company.
The following were members of the Audit Committee of the Company during 2013:
l Shonaid Jemmett-Page, Chairman
l Mike Fairey
l Jim Hughes
l Haresh Jaisinghani
Shonaid Jemmett-Page has recent and relevant financial experience. Her biography is set out on page 55.
The Committee met on four occasions in 2013, with meetings timed to coincide with key dates in the financial and 
reporting calendar. The members’ attendance record is set out on page 58.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and the 
maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems. This includes responsibility for monitoring and 
reviewing:
l the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and the significant reporting judgements contained therein;
l the appropriateness of the Group’s relationship with the external auditors, including auditor independence, fees and 
provision of non-audit services;
l the effectiveness of the external audit process, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors;
l the activities and effectiveness of the newly established internal audit function;
l the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management systems; and
l the Group’s policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing.
The terms of reference that set out the Committee’s authority and responsibilities are available on the Group’s website 
at www.aprenergy.com
The Committee’s activities since the last report principally related to financial reporting, the external audit, internal 
control and risk management. In particular, the Committee:
Financial Reporting
l considered information presented by management on significant accounting judgements and policies adopted in
 respect of the Group’s half year and annual financial statements and agreed their appropriateness;
l  examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the 
financial statements;
l  discussed with the external auditor its reports to the Committee which highlighted key accounting matters and 
significant judgements in respect of each set of financial statements;
l  reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern judgement given on page 39;
l  considered matters in respect of accounting for the Group’s Founder securities; and
l  considered the accounting judgements and methodologies applied in determining the opening balance sheet 
following the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business.
Membership 
and process
Chairman and 
members
Committee 
Attendance
Role
Terms of 
Reference
Main Activities
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 63 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Governance
l considered the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the Group’s anti-fraud policies;
l reviewed procedures associated with engaging the external auditor to carry out non-audit related work;
l the Committee’s work plan for the year ahead and a review of historic activity against the Committee’s terms of 
reference; and
l the effectiveness of the external audit process, the independence of the external auditor and a proposal in respect 
of the re-election of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee last met in March 2014 and considered financial and governance matters, including the content 
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Deloitte LLP , the Group’s external independent auditors (the “ Auditors’ or “Deloitte”) is invited to every meeting. The 
Committee meets separately with Deloitte and the Head of Internal Audit without any member of the management 
team being present. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance, Head of Internal Audit and Director of 
Investor Relations are normally invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend meetings of the Committee. to 
maintain effective communications.
Main Activities
(cont’d)
External advisors
Internal input
Significant and material issues
In reviewing matters relating to the financial statements, the Committee has identified and considered the following significant issues:
Area of focus Committee action 
l The Group completed the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business on 28 October 2013. The transaction 
resulted in the application of complex accounting judgements, assumptions and methodologies in order to 
establish a fair value opening balance sheet.
l KPMG were engaged as external advisers to assist in determining the fair value of the opening balance sheet.
All assumptions were reviewed and challenged where necessary by the Auditors, with its findings reported to us 
for consideration. Following a review of all supporting internal and external documentation, we confirmed that we 
were satisfied with the judgements made by management.
l In accordance with IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”, the value of the transaction reflected the closing share 
price at completion of 1,155p per share. As a result, for accounting purposes, total consideration was $362 million, 
reflecting the issuance of 15,453,129 million new Ordinary Shares and $73 million in cash, as recognised in the 
financial statements. The Group recognised the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to 
this transaction in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Further details can be found in note 29.
l The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might 
be impaired. The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit (CGU) is determined from a value in use 
calculation. Based on this calculation, and the Committees consideration of the appropriateness of the key 
assumptions, the Committee considered and concluded that there is no reasonable possible change in the key 
assumptions utilised in the impairment calculations that would give rise to an impairment.
l The Group has operations in various jurisdications and as such is subject to an inherent risk arising from the 
geographical mix of revenue and profit and the complex nature of these arrangements. The Committee reviews 
the Group’s tax positions and ensures that any potential exposures are identified and are representing accurately 
in the financial statements, as appropriate.
l The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of preparing the Group’s Financial Statements for the half-year 
and full year on a going concern basis. The Committee considered papers prepared by management, taking into 
account the external auditors’ review of these papers, and management’s assumptions in relation to going concern 
matters. The Committee looked at a number of scenarios, including recognition that part of the Group’s financing 
facilities, its $250 million term-loan is due to be renewed on 1 January 2015. Notwithstanding this, the Committee 
concluded that the management team’s recommendation to prepare accounts on a going concern basis was 
appropriate.
l The Group continues to value the Founder securities via a bespoke Monte Carlo simulation model, which was created 
in 2012 to ensure the accounting for this financial liability was appropriate. Further to the receipt of a letter from the 
FRC requesting further information and clarity regarding the accounting treatment in respect of the Group’s Founder 
securities, the Committee undertook extensive dialogue with the FRC and in July 2013, the FRC confirmed that it was 
satisfied with regard to the accounting treatment of these securities and closed its enquiry.
Acquisition 
accounting 
Going concern
Accounting 
for income tax 
provisions
Goodwill  
impairment 
Founder securities 64 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
l Management review the trade and other receivables balance on a regular basis and assesses its ability to collect 
receivables that are past due and provides for an adequate allowance for doubtful accounts based on the financial 
stability, recent payment history of the customer, letters of credit in place and other pertinent factors related to the 
creditworthiness of the customer. Specifically for the 2013 year end management focused on the Libya receivables 
balance and were satisfied that these were recoverable, as all invoiced amounts had been received as at the date of 
this report. Based on this review, the Committee considered and concluded that these balances were recoverable.
The Committee discussed with the Auditor the areas of significant risk identified by the external independent Auditor (see pages 92 to 94) and 
has satisfied itself that such risks are being appropriately managed.
In addition, the Committee has considered a number of other key judgements and risks, as part of discharging a best practice approach, 
which included:
l revenue recognition in respect of new contracts and contract extensions;
l policy and practice in respect of demobilisation provisions; and 
l policy and practice in respect of the useful lives of property, plant and equipment.
The Committee is satisfied that all significant issues and risks have been managed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant 
accounting standards and principles.
Internal control and risk review
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and reviews annually the effectiveness of the system of risk management 
and the internal controls framework. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A comprehensive reporting structure was implemented during the year for the management of risk, financial, compliance, and operational 
controls. This includes regular, at least annual, review of the mechanisms in place to assess that risk is identified, managed and controlled 
wherever possible. 
Key elements of the risk management and internal control framework include:
l a detailed annual risk assessment process; and
l structure of internal control policies and procedures.
The risk assessment process conducted by management focuses on the identification of key risks to the annual business plan, an assessment 
of the likelihood and potential impact of each risk, a review of existing controls and their effectiveness and finally, the identification of further 
actions to be taken to mitigate the risk factors. The risk assessment is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Group’s internal control framework comprises documented policies and procedures that define proper controls, delegation of authority 
and accountabilities in work flows for the effective operation and reporting in the business. The review and approval of business plans, budgets 
and investment programmes is conducted by the Board. Regular reporting is provided to the Board that not only covers performance on key 
financial metrics, but also focuses on operational performance. The Group operates a whistle blowing procedure, further details can be found 
on page 42.
During the year, the Group has further enhanced its finance function to support the anticipated growth and demands of a listed business. This 
continues to be monitored in evaluating the process to secure a Premium Listing and the extra requirements this would entail.
The Committee assesses the Group’s internal risk management and financial control systems in order to help the Board understand the 
efficacy of structures in place. Reflecting the growth of the business and the Board’s focus on internal control the Group has recruited a senior, 
experienced individual as Head of Internal Audit.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee has oversight responsibilities for the Internal Audit department, following the establishment of an internal audit function, in 
December 2013. The primary responsibility of the function is to provide independent objective assurance and consulting services designed to 
help the Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk 
management, control, and governance processes.
Internal Audit is responsible for the preparation and ongoing management of an annual audit plan which will be reviewed and approved by the 
Audit Committee and all reports arising therefrom are reviewed and assessed, along with the related management’s actions to findings and 
recommendations. 
Since his appointment in late 2013, the Head of Internal Audit is invited to and attends Audit Committee meetings and is also given the 
opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any members of management present. Going forward the Audit Committee will 
undertake a regular internal assessment of the effectiveness and independence of the Internal Audit function.
Corporate Governance Report
Recoverability of 
trade and other 
receivables Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 65 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
External Auditors
The Audit Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Auditors. The 
Auditor was reappointed auditor of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2013. 
Audit tendering
The Audit Committee acknowledges the changes to the Code, the recent findings of the Competition Commission and the Guidance for Audit 
Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council, each in the context of tendering for the external audit contract at least every ten years, 
a requirement which is currently voluntary for a Standard Listed company. Deloitte was appointed Auditor to the Company in 2011. The Auditor 
is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years. 2011 was the first year of the current lead audit partner’s 
tenure.
Recognising the relatively recent appointment of the Auditor, the Committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal 
tender in light of the regulatory requirements, and any further changes in the regulatory framework. In any event, we do not anticipate that this 
will be earlier than the date of the rotation of the current senior statutory auditor. There are no contractual obligations that restrict the choice of 
Auditors.
Effectiveness of external audit process
T o assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Auditor is asked on an annual basis to articulate the steps that it has taken 
to ensure objectivity and independence, including where the Auditor provides non-audit services. APR Energy monitors the Auditor’s 
performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of its duties, which informs the Audit Committee’s decision to recommend 
reappointment on an annual basis. This year, the Committee obtained a report on the Auditor’s own quality control procedures and considered 
its annual audit quality and transparency report. During 2013, the Committee undertook a review to evaluate the performance of its Auditor. 
This was undertaken internally, incorporating feedback from across the Group including the Management T eam, the Finance function and 
Committee members. For the 2013 financial year, management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the 
primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good. The Committee concurred with the view of management.
Non-audit services
The fees and performance of the Auditor are reviewed annually. The Committee aims to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not 
impair the integrity, independence and objectivity of the Company’s Auditor. This has been achieved by adhering to the Accounting Practices 
Board Ethical Standard Number 5 relating to ‘non-audit services provided to audited entities’. The Committee has reviewed and monitored the 
nature and extent of non-audit services and challenged it, where appropriate. The Committee has also reviewed the fees (both individually and 
in aggregate relative to the audit fee), noting that all significant non-audit services work required Committee approval before commencement.
It is acknowledged that, in some circumstances, the Auditor’s understanding of the business can be beneficial in improving the efficiency and 
effectiveness of advisory work and, therefore, it has been considered appropriate that the Auditor be engaged. It was also determined that the 
nature of the work would not undermine auditor objectivity and independence. In total $1.2m (2012: $0.8m) was spent on non-audit services 
during the year of which $0.8m (2012: $nil) related to acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business and $0.1m (2012: $0.4m) related to the 
interim review. The work undertaken on the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business is work that would usually be expected to be done by 
the Company’s auditor, as there are significant synergies and timing benefits to the Company. As such, the Committee considers that this level 
of non-audit fees relative to the audit fee of $1.0m (2012: $0.9m) is acceptable. For further details see note 9.
Independence
The Committee requires confirmation, at least annually, from the Auditor that it possesses the suitable independence and impartiality to 
continue to serve the Company as auditor. The Committee reviews the expertise, performance, and effectiveness of the Auditor. Based on the 
reviews conducted, the Committee has satisfied itself that the UK professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation have been 
complied with. 
Reappointment of the Auditor
In light of the reviews undertaken and the satisfactory conclusions reached, the Committee has recommended that a resolution proposing to 
reappoint Deloitte (now in its third year) as the Group’s Auditor for a further year be put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 66 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Board determined that the activities, often delegated to a Nomination Committee, would be performed by the 
Board as a whole. There were no specific meetings of the Committee, however the Board considered a number of 
tasks ordinarily undertaken by the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is responsible, amongst other things, for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board 
of the Company and of the Subsidiary and ensuring that both are comprised of the right balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience, identifying and nominating for approval candidates to fill any vacancies on those Boards as and when 
they arise, giving full consideration to succession planning for the Group, and making recommendations as to the 
composition of the other committees of the Board.
In discharging its nomination related responsibilities, the Board is responsible for:
l  ensuring that the Company has a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors to the Board;
l  ensuring that the Company reviews the balance and effectiveness of the Board, identifying the skills needed and 
those individuals who might best provide them, in accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and the 
Code of Best Practice contained in the Code, the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing, Prospectus and 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any other applicable rules, as appropriate;
l  reviewing regularly the Board structure, size and composition (including by reference to skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity) and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are 
deemed necessary;
l  identifying and nominating candidates, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans 
for succession, in particular, of the Chief Executive and Chairman of the Company;
l  prior to any appointment, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, and, in the light 
of this evaluation preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
In identifying suitable candidates the Board shall: use open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate 
the search; consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds; and consider candidates on merit and against 
objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, taking care that 
appointees have enough time available to devote to the position. The Board’s approach to diversity is detailed on 
page 69. 
There were no changes to the Board during the year. 
Membership 
and process
Remit
Terms of 
Reference
Nomination Committee Report 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 67 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Membership 
and process
Committee 
Attendance
Remit
Key activities 
during the year
Ethics Committee Report
The Ethics Committee, which comprises Baroness Denise Kingsmill (as Chair), John Campion, Shonaid Jemmett-
Page, and Vipul T andon, is responsible for advising the Board on the development of the Group’s compliance policies 
and strategies, including examining whether ethical risks have been effectively identified, assessed, managed and 
reported to the Board, with a view to ensuring that the Group does not engage in bribery, corruption or unethical 
behaviour.
The Committee met once in 2013 and the members’ attendance record is set out on page 58.
The Company maintains an anti-corruption policy and all employees have certified that they have read and will comply 
with that policy. The Group also employs safeguards and programmes across its business, including anti-corruption 
training programmes and due diligence on third parties, designed to prevent the occurrence of fraud, bribery and 
corruption.
Since the Committee’s last report, its main activities have been:
l  A review of the Company’s anti-corruption training including the extension to include modules on export 
compliance and anti-money laundering and training coverage within the Group;
l  A review of the Company’s process for supply chain compliance certification; and 
l  The Committee engaged the service of The Good Corporation to conduct an independent audit of the Group’s 
ethics and compliance practices. The Good Corporation applied its framework on bribery and corruption, and 
found the Company to be in the top quartile of all companies surveyed, with a strong set of policies and controls to 
prevent bribery and corruption. 
Following The Good Corporation’s report, the Committee has overseen further enhancements in the implementation of 
procedures for safeguarding the Group against the risk of bribery and corruption, including:
l  developing vendor, agent and customer certifications, sign-offs, agreements checklists, and other forms of due 
diligence in connection with engaging with third party providers;
l  conducting third-party agent registration, background checks and creating an electronic central repositary for such 
information;
l  strengthening anti-corruption procedures and processes for invoice and expense approvals; and 
l  the inclusion of a conflict of interest policy into the corporate employee handbook and annual employee declaration 
of compliance. 68 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Report
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 October 2009 under the Companies Act 2006 as a private company limited by 
shares with the name Horizon Acquisition Company Limited and with registered number 7062201. The principal legislation under which the 
Company operates is the UK Companies Act 2006 (the “ Act”) and the regulations made thereunder. 
The Company is a holding company for the Group whose Ordinary Shares are currently admitted to a standard listing on the Official List and 
to trading on the Main Market. The Group is a leading global provider of fast-track large-scale mobile turbine power solutions to a variety of 
customers, including sovereign owned utilities, governmental institutions and industrial customers.
Other Statutory and Regulatory Information
The Directors present the Annual Report together with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Strategic Report
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the business during the year to 31 December and of the position of the Group 
at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced. This is set out in the Strategic Report, 
which can be found on pages 2 to 51.
Corporate Governance statement
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors’ Report. 
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 
to 67 and is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
Information included in the Directors’ report
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the Directors’ report in the sections 
headed “Substantial shareholdings”, “Deadlines for voting rights”, “Repurchase of shares”, “ Amendment of the Company’s articles of 
association”, “ Appointment and replacement of directors” and “Powers of the directors” and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance 
section by reference.
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Annual Report and Accounts 
have been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. The Company, its Directors and 
employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose 
hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and 
developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at 
the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out on page 34 to 39. Dividends paid and proposed are set out on page 39. The Board is proposing a final 
dividend of 6.7 pence per share subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 20 May 2014, payable on 3 June 2014 to shareholders on the 
register as at 4 April 2014. Following the payment of an interim dividend of 3.3 pence per share in May 2013, the proposed total dividend for the 
year is therefore 10.0 pence per share.
Internal control and risk management
Details of the Group’s approach to internal control and risk management can be found on pages 46 to 47. 
Directors and their interests
A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and details 
of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 88. No Director had 
a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating 
companies at any time during the year.  The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors of the Company can be 
found on pages 54 to 55 under The Board. 
As at the date of this report, indemnities (which are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006) are in place 
under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors of the Company and the former Directors of the Company who held 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 69 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
office during the year ended 31 December 2013, to the extent permitted by law and by the Company’s Articles of Association, in respect 
of all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a Director of the Company or its subsidiaries. Copies of these 
indemnities are available for review at the Company’s registered office.
Employment policy
The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their 
respective aptitudes and abilities. The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled 
during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate. The Group has continued 
its policy of employee involvement by making information available to employees on matters of concern to them. Many employees are 
stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Gender diversity
As at 31 December 2013, the Group employs 196 people globally. Around 27% per cent of our workforce is female with some 52 women 
employed. At a senior leadership level women represented 12% (3 out of 26) of this population and 20% (one in five) of the Board are female.
Future developments
Important events since the year end are described in note 35 and future developments are described in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 51.
Relations with shareholders
The Board aims to provide an impartial and straightforward analysis of the Group and its business when communicating with shareholders, 
and we believe that being clear and open in our assessment of the market for temporary power and the prospects for the business is extremely 
important. In line with the Company’s Main Market listing in London, management will continue to engage fully with shareholders on a regular 
basis.
A reflection of the Board’s commitment to this goal has been the appointment of a full time Director of Investor Relations based in London. 
Beyond the formal reporting of full year and half-year results, presentations, group calls and one- to-one meetings will be undertaken by 
management in the UK, Europe, and North America. Non-Executive Directors are informed on a regular basis of such activity and encouraged 
to engage directly with shareholder meeting programmes during the year.
The Board makes every effort to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the views of major shareholders gained from regular contact with 
such shareholders and frequent dialogue with our brokers. The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and 
welcomes their participation.
Conflicts of interest
The Group has rigorous procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest. Should any Directors declare any interests they have which could 
conflict with those of the Group, then the Board is satisfied that the powers it has to authorise (or otherwise address) such potential conflicts are 
effective.
Major shareholders
As at 3 March 2014 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document) the Company had received notification of the following 
major shareholders, representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of Shareholder No. of ordinary shares % of total voting rights
General Electric International Inc. 15,453,129 16.4%
SSP Energy 11,131,556 11.8%
ACM Energy Holdings 10,073,820 10.7%
JCLA 7,000,585 7.4%
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. 6,171,648 6.6%
Alliance Bernstein 5,780,075 6.1%
J.P . Morgan Asset Management 5,559,537 5.9%
Blackrock Inc. 5,232,977 5.6%
Capital Research Management 5,051,460 5.4% 
Equinox Partners LP 2,988,749 3.2% 
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company. 70 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Share capital 
On 31 December 2013, the Company had in issue 94,251,622 ordinary shares of 10 pence (2012: 78,235,164 ordinary shares of 10 pence). 
Following completion of its acquisition of GE’s power rental business on 28 October 2013, the Company issued 15,453,129 new ordinary 
shares of 10 pence to General Electric International Inc.. Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are disclosed in Note 23 
to the accounts.
Rights and obligations attached to ordinary shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the “ Act”) and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, any share 
may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, or in the absence of such determination 
including where such resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may determine.
Voting rights
Subject to disenfranchisement as provided in the Company’s Articles of Association and subject to any special terms as to voting on which 
any shares may be issued (no such shares currently being in issue) and any other provisions of the Articles, on a show of hands every member 
present in person (or, being a corporation, present by a duly authorised representative) or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every 
member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder. The Company’s major shareholders do not 
have different voting rights.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the 
votes of the other joint holders; and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the 
Register in respect of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting
No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote (either personally or by proxy or by a 
corporate representative) at any general meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in 
the Company if any calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person who is interested 
(as defined in the Articles) in less than 0.25 per cent (in nominal value) of the shares of that class in issue and he has been served with a 
restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required 
to be provided under the Act.
Save as disclosed in the prospectus published by the Company in September 2011 in connection with its readmission to the Official List of the 
UK Listing Authority (the “Readmission Prospectus”, which is available on our website at www.aprenergy.com the Company is not aware of any 
agreement between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights. 
As disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus, pursuant to relationship agreements entered into between the Company and certain 
shareholders on 13 June 2011, such shareholders are obliged not to exercise their voting rights or procure any amendment to the Articles 
which would be inconsistent with the terms of the relevant relationship agreement.
Pursuant to the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and General Electric International Inc. on 28 October 2013, such 
shareholder is obliged to exercise or cause the exercise or, as applicable, prevent the exercise of all voting rights exercisable by any member of 
the GE group in the manner required to give effect to its obligations under such relationship agreement.
Dividends
The Company in a general meeting may declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of its members, provided that no dividend 
shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors. The Directors may pay such interim dividends as appear to them to 
be justified. No dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a share shall bear interest as against the Company.
There are no fixed date on which entitlement to dividends arises. All dividends unclaimed for a period of twelve years after becoming due for 
payment shall be forfeited and shall cease to remain owing by the Company.
Variation of rights
Whenever the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may (unless otherwise 
provided by the terms of issue of that class) be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters of the 
issued shares of the class (excluding treasury shares) or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of such 
holders.
Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares in the Company
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, except that:
l pursuant to the relationship agreement dated 28 October 2013, General Electric International Inc. has agreed with the Company not to 
directly or indirectly transfer or dispose of ordinary shares (without the prior written consent of the Company) until the first anniversary of 
the Relationship Agreement or the earlier termination of such restrictions in accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, if 
applicable (and, thereafter, for as long as members of the GE group hold equal to or greater than 5 per cent of the Company’s ordinary 
shares such ordinary shares must only be transferred or disposed of in accordance with agreed orderly marketing arrangements);
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 71 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
l certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
l pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to 
deal in the Company’s ordinary shares.
Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of ordinary shares that may result in restrictions on their transfer.
Amendment of Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of the Company, the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Rights to appoint and remove Directors
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director. Any Director so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next annual general 
meeting and shall then be eligible for election by shareholders. 
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Act, the Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of 
his/her period of office. The office of a Director must be vacated if: (i) he resigns his office by notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered 
at a meeting of the Board; or (ii) by notice in writing he offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer; or (iii) his resignation is 
requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number; or (iv) a registered medical practitioner 
who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that Director has become physically or mentally incapable of 
acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months; or (v) by reason of a Director’s mental health, a court makes an order 
which wholly or partly prevents that Director from personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director would otherwise have; or (vi) he 
is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board (whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends) for six 
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated; or (vii) he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally; 
or (viii) he is prohibited by law from being a Director; or (ix) he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Act or is removed from office pursuant to 
the Articles.
Relationship agreements 
As disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus, certain shareholders entered into relationship agreements with the Company on 13 June 2011. 
The principal purpose of such relationship agreements is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of 
the relevant shareholder and to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Company and such shareholders are at arm’s length 
and on a commercial basis. Such agreements will terminate upon such shareholder (together with their connected persons and investment 
vehicles) ceasing to hold 5 per cent or more of the total number of ordinary shares in issue. In addition, so long as such shareholders’ collective 
shareholding in the Company does not fall below 5 per cent, such shareholder will have the right to nominate for appointment one Director (or, 
in the case of the Founders, two Directors) at each of the Board and Operating Board levels.
In addition, General Electric International, Inc. entered into a relationship agreement with the Company on 28 October 2013. The principal 
purpose of such relationship agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of GE and to 
ensure that transactions and relationships between the Company and GE are at arm’s length and on a commercial basis. The principal rights 
and obligations of General Electric International, Inc. under such agreement will terminate upon members of the GE group ceasing to hold 
equal to or greater than 5 per cent of the Company’s ordinary shares. In addition, as such members of the GE group hold equal to or greater 
than 5 per cent of the Company’s ordinary shares General Electric International Inc. will have the right to appointment one observer to attend 
Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company’s Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management 
of the business of the Company or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or 
charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets (present and future) and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures 
and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or any third party. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares
At this year’s Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the Board to allot relevant securities (i) up to a nominal 
amount of £6,220,607 (representing 62,206,070 ordinary shares of 10p each) being the guideline limit of approximately 66% of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital. Of this amount £3,110,303 (or 31,103,035 ordinary shares of 10p each), representing approximately 33% of the 
Company’s ordinary share capital, can only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue, such authority to apply until the end of next 
year’s Annual General Meeting (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 20 August 2015).
A special resolution will also be proposed to grant the Directors’ additional power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with 
rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of £471,258, representing approximately 5% of the Company’s ordinary share capital. A 
special resolution will also be proposed at this year’s Annual General Meeting to grant the Directors’ authority to repurchase the Company’s 
ordinary shares in the market. The authority will be limited to a maximum of 9,425,162 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital and will set the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid. 72 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Founder securities 
The Founder securities take the form of C ordinary shares in APR Energy Holdings Limited. Details of the Founder securities are disclosed in 
Note 25 to the accounts.
Save with the approval of the holders of 75 per cent of the Founder securities in issue from time to time: (i) APR Energy Holdings Limited 
may not be voluntarily wound up; (ii) the Company may not sell its ordinary shares in APR Energy Holdings Limited; (iii) APR Energy Holdings 
Limited may not sell any material part of the business or assets acquired pursuant to the Acquisition; and (iv) ordinary shares must not be 
issued at a discount to their market value.
Securities carrying special rights
Save as disclosed in the Readmission Prospectus (and summarised above) in respect of Founder securities, no person holds securities in the 
Group carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Rights under the employee share scheme
There are no restrictions on the exercise of voting rights in relation to shares to which the employee share scheme relates.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that the business is a going concern on the basis that it has significant cash, debt facilities and net assets, and for this 
reason have adopted the going concern principle in the preparation of the financial statements. Further discussion regarding going concern is 
provided on page 39 in the Financial Review.
Change of control
The Company is party to a number of agreements, which take effect, alter, or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following the 
successful conclusion of a takeover bid. Such agreements include purchase contracts with Caterpillar Inc. together with several customer sales 
contracts, none of which are considered individually material.
In addition, the Company’s share schemes contain provisions which, in the event of a change of control, would result in outstanding options 
and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes. As summarised in Note 25 to the accounts, if a change of 
control of the Company is at a price per ordinary share that is at least equal to a specified price per ordinary share, the Founder securities may 
be converted into the requisite number of ordinary shares.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or its employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid (although, in line with the position for many listed companies, provisions of the Company’s share plans 
permit options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover in certain circumstances).
Certain members of the Management T eam have entered into service agreements with APR Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company. The 
terms of such agreements generally provide that in the event of a termination of that person’s employment due to a change of control of the 
Company, the relevant employee shall be entitled to (i) unpaid base salary as at the date of termination, (ii) any annual bonus accrued but 
unpaid as at the date of termination; (iii) a number of months’ base salary and (iv) other non-material benefits.
Disclosure of information to the Company’s Auditor
In accordance with section 418 of the Act, the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far 
as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 418(3) of the Act) of which the Group’s Auditor is unaware; 
and each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s Auditor is aware of that information.
Indemnity of officers
Under Article 180 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify any Director or other officer against liability, subject to the provisions of the Act, 
and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where judgement is given in their 
favour. Under the authority conferred by Article 180, the Company has granted indemnities to Directors and officers of the Company and its 
subsidiaries. The indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises out of fraud, default, negligence, or breach of fiduciary duty or trust by the 
indemnified person.
The Company has Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which covers each Director and his or her lawful spouse or civil partner against 
losses for claims made against them in their capacity as Directors of the Company. The policy is intended to maintain such coverage for the 
term of the Directors’ appointments, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy of insurance from time to time in force.
Where it is appropriate for a Director to seek advice from independent advisers at the Company’s expense, the Company will reimburse the 
cost of reasonable legal costs incurred, subject (in each case) to a maximum of £5,000 per Director and, subject further, to the prior approval of 
the Board.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 73 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Essential contractual arrangements 
The Company’s key equipment purchases are focused on two major suppliers with which it has strategic alliances and other agreements. The 
Company purchases its diesel and Gas reciprocating fleet from Ring Power Corporation with its headquarters located in St. Augustine, Florida, 
USA. Ring Power is an authorised dealer of Caterpillar, Inc. based in Peoria, Illinois, USA. On 28 October 2013, the Company purchased GE’s 
dual-fuel mobile turbine fleet. The Company has arrangements for global support and service from GE, Ring Power and Pratt & Whitney Power 
Systems, Inc. to procure spare parts as required.
Political contributions 
There were no political contributions during the period.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting (“ AGM”) will be held on 20 May 2014. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and details of the 
resolutions to be proposed at the meeting will be provided to shareholders in a separate circular. 
AGM – special resolutions
Special resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 AGM to authorise the Directors: (i) to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate amount 
representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and a further one third in relation to rights issues (in 
line with guidance issued by the Association of the British Insurers); (ii) to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment 
of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of approximately 5 per cent of the current issued share capital; 
(iii) to authorise the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares; (iv) to approve the calling of meetings (other than AGMs) on 14 days’ 
notice; (v) to give authority (in the form customarily taken by English law governed companies listed on the London Stock Exchange) for the 
Company to make donations to charities or other worthwhile causes that might technically fall within the Act’s definition of a political donation; 
and (vi) to ratify the payment of previous dividends.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP was appointed as Auditor at the last AGM and has expressed its willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the 
provisions of section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing its reappointment will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
Greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions
The following information reflects the Company’s mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Act’s (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). Under the Regulations, the emission categories captured within the definitions 
reflect all material emission sources for which the Group is deemed responsible. 
The Group has decided to measure GHG emissions using an operational control approach; the organisational boundary has been set to reflect 
those activities within the Group’s control meaning that the Group does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the 
boundary of its operational control. Fleet emission are driven by three main factors: the fuel type customers chose to use; the pattern of their 
usage; and the fuel efficiency of the Group’s fleet. Only the last of these three factors is under the Group’s control, therefore emissions arising 
from these other factors has not been measured. 
The Group does not manufacture any products or equipment and has identified the following key activities as being within the GHG reporting 
requirements:
–– Scope 1: Fleet emissions reflecting all fuel types burned within the Group’s power generating equipment, including reciprocating engines 
and dual-fuel turbines used across all geographies within the Group’s control.
 –– Scope 2: Heat and electricity purchased from the respective local suppliers for site/office usage and Group owned and operated site 
vehicles. This has been calculated as non-material and would reflect less than 1% of emissions and has therefore not been included.
At present, Scope 3 activities (e.g. business travel; freight shipping) are excluded from the reporting scope, as these are not within the Group’s 
operational control, nor is it believed that the quality of the data would not be sufficiently robust for accurate reporting in these areas. 
The Group has identified GHG emissions per megawatt hour (MWH) as the most appropriate KPI (referred to as the intensity ratio). This ratio 
will be impacted by fuel type, fuel quality and power generation equipment type, the determination of each of these factors rests with the client.
 
Global GHG emissions data - (CO
2
e, metric tonnes rounded to the nearest 10,000)
 2013
Scope 1 2,240,260
Scope 2  <20,000
Total GHG emissions (CO 2e) 2,260,260
Company’s chosen intensity ratio: 
Emissions per MWH 0.74 74 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Fair, balanced and understandable
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
When arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes including the following:
l the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management with co-ordination to ensure consistency across sections;
l a verification process to ensure factual accuracy;
l comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken by members of the Management T eam and other senior management;
l an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by the Company’s legal advisers and other advisers; and
l the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the full Board.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU.  Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.  In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
l properly select and apply accounting policies;
l present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
l provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
l make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Act.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website.  
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
l the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
l the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; 
and
l the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
 On behalf of the Board
 John Campion Andrew Martinez
 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Office
 25 March 2014  25 March 2014
Corporate Governance Report
Statement of the Directors 
in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 75 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Statement
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present our report on 
Directors’ remuneration at the end of a 
successful and transformational year for the 
Group. We operate a simple remuneration 
structure across all employees, which 
provides a clear link between pay, our key 
strategic priorities and the overall interests 
of shareholders. The Committee considers 
it essential to ensure that our executive 
pay arrangements are fully aligned with the 
ambition and achievement of our profitable 
growth strategy.
We were pleased with the Group’s progress 
during the year, in which we delivered a 
strong financial performance, together with 
the completion of the acquisition of the GE 
Power Rental Business which accelerated 
the pace at which we can execute our 
strategy. 
Remuneration Committee activities
The Remuneration Committee (the 
“Committee”) has recognised best practice 
arrangements, resulting in John Campion, 
Chief Executive Officer, stepping down from 
the Committee, which now comprises only 
Non-Executive Directors.
The main activities of the Committee since 
the last report were as follows:
l Assessed performance of the Chief 
Executive Officer and determined  
annual bonus for 2013;
l Approved share awards for 2013;
l Established the Chief Executive Officer’s 
salary arrangements for 2014;
l Set bonus targets for the Chief  
Executive Officer for 2014;
l Reviewed remuneration benchmarking 
and provided recommendation to the 
Board regarding fee structures and levels 
for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors;
l Considered remuneration market 
trends and corporate governance 
developments;
l Reviewed the revised remuneration 
reporting regulations and prepared 
the Directors’ remuneration policy and 
report; and
l Considered a Non-Executive Director 
share purchase plan and provided 
recommendation to the Board.
Further details can be found in the 
Remuneration Committee’s report on page 90.
Remuneration for 2013
Executive remuneration for the year was 
set in accordance with the outcome of a 
detailed review of the remuneration policy 
and levels for the Executive Directors 
undertaken by the Committee and its 
advisers, as detailed in our 2012 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. This review sought 
to align remuneration to drive long-term 
shareholder value, growth, development and 
sustainability and ensure that the Company 
is able to attract and retain the top talent in 
the industry. 
The Committee consulted with a number 
of the Company’s major institutional 
shareholders (including those represented 
on the Board) in relation to these changes 
(equating to an aggregate shareholding 
in excess of 50%). Those consulted were 
altogether supportive of the changes, and 
shareholders voted overwhelmingly in 
support as reflected by their 98% favourable 
vote at the 2013 AGM.
The Company has continued to seek to 
align the long-term interests of shareholders, 
the senior management team (including 
the Chief Executive Officer) and other 
employees in the Group by significantly 
increasing participation in the Company’s 
Share Award Plan 2012 – with participation 
now cascaded to all levels of the Group (and 
with approximately 130 total participants). 
Details of the remuneration decisions for 
2013 are set out in the Directors’ annual 
remuneration report, which follows.
The Committee believes that the 
performance of John Campion has been 
strong throughout the year. Under his 
leadership and vision the Group has effected 
a transformational acquisition and moved, 
at pace, with its ambitions. Remuneration for 
the year, reflects the Group’s strong financial 
performance, and is disclosed on page 
84 of the Directors’ remuneration report. 
This performance resulted in the award of 
a bonus representing 107% of target to the 
Chief Executive for 2013. The performance  
conditions of the 2011 LTIP award relating 
the period ending 31 December 2013 were 
not met, and therefore, did not vest. 
Key remuneration decisions for 2014
Following the extensive remuneration review 
in 2012, the Committee has, with this in 
mind, made no material or substantial 
changes to the Company’s Executive Director 
remuneration arrangements during 2013.
During 2013, the remuneration arrangements 
for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
were reviewed by the Committee. This review 
resulted in changes to the fee structure and 
fee levels effective January 1, 2014. These 
changes have been made to reflect the 
commitment and contribution that is expected 
from the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors, and is commensurate with 
comparable roles in companies of a similar 
size and complexity to APR Energy.
Remuneration disclosure
This report complies with the requirements 
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended 
in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012) and 
the Listing Rules.
The report comprises two main sections:
l The Directors’ remuneration policy report 
(pages 77 to 83). This section contains 
details of the remuneration policy that 
we propose will apply from the 2014 
AGM (20 May 2014) subject to obtaining 
shareholder approval at the AGM; and
l The Directors’ annual report on 
remuneration. This section sets out 
details of how our remuneration policy 
was implemented for the year ended 31 
December 2013 and details of Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 
December 2013.
At the Company’s AGM in May 2014:
l The Directors’ remuneration policy report 
will be put to a binding shareholder vote; 
and
l The Directors’ annual report on 
remuneration report will be put to an 
advisory shareholder vote.
I sincerely hope that you find this report of 
the Committee’s work and remuneration 
comprehensive and understandable. I hope 
you will support the resolutions presented at 
the upcoming AGM.
Jim Hughes
Chairman,
Remuneration Committee 76 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 76 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Reward principles 
Our policy on remuneration
The Group’s remuneration policy is set based on the Remuneration Committee’s recommendations, subject to Board approval. The Committee 
seeks to provide fair and appropriate remuneration across the Group and to retain key talent within the organisation. In setting remuneration 
levels, the Committee has regard to comparable UK and US energy market peers in terms of size, geographical spread, and complexity. It also 
considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Remuneration levels and the relative importance of its different components are commensurate with those of the Company’s UK and US 
energy market peers with similar revenue and market capitalisation levels.  In considering these comparators, the Committee reflects APR 
Energy’s position as a UK listed company and acknowledge that the Group’s international business, operating within multiple financial markets, 
is inherently more complex than many of its comparators. 
The key elements of the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration are base salary and benefits, an annual bonus plan and long-term incentive 
plans.
Each element is designed to achieve specific objectives. In aggregate, the different elements create a unified and balanced reward mix and 
competitive employment proposition. The individual elements are described in more details in the remuneration policy table on pages 77 to 80. 
The Committee considers it essential to ensure that our remuneration arrangements are fully aligned with the ambition and achievement of our 
profitable growth strategy and enhancing long-term shareholder value. 
The intention is to provide remuneration packages that help attract, retain, and motivate, with a significant proportion of the remuneration of the 
executive members of the senior management team (including the Chief Executive Officer) being structured to link rewards to both corporate 
and individual performance. Performance related elements of senior executive remuneration seek to promote the long-term success of the 
Group and are compatible with the Group’s risk policies and systems.
The Committee takes into consideration performance on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, and it believes that no element 
of the executive incentive structure raises ESG risks through inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour or the taking of any undue risks 
with the business.
Stretching performance targets 
The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy must ensure that a significant part of the remuneration package 
is linked to the achievement of stretching corporate performance targets and a strong alignment of interest with shareholders. Reflecting our 
pay for performance policy, bonus and share awards are linked to performance conditions with pre-determined targets. No payment is made 
below threshold levels of performance and, at stretch levels of performance, a majority of total compensation is delivered through performance-
related incentives paid in a combination of cash and shares.
Competitive remuneration
The intention is to provide remuneration packages that help attract, retain, and motivate the members of the senior management team to 
achieve the Group’s objectives of delivering growth in profits and enhancing long-term shareholder value. The remuneration package and 
the relative importance of its different components are based on a view of both UK and US energy market peers, with target compensation 
set around the median and the ability for exceptional performance to be rewarded through variable pay methods at the upper quartile of the 
market. Remuneration should reflect best practice among our peer groups, support our strategy, and have regard to governance principles 
around remuneration.
Commercial sensitivity with regards to disclosure of performance measures and targets 
It is expected that commercially sensitivity measures, targets and outcomes (particularly strategic and personal annual bonus targets) will not 
be disclosed retrospectively where the Committee considers this is not in the Company’s commercial interests.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 77 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 77 
It is intended that this Policy Report shall take binding effect from the date of its approval at the AGM on 20 May 2014. Information on how the 
Company intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set out in the “Statement of implementation of remuneration policy”  
on page 84.
Future policy - Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Base salary
Retirement benefits
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group’s strategy. 
Reflect market value of role 
and the Director’s skills, 
experience and performance.
Where the Executive Director 
also receives fees from the 
Company these will be taken 
into account when setting 
base salary.
Provide local market-
competitive retirement 
benefits.
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Reviewed annually, any increases 
typically apply from 1 February. 
When determining base salary 
levels, consideration is given to the 
following:
l salary levels paid for similar 
roles with comparable status, 
skills, and responsibility in UK 
and US energy market peers of 
comparable size and complexity;
l the competitiveness of salary 
levels against these peers; and
l performance against personal 
and corporate objectives, 
experience, and conditions 
throughout the Group.
Ability to invest in a standard 
company to a “Section 401K” 
plan (a US retirement plan made 
available to US employees 
generally) or a local equivalent plan 
on the same terms as for other 
employees. 
These arrangements are subject to 
limits based on US law.
Pension contribution may be paid 
into personal pension savings 
plans or paid as a separate cash 
allowance.
No prescribed maximum annual 
increase.
Salary increases to Executive 
Directors are generally within 
the guidelines for the wider 
employee population.
 
However, increases may be 
made above this level at the 
Committee’s discretion to 
take account of individual 
circumstances such as:
l Increase in scope and 
responsibility;
l Increase to reflect the 
individual’s development and 
performance in role (e.g. for a 
new appointment where base 
salary may be increased over 
time rather than set directly 
at the level of the previous 
incumbent or market level); 
and
l Alignment to market level.
Maximum of 25% of base salary.
No element other than base 
salary is pensionable.
None
None
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 78 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013 78 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
   to strategy  opportunity measures 
Other benefits
Annual bonus
Performance is assessed 
using the following 
metrics:
75% of the award is 
based on financial 
measures; currently 
revenue, adjusted EBIT 
and adjusted ROCE, and 
25% of the award is 
based on strategic 
measures.
The measures and 
targets are set by 
the Committee each 
year. The measures 
that will apply for the 
2014 financial years 
are described in the 
Directors’ annual 
remuneration report. 
Measures for the 
following years will 
be summarised in 
the Directors’ annual 
remuneration report of 
the relevant year.
Provide local market-
competitive and cost-effective 
benefits to executives to assist 
them to carry out their duties 
effectively.
Attract and retain high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
Group’s strategy.
Reward and incentivise 
the achievement of annual 
financial and strategic targets.
The Group provides a range of 
benefits which may include a 
car benefit (or cash equivalent), 
private medical insurance, 
permanent health insurance and 
life assurance. 
Additional benefits may also be 
provided in certain circumstances 
which may include relocation 
expenses, housing allowance and 
school fees. Other benefits may be 
offered if considered appropriate 
and reasonable by the Committee.
The benefits arrangements for 
executive directors are reviewed 
by the Committee periodically 
to ensure appropriateness in 
terms of the type and level of 
benefits provided. In determining 
appropriateness, the Committee 
will consider factors such as the 
director’s country of residence and 
length of service, as well as local 
practices, cost and convenience.
Measures and targets are set 
annually and payout levels are 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee based on performance 
against those targets.
The Remuneration Committee 
may, in exceptional circumstances, 
amend the bonus payout 
should this not, in the view of 
the Committee, reflect overall 
business performance or individual 
contribution.
Annual bonus is payable in cash.
There are no clawback or malus 
provisions applicable to the annual  
bonus.
Set at a level which the 
Remuneration
Committee considers:
l Appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles 
in companies of a similar 
size and complexity in the 
relevant market; and
l Provides a sufficient 
level of benefit based on 
the role and individual 
circumstances, such as 
relocation.
For maximum performance: 
250% of base salary.
For on-target performance:  
125% of base salary. 
For threshold performance: 
50% of base salary.
No bonus is payable if 
performance is below 
specified threshold levels.
None.
Future policy - Executive Directors (cont’d) Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 79 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Long-term share 
based incentive 
plans
Historic 
Commitments
Performance is 
measured against 
growth of the Group’s 
annualised adjusted 
earnings per share, 
measured over a 
minimum three year 
period.
The measures and 
targets are set by the 
Committee. 
Details of the targets 
that will apply for 
2014 are set out in 
the Directors’ annual 
remuneration report.
Dependent on 
circumstances.
Motivate and reward the 
achievement of long-term 
Group financial performance in 
line with the Group’s strategy 
and long-term shareholder 
returns.
Support the creation of 
shareholder value and aligns 
Executive interests with those 
of long-term shareholders.
Honour previous  
agreements.
Awards, made in the form of 
conditional shares or options, 
with vesting dependent upon 
the achievement of performance 
conditions.
Grants are typically made annually.
The Committee judges whether 
and to what extent targets have 
been met, and if an exceptional 
event occurs that causes the 
Committee to consider that the 
targets are no longer appropriate, 
the Committee may adjust them.
Awards vest subject to continued 
employment and performance 
measured after three financial 
years and may vest earlier in 
good leaver circumstances or 
in connection with a change of 
control ot other corporate event  
in accordance with the plan rules.
The Committee may adjust the 
number of shares that vest to 
ensure the basis of calculation to 
ensure it is fair and consistent.
Awards may also be adjusted in 
the event of a variation of capital,  
in accordance with the plan rules.
There are no clawback or malus 
provisions applicable to the long-
term incentive plans.
Where commitments have been 
given prior to the 2014 AGM, as 
a matter of policy APR Energy will 
honour those commitments in 
accordance with their terms. The 
only such current commitments 
are share awards made and 
disclosed to shareholders in 
previous years.
Awards vest on the following 
basis:
l ‘Threshold’ performance: 
30% of the maximum 
shares awarded;
l ‘Maximum’ performance: 
100% of the shares 
awarded.
With straight-line vesting 
between performance levels.
Current annual award levels 
for Executive Directors range 
between 100% - 300% of base 
salary at the time of grant.
Overall individual limit of 400% 
of base salary, in exceptional 
circumstances.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to make awards 
up to the individual limit and, 
would expect to consult with 
significant investors if awards 
were to be made routinely 
above current levels.
Dependent on  
circumstances.
Future policy - Executive Directors (cont’d) 80 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Chief Executive Officer
Minimum On-T arget Maximum
Fixed Annual Variable Long-T erm variable
$738,000
$2,345,000
$3,951,000
$
Fees None Reward individuals for  
fulfilling the relevant role.
Attract and retain individuals 
with the skills, experience and 
knowledge to contribute to an 
effective Board.
Fees are reviewed periodically.
The fee structure is as follows:
l The Chairman is paid a single, 
consolidated fee;
l The Non-Executive Directors 
are paid a basic fee, 
plus additional fees for 
membership or chairmanship 
of Board Committees or further 
responsibilities (e.g. SID);
l Fees are currently paid in cash, 
although the Company may 
introduce a facility whereby  
Non-Executive Directors can elect 
to receive a portion of their fees 
in APR Energy shares, based on 
open market value at the time.
Set at a level which:
l Reflects the commitment 
and contribution that 
is expected from the 
Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors; and
l Is appropriately positioned 
against comparable roles in 
companies of a similar size 
and complexity among UK 
and US energy companies 
of a similar size and 
international scope.
Actual fee levels are disclosed 
in the Directors’ annual 
remuneration report for the 
relevant financial year.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
As noted above, performance measures apply to the Annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). These were chosen and targets are set as follows:
• Annual bonus – the specific metrics and their weightings are set by the Committee in the light of the Board’s assessment of the strategic imperatives facing the
Company and the budgets and other operational plans adopted by the Board to best address both short and longer-term imperatives. Management proposes 
suitable metrics (which are quantitative wherever possible) and levels of performance to form the threshold, on-target and maximum levels of attainment. The 
Committee then assesses whether achievement of these is appropriately aligned with shareholders’ interests, and whether the reward that would accrue to the 
Executive Directors would be justifiable. They also examine whether the metric is consistent with the requirements of prudent risk management (and does not itself 
create perverse incentives) and good governance.
• LTIP – after consulting with shareholders in 2012, it was determined that the LTIP plan was fully aligned with the strategic imperatives facing the Company, could 
easily be adapted to changing circumstances and so represented a strong means of assessing value-creating activities. By including a longer-term assessment of 
annualised earnings per share growth over a minimum of three years, a clear incentive is created to manage the business for value over the longer term. Details of 
outstanding awards under the Company’s LTIPs are set out on page 118. 
Illustrative performance scenarios
The above chart provides an illustration of the operation of the 
remuneration policy and shows the levels of remuneration in US 
dollars that would be received by the Chief Executive Officer for 
different performance levels in accordance with the Directors’ 
remuneration policy for 2014. 
 
Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance
 to strategy  opportunity measures
Fixed remuneration only based on latest known salary, 
retirement benefits and other benefits, as shown in single 
figure table. 
 Base  Benefits Retirement Total
$’000s salary   benefits fixed
CEO 714 14 10 738
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if 
performance was in line with the on-target scenario:
l Annual bonus pays out at 125% of salary for on-target 
performance.
l A LTIP award with a face value of 100% (in line with the 
“normal” grant policy) pays out 30% of maximum, being 
threshold level of vesting.
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if 
performance was in line with the maximum scenario:
l Annual bonus pays out at 250% of salary for maximum 
performance.
l A LTIP award with a face value of 200% (in line with the 
“maximum” possible award under the plan rules) pays out 
at 100% of maximum.
Minimum Maximum On-Target
The chart show three scenarios: (a) minimum, (b) on-target and (c) 
maximum. In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions 
have been made:
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
100% 31% 19%
38%
45%
31%
36%
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Future policy - Non-Executive Directors Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 81 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Non-Executive Director Fees
The Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee per annum. The 
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus fees reflecting 
additional responsibilities including: Senior Independent Director, 
membership and chairmanship of Board Committees. In addition, the 
Committee retains the authority to pay additional fees, up to £20,000 
for independent work outside of the scope of the Board, subject to 
approval by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The annual rates for Non-Executive Director fees, effective 1 January 
2014, are shown in the table on page 83.
The Company encourages the Non-Executive Directors to build up 
a holding in the Company’s shares. The Committee may introduce 
a facility whereby Non-Executive Directors may elect to receive a 
portion of their fees in Ordinary Shares of the Company, purchased 
on a regular basis in the market.
Letters of appointment 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed 
pursuant to a letter of appointment.
The contractual arrangements for the current Chief Executive Officer 
comprises a service agreement with APR Energy LLC and a letter 
of appointment with the Company. Under the terms of his service 
agreement the Chief Executive Officer is entitled to a termination 
equal to twelve months salary. Where appropriate, it will continue 
to be the Company’s policy that an Executive Director may have a 
service agreement with the relevant operating subsidiary in addition 
to appropriate contractual arrangements with the Company.
The details of the Directors’ letters of appointment with the Company 
are summarised in the table below:
Name of Director Date of letter Notice
 of appointment  period
Mike Fairey (Chairman) 17 December 2009 12 months
John Campion 13 June 2011 12 months
Matthew Allen  25 January 2012 12 months
Gregory Bowes 13 June 2011 3 months
Edward Hawkes 12 January 2010 12 months
Jim Hughes  25 January 2012 12 months
Denise Kingsmill 17 December 2009 12 months
Haresh Jaisinghani  25 January 2012 12 months
Shonaid Jemmett-Page  23 July 2012 12 months
Vipul T andon 13 June 2011 3 months
Terms of appointment of Directors
Executive Directors’ service contracts are carefully considered by 
the Committee. The Committee considers that a rolling contract 
with a notice period of 12 months is appropriate. A longer initial 
period of notice of up to 36 months, may be used where considered 
appropriate in order to secure the recruitment of an external 
candidate.
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is normally for a fixed 
term of three years, during which time the appointment may be 
terminated by the Board, or by the Company’s shareholders on 
notice.
Exit payments
In the event of early termination, an Executive Director may receive 
compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, retirement benefit 
entitlement and other contractual benefits over the notice period. 
The Committee will consider mitigation where appropriate, having 
regard to the circumstances.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus. Executive 
Directors’ may receive a bonus in respect of the financial year of 
cessation, based on performance against pre-determined targets. 
Where an Executive Director leaves by reason of death, disability or 
ill-heath they may receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of cessation.
The treatment of leavers under the Company’s long-term incentive 
plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans. The Committee 
will determine when awards vest and the period during which awards 
may be exercised.
Performance shares lapse if the participant leaves employment in 
case of termination for cause or resignation. In other cases, normally 
including death and ill health, injury or disability, redundancy and 
retirement, the Committee may determine that awards vest at the end 
of the performance period and are pro-rated for time. Performance 
conditions would apply. However, the Committee has the discretion 
to allow the award to vest on cessation of employment (on a pro-rata 
basis or otherwise) if, having regard to progress towards meeting the 
performance conditions at that point. 
The Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes 
there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that. For example, 
it can be in the interest of the Company for the Board to proactively 
organise succession and manage an executive’s departure. When 
determining the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the 
Committee will take into account the executive’s level of performance 
and contribution to the transition.
No compensation is payable to Non-Executive Directors on leaving 
office.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be 
set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment. The Committee may offer 
a package that will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre 
talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy. The 
Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements 
when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company 
and, therefore, shareholders. The Committee will seek to ensure 
that no more is paid than is necessary. Any buyout payments 
would be intended to be no more than is necessary to compensate 
for remuneration lost due to leaving the former employer and 
would reflect the delivery mechanism (i.e. cash, shares, options), 
time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that 
remuneration. 
The following elements may be considered by the Committee for 
inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, in 
addition to the policy elements set out in the table on pages 77 to 79. 82 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Initial long-term 
incentive award
Initial annual 
bonus 
opportunity
Compensation for 
forfeited awards
Sign on awards
Relocation costs
An initial long-term incentive award may be 
made, which may be higher than the maximum 
opportunity, as set out on page 79.
The Committee will ensure:
– The award is linked to the achievement of 
appropriate and challenging performance 
targets.
– The award will be forfeited if the performance 
and continued employment conditions are 
not achieved.
The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set 
higher than the approved policy.
The Committee will ensure the award is 
linked to the achievement of appropriate and 
challenging performance targets.
The terms of any compensation will be 
determined by taking into account the terms of 
any forfeited awards, including:
– Performance achieved or likely to be 
achieved;
– The proportion of performance/vesting period 
remaining; and
– The form and timing of the original award.
In certain limited circumstances, for example 
in order to compensate for a loss at a previous 
employer other than for forfeited awards, the 
Committee may make a one-off sign-on award 
as part of the initial package. 
The Committee retains the discretion to 
determine, based on the circumstances at the 
time, whether this would be in cash or shares, 
whether or not performance conditions or an 
additional holding period would apply.
Where necessary, the Company will pay 
appropriate relocation costs, in line with 
standard practice. The Committee will seek to 
ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Element Approach Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will 
be determined in accordance with the policy set out in the policy 
table.
Consultation with our employees
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees 
on the Directors’ remuneration policy, the Committee considers 
the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and 
employment conditions for the broader employee population when 
determining remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Statement of consideration of employment condi-
tions elsewhere within the Group
The remuneration policy for executives reflects the overriding 
remuneration philosophy and principles of the wider Group. 
When determining the remuneration policy and arrangements for 
Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee considers pay 
and employment conditions across the Group which operates in a 
number of different countries and has employees who perform a 
diverse range of jobs. The overall aim is that:
l employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, are paid by 
reference to the market rate;
l the APR Group promotes and offers internal promotion 
opportunities;
l the Group offers employment conditions which are commensurate 
with applicable laws where the Group does business; and
l the Group offers a range of benefits depending on the employee 
location including retirement savings plans, flexible benefits, paid 
annual leave, and healthcare insurance.
As mentioned in the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, the Company has continued to seek 
to align the long-term interests of shareholders, the Management 
Team (including the Chief Executive Officer) and other employees in 
the Group by significantly increasing participation in the Company’s 
Share Award Plan 2012 – with participation now cascaded to all 
levels of the Group (and with approximately 130 total participants).
The Committee seeks to encourage greater employee ownership 
and is considering the introduction of arrangements whereby 
employees would be able to participate in a US tax qualifying 
employee share purchase plan, a UK tax qualifying Share Incentive 
Plan and/or a UK tax qualifying Sharesave Plan (or equivalent plans 
tailored to reflect tax and legal considerations in other relevant 
jurisdictions), offering an opportunity to acquire shares on beneficial 
terms. It is envisaged that participation in such plans may be 
offered to as many employees as practicable, up to the relevant 
statutory limits. In common with most plans of this type, it is not 
anticipated that performance conditions will apply.
The Company continues to review and evolve its medium-term 
strategic plan. The Committee will seek to align the remuneration 
of key senior management, excluding Executive Directors, to the 
successful delivery of stretching performance targets in support of 
this plan. The key difference from remuneration across the wider 
Group will be an increased emphasis on performance related pay. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing 
dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of the Company’s 
largest shareholders when any major changes are being made 
to remuneration arrangements. The Committee notes that 
An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial 
annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only 
be made available in exceptional circumstances.
APR Energy plc is required to set out the maximum amount of 
variable pay which could be paid to a new Director. In order to 
provide the Company with sufficient flexibility in a recruitment 
scenario, the Committee has set this figure as 650% of base salary 
excluding compensation for forfeited awards. This represents the 
maximum annual bonus (250%) and the maximum LTIP award 
(400%) in exceptional circumstances.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional 
circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, 
stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year (for the 
annual bonus) and at least three-year (for long-term incentive plan) 
performance periods.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 83 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
shareholders may not speak with a single voice, but will seek takes into account the views of significant shareholders when formulating and 
implementing the policy.
When the last major review of remuneration occurred, the Committee consulted with a number of the Company’s major institutional 
shareholders (equating to an aggregate shareholding in excess of 50%), (including those represented on the Board) in relation to the proposed 
changes. Those consulted were altogether supportive of the proposed changes to the Directors’ remuneration arrangements. 
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders voted more than 98% in favour of the advisory remuneration vote.
Payments in exceptional circumstances
In truly unforeseen and exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments which 
might not otherwise be covered by this Policy. An example of such an exceptional circumstance could be the untimely death of a director, 
requiring another director to take on an interim role until a permanent replacement is found. Any such event and the basis for such payments 
will be announced on a timely basis to shareholders via a regulatory information service announcement and the Company’s website.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 2014 financial year
Components of remuneration – Executive Directors
Effective from 1 February 2014, the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer increased 5% to $714,000. Retirement and other benefits are in 
accordance with those stated in the policy table, and are in line with 2013.
There is no change in the maximum percentage opportunity under the annual bonus plan. The Committee determined that the performance 
measures applicable for the 2014 annual bonus are: 75% financial based (Revenue: 20%; Adjusted EBIT : 20%; Adjusted ROCE: 35%) and 25% 
qualitative based on strategic performance measures, unchanged from 2013. T argets for 2014 are not disclosed because they are considered 
to be commercially sensitive.
There is no change in the maximum LTIP opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer and targets remain unchanged from 2013. It is expected 
that awards will be made following the publication of the Annual Report.
Annualised Adjusted EPS growth   Performance level Vesting (%)
 Maximum >11% 100%
 Threshold 4% 30%
 Below threshold <4% 0%
Awards will vest on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
Components of remuneration – Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Director fee schedule for 2014, effective from 1 January 2014, is shown below:
Position Annual fee (£’000s) 
Chairman 130 
Non-Executive Director 70 
Additional responsibilities:  
Senior Independent Director 20 
Chairman of a Board Committee 10 
Membership of a Board Committee 5  84 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Annual Report on Remuneration
This section provides the details of the actual payments and awards to Directors who served during the year. Information contained in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration has, where indicated, been audited by the Group’s external independent auditors.
Single total figure of remuneration
The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 31 December 2012 and 2013.
Audited
£’000 Salary / Benefits
1
 Retirement  Annual Long-term  T otal
 Fees  benefits bonus   incentives
2,3
  
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013  2012
Executive Directors
John Campion 432 166 9 9 7 7 581 179 - - 1,028 361
    
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Fairey  90 90 - - - - - - - 80 90 170
Matthew Allen  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Gregory Bowes 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
Edward Hawkes 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
Jim Hughes  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Denise Kingsmill 70 70 - - - - - - - 80 70 150
Haresh Jaisinghani  70 65 - - - - - - - - 70 65
Shonaid Jemmett-Page  70 32 - - - - - - - - 70 32
Vipul Tandon 70 70 - - - - - - - - 70 70
1  Benefits include private medical insurance and life assurance.
2  Represents the value of long-term incentive plans where the performance period ended within the financial year. 
3  As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, Mike Fairey and Denise Kingsmill each subscribed for their remaining 10,000 matching shares during 
2012. The share price on the date of vesting was £7.98.
Additional notes to the single total figure of remuneration 
Base salary
In 2013, the Chief Executive Officer was entitled to total annual base salary of $680,000 per annum, inclusive of a fee in respect of membership 
of the Company’s Board. Base salary increased from effective 1 February 2013; reflecting the outcome of the 2012 Remuneration review, which 
identified that the Chief Executive Officer’s base salary was significantly behind those of market peers, resulting in an adjustment to reflect 
median peer salary.
In 2012, the Chief Executive Officer was entitled to total annual basic remuneration of $450,000, comprising a fee of £70,000 as a member 
of the Board, and a salary under his employment contract with APR Energy, LLC (a subsidiary of the Company) of $380,000 per annum. In 
recognition of the challenging financial year and organisational restructuring, the Chief Executive Officer elected to cease to accept his salary, 
resulting in an actual salary of £165,627 being received.
Benefits
The benefits provided to the Chief Executive Officer included private medical insurance and life assurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 85 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Retirement benefits
The Chief Executive Officer does not receive any pension benefits other than the ability to invest in a standard company “Section 401k” plan (a 
US retirement plan made available to US employees generally) subject to the applicable limits based on US law, which reflects the same terms 
as for other US employees. The level of retirement benefits in 2013 remained unchanged from 2012.
Annual bonus
For 2013, the Chief Executive Officer was eligible for an annual bonus opportunity ranging from 0% to 250% of basic remuneration, dependent 
on performance, with threshold level set at 50% and on-target level set at 125%.
The performance measures were a combination of qualitative; strategic performance targets (25%) and financial targets (75%) which were 
measured over the period of one year. Financial metrics for the purposes of the annual bonus arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer 
were Revenue (20%), Adjusted EBIT (20%), and Adjusted ROCE (35%) in 2013.
As highlighted in the Committee Chairman’s letter, the Group delivered a strong financial performance in the year, with good growth across 
financial metrics which led to 109% of the bonus relating to financial measures becoming payable. 
John Campion achieved his strategic objectives for 2013, which led to 100% of the bonus relating to strategic measures becoming payable. 
Notably, achievements against strategic and individual performance measures included the completion of the acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business. Overall, this resulted in the Chief Executive Officer receiving a bonus equal to 107% of target; 53% of the maximum or 134% of salary. 
The annual bonus for 2012 was based 80% financial metrics and 20% strategic and individual performance metrics. The Chief Executive Officer 
achieved below performance for financial and strategic metrics; this resulted in 53% of target; 32% of the maximum or 63% of salary.
The table below sets out performance achieved for the 2013 bonus against targets: 
   Weighting  Actual 
1
 
  (as % of maximum) performance 
Revenue  20% Slightly above target 
Adjusted EBIT  20% Above target 
Adjusted ROCE  35% Slightly above target 
Strategic objectives  25% Achieved
Total resulting level of award as % of target   107%
Total resulting level of award as % of maximum   53%
1 The actual target range has not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive and, therefore, will not be 
disclosed.
Long-term incentive plans (audited)
Share awards made during the year
In June 2012, the Company adopted the APR Energy Share Award Plan 2012 (the “PSP”). The PSP allows for the grant of share options and/or 
contingent share awards. This provides a more effective retention tool with the flexibility to reflect common US practice on equity incentives. It 
is a long-term incentive plan enabling selected employees to be granted a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a specified price 
subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. The number of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards granted in any 10-year 
period is limited to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary shares from time to time.
In 2013, 72,957 contingent share awards were granted to the Chief Executive Officer under the PSP . This award reflects the maximum 
opportunity of 200% of base salary representing a face value of $1,360,000. The number of shares reflects the closing share price of 1,155p 
on 28 October 2013, the date of award, based on the prevailing exchange rate, and remain subject to performance conditions. These awards 
provide for ordinary shares to be delivered (subject to payment of the nominal value of the award shares, if so required) on or after the third 
anniversary dependent on the achievement of performance conditions determined by reference to the growth of the Group’s annualised 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending on 31 December 2015, with 30% vesting at a threshold of 4% growth, rising 
to 100% vesting for growth of 11% or more, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance. 86 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Performance graphs
Chief Executive Officer pay and relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance
The following graph compares the performance of a £100 investment in APR Energy plc £0.10 Ordinary Shares performance from 19 
September 2011, the first day of trading on the London Stock Exchange Main Market to 31 December 2013 measured by TSR, compared to 
that of the same investment in the FTSE All Share Index. The FTSE All Share Index has been selected for this comparison because it is the 
index which the Committee considers to be the most closely comparable to the Company. The FTSE 250 Index is also included as this also 
represents a useful comparator.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming 
reinvestment of dividends. Spot data is used at the date of Main Market listing and at the end of each financial year. The intermediate points are 
the values at the Company’s financial year ends. 
Financial Year Ending 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 31 December 2013
CEO total remuneration (Single figure, £‘000s) 82
1
 361 1,028
Annual variable pay (% of maximum) 34%
2
 32% 53%
Long-term variable pay (% vested as % of maximum) 0%
2
 0% 0%
1  Calculated on a pro-rata basis for the period from 19 September 2011 to 31 December 2011, as a proportion of the reported 14 month year 
ended 31 December 2011.
2  For the 14 month period ended 31 December 2011.
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Value of a hypothetical £100 investment
APR Energy
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
Source: DataStream Return Index
19/9/11 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 87 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer compared to employees 
The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of Group management. 
This group was selected as the most appropriate comparator group as the Chief Executive Officer is US-based and this group provides a 
useful local market reference point and is considered to be the most appropriate representation of the Group’s employees for this requirement.
Change in remuneration   % change % change % change
from 2012 to 2013    in base salary in benefits in annual bonus
Chief Executive Officer   51% 7% 225%
Group management   20% 16% 109% 
The increase in base salary year on year reflects the findings of the 2012 remuneration review which found the Chief Executive Officer’s 
remuneration to be substantially below market peers. The Chief Executive’s Officer’s revised salary became effective 1 January 2013. The 
Committee expects future changes to the Chief Executive Officer’s base salary to be broadly in line with all employees. In 2014, the Chief 
Executive Officer’s salary increased by 5%, in line with employee salary increases. The increase in the Chief Executive Officer’s annual bonus 
reflects the increased base salary in 2013, an increase in the maximum annual bonus opportunity as a proportion of base salary, and improved 
performance against financial and strategic measures.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below displays the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and shareholder distributions, as 
required by the relevant remuneration regulations.
$m unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 % change
Overall expenditure on pay 
1
 33.4 22.3 49%
Adjusted EBITDA
 2
 181.2 156.7 16%
Dividend paid in the year
 3
 12.9 16.4 (21%)
1  Overall expenditure on pay: T otal staff costs from Note 10, including wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based 
payments.
2 Underlying profit: Adjusted EBITDA represents a key performance indicator for the Group.
3  Returns to shareholders: T otal dividends paid in the year - as shown in Note 34. Dividends paid in 2012 reflect the Company’s inaugural full and 
final dividend of 10.0 pence per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and a 2012 interim dividend of 3.3 pence per 
share. In 2013, dividends paid reflect a final dividend of 6.7 pence per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and a 2013 interim 
dividend of 3.3 pence per share. 88 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Directors’ interest in shares
The beneficial interest of the Directors in shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013 are stated below 
Audited  At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012
Name of Director   No. of Ordinary No. Founders No. of Ordinary No. Founders
   shares securities shares securities
Mike Fairey (Chairman)   30,000 - 30,000 -
John Campion 
1,2
   7,030,146 - 8,794,707 -
Matthew Allen 
3,4
   508,782 11,667 1,072,006 11,667
Gregory Bowes 
5
   38,754 - 38,754 -
Edward Hawkes 
6,7
   375,888 10,000 792,001 10,000
Jim Hughes    - - - -
Denise Kingsmill   30,000 - 30,000 -
Haresh Jaisinghani    - - - -
Shonaid Jemmett-Page    786 - 786 -
Vipul Tandon 
8
   - - - -
1 As at 12 March 2014, JCLA Cayman owned 6,941,463 ordinary shares.
2 These ordinary shares are held by JCLA Cayman, which is ultimately owned approximately 59% by John Campion.
3 Matthew Allen was also beneficially entitled to 19% of the 360,000 ordinary shares held by Horizon Growth Investment LLP . These were 
transferred to Matthew Allen in 2012.
4 Matthew Allen is also beneficially entitled to a further 4,600 Founder securities through his membership of Horizon Growth Investment LLP .  
5 Gregory Bowes’ shares are held indirectly – he has interests in the partnership structure which owns ACM which in turn has interests in the 
Company.
6 Edward Hawkes was also beneficially entitled to 25% of the 360,000 ordinary shares held by Horizon Growth Investment LLP . These were 
transferred to Edward Hawkes in 2012. He also has interest in a further 50,000 ordinary shares by being a director and shareholder of Bizy 
Investments Ltd.
7 Edward Hawkes is also beneficially entitled to a further 6,000 Founder securities through his membership of Horizon Growth Investment LLP .
8 Vipul T andon has partnership interests in the partnership structure which owns SSP , which has interests in the Company.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 89 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Directors’ share options and contingent share awards
Audited 
  Options 
1
   With  Without Vested but Exercised
   performance performance unexercised during the year
    measures measures  
Chief Executive Officer
John Campion    260,757 Nil - - 
1 There are no share schemes in place for John Campion. 
2  All awards awarded under the PSP are considered to be ‘options’ because they reflect a contingent right to acquire/receive shares, subject 
to meeting performance targets and payment of a nominal value.
There is no shareholding requirement in place for Executive Directors. The Committee believes that given the significant shareholding of John 
Campion, the introduction of such a requirement is not appropriate. The Committee retains the discretion to apply shareholder guidelines for 
Executive Directors in the future, if they believe this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Details of the awards made under the Company’s Long-T erm Incentive Plans are set out below. Details of the performance conditions that have 
applied to awards are shown on page 85.
Audited
 Plan Grant   During 2013   Exercise Date Expiry
  date      price from which  date
    At 1    At 31  exercisable/
   January     December  awards vest 
   2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed  2013   
John Campion PSP
1
  2013 - 72,957 - - 72,957 Nominal 28 Oct ‘16 n/a
 PSP
2
 2012 150,000 - - - 150,000 Nominal 20 Nov ‘15 n/a
 2011 Plan
3
 2011 600,000 - - 562,200 37,800 £10.00 13 Jun ‘14 12 Sep ‘14
1  This award is subject to a performance condition based on the increase in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share over the period 
ending 31 December 2015, with 30% vesting for annualised EPS growth of 4% and 100% vesting for adjusted EPS growth of 11%.
2  Vesting will be delayed until performance outcome has been determined.
3  This award vests in tranches according to adjusted EBITDA (50%) and adjusted net income (50%) as derived from the audited consolidated 
financial statements for the calendar years ending 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013. The performance conditions for the tranches based 
on 31 December 2011 were partially met. The performance conditions for the tranches based on 31 December 2012 and 2013 were not met.
The share options and contingent share awards were granted for nil initial consideration.
Statement of Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
 Voted for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld
 Number % Number % Number % Number %
 60,223,929 98.5% 931,821 1.5% 61,155,750 100% 1,131 0% 90 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Membership The Committee comprise four Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent Non-Executive   
and process Directors. The Chairman of the Company may serve on the Committee as an additional member if he or she was  
 considered independent on appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Chairman The following were members of the Remuneration Committee of the Company during 2013:
and members
 l Jim Hughes, Chairman
 l Gregory Bowes
 l Mike Fairey 
 l Baroness Denise Kingsmill
 John Campion, Chief Executive Officer stood down from the Committee on 24 July 2013, in line with best practice.
Attendance The Committee met on five occasions in 2013 and the members’ attendance record is set out on page 58.
Remit The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the  
 remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Company, the Executive Directors, the Company   
 Secretary and such other members of the Executive Management as it is designated to consider. 
  It has specific responsibility for approving remuneration of Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and other key members of management.
 The Committee is also responsible for:
 - reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy;
- approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay schemes and share 
incentive plans operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such 
schemes;
- determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for Executive Directors and other senior 
executives;
- ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the 
Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised;
- ensuring that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, are fulfilled; and
- establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration 
consultants who advise the Remuneration Committee.
No person shall be involved in any discussion or decisions regarding their own remuneration.
 The Committee’s T erms of Reference is available on the Company’s website.
Key activities The main activities of the Committee during the year were:
during the year l Assessing performance of Chief Executive Officer and determined annual bonuses for 2013;
 l Approving share awards for Chief Executive Officer 2013;
 l Establishing the Chief Executive Officers’ salary arrangements for 2014;
 l Setting bonus targets for the Chief Executive Officer for 2014;
l Reviewing remuneration benchmarking and providing recommendations to the Board on fee structure and 
levels for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors;
 l Considering remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments;
 l Reviewing the revised remuneration reporting regulations and preparing the Directors’ remuneration report; and
 l Considering a Non-Executive Director share purchase plan and providing recommendation to the Board.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee Report Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 91 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
External advisors The Committee takes into account independent advice and appraisals of latest market data when considering 
incentive levels and remuneration packages against the background of its policy of not paying more than is 
necessary. 
 T owers Watson was appointed by the Committee as its principal external adviser following a tendering process in 
2012. T owers Watson advises on all aspects of the Company and Group’s remuneration policy and practice and 
reviews the Company and Group’s remuneration structures against corporate governance best practice. T owers 
Watson also provides remuneration data to the Group and presented a review of developments in UK corporate 
governance and remuneration and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new 
developments and evolving best practice.
 T owers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group (which oversees the voluntary code of 
conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom) and the remuneration committee 
is satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration is objective and independent and that no conflict 
of interest arises as a result of other services.
 During the year T owers Watson was paid fees of £92,700 for services provided to the Committee.
  Pinsent Masons LLP has provided advice to the Company on law and regulation in relation to share plans 
matters. The advice was provided to the Company and made available to the Committee. Pinsent Masons LLP 
also provides general legal advice to the Company.
  All of these advisers were appointed by the Committee, which remains satisfied that the provision of these other 
services in no way compromises their independence.
Internal input The following employees provided input to the Committee during the year:
 l Chief Executive Officer, John Campion
 l Chief Human Resources Officer, Chris Himebauch
 l General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Steve List
 l Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Martinez, provided updates on the Group’s financial performance
 l Director of Investor Relations, Karen Menzel, in regard of the disclosures required for the 2013 Annual Report
Jim Hughes
Chairman,
Remuneration Committee 92 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Independent Auditor's Report 
to the members of APR Energy plc
Opinion on financial statements of APR Energy plc
In our opinion:
l the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
l the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
l the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
l the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and 
Company Statements of Cash Flows and the related Consolidated 
notes 1 to 35 and Parent Company notes 1 to 14.  The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, 
as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by 
the IASB 
As explained in note 3 to the group financial statements, the group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as 
issued by the IASB.
Going concern
We have reviewed the Directors’ Statement on page 74 that the 
Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
l we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
l we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team:
l Accounting for GE Power Rental Business acquisition - The 
valuation and accounting for the assets and contracts acquired 
from General Electric Company is considered a risk due to the 
judgemental nature of the valuations and the complexity of the 
accounting;
l Accounting for incomes taxes - The accounting for incomes taxes 
is considered a risk due to the diverse geographical nature of the 
Group, and the different tax legislation in place in the jurisdictions 
in which the Group operates;
l Assessment of goodwill impairment risk - The assessment 
of the possibility of impairment of goodwill is considered a 
risk due to uncertainties in the forecast cash flows as a result 
of the temporary nature of the contracts and the inherent 
unpredictability of the business; 
l Valuation of Founder securities - The valuation of Founder 
securities is considered a risk due to the judgemental nature of 
assumptions such as volatility within the valuation, as set out in 
note 25, which have a significant effect on the valuation;
l Revenue recognition at contract commencement - The timing 
of revenue recognition, particularly at the commencement of 
contracts, is considered a risk due to the judgemental nature 
in certain instances of when commercial operation dates have 
been achieved, and hence when revenue recognition should 
commence; and
l Assessment of Libya receivables recovery - The recoverability 
of the Libya receivables balance is considered a risk due to the 
length of time outstanding and the amount of the balance at year 
end.
How the scope of our audit responded to these 
risks
Accounting for GE Power Rental Business acquisition - We 
obtained supporting evidence for management’s assessment of 
the acquisition as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 
3 Business Combinations. We obtained the valuations of acquired 
assets and liabilities from management, which had been prepared 
by third-party experts, and engaged and worked with valuation 
specialists to validate the valuation assumptions used. We tested 
the accuracy of the acquisition balance sheet to assess whether 
the purchase price allocation was appropriate and prepared in 
accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, and we reviewed 
the disclosures in the financial statements to assess whether they 
were compliant with IFRS.
Accounting for incomes taxes - We worked with tax specialists to 
understand the tax legislation governing the Group’s contracts and 
the jurisdictions in which the Group operated during the year. We 
obtained the Group’s taxation computations in respect of current 
Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 93 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
and deferred tax and assessed the computations for compliance 
with local tax legislation and IAS 12 Income Taxes. We tested 
corporation tax payments made and refunds received; and we 
evaluated judgemental tax exposures and provisions, including the 
recoverability of deferred tax assets, obtaining supporting evidence 
for the position taken by management in respect of the probability 
and amount of potential exposures. 
Assessment of goodwill impairment risk - We obtained a copy of the 
valuation model used to determine the value in use of the business. 
We checked that forecasts used in the model had been reviewed 
by the Board of Directors. We evaluated the key assumptions within 
the model, including the discount rate used and the revenue and 
cost assumptions relating to existing and forecast contracts, by 
comparing to external, contractual, historical or other data, and to 
assess whether assumptions had been determined and applied in 
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. We also tested the 
mechanical accuracy of the model.
Valuation of Founder securities - We worked with valuation 
specialists to review the Monte-Carlo model used to value the 
Founder securities. The specialists tested the valuation and 
underlying assumptions within the Monte-Carlo model and 
assessed the accuracy and integrity of the model calculations. We 
also reviewed the related disclosures in note 25 of the financial 
statements.
Revenue recognition at contract commencement - We obtained 
copies of sales contracts, evidence of commercial operation dates 
and generation reports to assess whether revenue had been 
recognised in accordance with the terms of each contract and IAS 
18 Revenue. We also performed testing of invoices before and after 
the year end to test whether revenue had been recorded in the 
appropriate period.
Assessment of Libya receivables recovery - We obtained and 
reviewed sales contracts and the letter of credit agreements 
applicable to the Libya contract, validated the terms of the 
contracts and agreements to determine the billing and payment 
arrangements, and understood whether the outstanding balance at 
the year end was covered by the letter of credit agreement. We also 
obtained a sample of the related sales invoices to assess whether 
they were appropriately approved and that revenue had been 
recognised in the appropriate period, tested post year end cash 
receipts, and assessed whether any provision was required against 
the outstanding balance.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on 
page 63.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not 
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our 
opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to 
any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion 
on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the 
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $3.5 million, which is 
approximately 7% of adjusted pre-tax profit, excluding amortisation 
of intangible assets arising from the 2011 acquisition, transaction 
costs relating to the 2013 acquisition, and Founder securities 
revaluations. These adjustments are made consistently by the 
Group in their earnings communications with the market and, in the 
opinion of the Directors, provide a more comparable measure with 
similar organisations and are consistent with the profit measures 
that are most relevant to analysts and investors. Materiality is below 
1% of equity. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of $70,000, as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.  We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our audit planning identified the Group’s business to be a single 
component, and therefore all of the operations of the Group were 
subject to a full scope audit. During the course of the audit, senior 
members of the UK audit team supervised the US members of the 
audit team, and visited the Company and audit team in Jacksonville 
during the planning and completion stages of the audit.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
l the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
l the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
l we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
l adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 94 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
l the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
l materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
l apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
l otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the Directors’ Statement that they consider the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Other matters
Corporate Governance Statement
Although not required to do so, the Directors have voluntarily 
chosen to make a Corporate Governance Statement detailing 
the extent of their compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We reviewed the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the company’s compliance with nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing 
to report arising from our review.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 
(UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team, strategically focused second 
partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and/or those further matters we have 
expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter 
and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit.  If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Dean Cook MA FCA 
(Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
25 March 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of APR Energy plc Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 95 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2013  
$ million Note 2013 2012
Revenue 6 308.3 265.7 
Cost of sales  (197.3) (165.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets 15 (8.8) (58.0)  
Gross profit  102.2 42.7   
Selling, general and administrative expenses  (33.2) (33.5) 
Operating profit 8 69.0 9.2
Acquisition related costs 29  (14.4) -
Founder securities revaluation 25  (3.3) (10.2)  
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain  (0.4) 0.4    
Finance income  0.2 0.3
Finance costs 11 (23.6) (4.6)
Profit/(loss) before taxation  27.5 (4.9) 
Taxation 12 (7.7) (10.0) 
Profit/(loss) for the year  19.8 (14.9) 
Total comprehensive profit/(loss) for the year  19.8 (14.9)
Earnings per share   
Basic earnings per share - cents 13 24.4 (19.1) 
Diluted earnings per share - cents 13 24.2 (19.1) 
Consolidated Financial Statements 96 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2013
$ million Note 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
   
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 14 622.6 547.1  
Intangible assets 15 70.3 39.8 
Property, plant and equipment 16 1,194.3 671.5
Deferred tax asset 12 7.8 0.4
Other non-current assets   5.5 5.4 
Total non-current assets  1,900.5 1,264.2 
Current assets  
Inventories 17 43.0 9.4
Trade and other receivables 18 183.1 53.1
Cash and cash equivalents   33.9 21.0 
Income tax receivable  3.9 0.9
Deposits 19 7.3 24.8
Total current assets  271.2 109.2 
Total assets  2,171.7 1,373.4
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 20 83.4 28.9
Income tax payable   10.8 4.7 
Deferred revenue 21 27.5 9.0   
Derivative liability 27 - 0.3
Borrowings 26 50.0 -  
Decommissioning provisions 22 18.0 12.2
Total current liabilities  189.7 55.1
Non-current liabilities  
Founder securities 25 18.5 15.2   
Deferred tax liability 12 6.5 4.3  
Borrowings 26 529.3 199.5  
Decommissioning provisions 22 31.1 7.5   
Total non-current liabilities  585.4 226.5  
Total liabilities  775.1 281.6 
Equity  
Share capital 23 15.2 12.6  
Share premium   674.9 668.1 
Other reserves 24 770.0 485.9  
Equity reserves 28 6.9 4.5   
Accumulated losses   (70.4) (79.3) 
Total equity  1,396.6 1,091.8 
Total liabilities and equity  2,171.7 1,373.4 
These financial statements of the Company, registered number 07062201, were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by:
John Campion
Chief Executive Officer
Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 97 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2013
 Share  Share Other Equity Accumulated  T otal
 $ million capital premium reserves reserves losses equity
Balance at 1 January 2012 12.7 668.1  485.8  1.8 (48.7) 1,119.7 
Loss for the year -  - - - (14.9) (14.9)
Total comprehensive loss for the year -  -  -  -  (14.9) (14.9)
Issued share capital - - - (0.7) 0.7 - 
Redemption of deferred shares (0.1) - 0.1  -  - - 
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payment expense - - - 3.4  -  3.4
Dividends - - - -  (16.4) (16.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 12.6 668.1 485.9 4.5 (79.3) 1,091.8 
Profit for the year -  - - - 19.8 19.8 
Total comprehensive profit for the year -  -  -  -  19.8 19.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.5  -  284.1 - - 286.6
Exercise of equity-settled share-based payment 0.1 6.8 - (2.0) 2.0 6.9
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payment expense - - - 4.4 - 4.4
Dividends - - - -  (12.9) (12.9)
 Balance at 31 December 2013 15.2 674.9 770.0 6.9 (70.4) 1,396.6 
  98 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013
$ million Note 2013 2012
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit/(loss) for the year before taxation  27.5 (4.9) 
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation and amortisation 15,16 107.8 144.3 
(Profit)/loss on sale or disposal of fixed assets 16 (2.4) 0.4   
Provision for bad debt 18 - (1.5)  
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 28 4.4 3.4  
Founder securities revaluation 25 3.3 10.2 
(Gain)/loss on derivative financial instruments 27 (0.3) 2.6  
Finance income  (0.2)  (0.3) 
Finance costs 11 23.6 4.6   
Movements in working capital: 
Increase in trade and other receivables  (100.3)  (10.9) 
Increase in inventories  (26.5)  (7.2) 
Increase in other current and non-current assets  (0.4)  (3.6) 
Increase in trade and other payables  48.9 0.8
Settlement of decommissioning provisions 22 (10.7) (9.4)
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities   9.6 (1.5)
  84.3 127.0
Interest paid  (15.5)  (3.2)
Interest received  0.2  0.3
Income taxes paid  (11.2)  (6.8)
Net cash from operating activities  57.8  117.3
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (358.4)  (351.0)
Proceeds on sale or disposal of property, plant and equipment  2.8  -
Decrease in deposits  17.9  3.9 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 29 (73.1) -  
Net cash used in investing activities  (410.8) (347.1) 
Cash flows from financing activities  
Cash from borrowings  567.8  219.5   
Repayment of borrowings  (182.8)  (14.5) 
Dividends paid 34 (12.9) (16.4)  
Debt issuance costs  (11.3)  (0.8)
Proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares 
(net of transaction costs)  5.1 -  
Net cash from financing activities  365.9  187.8
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  12.9 (42.0) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  21.0 63.0   
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  33.9  21.0   
Included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 is an amount of $8.9 million which backs letters of credit and as such is 
classified as restricted cash (2012: $4.8 million). 
Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 99 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
1  General information
APR Energy plc (the “Company” and together with its subsidiaries, 
“APR Energy” or the “Group”), is a company incorporated in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of 
the registered office is given on page 132 of this Annual Report. The 
nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set 
out in the Strategy Review on pages 11 to 33.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that 
is the currency of the primary economic environments in which the 
Group operates. 
2  Adoption of new and revised standards
In 2013, several amended standards and interpretations became 
effective. These are IAS 1 Presentation of items of other compre-
hensive income - Amendments to IAS 1, IAS 19 (revised) Employee 
Benefits, IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures - offsetting financial assets 
and liabilities, IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 
Joint arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 
and IFRS 13 Fair value measurement. The adoption of these standards 
and interpretations has not had a material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following 
standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and 
some of which were pending endorsement by the European Union):
l Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments 
to IAS 32) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2014;
l Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 
27) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2014;
l Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
(Amendments to IAS 36) – effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014;
l Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting 
(Amendments to IAS 39) – effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014;
l Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to 
IAS 19) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 
July 2014;
l Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014; and
l Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
Adoption of the these standards in future periods is not expected 
to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
3  Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation. The Group 
financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the 
consideration given in exchange for the assets. 
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The Parent Company 
financial statements are included on pages 124 to 131 and have been 
prepared in accordance with section 396 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Parent Company 
is exempt from the requirement to present its profit and loss account. 
The principal accounting policies adopted and consistently applied 
are set out below.
Basis for consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the 
effective date of acquisition. All intra-group transactions, balances, 
unrealised gains or losses, income and expenses are eliminated on 
consolidation. 
 
Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements is in conformity 
with IFRS.  IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting esti-
mates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in 
the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
Going concern
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less 
than 12 months from the date of this report. The Group’s principal 
debt facilities (totalling $650.0 million) are provided by a syndicate of 
banks under a revolving credit facility and a Term Loan, which expire 
on 28 November 2016 and 1 January 2015 respectively. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections show that the facilities in place currently 
Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2013 100 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
are anticipated to be sufficient for meeting the Group’s operational 
requirements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained 
in the Financial Review on page 39.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets 
given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued 
by the Company in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition 
related costs are recognised in comprehensive income as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes 
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. 
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against in the 
statement of comprehensive income. All other subsequent changes 
in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset 
or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. 
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as 
equity are not recognised.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS3 (2008) are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
l Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to 
employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee 
Benefits respectively;
l Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by 
the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are 
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and
l Assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 
5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
are measured in accordance with that standard. 
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an 
asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration 
transferred, the amount of any controlling interest in the acquiree 
and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest 
(if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of 
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after 
reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets varies from the sum of the consideration 
transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in comprehensive 
income as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating 
units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment 
loss is first allocated to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-
rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a 
subsequent period.    
Revenue
The Group derives revenue from short to medium-term contracts 
that provide customers with comprehensive power generation 
services including temporary power solutions that include 
installation and dismantling services, operations and maintenance 
of the power generating equipment, operations monitoring, and 
logistical support.
The Group’s contracts generally include fixed and variable-pricing 
components. The Group earns the fixed portion of revenue on 
contracts by providing capacity based on a specified number of 
megawatts (MW) to the customer. The Group’s contracts for the 
periods presented in the consolidated financial statements primarily 
represent lease contracts, which are accounted for as operating 
leases. The Group determines lease classification on a contract-
specific basis.
The revenue on these contracts is recognised as follows: 
Fixed revenues
Due to the fact that the fixed portion of the contract is based on actual 
capacity available, the payments are considered contingent rent 
and revenue is recognised when earned as the lesser of the amount 
billable under the contract or an amount determined by the kilowatt-
hours (“KWHs”) made available during the period multiplied by the 
estimated average revenue per KWH over the term of the contract.
Variable revenues
The Group earns the variable portion of revenue based on the 
actual amount of energy that the Group delivers to the customer, as 
measured in kilowatt hours KWHs. The revenue associated with the 
variable price component of the contract is recognised as earned 
during the period that energy is produced and delivered.
Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of an entity whose operating 
results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision 
maker to make decisions about resource allocation and assess its 
performance. The Group has identified the chief operating decision 
maker as its Chief Executive Officer.
The Group continues to identify one operating segment based on 
the financial information regularly provided to the chief operating 
decision maker and the methods by which the chief operating 
decision maker assesses the Group’s performance and makes 
decisions about resource allocation. The Group periodically 
evaluates this conclusion by considering any changes in facts and 
circumstances.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
As lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of 
the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the 
lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the 
statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses 
are recognised immediately in comprehensive income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 101 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  
As lessor
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised 
as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the 
leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so 
as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net 
investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs 
incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added 
to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Provision for income taxes
The Group comprises operations in various jurisdictions and it is 
likely that if the structure of these operations were to change, there 
would be an impact to the effective tax rate and tax liability of the 
Group.
While certain of the Group’s operations are not subject to tax, the 
operations may be subject to income and withholding taxes in other 
tax jurisdictions. In preparing these financial statements, the Group 
applies the following accounting policies:
Withholding tax
Withholding taxes are imposed in certain jurisdictions where 
the Group makes cross-border payments to related parties and 
where the customer makes cross border payments to the Group. 
In general, withholding taxes are imposed on payments such as 
operating leases, variable revenue, rents, royalties, dividend, and 
certain service payments. The paying entity acts as the collecting 
agent and remits the payments to the taxing authorities. The Group 
includes its withholding tax expense in the taxation line in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Current tax
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax 
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial 
position date in the countries where the Group operates, generates 
taxable income and is subject to tax under local country tax law.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns 
with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate 
based on amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Taxable profit differs from net profits as reported in the statement 
of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the statement of financial 
position date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability 
is settled. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are 
recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profit will be available, against which the temporary differences can 
be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to 
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets 
and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable 
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net 
basis. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items 
charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). 
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results 
and financial position of each Group company are expressed in 
US dollars, which is the functional currency of the material trading 
entities and the presentational currency for these consolidated 
financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-
monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the 
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the 
assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and 
expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the 
period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, 
in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are 
used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Intangible assets
Intangibles assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date 
of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual 
or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Assets such as customer contracts have a finite useful life and are 
amortised over their useful economic life being the contract length.
The acquired intangible assets relating to the brand and trademark 
are being amortised over 25 years and 10 years respectively.
The useful life of intangible assets is reviewed on an annual basis. 102 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Property and equipment
Property and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. The cost is 
the purchase price of the property and equipment including any 
related shipping costs. Certain purchase contracts allow the Group 
to hold back a percentage of the purchase price until a warranty 
period expires. Purchase price retentions are classified as a liability 
and reported in current or non-current liabilities depending on the 
anticipated pay-out period. 
Costs incurred to mobilise and install power generating equipment 
pursuant to a contract are also captured in property and equipment 
and are depreciated over the life of the contract to which the power 
generating equipment relates, or for contract extensions over the 
expected contract life at the point at which the contract extension is 
deemed probable.
The cost of property and equipment also includes, when applicable, 
a decommissioning cost, which represents the initial fair value 
of the associated decommissioning liability. A decommissioning 
liability is established when there is a legal obligation associated 
with the retirement of a long-lived asset and the amount can be 
reasonably estimated (see note 22).
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying value or 
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
All other repairs and maintenance expenditures are recorded within 
the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method applied 
to individual items over their estimated useful lives, or for dual-fuel 
turbines based on machine run hours over their estimated total 
machine run hours. Management uses judgement in determining 
the useful lives of its property and equipment considering the 
following factors: expected usage, expected wear and tear, and 
technological or commercial obsolescence of the generators. 
Management reassesses useful lives annually. A summary of the 
lives used for computing depreciation is as follows:
Office furniture 5-7 years
Machinery and equipment 7-25 years
Mobilisation and installation assets 1-5 years
Vehicles 5 years
Computer and software 3 years
Dual-fuel turbines 18,750 - 100,000 machine run hours
The Group reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
of an asset may not be recoverable and exceeds fair value.  
Impairment 
Tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is 
tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risk specific to the asset for which the estimates of 
future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of comprehensive income, unless the relevant asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is 
treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the 
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
statement of comprehensive income, unless the relevant asset 
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase. 
Financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether 
there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of 
financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if 
there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or 
more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset 
(“loss event”) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on 
the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of 
financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Trade and other receivables are considered past due if any portion 
of an account has not been paid in full within the contractual terms 
of the account. The Group assesses its ability to collect receivables 
that are past due and provides for an adequate allowance for 
doubtful accounts based on the financial stability, recent payment 
history of the customer, letters of credit in place and other pertinent 
factors related to the creditworthiness of the customer. The 
allowance for doubtful accounts includes specific amounts for 
those accounts that are deemed likely to be uncollectible. Upon 
permanent impairment, the trade receivable is written off against the 
allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Financial instruments
The Group classifies its financial assets and financial liabilities 
into the following categories: fair value through profit or loss 
and loans and receivables for financial assets and fair value 
through profit and loss and other financial liabilities for financial 
liabilities. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
financial instruments were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the finance 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 103 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
income generated by a financial asset and the amortised cost of 
a financial liability including allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the 
expected life of the financial liability to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. 
These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans 
and receivables are recorded as deposits and trade and other 
receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method, less any impairment. Interest 
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except 
for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be 
immaterial.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid 
investments that can be readily converted into cash or that have an 
original maturity of three months or less.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Under this 
method finance costs of borrowings are allocated to periods over 
the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying 
amount. Where transaction costs have been incurred but the facility 
not drawn down at the balance sheet date, these are shown in 
capitalised finance costs. When the facility is drawn down, these 
amounts are shown net of borrowings.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that 
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if 
payment is due within one year or less. 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.
Deposits
The Group maintains bid or performance bonds (secured by cash 
deposits) for various contracts to guarantee the Group’s obligations 
under the terms of the contracts. The return of such deposits is 
subject to performance of the Group during the contract term. 
Deposits are recorded at cost less any provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial 
liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recognised at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its 
exposure to foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange 
forward contracts. Further details of these contracts are disclosed 
in note 27.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured 
to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain 
or loss is recognised in profit and loss immediately unless the 
derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in 
which event the timing of the recognition in comprehensive income 
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group does 
not currently designate any derivatives as hedges.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial 
asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised 
as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current 
asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the 
instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be 
realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented 
as current assets or current liabilities.
Classification of Founder securities
The Founder securities are classified as liabilities and measured 
at fair value at each balance sheet date. Further details about the 
valuation of the Founder securities are disclosed in note 25.
Costs of equity transactions
Incremental costs that are attributable directly to issuing equity 
instruments of the Company are recognised in equity, net of any tax 
effects. Other costs not directly attributable to the issuing of equity 
instruments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the 
consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of 
the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured using the 
cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying 
amount is the present value of those cash flows, where the effect of 
the time value of money is material.
Decommissioning costs
The Group records a decommissioning provision when there is a 
legal or constructive obligation whereby, as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible 
long-lived asset and the liability can be reasonably estimated. The 
amount recorded represents the present value of the expected 
costs. An amount equivalent to the discounted provision is 
capitalised within tangible fixed assets and is depreciated over the 
life of the contract. The unwinding of the discount is included in 
finance costs. 104 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct 
labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
Pensions
Payments to a defined contribution pension scheme are charged as 
an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS2 share-based payment arrangements in 
which the Group receives goods or services as consideration for 
APR Energy plc equity instruments are accounted for as equity-
settled share-based payment transactions, regardless of how the 
equity instruments are obtained by the Group.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured 
at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair 
value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. 
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled 
share-based transactions are set out in note 28.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments to employees is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate 
of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance 
sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity 
instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non 
market-based conditions. The impact of the revision of the original 
estimates, if any, is recognised in total comprehensive income such 
that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
In the application of the significant accounting policies, which are 
described in note 3, management is required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-
going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, 
and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the 
reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year.
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible     
assets
Management estimates the useful lives of its property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets considering the following factors:
l Expected usage
l Expected wear and tear through normal usage
l Technological or commercial obsolescence
Depending on facts and circumstances, management may weight 
one of the factors more than another or may consider additional 
factors not listed above. Changes in estimated useful lives could 
have a material impact on future depreciation expense.
Fair values of acquired assets and liabilities of the GE Power 
Rental Business
During 2013, the Group acquired the GE Power Rental Business. 
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, all acquired assets and 
liabilities must be fair valued at acquisition date. In particular the fair 
values of acquired intangible and tangible assets require judgement 
and use of models with a number of forecasts and inputs. These 
fair values are considered provisional at 31 December 2013.    
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting poli-
cies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving 
estimations discussed above, that management made in the 
process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to 
estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
present value. No impairments were recorded in the periods 
presented.
Recoverability of trade and other receivables
Management review the trade and other receivables balance on 
a regular basis and assesses its ability to collect receivables that 
are past due and provides for an adequate allowance for doubtful 
accounts based on the financial stability, recent payment history of 
the customer, letters of credit in place and other pertinent factors 
related to the creditworthiness of the customer. Specifically for 
the 2013 year end management focused on the Libya receivables 
balance and were satisfied that these were recoverable, as all 
invoiced amounts had been received as at the date of this report.
Fair valuation of Founder securities
The fair value of the Founder securities is based on a bespoke 
Monte Carlo simulation model, which incorporates a binomial tree 
to value the Founder securities as of the date of the performance 
condition being achieved within the Monte Carlo simulation. This 
model simulates the future Company ordinary share price, on a 
daily basis, using a Geometric Brownian Motion in a risk-neutral 
framework.
The valuation output of the model described above is then 
discounted to reflect the lack of marketability of the Founder 
securities using a protective put option method. This discounted 
figure is the number which is subsequently booked as the Founder 
securities liability in the financial statements.
Accounting for taxation
The Group has operations in various global jurisdictions and as 
such is subject to an inherent risk arising from the geographical 
mix of revenues and profits and the complex nature of these 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 105 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
tax arrangements. Management reviews the Group’s overall tax 
position and ensures that any potential exposures are identified and 
mitigated as necessary.
5  Risk management policies
The Group’s activities give rise to a number of financial risks, 
particularly market risk comprised of foreign exchange and interest 
rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk management.
Market risk
Market risk includes foreign exchange risk and interest rate 
risk. The Group seeks to manage these risks to acceptable 
levels by maintaining appropriate policies and procedures. In its 
determination to enter into a contract, the Group will carry out a 
risk assessment and determine the appropriate risk mitigations 
strategies. Market risk also includes the risk that cash derived 
from income for services fulfilled under contract terms will become 
restricted and not available for use in the on-going activities of the 
business. 
Foreign exchange risk
The Group has an exposure to transactional foreign exchange from 
purchases or sales in currencies other than US dollars. In order to 
minimise exposure to foreign exchange risk, the Group primarily 
contracts in US dollars or in contracts with a price based on US 
dollars at the date of transaction or payment if possible. In some 
cases, the Group transacts in local currencies when purchasing 
materials and supplies for project operations. 
In limited circumstances, the Group may use derivative instruments 
to economically hedge against foreign exchange risk. Any hedges 
are limited in duration and correspond to the applicable contract 
payments or receipts to which the derivatives are associated. 
Details of the contracts in place at the balance sheet dates are 
disclosed in note 27 to these financial statements.
Interest rate risk
The Group is primarily exposed to interest rate risk on its 
borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group 
to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates 
expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. When applicable, 
the Group may elect to hedge interest rate risk associated with 
debt or borrowings under the credit facility by purchasing derivative 
instruments. As at the 31 December 2013 and 2012 there were no 
interest rate hedges in place.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with 
banks and financial institutions, as well as exposures to outstanding 
receivables from customers. Due to the nature of the Group’s 
business in emerging markets, management believes the most 
significant of these to be exposures to outstanding receivables from 
customers.
T o minimise the risk of a significant impact on the business due to a 
customer defaulting on its commitments, the Group closely monitors 
trade receivables. In addition, the Group utilises letters of credit, 
contract insurance policies and up front deposits to mitigate this risk.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk results from insufficient funding being available to 
meet the Group’s funding requirements as they arise. The Group 
manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves of cash 
and available committed facilities to meet the Group’s short and 
long-term funding requirements. The Group monitors the short-term 
forecast and actual cash flows on a daily basis and medium and 
long-term requirements in line with the Group’s long-term planning 
processes.
The Group’s principal debt facilities (totalling $650.0 million) are 
provided by a syndicate of banks under a revolving credit facility 
and a Term Loan. Further details are disclosed in note 26 to these 
financial statements. 
Trade and other payables are disclosed in note 20 to these financial 
statements, operating lease commitments are disclosed in note 31 
and Founder securities are disclosed in note 25 to these financial 
statements. The following contractual maturity table includes all 
borrowings (including interest), foreign exchange forward contracts, 
trade and other payables, Founder securities and operating lease 
commitments in the Group’s statement of financial position. 106 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Maturity analysis for derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities
 At 31 December 2013 Less than  Between Between Over T otal
 3 months 3 months 1 and 2 years 2 years 
$ million  and 1 years  
Founder securities (note 25) -  -  -  (18.5) (18.5)
Trade and other payables (note 20)  (83.4) -  -  -  (83.4)
Borrowings (note 26)  (18.8) (54.2) (215.9) (355.1) (644.0)
Operating lease commitments (note 31)  (0.9) (1.6) (0.7) (0.1) (3.3)
 Total (103.1) (55.8) (216.6) (373.7) (749.2)
 At 31 December 2012 Less than  Between Between Over T otal
 3 months 3 months 1 and 2 years 2 years 
$ million  and 1 years  
Foreign exchange forward contracts (note 27) (0.1)  (0.2)  -  -  (0.3) 
Founder securities (note 25) -  -  -  (15.2) (15.2)
Trade and other payables (note 20) (28.9) -  -  -  (28.9)
Borrowings (note 26)  (2.2) (6.5) (8.7) (221.7) (239.1)
Operating lease commitments (note 31)  (0.4) (0.8) (0.8) (0.7) (2.7)
 Total (31.6) (7.5) (9.5) (237.6) (286.2)
The Founder securities have been shown in the over 2 years category as the contractual maturity of these instruments is greater than 2 years 
and the instruments are not currently exercisable.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for its equity 
holders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity while maximising the return to stakeholders. The Group is funded through 
a mixture of equity and debt financing. As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s gearing ratio was 41% (2012: 18%). The long-term expectation of 
management would be a gearing ratio of 30%.
The Group reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the Group considers the cost of capital and the risk 
associated with each class of capital. The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
6 Revenue
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations from its major products and services. 
$ million  2013 2012
Lease revenues  273.1 242.2 
Power revenues  8.9 11.4  
Fuel revenues -  5.2   
Finance lease revenues (note 18) 14.0 -
Other revenues 12.3  6.9  
 Total revenues 308.3 265.7  
7 Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from continuing operations from external customers by location of operations and information about its non-current 
assets (excluding any applicable deferred tax balances) by location of assets is detailed below. 
Libya, Uruguay and Botswana revenues represent single individual customers which individually form more than 10% of total revenues. Of 
these revenues, there was $65.3 million, $15.4 million and $1.5 million of trade receivables outstanding at 31 December 2013 (2012: $nil, $3.0 
million and $3.1 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 107 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Revenue by geographic location
$ million  2013 2012
Libya   78.5 -
Uruguay   66.4 13.8 
Botswana   35.6 20.9
Other Africa   31.7 10.8
Other South America   23.5 34.8  
Middle East   20.7 7.1  
Senegal   16.7 43.4   
Caribbean   9.9 18.8 
Japan   9.0 106.9
Other Asia Pacific   5.1 -
Other   11.2 9.2
 Total revenues  308.3 265.7  
Non-current assets by geographic location
$ million  2013 2012
Libya 376.1  - 
Other Asia Pacific 212.9  - 
Uruguay 213.1  72.5
Middle East 173.1  50.4
Senegal 69.0  81.1
Other Africa 57.6  60.6
North America 26.7  91.8
Caribbean 26.5  16.4 
Central America 25.6  19.2
Other South America 25.0 43.7
Europe - 114.9
Japan - 89.9
Corporate and other 687.1  623.3  
 Total non-current assets  1,892.7 1,263.8
The corporate non-current assets primarily relate to the goodwill and intangible assets that arose on acquisitions.
8  Operating profit for the year
Operating profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
$ million  2013 2012
Amortisation of intangible assets 8.8  58.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 99.0  86.3 
Payments under operating leases 2.8  4.4 
Staff costs 33.4  22.3   
(Gain)/loss on derivative financial instruments (0.3)  2.6  
(Profit)/loss on sale or disposal of fixed assets (2.4)  0.4   
Impairment reversal on trade receivables -  (1.5)  
Founder securities revaluation 3.3  10.2   
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment excludes depreciation related to assets for commissioning and mobilisation purposes where the 
charge is capitalised. 108 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
9  Auditor’s remuneration
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
$ million  2013 2012
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates  
Audit of the Company’s annual accounts   1.0 0.9
   1.0 0.9   
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Company  
Audit related assurance services   0.1 0.4
  1.1 1.3
Taxation compliance and advisory services   0.6 0.4
Corporate finance transaction support services   0.5 -  
  1.1 0.4
 Total fees payable  2.2 1.7 
Fees payable to Deloitte and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated 
financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the Group’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier 
and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 65. No services 
were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements. Audit related assurance services relate to work performed on the interim review. T ax 
compliance and advisory services and corporate finance transaction support services in 2013 primarily related to work associated with the 
acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business ($0.8 million) and other tax advice in the ordinary course of business.
10 Staff costs
The average monthly numbers of employees (including Directors) was:
  2013 2012
Operations  140 128
Sales  17 16
Administration  61 52
  218 196
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
$ million  2013 2012
Wages and salaries   25.0 15.6  
Tax and social security   1.7 1.8  
Other benefits   2.3 1.5  
Equity-settled share-based payment expense   4.4 3.4  
  33.4 22.3
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 91 of these financial statements provides additional information. Included in other benefits 
are expenses of $0.3 million (2012: $0.1 million) relating to defined contribution pension schemes.
11 Finance costs
$ million  2013 2012
Interest expense on borrowings   22.7 4.1
Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provisions   0.9 0.5
  23.6 4.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 109 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
12 Income and deferred taxes
The Group’s tax expenses are summarised in the following tables: 
$ million  2013 2012
Current tax  
Current tax expense 14.5 9.3  
Capitalisation of 2011 intra-Group lease charges  -  (1.2)  
Prior year adjustments  (0.2) (0.3) 
 14.3 7.8
Deferred tax  
Deferred tax expense (6.6) 2.2 
 (6.6) 2.2 
 Total tax expense   7.7  10.0 
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit/(loss) as follows:
$ million  2013 2012
Profit/(loss) before tax on continuing operations 27.5  (4.9)
Tax at the Cayman Corporation tax rate of 0% (2012: 0%) -  -  
Withholding taxes  3.2  4.8
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 4.7  6.7
Capitalisation of 2011 intra-Group lease charges  -  (1.2) 
Prior year adjustments  (0.2) (0.3) 
    7.7 10.0
The Group is not taxable in certain jurisdictions where either the jurisdictions do not impose an income tax or the entity is treated as a flow-
through entity for local country tax purposes. The difference between the statutory rate and the effective tax rate is a result of withholding taxes 
and taxes in foreign jurisdictions as shown above. 
The structure of the Group generally results in each entity or branch operating within only one tax jurisdiction. In general, income tax is 
imposed on taxable income earned in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Withholding taxes are imposed based upon local country tax laws. In the 
jurisdictions where the Group operates, these taxes may be imposed on cross border payments to related parties. In general, withholding taxes 
are imposed on payments such as rents, dividends, and certain service payments or gross receipts from customers.  
Deferred income taxes
The deferred tax assets and liabilities as of 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively and the associated movements were as follows:
 31 December 2012 Credit/(charge)  Acquisition 31 December 2013
  to the statement of  of subsidiaries 
$ million  comprehensive income (note 29) 
Deferred tax assets   
Decommissioning provisions 0.2 -  - 0.2 
Losses recognised 0.2  7.4 - 7.6
 0.4  7.4 - 7.8
Deferred tax liabilities   
Withholding taxes (4.0) 1.1 - (2.9)
Other timing differences - (0.6) (1.4) (2.0)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (0.3) (1.3) - (1.6)
 (4.3) (0.8) (1.4) (6.5)
 (3.9) 6.6 (1.4) 1.3
Losses carried forward that have not been recognised are $nil (2012: $13.8 million) due to a lack of future anticipated profits in that jurisdiction. 
During the year the Group recognised the UK losses due to future anticipated profits in that jurisdiction. 110 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
13   Earnings per share
From continuing operations
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
  2013 2012
Profit/(loss) for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share 
being net profit/(loss) attributable to the owners of the Company ($ million) 19.8 (14.9)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose 
of basic earnings per share (number of shares) 81,044,059 78,229,262
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose 
of diluted earnings per share
1
 (number of shares) 81,884,709 78,229,262
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share (cents) 24.4 (19.1)
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 24.2 (19.1)
1  Founder securities are not considered dilutive for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 as the exercise price was above the year end share price. The 
Founder securities are also not considered dilutive as the associated performance conditions had not been met at 31 December 2013 or 2012.
14 Goodwill
$ million  2013 2012
Opening 547.1 547.1 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) 75.5  -  
Balance at 31 December    622.6  547.1
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGU’s) that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. The Directors have determined the business to have one CGU and the goodwill is allocated to this unit.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from a value in use calculation. The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are:
l Revenue – Management uses current contract portfolio pricing for the relevant portion of the forecast period and pricing guidelines for 
expected future contract wins. The timing and size of new contracts is based on historic data and also the sales and opportunities pipeline. 
The downtime between contracts and contract duration are based on Management’s best expectations using historical data, whilst factoring 
in recent developments in creating our proprietary modular building system.
l Costs – Management has a good understanding of historic realised margins and use this to estimate expected future margins achievable, 
which are used to drive direct costs in the model. Corporate and administrative overheads are then factored in and adjusted for expected 
future growth. Also included in the model is the forecasted capital expenditure, which is based off supplier schedules from contractual 
arrangements and the growth profile.
l Growth rate – Short-term growth rates are based on management’s internal forecasts. A terminal cash flow was calculated using a long-term 
growth rate of 3.0% (2012: 3.0%) which is based on long-term economic growth and industry forecasts. 
l Discount rate – Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the CGU. The assumed discount rate used was 14.3% (2012: 14.6%) before tax which in the view of management 
best reflects the premium the market would require for such cash flows.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value and have determined that there is no 
reasonably possible change in the key assumptions utilised in the impairment calculations, that would give rise to an impairment.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 111 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
15  Intangible assets
The intangible assets shown in the table below have arisen through fair value accounting for the GE Power Rental Business in 2013 and the 
APR Group in 2011.
$ million Customer contracts Trademark Brand T otal
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 106.4 - 38.1 144.5
Additions - - - -
At 31 December 2012 106.4 - 38.1 144.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) 23.2 16.1 - 39.3
At 31 December 2013 129.6 16.1 38.1 183.8
Accumulated amortisation: 
At 1 January 2012 45.9 - 0.8 46.7
Charge for the year 56.5 -  1.5  58.0
At 31 December 2012 102.4 - 2.3 104.7
Charge for the year 7.0 0.3 1.5 8.8
At 31 December 2013 109.4 0.3 3.8   113.5
Net book value: 
 31 December 2013 20.2 15.8 34.3 70.3
 31 December 2012 4.0 - 35.8 39.8 
Customer contracts are amortised over the contract term. The brand and trademark are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives of 
25 years and 10 years respectively.  
16   Property, plant and equipment
 Machinery Mobilisation Demobilisation Other T otal
$ million and equipment    equipment 
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 383.5 37.7 16.9 1.4 439.5 
Additions  316.5 27.3 10.5 1.4  355.7 
Disposals (2.6) (21.6)  (15.2) -  (39.4)
At 31 December 2012 697.4 43.4  12.2 2.8  755.8 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) 242.3 - - -  242.3 
Additions  293.9 67.9 31.3 1.7  394.8
Disposals (25.3) (24.1) (8.0) (0.1) (57.5)
At 31 December 2013 1,208.3 87.2 35.5 4.4 1,335.4
Accumulated depreciation: 
At 1 January 2012 15.4 10.1  11.3  0.2  37.0
Charge for the year 42.2 32.9 10.5 0.7 86.3
Disposals (2.2) (21.6)  (15.2) -  (39.0)
At 31 December 2012 55.4  21.4 6.6 0.9 84.3  
Charge for the year 67.3 21.3 10.6 0.7  99.9  
Disposals (11.0) (24.1) (8.0) - (43.1)
At 31 December 2013 111.7 18.6 9.2  1.6 141.1
Net book value: 
 At 31 December 2013 1,096.6 68.6 26.3 2.8 1,194.3
 At 31 December 2012 642.0 22.0  5.6 1.9  671.5
Depreciation is presented within the cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.  112 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
17 Inventories
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Spares and consumables 43.0 9.4
   43.0 9.4
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year in respect of continuing operations was $9.8 million (2012: $9.6 million). The 
replacement cost of inventories is not materially different to their carrying value.
18 Trade and other receivables
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Amount receivable under contract  146.0   49.9
Less: allowance for doubtful receivables (1.5) (1.8)
Net trade receivables  144.5  48.1
Finance lease receivables 14.0 - 
VAT receivables 10.0  1.0
Other receivables 14.6 4.0
   183.1  53.1
During the year the Group recognised a $14.0 million (2012: $nil) finance lease receivable associated with the planned disposal of the assets 
in Botswana. The entire balance is recoverable in 2014 and the Group has assumed that the customer will exercise a $3.0 million bargain 
purchase option at the end of the 12 month contract.
Trade receivables
The average credit period on the sales of goods in 2013 was 173 days (2012: 69 days). The average credit period for 2013 is somewhat 
skewed however due to the increased levels of activity at the year end and the resulting high year end trade receivables balance. No interest is 
charged on trade receivables. The Group assesses its ability to collect receivables that are past due and provides for an adequate allowance 
for doubtful accounts based on the financial stability, recent payment history of the customer, letters of credit in place and other pertinent 
factors related to the creditworthiness of the customer. The allowance for doubtful accounts includes specific amounts for those accounts that 
are deemed likely to be uncollectible. 
The ageing analysis past due but not impaired trade receivables was as follows:
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
 Gross Impaired Gross Impaired
Current 80.2 - 36.5 - 
30-90 days 46.5 - 9.9 - 
More than 90 days 19.3 (1.5) 3.5  (1.8)
 146.0 (1.5) 49.9 (1.8)
The movement in respect of the provision for impairment of trade receivables in the year was as follows:
$ million  2013 2012
Opening 1.8 3.3
Credit to the statement of comprehensive income - (1.5)
Utilised (0.3) -
Balance at 31 December   1.5 1.8
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from 
the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period. There is a concentration of credit risk because there are a limited 
number of customers and as at 31 December 2013 the two individually significant aggregate amounts owed by individual customers were 
$65.3 million and $15.4 million (2012: $15.8 million and $9.6 million). The risk associated with individual customers is mitigated by the letters 
of credit we obtain from customers on commencement of a contract. Management reviews concentration credit risk on a regular basis and 
ensures that where the net exposure exceeds certain thresholds appropriate actions are taken. This is done on a customer by customer 
basis and takes account of the billing terms, letters of credit and local customs and practices.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value.
19 Deposits
Deposits relate mainly to payments on account made for the purchase of property, plant and equipment which have manufacturing lead-times.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 113 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
20  Trade and other payables
$ million  2013 2012
Trade payables  48.4 16.5
Accrued expenses  35.0 12.4
At 31 December  83.4 28.9
The average credit period on operational purchases in 2013 was 134 days (2012: 59 days). The average credit period for 2013 is somewhat 
skewed however due to the increased levels of activity at the year end and the resulting high year end trade and other payables balance. The 
Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms.
In 2013 $11.0 million (2012: $6.9 million) of trade and other payables related to the purchase of property and equipment.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables are appropriate to their fair values.
21  Deferred revenue
Deferred revenue relates to upfront mobilisation fees and payments on account from customers. This unearned revenue is recognised over the 
life of the contract or deducted off future invoices. 
22   Decommissioning provisions
$ million  2013 2012
Opening 19.7 18.1  
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) 7.9 -  
Additions 31.3 10.5  
Utilised (10.7) (9.4)
Unwinding of discount 0.9 0.5  
Balance at 31 December    49.1 19.7   
Current 18.0 12.2  
Non-current 31.1 7.5
The Group records a decommissioning provision when there is a legal or constructive obligation whereby, as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset and the 
liability can be reasonably estimated.   If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
The decommissioning provision has been calculated using a discount rate of 3.3% (2012: 3.3%). The costs are generally expected to be 
incurred approximately 1-5 years in the future.
23   Share capital
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
 $ million Number $ million Number
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
Ordinary shares of 10p each 15.2 94,251,622 12.6 78,235,164 
 Ordinary shares Deferred shares
  Number Number
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2011 78,215,164 954,749,920
Share matching awards 20,000  - 
Redemption of deferred shares -  (954,749,920)
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2012 78,235,164  -
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) 15,453,129  - 
Exercise of equity-settled share-based payment 563,329 - 
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2013 94,251,622 - 
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s articles of association do not recognise the concept of authorised share capital. 114 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
On 28 October 2013, the Group acquired the GE Power Rental Business, comprising Power Rental Op Co One LLC, Power Rental Op Co 
Australia LLC, Power Rental Asset Co One LLC, Power Rental Asset Co T wo LLC, Power Rental Op Co Canada ULC and Power Rental Op Co 
Bangladesh Limited. 
The total consideration for the acquisition was $361.5 million payable in cash ($73.1 million) on completion and 15,453,129 ordinary shares 
allotted and issued credited as fully paid up to the sellers.  The fair value of this share issue was $288.4 million which was equal to the share 
price on the closing date of the transaction.
24  Other reserves
 Merger reserve  Capital redemption T otal
$ million  reserve 
At 1 January 2012 485.8 -  485.8
Redemption of deferred shares - 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2012 485.8 0.1 485.9  
Acquisition of subsidiaries
1
 (note 29) 284.1 - 284.1 
Balance at 31 December 2013 769.9 0.1  770.0 
1  Includes $1.8 million of costs associated with the issue of 15,453,129 ordinary shares related to the acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business.
25  Founder securities  
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Founder securities  18.5 15.2
    18.5 15.2 
Subject to the satisfaction of the performance condition referred to below, the holders of the Founder securities have the right to require the 
Company to acquire the Founder securities in exchange for the issue to the holders of the Founder securities of such number of ordinary 
shares as have a value equal to 15% of the difference between (1) the share price at that time multiplied by the number of ordinary shares at 
the time of transaction 78,215,164 (plus the aggregate value created for those parties with outstanding options or convertible securities (over or 
in respect of ordinary shares) which have an exercise (or subscription or conversion) price of less than the market price for an ordinary share at 
that time) and (2) a deemed market capitalisation of the Company which is the product of the number of ordinary shares in issue at the time of 
the transaction (meaning the Placing Price £10.00 as adjusted appropriately for matters such as any subsequent consolidation, subdivision of 
the ordinary shares or allotment of ordinary shares or effects of a rights issue or any value paid by the Company to ordinary shareholders).
The performance condition is satisfied:  
(a) once the price per ordinary share has reached (for any 20 Business Days out of 30 successive Business Days) a closing price equal to the 
greater of (i) an equivalent of a compound rate of return from Admission on the Adjusted Issue Price equal to 8.3% per annum accrued 
daily and compounded quarterly and (ii) an amount equal to a 25% increase in the Adjusted Issue Price (such closing price, the “Threshold 
Price”). At 31 December 2013 the performance condition was £12.50 (2012: £12.50); or
(b) on the occurrence of a Change of Control in relation to the Company, subject (where the Change of Control results from an offer to holders 
of the ordinary shares) to that offer being at an equivalent price per ordinary share equal to (or greater than) the Threshold Price.
Following any exercise by a holder of the Founder securities of its exchange rights, the Company will have the option to pay cash equivalent to 
the holder of such Founder securities, in lieu of issuing ordinary shares. In the event that the performance condition has not been satisfied by 
the date falling 5 years from the date of the Acquisition (13 June 2011), the Company will be able to acquire all of the Founder securities for nil 
consideration.
The Founder securities are not exchangeable for a fixed number of ordinary equity shares. The number of ordinary shares issued in respect of 
these instruments is governed by various factors including the share price at the date of conversion. 
The Group continues to value the Founder securities using a bespoke Monte Carlo simulation model, which incorporates a binomial tree to val-
ue the instruments as of the date of the performance condition being achieved within the Monte Carlo simulation. This model simulates the future 
Company share price, on a daily basis, using a Geometric Brownian Motion in a risk-neutral framework.
The valuation output of the model described above is then discounted to reflect the lack of marketability of the Founder securities using a protec-
tive put option method.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 115 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
In accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Founder securities were measured at fair value upon recognition and subsequently at each balance 
sheet date, the inputs used were as follows:
  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Balance sheet date share price $15.74 $13.17
Expected volatility 31% 33%
Remaining life 894 days 1,259 days
Lack of marketability period 730 days 730 days
Risk-free rate 1.3% 0.3 - 0.5%
Expected dividend yield 1.2% 1.5%
The charge for the year was $3.3 million (2012: $10.2 million). A change in the expected volatility by 1% would have a $0.7 million (2012: $0.9 
million) impact on the reported fair value.
The expected volatility used for 2013 and 2012 was determined by calculating the historical and implied volatilities of the Company and several 
comparable listed entity share prices over the previous 3 years.
26  Borrowings   
 Revolving  T erm  
$ million credit facility loan T otal
At 1 January 2013 205.0 -  205.0
Cash from borrowings 317.8 250.0 567.8
Repayment of borrowings (182.8) - (182.8)
At 31 December 2013 340.0 250.0 590.0  
Capitalised debt issuance costs   (10.7)
   579.3
Current - 50.0 50.0
Non-current 340.0 200.0 540.0 
In 2011, the Group entered into a committed, secured revolving credit facility of $400 million with a group of international banks, with a maturity 
date of 28 November 2016. 
In May 2013, the Group entered into a committed, secured term loan of $150 million with several of the existing group of international banks 
involved with the revolving credit facility. This term loan was then subsequently extended in October 2013 by an additional $100 million to $250 
million, with a maturity date of 1 January 2015, with quarterly repayments of $12.5 million commencing on 31 March 2014.
As of 31 December 2013, $9.8 million (31 December 2012: $19.4 million) of letters of credit have been drawn against the revolving credit facility. 
As of 31 December 2013, the available amount of the undrawn facilities was $50.2 million (31 December 2012: $175.6 million).
The facilities provide for funding of capital expenditures, working capital requirements and letters of credit. Key financial covenants include a 
T otal Leverage Ratio (Adjusted EBITDA/T otal Indebtedness) at a maximum of 5.00:1 which reduces to 2.50:1 by 30 June 2014, and an Interest 
Coverage Ratio (Adjusted EBITDA/Net Interest) at a minimum of 4.00:1. The LIBOR spread is LIBOR plus 2.3% - 3.8% dependent on the T otal 
Leverage Ratio.
The revolving credit facility and term loan are secured with the equity and assets of the majority of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings. The 
Directors believe that the carrying value of borrowings approximate their fair value.
If the interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s total comprehensive profit 
would have increased/decreased by $1.5 million (2012: $0.4 million). This is mainly due to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable 
rate borrowings.
Bid/performance bonds 
The Group has a need to post bid or performance bonds associated with customer contracts. These bonds are typically issued from the 
Group’s revolving credit facility or backed by a cash deposit. As of 31 December 2013 the Group had $8.9 million (2012: $5.1 million) backed 
by cash deposits and $nil (2012: $1.6 million) with other international banks. 116 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
27  Financial instruments
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial 
markets, monitors and manages the financial risk relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures
by degree and magnitude of these risks. 
As disclosed in note 5, during operations, the Group can be exposed to market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk, 
and liquidity risk.
From time to time, the Group may seek to manage foreign exchange risk by using derivative instruments to limit these risk exposures. The use 
of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on foreign
exchange risk and the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by 
the Risk committee on an on-going basis. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments including derivative financial
instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Group has no externally imposed capital requirements.
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity while maximising the return to stakeholders. The Group is funded through 
a mixture of equity and debt financing. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity, comprising issued 
capital, access to committed $650 million credit facilities and retained profits. The long-term expectation of management would be a gearing 
ratio of 30%.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in the accounting policies section of these financial statements. Details of the Group’s risk management policies are shown in note 5.
Principal financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial instrument risk arises, are as follows:
l Trade and other receivables
l Trade and other payables
l Cash and cash equivalents
l Derivative financial instruments
l Borrowings
Categories of financial instruments
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Financial assets  
Fair value through profit or loss
Cash and cash equivalents 33.9  21.0 
Loans and receivables
Amount receivable under contract (note 18) 146.0 49.9
Finance lease receivables (note 18) 14.0 -
VAT receivables (note 18) 10.0 1.0
 Total financial assets  203.9 71.9
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss  
Derivative liabilities 18.5 15.5
Other financial liabilities  
Borrowings (note 26)  579.3 199.5
Trade and other payables (note 20) 83.4  28.9
Total financial liabilities  681.2 243.9
Foreign exchange forward contracts 
In limited circumstances, the Group may use derivative instruments to economically hedge against foreign exchange risk. At the year end, the 
Group had no open foreign exchange contracts.  When used these EUR/USD foreign exchange hedges range in value up to $nil (2012: $1.0 
million) per contract.  If the hedged EUR/USD foreign exchange contract rates were to change by 5 cents, the resulting change in contract 
values was $nil (2012: $0.3 million).
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 117 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments based on contractual maturities:
 Less than Between Between Over T otal
 3 months 3 months  1 year 2 years
$ million  and 1 year and 2 years  
31 December 2013   
Founder securities (note 25) -  -  -  (18.5) (18.5)
Total - - -  (18.5) (18.5)
31 December 2012   
Net settled foreign exchange forward contracts (0.1) (0.2) -  -  (0.3)
Founder securities (note 25) -  -  -  (15.2) (15.2)
 Total  (0.1) (0.2) -  (15.2) (15.5)
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
l Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
l Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
l Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 T otal
31 December 2013
Derivative liability - - (18.5) (18.5) 
 Total -  - (18.5) (18.5)
31 December 2012
Derivative liability - (0.3) (15.2) (15.5)
 Total -  (0.3) (15.2)  (15.5)
$ million    Level 3
At 1 January 2012    5.0
Change in fair value    10.2
At 31 December 2012    15.2
Change in fair value    3.3
At 31 December 2013    18.5
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the current or prior year. The Founder securities revaluation in the current year resulted in 
a loss of $3.3 million (2012: $10.2 million) recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Group. Credit risk arises 
from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as exposures to outstanding receivables from customers.
Due to the nature of the Group’s business in emerging markets, management believes the most significant of these to be exposures to 
outstanding receivables from customers. T o minimise the risk of a significant impact on the business due to a customer defaulting on its 
commitments, the Group closely monitors trade receivables. In addition, the Group utilises letters of credit, contract insurance policies and up 
front deposits to mitigate this risk.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivate financial instruments is limited because the counter-parties are banks with credit-ratings assigned 
by international credit-rating agencies. 118 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The peak concentration of the Group’s credit risk is considered by counterparty, geography and currency. The Group holds its cash on deposit 
with a number of financial institutions. At 31 December 2013, the concentration of credit risk held with one bank totalled $10.6 million (2012: two 
banks totalling $6.8 million and $6.1 million respectively ) which is primarily denominated in Argentinian Pesos and USD (2012: USD and GBP). 
See note 18 for details of the trade receivables concentration credit risk.
Maturity of financial assets and financial liabilities
Details of contractual maturities of financial assets and financial liabilities are shown in note 5.
28 Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS2 Share-based payment arrangements in which the Group receives goods or services as consideration for APR Energy 
plc equity instruments, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions, regardless of how the equity instruments are 
obtained by the Group. 
In June 2012, the Company adopted the APR Energy Share Award Plan 2012 (the “2012 Plan”). The 2012 Plan allows for the grant of share 
options and contingent share awards. This provides a more effective retention tool with the flexibility to reflect common US practice on equity 
incentives. It is a long-term incentive plan enabling selected employees to be granted a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a 
specified price subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. The number of ordinary shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards granted 
in any 10-year period is limited to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary shares from time to time.
In October and November 2013, contingent share awards were granted to all employees over an aggregate of 425,858 ordinary shares under 
the 2012 Plan. These awards provide for ordinary shares to be delivered (subject to payment of the nominal value of the award shares, if so 
required) on or after the third anniversary dependent on the achievement of performance conditions determined by reference to the growth of 
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending on 31 December 2015, with 30% vesting at a threshold of 4% 
growth, rising to 100% vesting for growth of 11% or more.
In November 2012, following a review by the Remuneration Committee and ratification by the Board, contingent share awards were granted 
to three senior employees over an aggregate of 315,000 ordinary shares under the 2012 Plan. These awards provide for ordinary shares to 
be delivered (subject to payment of the nominal value of the award shares, if so required) on or after the third anniversary dependent on the 
achievement of performance conditions determined by reference to the growth of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of 
three years ending on 30 June 2015, with 30% vesting at a threshold of 4% growth, rising to 100% vesting for growth of 11% or more.
In June 2012, share options were granted to selected employees to subscribe for up to a total of 1,770,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price 
of £6.83 per share under the 2012 Plan.  In October 2012, share options were granted to additional employees to subscribe for up to a total of 
360,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of £7.63 per share also under the 2012 Plan. These share options normally vest as to one third on 
each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant and, once vested, remain exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant.
In 2012 the original APR Energy Performance Share Plan was re-named the APR Energy Share Option Plan 2011 (the “2011 Plan”). There is a 
corresponding 2011 Plan under which there were grants made to contractors. Originally, share options were granted under the 2011 Plans to 
employees and contractors employed by or providing services to the Group and vested in tranches according to adjusted EBITDA (50%) and 
adjusted net income (50%) as derived from the audited consolidated financial statements for the calendar years ending 31 December 2011, 
2012 and 2013 and to be delivered on or after the third anniversary. However, the Directors were concerned that the 2011 share options were 
not acting as an effective tool for motivating and retaining key staff in the way originally intended. The share options held by certain continuing 
option holders (over an aggregate of 749,500 ordinary shares) were amended and restated in June 2012 by the Remuneration Committee 
by replacing the original performance conditions with a vesting schedule more in line with a US workforce, with a third vesting by reference to 
continued employment or service provisions on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the original grant on 13 June 2011. At the 
same time, the exercise period was extended from the three months originally provided until the tenth anniversary of the grant.  In each case, 
the exercise price remains unchanged at £10.00 per ordinary share.  No amendments were made to the share options granted under the 2011 
Plan to the three most senior employees, which for the two who remain employed, are exercisable subject to the original terms.
2012 Plan
   2013 2012
 Number of  Weighted average  Number of Weighted average 
 share options exercise price ($) share options exercise price ($)
Opening 2,065,000 11.31 -  -
Granted during the year - - 2,130,000 10.87 
Exercised during the year (414,997) (10.97) - -
Forfeited during the year (110,002) (10.97) (65,000) (11.29)
Balance at 31 December 1,540,001 11.31 2,065,000 11.31
Exercisable at the end of the year 270,003 11.31 - -
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 119 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Inputs to the Black-Scholes model for the 2012 Plan share options awards are as follows. No options were granted in 2013:
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Grant date share price - $10.63 - $12.07
Exercise price - $10.63 - $12.07
Expected volatility - 32 - 34%
Expected life - 2,008 - 2,373 days
Risk-free rate - 1.0 - 2.0%
Expected dividend yield - 1.3 - 1.4%
The share-based payment expense for 2013 related to these awards was $2.6 million (2011: $1.6 million). The weighted average fair value of 
the awards issued during the year was $nil per share option (2012: $3.10). The weighted average remaining contractual life of these awards at 
31 December 2012 was 8.6 years (2011: 9.5 years).
Contingent share awards
   2013 2012
 Number of  Weighted average  Number of Weighted average 
 share awards exercise price ($) share awards exercise price ($)
Opening 315,000 - -  -
Granted during the year 425,858 - 315,000 -
Forfeited during the year (744) - - -
Balance at 31 December 740,114 - 315,000 -
Exercisable at the end of the year - - - -
 Inputs to the Black-Scholes model for the 2012 Plan contingent share awards are as follows:
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Grant date share price $16.95-$18.66 $11.04
Exercise price - -
Expected volatility 31% 32%
Expected life 1,095 days 1,095 days
Risk-free rate 2.0% 2.0%
Expected dividend yield 0.9 - 1.0% 1.4%
The share-based payment expense for 2013 related to these awards was $0.8 million (2012: $0.1 million). The weighted average fair value of 
the awards issued during the year was $18.15 per contingent share (2012: $10.57). The weighted average remaining contractual life of these 
awards at 31 December 2013 was 2.4 years (2012: 2.9 years).
2011 Plans
   2013 2012
 Number of  Weighted average  Number of Weighted average 
 share options exercise price ($) share options exercise price ($)
Opening 1,749,500 16.24 2,133,500  16.23 
Exercised during the year (148,332) (16.06) -  -  
Forfeited during the year (967,000) (16.57) (384,000) (16.23)
Balance at 31 December 634,168 16.57 1,749,500  16.24  
Exercisable at the end of the year 331,335 16.57 249,833  16.24  120 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Inputs to the Black-Scholes model for the 2011 Plans are as follows. No options were granted in 2013 and 2012 related only to modifications of 
existing awards:
  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Grant date share price - $10.63
Exercise price - $15.56
Expected volatility - 34%
Expected life - 1,643 - 2,008 days
Risk-free rate - 0.8%
Expected dividend yield - 1.5%
The share-based payment expense for 2013 related to these awards was $0.9 million (2012: $1.7 million). The weighted average fair value of the 
awards issued during the year was $nil per share option (2012: $nil per share option). However the removal of the performance criteria during 
2012 increased the weighted average fair value of the 2011 awards by $0.95 per share option for those awards not held by the three most senior 
employees. The weighted average remaining contractual life of these awards at 31 December 2013 was 6.8 years (2012: 5.0 years).
The expected volatility used for all 2013 and 2012 awards was determined by calculating the historical and implied volatilities of the Company 
and several comparable listed entity share prices over the previous 3 years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on 
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Share Matching Scheme
   2013 2012
 Number of  Weighted average  Number of Weighted average 
 share awards exercise price ($) share awards exercise price ($)
Opening - - 20,000  0.16  
Exercised during the year - - (20,000) (0.16)
Forfeited during the year - - -  - 
 Balance at 31 December - - -  -  
Exercisable at the end of the year - - -  -  
29  Acquisition of subsidiaries
On 28 October 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital and obtained control of the following companies (comprising the 
“GE Power Rental Business”):
l Power Rental Op Co One LLC,
l Power Rental Op Co Australia LLC,  
l Power Rental Asset Co One LLC, 
l Power Rental Asset Co T wo LLC, 
l Power Rental Op Co Canada ULC, and
l Power Rental Op Co Bangladesh Limited.
The acquisition advances APR Energy towards its stated strategic goals, creating the world’s leading fast-track mobile turbine fleet of 1.2GW, 
significantly strengthening and diversifying APR Energy’s business, and creating a long-term strategic alliance with GE. The provisional 
amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below, and are considered 
to be provisional, due to the use of estimates in valuing the intangible assets.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 121 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
     Provisional
$ million     fair value 
Property, plant and equipment      242.3
Intangible assets     39.3
Trade and other receivables     15.8
Inventory     7.2 
Trade and other payables     (0.3)
Deferred tax liability     (1.4)
Decommissioning provisions     (7.9)
Deferred revenue     (9.0)
 Total identifiable assets and liabilities     286.0
Goodwill     75.5
Total consideration      361.5
Satisfied by:
Cash   73.1
Equity instruments (15,453,129 ordinary shares of the Company)   288.4 
Total consideration   361.5
The total consideration for the acquisition was $361.5 million payable in cash ($73.1 million) on completion and 15,453,129 ordinary shares 
allotted and issued credited as fully paid up to the sellers. 
The fair value of this share issue was $288.4 million which was equal to the share price on the closing date of the transaction, multiplied by the 
number of shares issued. Acquisition related costs amounted to $14.4 million (2012: $nil) and were primarily related to legal and professional 
fees and early termination fees and were charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The goodwill of $75.5 million arising from the acquisition is reflective of the expected strong growth prospects of the GE Power Rental 
Business. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The GE Power Rental Business contributed $9.2 million revenue and $2.4 million to the Group’s profit for the period between the date of 
acquisition and the 31 December 2013. If the acquisition of the GE Power Rental Business had been completed on the first day of the
financial year, Group revenues for the period to 31 December 2013 would have been $376.6 million and profit would have been $45.1 million.
30  Contingent liabilities
Impact of operating in First, Second and Third-Tier countries
At 31 December 2013, the Group had operations in various countries across several continents. Operating in these countries subjects the 
Group to the inherent risk of changes in law, regulations, and governmental policy and stability. The Group has utilised insurance and letters of 
credit to help mitigate these risks and no provision has been recorded.
Legal and environmental
From time to time, the Group is subject to litigation or environmental claims. The Group uses various means to limit its exposure to such 
contingencies including risk management strategies and insurance coverage. These claims can involve highly complex issues, actual 
damages, and other matters. These issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation 
of damages are difficult to ascertain. Management’s assessments can involve complex judgements about future events and can rely heavily 
on estimates and assumptions. The Group’s assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable 
by management. The Group recognises a liability for contingencies when it is more likely than not that the Group will sustain a loss and the 
amount can be estimated.
As of 31 December 2013 the Group was not subject to any substantive legal or environmental claims and it has not recorded any contingent 
obligations in the consolidated financial statements.
Purchase commitments
As of 31 December 2013, the Group’s commitments related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment were $16.6 million (2012: $117.5 
million). 122 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
31  Operating lease arrangements
As Lessee
$ million  2013 2012
Minimum lease payments under operating leases 
recognised as an expense in the year 2.8 4.4
The Group had various operating lease agreements for office and warehouse space, land and office equipment during the year. The lease 
terms on these arrangements are typically two years. Lease commitments over two years relate to corporate headquarters. The fair value of the 
Group’s lease obligations is approximately equal to their carrying amount.
$ million  2013 2012
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due: 
Within one year 2.5 1.2
Greater than one year but less then two  years 0.7 0.8
Within two to five years 0.1 0.7 
 Total commitments over the next five years 3.3  2.7
As a lessor
Lease income is contingent on plant availability and accordingly the minimum lease income under non-cancellable operating leases is nil.
32  Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note.
JCLA Holdings LLC is a related party due to its owners being the CEO and COO of APR Energy plc. Consulting services from JCLA Holdings 
LLC (and its subsidiaries) were incurred by the Group during the year. These consulting services were made at an arm’s length market price. 
The total expense for the year was $0.4 million (2012: $0.3 million). The services rendered were all paid in cash. No guarantees have been 
given or received. 
CJJ LLC is a related party due to its owner being the CEO of APR Energy plc. CJJ LLC provides travel arrangement services to the Group. 
These services were made at an arm’s length market price. The total expense for the year was $0.3 million (2012: $nil). The services rendered 
were all paid in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
JCLA Development II LLC is a company related by common control by the CEO and COO. JCLA Development II LLC rents office space to 
the Group. These rental services were made at an arm’s length market price. The total expense for the year was $nil (2012: $0.1 million). The 
services rendered were all paid in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 
Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of certain key management personnel is provided in the audited part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 91.
$ million  2013 2012
Remuneration 7.0 2.5
Post-employment benefits - - 
Other long-term benefits 0.1 0.1  
Termination benefits - 0.9 
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 2.8 0.8 
 9.9 4.3
The group of individuals designated as key management personnel has been expanded from 5 to 9 individuals in the current year.
33  Significant investments
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group at the year end, and the main countries in which they operate are shown below. All 
companies are wholly owned.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 123 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
   Country Country
 Name Principal activity of operation of registration
APR Energy Holdings Limited Holding company UK England and Wales
APR Energy Cayman Limited Holding company United States Cayman Islands
APR International LLC Holding company United States United States
APR Energy LLC Supply of temporary power United States United States
APR LLC Supply of temporary power United States United States
APR Energy SRL Supply of temporary power Argentina Argentina
APR Energy II LLC Holding company United States United States
APR Energy Panama SRL Distribution centre Panama Panama
Falconbridge Services LLC Service company United States United States
APR Energy Spain SLU Supply of temporary power Spain Spain
APR Energy (Cyprus) Limited Supply of temporary power Cyprus Cyprus
APR Energy Germany GmbH Supply of temporary power Germany Germany
Power Rental Op Co LLC Supply of temporary power Iraq, Bangladesh, US VI United States
Power Rental Op Co Australia LLC Supply of temporary power Australia United States
Power Rental Asset Co LLC Holding company United States United States
Power Rental Asset Co One LLC Supply of temporary power United States United States
Power Rental Asset Co Two LLC Supply of temporary power United States United States
Power Rental Op Co Canada ULC Supply of temporary power Canada Canada
Power Rental Op Co Bangladesh Limited Supply of temporary power UK England and Wales
APR Energy FZE Distribution centre Dubai Dubai
APR Energy Uruguay SA Supply of temporary power Uruguay Uruguay
PT.APR Indonesia Supply of temporary power Indonesia Indonesia
Alaska Bussines Group SA Supply of temporary power Guatemala Guatemala 
APR Energy (Singapore) Private Distribution centre Malaysia Singapore
34   Dividends
$ million  2013 2012
Declared and paid during the year
Final dividend for 2012: 6.7 pence (2011: 10.0 pence) per ordinary share 7.9 12.5
Interim dividend for 2013: 3.3 pence (2012: 3.3 pence) per ordinary share 5.0 3.9
Dividends paid  12.9  16.4 
Proposed for approval by the shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for 2013: 6.7 pence (2012: 6.7 pence) per ordinary share 9.9 8.5   
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements.
35  Events after the balance sheet date
On 10 January 2014, the Group announced the extension of its 200MW diesel power module project in Libya on the same terms as the original 
contract.
On 12 February 2014, the Group announced the signing of a large-scale, turnkey power contract in Myanmar. The facility will provide the 
Myanmar Electric Power Enterprise (MEPE) with a guaranteed minimum of 82MW of power generation.
As part of the acquisition of the GE Power Rentals Business, the Group acquired a number of contracts as well as additional fleet.  As disclosed 
at the time, some of those contracts are held with corporate, not sovereign, counterparties.  We have been informed that one of those parties in 
Australia, Forge Group Limited, filed for protection from its creditors post year end.  As such, the assets allocated to that project are tied up in 
the receivership process.  Although it is still in the early stages, the Group is working with the administrators/receivers of Forge Group Limited 
regarding possession of those assets.
On 26 March 2014, the Group announced the signing of a mobile turbine contract to provide fast-track power to an industrial customer in the 
South Pacific. The plant will comprise mobile turbines producing a guaranteed 60MW and will power the customer’s mining operations. 124 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2013
$ million Note 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Investments 6  1,204.5 1,204.5
Trade and other receivables 7 269.2 283.9
Total non-current assets  1,473.7 1,488.4
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables 7 0.4 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents   - 1.8
Total current assets  0.4 2.0
Total assets  1,474.1 1,490.4
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 8 1.1 318.3
Total current liabilities  1.1 318.3
Total liabilities  1.1 318.3
Equity  
Share capital 9  15.2 12.6
Share premium   674.9 668.1
Other reserves 10  770.0 485.9
Equity reserves 11    6.9 4.5
Retained earnings   6.0 1.0 
 Total equity  1,473.0 1,172.1
 Total liabilities and equity  1,474.1  1,490.4
These financial statements of the Company, registered number 07062201, were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by:
John Campion
Chief Executive Officer
Company Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 125 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2013
 Share  Share Other Equity Retained T otal
 $ million capital premium reserves reserves earnings equity
Balance at 1 January 2012 12.7 668.1  485.8  1.8 3.7 1,172.1 
Profit for the year -  - - - 13.0 13.0
Total comprehensive profit for the year -  -  -  -  13.0 13.0
Issued share capital - - - (0.7) 0.7 - 
Redemption of deferred shares (0.1) - 0.1  -  - - 
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payment expense - - - 3.4  -  3.4
Dividends - - - -  (16.4) (16.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 12.6 668.1 485.9 4.5 1.0 1,172.1
Profit for the year -  - - - 15.9 15.9 
Total comprehensive profit for the year -  -  -  -  15.9 15.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.5  -  284.1 - - 286.6
Exercise of equity-settled share-based payment 0.1 6.8 - (2.0) 2.0 6.9
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payment expense - - - 4.4 - 4.4
Dividends - - - -  (12.9) (12.9)
Balance at 31 December 2013 15.2 674.9 770.0 6.9 6.0 1,473.0 126 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013
$ million Note 2013 2012
  
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit for the year before taxation  15.9 13.0
Adjustments for: 
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 11 0.4 (0.2)  
Movements in working capital: 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables  18.5 (11.5)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables   (28.8) 3.9
Net cash from operating activities  6.0 5.2
Cash flows from financing activities  
Dividends paid 14 (12.9) (16.4)  
Proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares  5.1 -  
Net cash used in financing activities  (7.8) (16.4)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (1.8) (11.2) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  1.8 13.0  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  - 1.8
Company Financial Statements Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 127 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
1  General information
APR Energy plc (the “Company”), is a company incorporated in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of 
the registered office is given on page 132 of this Annual Report. The 
nature of the Company’s operations and its principal activities are set 
out in the Strategy Review on pages 11 to 33.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that 
is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Company operates. 
2   Adoption of new and revised standards
In 2013, several amended standards and interpretations became 
effective. These are IAS 1 Presentation of items of other compre-
hensive income - Amendments to IAS 1, IAS 19 (revised) Employee 
Benefits, IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures - offsetting financial assets 
and liabilities, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of 
interests in other entities and IFRS 13 Fair value measurement. The 
adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had a material 
impact on the financial statements of the Company.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following 
standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and 
some of which were pending endorsement by the European Union):
l Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments 
to IAS 32) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2014;
l Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) 
– effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2014;
l Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
(Amendments to IAS 36) – effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014;
l Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting 
(Amendments to IAS 39) – effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014;
l Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to 
IAS 19) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 
July 2014;
l Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014; and
l Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
Adoption of the these standards in future periods is not expected to 
have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.
3  Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
adopted by the European Union and therefore the financial statements 
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the 
consideration given in exchange for the assets. 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is 
exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss 
account. The profit for the year ended 31 December 2013 of the 
Company was $15.9 million (2012: $13.0 million). These financial 
statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which the Company 
operates. 
Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements is in conformity with IFRS.  
IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements 
are disclosed in note 4.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, 
a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the 
Financial Review on page 39.
Provision for income taxes
Current tax
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax 
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial 
position date in the UK where the Company operates, generates 
taxable income and is subject to tax under local country tax law.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate based on 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
T axable profit differs from net profits as reported in the statement 
of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the statement of financial 
position date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
Notes 
to the Company Financial Statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 128 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is 
settled. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or 
part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets 
and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable 
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net 
basis. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items 
charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Foreign currencies
The financial statements are presented in the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which it operates (its functional 
currency). 
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-
monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the 
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Impairment
Financial assets
The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period 
whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group 
of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of 
financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred 
only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one 
or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset 
(“loss event”) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on 
the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of 
financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Trade and other receivables are considered past due if any portion 
of an account has not been paid in full within the contractual 
terms of the account. The Company assesses its ability to collect 
receivables that are past due and provides for an adequate 
allowance for doubtful accounts based on the financial stability, 
recent payment history of the customer, letters of credit in place 
and other pertinent factors related to the creditworthiness of 
the customer. The allowance for doubtful accounts includes 
specific amounts for those accounts that are deemed likely to be 
uncollectible. Upon permanent impairment, the trade receivable is 
written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Financial instruments
The Company classifies its financial assets and financial liabilities 
into the following categories: fair value through profit or loss 
and loans and receivables for financial assets and fair value 
through profit and loss and other financial liabilities for financial 
liabilities. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
financial instruments were acquired. Management determines the 
classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the finance 
income generated by a financial asset and the amortised cost of 
a financial liability including allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the 
expected life of the financial liability to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. 
These are classified as non-current assets. The Company’s loans 
and receivables are recorded as deposits and trade and other 
receivables in the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method, less any impairment. Interest 
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except 
for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be 
immaterial.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid 
investments that can be readily converted into cash or that have an 
original maturity of three months or less.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that 
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if 
payment is due within one year or less. 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial 
liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recognised at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Costs of equity transactions
Incremental costs that are attributable directly to issuing equity 
instruments of the Company are recognised in equity, net of any tax 
effects. Other costs not directly attributable to the issuing of equity 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 129 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
instruments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income.
Share-based payments 
In accordance with IFRS2 share-based payment arrangements in 
which the Company receives goods or services as consideration for 
APR Energy plc equity instruments are accounted for as equity-
settled share-based payment transactions, regardless of how the 
equity instruments are obtained by the Company.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured 
at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair 
value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. 
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled 
share-based transactions are set out in note 11.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments to employees is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate 
of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance 
sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of 
equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non 
market-based conditions. The impact of the revision of the original 
estimates, if any, is recognised in total comprehensive income such 
that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Share-based payments incurred on behalf of Group companies are 
recharged accordingly.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance 
sheet of the Company at cost, or nominal value of the shares 
issued as consideration as applicable, less any provision for any 
impairment in value. 
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised 
as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
4   Critical accounting estimates and judgements
In the application of the significant accounting policies, which are 
described in note 3, management is required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
There are no key assumptions concerning the future, or other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year.
Critical judgements in applying the Company’s 
accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving 
estimations discussed above, that management made in the 
process of applying the Company’s accounting policies and that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements.
Impairment of investment asset
Determining whether the investment asset is impaired requires an 
estimation of the value in use of the underlying investments. The 
value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future 
cash flows expected to arise from the investments and a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate present value. No impairments 
were recorded in the periods presented.
5   Risk management policies
The Company’s activities give rise to a number of financial risks, 
particularly market risk comprised of foreign exchange, credit risk, 
liquidity risk, and capital risk management.
Market risk
Market risk includes foreign exchange risk. The Company seeks to 
manage these risks to acceptable levels by maintaining appropriate 
policies and procedures. 
Foreign exchange risk
The Company has an exposure to transactional foreign exchange 
from purchases or sales in currencies other than US dollars. In 
order to minimise exposure to foreign exchange risk, the Company 
primarily contracts in US dollars or in contracts with a price based 
on US dollars at the date of transaction or payment if possible. 
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits 
with banks and financial institutions, as well as exposures to 
outstanding receivables from external parties. Due to the nature 
of the Company’s business management do not believe there is a 
significant credit risk to the Company.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk results from insufficient funding being available to 
meet the Company’s funding requirements as they arise. The 
Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves 
of cash and available committed facilities in subsidiaries for short 
and long-term funding requirements. The Company monitors the 
short-term forecast and actual cash flows on a daily basis and 
medium and long-term requirements in line with the Company’s 
long-term planning processes.
Capital risk management
The Company’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard 
its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for its equity holders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital. 
The Company is funded through a mixture of equity and debt 
financing through subsidiaries. 
The Company reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. 
As part of this review, the Company considers the cost of capital 
and the risk associated with each class of capital.  130 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
6  Investments
$ million  2013 2012
Opening 1,204.5 1,204.5
Balance at 31 December  1,204.5 1,204.5
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
7  Trade and other receivables
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Non-current 
Amounts due from subsidiaries 269.2 283.9
Current
Other debtors 0.4  0.2
  269.6 284.1
In determining the recoverability of trade and other receivables the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable 
from the date credit was granted up to the reporting date. Credit risk is limited due to substantially all the balance being amounts due from 
subsidiaries. Accordingly the Directors believe there is no credit provision required, and no classes of receivable contain impaired assets. 
Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand and are interest free. These amounts are shown as non-current as these balances 
are not expected to be repaid within twelve months of the balance sheet date. The carrying value of receivables is considered to represent their 
fair value.
8  Trade and other payables
$ million  31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Amounts due to subsidiaries - 316.7
Trade payables 0.5 0.6
Accrued expenses 0.6 1.0
  1.1 318.3
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs, as well as amounts due to 
subsidiaries. Amounts due to subsidiaries are repayable on demand and are interest free.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables are approximate to their fair values. 
9   Share capital
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
 $ million Number $ million Number
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
Ordinary shares of 10p each 15.2 94,251,622 12.6 78,235,164 
 Ordinary shares Deferred shares
  Number Number
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2011 78,215,164 954,749,920
Share matching awards 20,000  - 
Redemption of deferred shares -  (954,749,920)
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2012 78,235,164  -
Acquisition of subsidiaries 15,453,129  - 
Exercise of equity-settled share-based payment 563,329 - 
Outstanding shares at 31 December 2013 94,251,622 - 
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s articles of association do not recognise the concept of authorised share capital.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 131 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
On 28 October 2013, the Group acquired the GE Power Rental Business, comprising Power Rental Op Co One LLC, Power Rental Op Co 
Australia LLC, Power Rental Asset Co One LLC, Power Rental Asset Co T wo LLC, Power Rental Op Co Canada ULC and Power Rental Op Co 
Bangladesh Limited. 
The total consideration for the acquisition was $361.5 million payable in cash ($73.1 million) on completion and 15,453,129 ordinary shares 
allotted and issued credited as fully paid up to the sellers.  The fair value of this share issue was $288.4 million which was equal to the share 
price on the closing date of the transaction.
10  Other reserves
 Capital redemption
$ million Merger reserve reserve T otal
At 1 January 2012 485.8 -  485.8
Redemption of deferred shares - 0.1 0.1
 Balance at 31 December 2012 485.8 0.1 485.9  
Acquisition of subsidiaries
1
 284.1 - 284.1 
Balance at 31 December 2013 769.9 0.1  770.0 
1  Includes $1.8 million of costs associated with the issue of 15,453,129 ordinary shares related to the acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business.
11  Share-based payments
Details of the Company’s share-based payments plans are set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
12  Related party disclosures 
There have been no transactions with related parties during either period besides the intercompany transactions, which are detailed in notes 7 
and 8. See note 32 in the consolidated financial statements for further details of related party transactions.
13  Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is disclosed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
14  Dividends
$ million  2013 2012
Declared and paid during the year
Final dividend for 2012: 6.7 pence (2011: 10.0 pence) per ordinary share 7.9 12.5
Interim dividend for 2013: 3.3 pence (2012: 3.3 pence) per ordinary share 5.0 3.9
Dividends paid  12.9  16.4 
Proposed for approval by the shareholders at the AGM
Final dividend for 2013: 6.7 pence (2012: 6.7 pence) per ordinary share 9.9 8.5   
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements. 132 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Shareholders’ information
Company Secretary  Andrew Bradshaw 
Registered Office  APR Energy plc
54 Baker Street, London W1U 7BU
Auditor Deloitte LLP , London  
 Chartered Accountants
Registrar  Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 
34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
 T el: 0871 664 0300, Overseas: +44 20 8639 3399
 Email: SSD@capita.co.uk
Financial Advisers  Numis Securities Ltd, London
JP Morgan Cazenove, London
Annual General Meeting 
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of APR Energy plc will be held at 
10.00am on 20 May 2014 at the offices of JP Morgan Cazenove, Holborn Bars,138-142 
Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ.
Dividend
Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 39 of this report. Set 
out below is the relevant information for the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 
December 2013.
Ex-dividend date  2 April 2014
Dividend record date  4 April 2014
Dividend payment date  3 June 2014
Dividends will be paid via cheque or shareholders can arrange for payment to be made by 
mandate directly to their bank or building society account. Any shareholder wishing dividends 
to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact Capita Asset Services’ 
helpline on 0871 664 0300, from within the UK, or +44 208 639 3399 from outside the UK. Calls 
to the 0871 number cost 10 pence per minute plus your service provider’s network extras, lines 
are open Monday to Friday 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Alternatively a form may be downloaded from 
capitaassetservices.com, where you can also set up a dividend mandate online. Dividends 
paid by mandate will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS).
Financial calendar
Full Year results announced 
26 March 2014 
Annual Report posted 
April 2014
Annual General Meeting 
20 May 2014
Q1 Interim Management  
Statement
20 May 2014
Interim results announced
27 August 2014 Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 133 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Glossary
$
United States Dollars (unless otherwise 
noted)
Adjusted EBITDA
Operating profit adjusted to add back 
depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment, equity-settled share-based 
payment expense, amortisation of 
intangible assets and exceptional items. 
Exceptional items are those items believed 
to be exceptional in nature by virtue of size 
and/or incidence
Adjusted EBITDA margin
Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted net income divided by the 
weighted average number of ordinary 
shares. The weighted average number of 
ordinary shares used to calculate the 2013 
adjusted basic earnings per share was 
81,044,059
Adjusted Issue Price
The placing price of the issue of 40,514,700 
ordinary shares pursuant to a placing on 
behalf of the Company on 9 February 
2010 as adjusted appropriately for matters 
such as any subsequent consolidation 
or subdivision of the ordinary shares or 
allotment of ordinary shares by capitalising 
the Company’s profits or reserves and as 
reduced by the Value Return (if any) and by 
the Discount Value (if any), as such terms 
are defined in the Readmission Prospectus
Adjusted net income
Adjusted net income is net income adjusted 
to add back amortisation of intangible 
assets and exceptional items. Exceptional 
items are those items believed to be 
exceptional in nature by virtue of size and/
or incidence
Adjusted ROCE (return on capital  
employed)
Operating profit for the previous twelve 
months adjusted to add back amortisation 
of intangible assets and exceptional items 
divided by the average of the net operating 
assets at the previous three balance sheet 
dates (for 31 December 2013 this comprises 
the 31 December 2013, 30 June 2013 and 
31 December 2012 and for 31 December 
2012 this comprises the 31 December 2012, 
30 June 2012 and 31 December 2011). “Net 
operating assets” is defined as total equity 
adjusted to exclude goodwill, intangible 
assets, borrowings, Founder securities, 
deferred tax assets and liabilities and current 
tax assets and liabilities
AERMOD (Atmospheric dispersion  
modelling) 
Used for modelling, analysing and 
visualising emissions dispersion 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
Meeting of shareholders of the Company 
held each year to consider ordinary and 
special business as provided in the Notice 
of AGM
APR Energy plc 
APR Energy plc, a limited liability company 
incorporated in the United Kingdom with 
registered number 7062201. APR Energy 
plc (the “Company” and together with its 
subsidiaries, “APR Energy” or the “Group”)
APR Group 
APR Cayman Limited, an exempted 
company incorporated with limited liability 
under the Laws of the Cayman Islands 
and Falconbridge Services, LLC, a Florida 
limited liability company (providing certain 
management and other services to Group 
companies), together with their respective 
subsidiaries
Articles of Association or Articles
The articles of association of the Company 
in force from time to time
Board 
The board of directors of the Company 
Capacity or Fleet Capacity
“Capacity” represents the aggregate 
megawatt capacity that the APR Group’s 
power generating equipment, including 
both owned and leased equipment, would 
be capable of delivering when operating 
at 100 per cent of their power output. The 
Directors consider committed capacity 
to be an important indicator of the APR 
Group’s revenue generating capability
CO
2
Carbon Dioxide
Code
2010 edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (followed voluntarily)
Companies Act or Act
The Companies Act 2006, as amended
Contracted utilisation
Contracted utilisation represents the 
proportion of the Group’s fleet capacity 
subject to contract, at a given point in time
Deferred shares
The deferred shares of 1 pence each in 
the capital of the Company, subsequently 
purchased by the Company in 2012 for a 
total consideration of 1 pence
EIA 
US Energy Information Administration
Falconbridge Acquisition Agreement 
The agreement between the Company, the 
Subsidiary and JCLA Holdings, LLC dated 
13 June 2011 relating to the acquisition 
of the entire issued share capital of 
Falconbridge.
Founder securities 
The C ordinary shares of 99 pence each in 
the capital of APR Energy Holdings Limited
FCA 
UK Financial Conduct Authority
FSMA 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 of the UK, as amended
g/kWh 
Emissions in grammes per kilowatt hour
GEPM 
Gas engine power module
Hub 
Service centre with large items of 
equipment for storage, service and 
deployment  134 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Hz 
Hertz – a unit of frequency
IEA
The International Energy Agency
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards
kVA 
A thousand volt amperes
KwH 
Kilowatt hours
Listing Rules
The listing rules made by the UK Listing 
Authority under section 73A of FSMA as 
amended from time to time
MVAR 
Mega Volt Ampere Reactive
MW 
Megawatt – a million watts of electricity
MW-Month
Megawatt months
NOx 
Nitrogen oxides. Pollutants created 
through combustion at high temperatures. 
Comprises nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide
Official List
The official list maintained by the UK Listing 
Authority
O&M 
Operation and maintenance
OPEC
Organisation of Petroleum Exporting  
Countries
Operating Board 
Board of directors of APR Energy Holdings 
Limited
Order book
Contracted future orders expressed as 
MW-Months
Ordinary shares
The ordinary shares of 10p each in the 
capital of the Company
Peak shaving
Reduction of the amount of electricity 
drawn from a power utility in designated 
peak time periods
PP&E 
Property, plant, and equipment
Premium Listing
A premium listing under Chapter 6 of the 
Listing Rules
Readmission Prospectus
The prospectus dated 15 September 2011 
for the admission and readmission of the 
Company’s Ordinary Shares to the Official 
List of the UK Listing Authority and to 
trading on the London Stock Exchange’s 
main market for listed securities
Regional Hub 
Service, distribution, and commercial 
centre located in strategic global regions 
that handles large items of equipment for 
storage, service and deployment
RFP
A request for proposal – used to secure 
bids for the provision of specified services
Securities Act
US Securities Act of 1933, as amended
Standard Listing
A standard listing under Chapter 14 of the 
London Stock Exchange Listing Rules  Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 135 
Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other information
Notes 136 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
Notes APR Energy powers the progress of 
the communities we serve by providing 
cost-efficient reliable electricity, on a 
fast-track basis, anywhere in the world.
We leverage state-of-the art technology 
and industry-leading expertise to 
provide utility and industrial customers 
with fuel-efficient turnkey plants that are 
rapidly deployed, customisable, and 
scalable. 
Cautionary Statement
This announcement (in particular the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement) has been prepared solely 
to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Company’s strategies and overall performance. Certain statements 
in this announcement constitute or may constitute forward-looking statements. Any statement in this announcement that is not a 
statement of historical fact including, without limitation, those regarding the Company’s future expectations, operations, financial 
performance, financial condition, and business is or may be a forward-looking statement. Such forward-looking statements are subject 
to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in any forward-looking 
statement. These risks and uncertainties include, among other factors, changing economic, financial, business or other market 
conditions. These and other factors could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described in 
this announcement. As a result, whilst they are made in good faith based on information available up to the time of their approval of 
this announcement, you are cautioned not to place any reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements 
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of this announcement and the Company undertakes no obligation to update 
its view of such risks and uncertainties or to update the forward-looking statements contained herein. Nothing in this announcement 
should be construed as a profit forecast.
COVER tp.indd   2 04/04/2014   10:02 APR ENERGY PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
APR ENERGY PLC   2013 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS
APR ENERGY PLC
Registered Office
54 Baker Street
London W1U 7BU
Commercial Operations
3600 Port Jacksonville Parkway
Jacksonville, FL 32226 USA
Tel: +1 904 223 8488
Fax: +1 904 223 8955
www.aprenergy.com
COVER tp.indd   1 04/04/2014   10:02
