 Northern Foods plc
Annual report 2003
www.northern-foods.co.uk
Northern Foods plc Annual report 2003 Our business
Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.We operate
in eight core product areas which benefit from long term
demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality 
foods that are convenient to eat.
Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we 
have strong market positions in the supply of high 
quality chilled foods under their retail names.We also 
have successful brands in biscuits,frozen food and 
savoury products.
Designed and produced by
Fitch:London
Front cover photography 
Nick Sinclair
Printed in England by
the colourhouse
Contents
01 Financial highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
03 Chief executive’s statement 
04 Financial review
06 Report of the directors
10 Directors’ remuneration report
19 Independent auditors’ report
20 Consolidated profit and loss account
21 Consolidated balance sheet
22 Consolidated cash flow statement
23 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Statement of total recognised gains and losses
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
24 Company balance sheet
25 Accounting policies
27 Notes to the accounts
45 Five year record
46 Investor information
47 Shareholder analysis
48 Company information Financial highlights | 01 Northern Foods plc
Financial highlights
2003
> Continuing sales up 5.0% to £1,421.2m
driven by Convenience up 7 .9%
> Continuing operating profit
*
up £0.6m to £115.6m:
– disappointing performance in biscuits 
offsets good progress elsewhere
– Convenience up 8.5%
– Grocery down 9.7%
> Earnings per share
*
up 6.5% to 14.81p
benefits from lower tax charge and share 
buyback programme
> Dividend increased 6.1% to 8.7p per share:
– dividend cover
*
increased
> Profit on sale of Ski and Munch Bunch brands 
less operational costs lifts FRS 3 pre-tax profit 
by 27 .5% and earnings per share by 61.9%
> Net debt reduced by £90.1m:
– £100.1m returned to shareholders through 
dividends and share buybacks
– disposal proceeds £145m
– strong operational cash generation
> Biscuit stabilisation and recovery plans in place:
– accelerated new product development programme
– cost reduction initiatives
– price increases successfully implemented
> Further group-wide initiatives to reduce cost base
*
Figures quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. 02 | Chairman’s statement Northern Foods plc
Chairman’s statement
Peter Blackburn
Trading results were below our original plan, primarily due to disappointing
results in biscuits. Progress in other key areas resulted in earnings per 
share growth, despite tightening market conditions, disposal dilution and
significant cost pressures.
We are responding to the challenges of our market place through
determined and co-ordinated action.We are driving operational
improvements throughout the group, notably by a greater focus on
leveraging synergies in productivity, procurement and systems. Specific
action is being taken to stabilise and improve our performance in
biscuits.We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure that we
concentrate on activities where we can achieve and retain competitive
advantage and a strong customer franchise.
Results
Continuing sales grew by 5.0 per cent to £1,421.2 million, driven by strong
progress in our Convenience chilled food operations, though total sales were
2.6 per cent lower as a result of the disposal of the Ski and Munch Bunch
brands to Nestlé UK in April 2002. Underlying sales trends, excluding the
effects of divestments and currency movements, improved in the last three
months of the financial year, after a slower performance in the third quarter.
Continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was up 0.5 per cent at £115.6 million, with improved results from our
Convenience operations offset by a decline in Grocery as a result of our poor
performance in biscuits. Dilution from disposals and the cost of the share
buyback programme depressed profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, which was 3.5 per cent lower at £97 .5 million.
The reduction in share capital, together with a lower underlying tax charge,
resulted in enhanced earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, which improved by 6.5 per cent to 14.81 pence.
The disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch generated a £54.0 million exceptional
profit, which has been partially offset by £42.6 million of reorganisation costs
and asset impairment. As a result, on an FRS 3 basis, pre-tax profit increased
by 27 .5 per cent to £105.8 million, and earnings per share by 61.9 per cent 
to 18.73 pence, compared with the previous year.
Dividend and share buyback
The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.45 pence per 
share (2002: 5.15 pence). Together with the increased interim dividend 
of 3.25 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year of 
8.70 pence, a rise of 6.1 per cent. We remain committed to a progressive
dividend policy, taking account of the long term earnings potential and 
cash flow of the group.
In addition, we continued to make market purchases of our shares
for cancellation, acquiring a total of 36.4 million shares, representing 
6.5 per cent of our equity, at a cost of £55.5 million. This brings the
total to £106.5 million since we began our share buyback programme
in February 2000.
Strategic priorities
In a climate of intense food retailer competition, it is more important than
ever that Northern Foods leverages its scale advantages in procurement and
ensures that best practice in productivity, food technology and systems is
applied throughout the group. We are working with increasing dedication 
and effectiveness to ensure that we maximise these opportunities, and deliver 
the planned returns on our investments. The sale of Ski and Munch Bunch 
has demonstrated our willingness to adjust our portfolio when appropriate,
and we will continue to examine all aspects of our business to ensure that 
we focus on activities where we have a real competitive edge as the base 
for delivering shareholder value.
The board
Following extensive changes to the non-executive directorate in 2002, we
further improved the strength and balance of the board with the appointment
of two new executive directors in January 2003. Matthew Gribbin, 45, has
been with Northern Foods for over 20 years and Howard Sims, 55, joined 
the company in 1998 on the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray plc, of which 
he was Chief executive.
Corporate social responsibility
Northern Foods has a long tradition of sensitivity to social issues and of
supporting the disadvantaged in our society. During the year we have taken
further steps to clarify the principles on which we conduct our relations with
all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, customers and consumers,
suppliers, the communities in which we operate, and the wider environment.
Outlook
Sales in the first seven weeks of the current year are up 7 .6 per cent overall,
and up 9.5 per cent with our five largest customers. This strong start was
assisted by the timing of Easter and recent new business gains, although we
anticipate that progress may moderate in the months ahead. In a demanding
trading climate, we are pursuing a range of initiatives to enhance efficiencies
and returns across the group. Action is being taken in our biscuit businesses 
to recover inflation, reduce costs and accelerate new product development;
this is helping to arrest the trend of the second half of last year, though 
biscuit trading is expected to dampen Grocery performance in the first half.
The entire Northern Foods team shares my determination that the group 
will fulfil its potential by delivering appropriate returns on our investments
and maximising the potential of our strong positions in the growing
convenience food market.
Peter Blackburn
Chairman
28 May 2003 Chief executive’s statement | 03 Northern Foods plc
Chief executive’s statement
Jo Stewart
Our aim remains the creation of shareholder value as the most effective
added value food manufacturer addressing the UK retail market.
By focusing on the supply of added value products to the major retailers,
and on innovation and the highest food standards, we have positioned
ourselves to benefit from the key long term trends in our market 
place. Organisational and strategic refinement, combined with prudent
investment, are designed to drive further improvements in our
competitiveness.
Market environment
In a time of increasing economic uncertainty, the food market stands out 
for its long term overall stability. The sectors on which we have chosen to
focus continue to outperform the market as a whole, driven by consumer
demand for increasing convenience and quality. The UK retailing
environment, always demanding, awaits the outcome of the competition
authorities’ review of the various options for further consolidation. However
this finally unfolds, we believe that Northern Foods is strongly placed as a
well-invested business capable of meeting retailer needs for innovation,
quality assurance, service and value.
Retailer consolidation will inevitably be matched by rationalisation of their
supply base, and some players will not survive this process. This may lead 
to some instability, but this should correct itself as a more stable supply base
emerges. We are confident that Northern Foods will be a winner from the
further consolidation of food manufacturing in the UK.
Business focus
We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that we have the right 
profile to achieve the returns and value generation we seek. The changes 
we have made in recent years, through acquisitions, disposals and
investments in new facilities, have been designed to drive Northern Foods
further up the scale of both added value and convenience. Good examples 
of this include the development of new facilities to manufacture chilled 
ready meals and stonebaked pizzas, and our withdrawal from van sales 
of savoury pastry products. We remain confident that our recent major
investment and restructuring projects have been accurately targeted 
and will deliver the expected returns. In the near term, we anticipate levels 
of capital expenditure to be similar to last year as we concentrate on 
delivery from these past initiatives.
Trading
Our Convenience businesses have delivered good top line growth, based 
on the positive consumer and retailer trends we had identified. This has also
been translated into strong profit progress. Clearly performance in Grocery
has been disappointing, chiefly as a result of intense competitor activity in
biscuits, including the entry of new players from the confectionery sector 
and significant increases in cocoa costs. Despite these well-publicised issues,
Fox’s remains one of the strongest and most profitable brands in its sector,
and urgent action is being taken to stabilise the business through accelerated
new product development, price increases and cost reductions. Our other
Grocery businesses, principally in the frozen foods sector, have continued 
to perform well.
Synergy development
Central to the Northern Foods proposition is the belief that each of our
activities should have bespoke strategies tailored to their precise market 
type, positioning and customer profile. We then seek to overlay scale and
synergy benefits that reflect the size and strength of our group. These are
concentrated in six key areas:
– market development and customer relations, including the identification
of market trends and opportunities and the exploitation of group strengths
to drive category management for our key customers;
– productivity, with an emphasis on continuously improving the effectiveness
of our manufacturing activities and supply chain;
– procurement, ensuring that correct standards are applied and cost
reduction strategies developed to optimise value in use of the materials 
we purchase;
– food technology, applying the latest scientific advances in a practical 
way to aid innovation and productivity across the business;
– systems, both in management processes and information technology,
to provide a common platform for use within our business activities;
– people, including recruitment, training and development, and the effective
deployment of management resources.
Over the last year, we have placed particular emphasis on productivity 
and procurement. We have a common group-wide approach to the
measurement and improvement of manufacturing performance, utilising 
a lean manufacturing template to drive efficiencies in our factories. This 
is accompanied by the strengthening of our group buying disciplines for 
raw materials and packaging, which will enhance consistency and quality 
as well as delivering cost savings.
These initiatives are assisted by our investment in systems, with the roll-out
of a common SAP platform for all our companies well advanced and poised
to deliver further benefits in the future.
Prospects
We will continue to refine our portfolio to ensure that it is attuned both 
to market trends and to our core competencies as a group. Relationships 
with our key retailer partners will continue to be fostered to ensure we
become even closer and more proactive, with a high priority accorded to
innovation, and synergies between our businesses exploited ever more
systematically. Our ability to cope with testing times has been strengthened
by the strategy and investments we have put in place, and our teams have
demonstrated great resilience and dedication in defending and building our
business, and seeking new opportunities for growth.
Jo Stewart 
Chief executive 04 | Financial review Northern Foods plc
Financial review
Sean Christie
Difficult trading in biscuits held back the results of our Grocery division,
but performance in almost all other areas was strong, with returns on past
investments coming through.
The reduced capital base following the disposal of Ski and Munch 
Bunch to Nestlé, means that ROIC increases, despite operating profit
being below our original target.The WACC continues to fall, resulting in 
an improved margin over the cost of funds, one of our two key financial
performance measures.The other metric, growth in earnings per share
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 6.5 per cent,
with the trading uplift boosted by share buybacks and a lower tax charge.
Sales – continuing operations
Sales were up 5.0 per cent, driven by our Convenience operations.Price
increases averaging 0.5 per cent were achieved, recovering input cost
inflation. Third quarter sales were below our forecasts, but we saw improved
trends in the final quarter.
Convenience
Sales were up 7 .9 per cent to £1,014.1 million, despite the effects of the poor
summer and the quieter third quarter, with particularly strong performances
in recipe dishes, chilled pizza and fresh chilled dairy products.
Grocery
Overall sales were down 1.6 per cent at £407 .1 million. Biscuits were the 
key problem, with sales down overall despite the Fox’s brand making volume
progress. Dalepak’s sales of frozen ready meals were also lower, but there
were strong uplifts in frozen pizza and Dalepak’s core grills and burgers range.
Operating profit – continuing operations, before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items
Operating profit was up 0.5 per cent, with growth in Convenience just
outweighing the Grocery shortfall. Both divisions had to cope with a near
doubling of insurance costs, which rose by £7 .0 million across the group.
Convenience
Convenience operating profit was up 8.5 per cent to £70.0 million, despite
start-up costs in recipe dishes and losses in the remaining Eden Vale business
following the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands to Nestlé at the start
of the year. Significant profit uplift came from the restructuring of our 
Tesco pizza and quiche operations and increased manufacturing throughput
at Pork Farms as a result of our deal with Kerry Foods in the prior year.
Speciality bread also performed well. When Solway, our associate company,
is added to our continuing businesses, the Convenience operating profit
shows an increase of 10.0 per cent.
Grocery
Grocery operating profit declined by £4.9 million to £45.6 million. Biscuits
more than accounted for this shortfall, which resulted from a combination 
of manufacturer driven promotional activity coupled with increases in cocoa
prices. Elsewhere in Grocery we made reasonable profit progress with Green
Isle doing well and Dalepak turning round the first half deficit and making
profit progress for the year.
Discontinued operations
These were the main cause of sales and profit shortfall, with turnover 
reduced by £105.4 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items by £10.1 million as a result of the disposals. The key
elements were the divestment of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and 
of our van sales operations to Kerry Foods. The Lift lemon tea brand and our
V anderheul biscuit business in Holland were also sold during the previous year.
Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Pre-tax profit was down £3.5 million to £97 .5 million, with the discontinued
activities showing a net deficit of £3.2 million (operating profit foregone less
the interest benefit on £145 million of disposal proceeds) and the share
buyback programme increasing interest costs by £1.8 million. Our associate
Solway made strong profit progress, with our share up £1.0 million to £1.4
million as it recovered from the prior year’s factory commissioning problems.
Interest costs reduced by £5.0 million primarily as a result of the disposals.
T axation
T axation on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for 
the year was 18.4 per cent. This is lower than the basic UK tax rate primarily
because of the low rates of corporation tax which apply to our operations 
in Ireland, discounting of the deferred tax liability and the tax efficient
structuring of our funding arrangements, including a non-recurring element 
of £1.5 million relating to exchange losses. Excluding this item,the 
underlying charge was 19.9 per cent.
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were
up 6.5 per cent at 14.81 pence, with share buybacks and the lower tax charge
contributing to the progress. On an FRS 3 basis, earnings per share were up
61.9 per cent at 18.73 pence, with profit on sale from the disposals less the
associated restructuring costs boosting the result.
Exceptional items and goodwill
There was a post-tax exceptional net credit of £24.2 million versus a charge
of £10.1 million in the previous year. The main features of this year’s credit
were profit on disposal of businesses of £54.0 million (after charging goodwill
previously written off totalling £65.0 million), less restructuring costs 
of £42.6 million, the main element of which was a charge relating to asset
impairment at Eden Vale of £29.2 million. This followed a full review of the
carrying value of the remaining assets at Minsterley following the Ski and
Munch Bunch sale. Other exceptional costs relate to redundancy, disruption
and asset write-offs following the disposals. Goodwill amortisation on past
acquisitions was £3.1 million versus £2.9 million last year.
Distributions to shareholders
During the year we returned £100.1 million to shareholders via share
buybacks and dividends.
Buybacks
We bought 36.4 million shares back during the year (6.5 per cent of our
equity) at a cost of £55.5 million, which represented an average price of 
152 pence per share. This was the largest annual programme we have
undertaken so far and helped mitigate the earnings dilution from disposals.
We intend to continue to buy shares in the market as opportunities arise.
Dividends
We propose a final dividend of 5.45 pence making a total of 8.70 pence for
the year, up 6.1 per cent on last year’s figure of 8.20 pence. Dividend cover,
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, increases to 1.8 times
due to the reduced shareholder base.
Acquisitions and divestments
The only divestment was the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands plus
the Cuddington factory to Nestlé for £145 million in April 2002. We made 
no acquisitions. Financial review | 05 Northern Foods plc
Capital expenditure
Tight control of capital was a key theme during the year. Our facilities 
are well-invested following expenditure over the last few years and capital
expenditure totalled £79.4 million compared with £123.6 million in the 
prior year. This spend was 1.3 times the depreciation charge of £62.7 million.
The largest project in the year (other than replacement capital) was the
continuing drive to implement SAP in all companies, the main phase of 
which will be completed in the current year.
Cash flow
Cash flow was very encouraging with a £90.1 million reduction in net debt,
despite £100.1 million being returned to shareholders. The disposal proceeds
of £145.0 million were the largest single contributor to this, but strong
operational cash generation was also an important factor. The working capital
outflow of only £11.9 million was caused primarily by the difference between
the actuarial based cash contributions to the pension fund and the SSAP 24
basis used in the profit and loss account. All of this meant trading cash flow
was far stronger than last year.
Treasury management
The treasury function of the group operates within a policy framework
approved and regularly reviewed by the board. The department is not run 
as a profit centre and is subject to internal audit review. Its activities are
routinely reported to the board. Whilst each business in the group is
responsible for its own cash management, all resulting cash flows and
balances are managed by the central treasury to minimise borrowings 
and interest costs.
Bank facilities
The group has a £450 million, five year, revolving credit facility which,
together with the £90 million fixed rate bond, form the committed 
core of our funding arrangements.
Liquidity
The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding over 
the medium term by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate
facilities supplemented by uncommitted facilities. The policy is to ensure
that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom 
are covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months 
after the year end.
Interest rates
The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its
borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range 
of 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term,
although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
Currency
The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately 13.6 per
cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies other than
sterling, principally the euro. Group policy is to hedge against transactional
risk, by spot and forward foreign exchange contracts. We do not hedge
against translation.
Balance sheet
Shareholders’ funds increased from £288.2 million to £366.1 million over the
year, primarily as a result of the disposals. Borrowings fell from £413.7 million
to £323.6 million, resulting in gearing of 88.4 per cent (last year: 143.5 per
cent) and interest cover, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items,
rising to 6.0 times (last year: 5.1 times).
Return on investment before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Adjusting the opening invested capital for the Ski and Munch Bunch disposal,
which completed on 2 April 2002, our ROIC (post-tax return on average
invested capital) rises from 9.9 per cent last year to 10.0 per cent in the year
to March 2003. The cost of debt and equity capital continued to fall, reducing
our WACC (weighted average cost of capital), which resulted in the margin
over cost of funds rising to 3.7 percentage points (last year: 2.6 percentage
points). We will continue to manage both sides of the equation, improving
ROIC whilst keeping our cost of capital down to maximise the return to
equity investors.
Pensions
The changes we have made to our pension funding arrangements have been
an important factor behind this year’s results. Depressed equity markets 
and increasing life expectancy are putting great strains on company 
pension funds. We have taken steps to ensure the latter does not become 
an increasing burden to the company. We decided to keep our final salary
scheme but have increased contributions for all employees by 40 per cent
from 5 to 7 per cent of earnings and removed a number of company 
funded early retirement provisions for future service. Our fund is relatively
immature, with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions
paid out, which leaves us able to take a long term view of investment 
returns. We continue to charge pension costs against profits based 
on SSAP 24. These results incorporate the latest triennial valuation as at
March 2002 and the increased employee contributions have offset the
increased cost. The variation credit due to the amortisation of past surpluses
reduces the pension charge by £2.4million.
The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are that the post-tax balance sheet
deficit rises to £143.5 million (last year: deficit £47 .0 million) reflecting the
trends seen in the equity markets. The effect on pre-tax profit would have
been a reduction of £5.5 million (made up of the loss of the SSAP 24 credit
and other calculation differences between the two methodologies). It is our
intention to continue to report profits under SSAP 24 until the new standard
is implemented.
Information technology
One of the major capital projects has been the introduction of SAP across 
the group, permitting a move to state of the art systems for both financial
reporting and operational control. Our decentralised IT arrangements 
have been replaced with a central structure. It is our intention, subject to
consultation, to take all remaining IT staff out of our operating companies
in the coming year, saving costs and improving service. Another benefit 
from the implementation of SAP is that, again subject to consultation, we
plan to centralise all financial accounting and reporting across the group.
We propose to roll out the changes in the first half and expect the benefits 
to build steadily over the next two years.
Sean Christie
Finance director 06 | Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
Report of 
the directors
The directors of Northern Foods plc present their report and the accounts
of the company for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Principal activities and business review
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairman’s statement, the
Chief executive’s statement and the Financial review, which together include
information about group activities, the financial performance during the year
and likely developments.
Acquisitions and disposals
The following disposal took place in the year and is referred to in the
Chairman’s statement and the Financial review:
– On 2 April 2002 Convenience Foods Limited completed the sale of 
the Ski and Munch Bunch brands, together with the yogurt facility 
at Cuddington, to Nestlé UK Limited for £145 million in cash.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 3.25 pence per share was paid on 28 March 2003 
and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.45 pence per share to be
paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 25 July 2003.
Share capital
Pursuant to the authority granted by shareholders at the Annual general
meeting on 18 July 2002, Northern Foods has implemented a share buyback
programme of up to 10 per cent of its equity. This latest programme started
in July 2002 and to date 23,495,460 ordinary shares have been bought back.
On 2 December 2002, options over 3,883,500 ordinary shares were
granted under the company’s executive share option scheme at a price 
of 168.08 pence.
Options have been exercised under the company’s executive and savings-
related share option schemes during the year ended 31 March 2003.
As a result, participants in these schemes were allotted 515,437 new
ordinary shares in that period.
Options outstanding under the above schemes at 31 March 2003 were
19,819,809. From 1 April 2003 to 27 May 2003, 49,527 new ordinary shares
have been allotted on the exercise of options.
Substantial holders of stock
The directors have received notification of an interest of 3 per cent or more
in the issued share capital of the company from the following:
Legal & General Investment Management 3.01 per cent
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 7 .10 per cent
Directors
The following were directors of the company during the year:
Helen Alexander* (resigned 31 December 2002)
Peter Blackburn*
Sean Christie 
Colin Dyer* 
Jonathan Fry* (resigned 28 May 2002)
Matthew Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)
Tony Hobson* (appointed 28 May 2002)
Orna Ni-Chionna* (appointed 28 May 2002)
Howard Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)
Jo Stewart
*non-executive directors
Directors’ biographical details are set out on page 24 of the Annual review.
In accordance with the company’s articles of association, P H Blackburn,
C Dyer, A J Hobson, O G Ni-Chionna and A J Stewart retire and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election.
M T Gribbin and H R Sims, having been appointed directors since the 2002
Annual general meeting, offer themselves for election.
The executive directors’ service contracts, including that of A J Stewart, the
retiring executive director, and those of M T Gribbin and H R Sims, executive
directors who are standing for election, are referred to in the Directors’
remuneration report. All the executive directors’ service contracts are
terminable by the company giving one year’s notice.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company, as at
31 March 2003, are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report. Other 
than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial interest in any
contract to which the company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party 
during the year.
Social responsibility
The report entitled ‘Recognising our social responsibilities’ on pages 18 
to 20 of the Annual review gives further details of our commitments to our
employees, local communities, the environment and to ethical trading.
Employee share schemes
The company operates savings-related and executive share option schemes,
reference to which is made under the section ‘Share capital’ above.
More than 13,000 current employees, pensioners and former employees
have shares held on their behalf by the trustees of the company’s previous
profit sharing scheme.
Health and safety
Northern Foods’ commitment to health and safety is set out in the
company’s policy statement and summarised in the social responsibility
report in the Annual review. Annual objectives are set at the beginning of the
financial year and performance is monitored and reviewed by the executive
committee. A separate report is prepared on health and safety performance
and is available on request.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year the group donated £266,000 for charitable purposes. The
group’s donations for the previous financial year totalled £445,000. Details
of the support for local communities are included in the social responsibility
report in the Annual review. There were no political contributions.
Product development
Lifestyle changes and consumers’ desire for greater choice and convenience
require a continuous programme of investment in catalogue refreshment,
new products and product innovation. Northern Foods’ specialist new
product development teams work with major retail customers to address
these needs. Each Northern Foods company has the facilities and resources
to ensure that its products meet the highest standards of quality, safety 
and added value. Report of the directors | 07 Northern Foods plc
Food safety
Northern Foods, as one of the leading UK food producers, maintains its
absolute commitment to the safety of its products. This requires the 
highest operational standards in its facilities, careful design of processes and
products and approval of only those suppliers who can meet the company’s
standards for food safety and integrity throughout the supply chain from
farmer to consumer. Northern Foods also requires high standards from
employees and contractors visiting its factories. The company’s proactive
approach to food safety includes the setting of standards and policy, food
safety training for all employees, accreditation of Northern Foods’ central
laboratory for microbiological and chemical analysis, assessment and
approval of suppliers and audits of the quality management systems 
of the company’s own sites against the Northern Foods standard.
Supplier payment policy
It is the company’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in
accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the company 
and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been
met. Suppliers are paid on average within 28 days (2002: 33 days) of receipt
of invoice.
Annual general meeting
The notice convening the company’s Annual general meeting to be held 
at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 17 July 2003 is contained in the circular sent to
shareholders with this report.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the
group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditors 
Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office 
as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment
will be submitted to the company’s Annual general meeting.
Corporate governance
Compliance
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 Northern Foods has been 
in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by 
the Financial Services Authority.
Directors’ responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial
year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company
and the group, and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
– state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above
requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the company and the group, and enable them to ensure that the accounts
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the company and the group, and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The board and executive committee
The board of directors generally meets eight times a year. All directors
attended every board meeting during the year except that C Dyer was
unable to attend one meeting.
J M Fry was the senior independent director until his resignation from 
the board on 28 May 2002, when he was succeeded by A J Hobson.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be
independent. They have wide-ranging experience and all currently occupy,
or have occupied, senior positions in industry.
Under the company’s articles of association all directors are subject to 
re-election at intervals of no more than three years. The non-executive
directors stand for re-election each year.
Non-executive directors receive a range of information about the company
upon appointment. An induction programme is arranged, including site 
visits. The board aims to hold one or more meetings each year at an
operating location.
The board has specifically reserved a formal schedule of matters for its
decision. These include responsibility for approving overall group strategy
and financial policy, board membership and board committees, acquisitions
and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
Northern Foods has an executive committee, which meets monthly and 
is responsible for the management of the group. The executive committee
consists of the four executive directors, three other senior group executives
and the Company secretary. Senior executives below board level are
periodically invited to attend board meetings to make presentations on 
their areas of responsibility.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises C Dyer (Chairman), P H Blackburn,
A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna. It meets at least twice a year and 
oversees the group’s internal audit function and reviews compliance 
with the auditors’ recommendations, accounting standards, regulations 
and statutes and reports on the systems of internal control and risk
management. The company’s external auditors attend audit committee
meetings at least twice a year and also have the opportunity of private
meetings with the committee. The committee also reviews the annual 
and interim financial statements before they are submitted to the board.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises A J Hobson (Chairman),
P H Blackburn, C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna. It establishes board policy in
respect of all terms of employment for executive directors. The Directors’
remuneration report can be found on pages 10 to 18.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee comprises P H Blackburn (Chairman), C Dyer,
A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna. The committee regularly reviews the
structure, size and composition of the board. It selects and recommends
suitable candidates for appointment as directors of the company.The
committee also makes recommendations to the board in relation to
succession planning. 08 | Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
Report of 
the directors continued
Independent advice
There is an agreed procedure by which members of the board may take
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties. All
directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary,
whose removal may only be effected with the approval of the board.
Relations with shareholders
The board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships 
with all shareholders, who are kept informed of significant company
developments.
The board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity to
communicate directly with private investors and to encourage participative
dialogue. Regular presentations on company direction are also made to
institutional shareholders.
Auditors – non-audit services
The internal audit function, having previously been conducted by Deloitte 
& Touche, is now carried out by a newly formed in-house internal audit
department, staffed by qualified accountants including an internal audit
manager.
Other non-audit services are awarded to providers with the appropriate
experience who provide the service at a competitive rate. The auditors 
would not be selected if the nature of the work presented a threat to the
independence of the audit team.
The audit committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity
of the internal audit function and the external audit function. The audit
committee reviews the nature, scope and findings of internal audit. The
auditors report to the directors and the audit committee on the actions 
they take to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and 
best practice required to ensure their independence.
Internal control
The directors have responsibility for the group’s system of internal control,
which covers all aspects of the business. This includes financial, operational,
compliance control and risk management. The directors set policies and seek
regular assurance that the system of internal control is operating effectively.
Whilst the directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system of
internal control, any such system can provide only reasonable, and not
absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss and is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives.
The Combined Code requires the directors to review the effectiveness 
of the group’s systems of internal control. The key elements of the group’s
internal control systems and review processes are set out as follows:
– Background
The risk culture in the group is based on a local, flexible response to business
issues. Short lines of communication ensure a rapid upward information 
flow. This culture has developed from the nature of the business, focused 
as it is primarily on short shelf life foods.
The executive committee provides top down strategic input. Where
formality is necessary, for example on food safety, finance or health and
safety matters, then policies and procedures are in place to ensure that 
the operating companies conform.
The following summarises the way the group assesses and mitigates risk:
– Policies
The board sets policy over key areas of risk which are applicable to all
companies, dealing inter alia with controls over food safety, accounting,
treasury, capital expenditure, health and safety, personnel and information
technology.
– Group organisation and controls
The business is run on a decentralised basis. Each of the principal operating
companies has a full management team under the control of a company
managing director responsible for strategic direction and day to day
running. Each operating company is required to prepare detailed annual
budgets and strategic plans. Budgets are reviewed and updated on a 
regular basis. Each company prepares weekly and monthly accounts and
performance is monitored against the original, and any updated, budget.
The group’s executive committee meets on a formal basis each month 
to review the above.
The group operates investment approval procedures for capital projects 
and acquisitions, which require executive committee or board approval,
depending upon the level of spend.
The companies are supplemented by a corporate management resource 
and by specialist central functions. These specialist functions, which provide
the technical skills to support the companies and provide assurance over 
the major areas of risk, are as follows:
Financial and IT internal audit reviews the standard of internal financial
control and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling cycle of
audit visits.
Technical services provides risk management in the areas of food 
safety, food quality, fire prevention and approval of contractors providing
building, engineering and professional services. The food technology 
team assesses and approves raw material suppliers, audits the quality
management systems in the group’s operating companies, provides
guidance on compliance with food-related and environmental legislation,
sets technical standards and offers expertise on a wide range of food
science and technology issues. The engineering team sets standards for
building construction and fire risk management, maintains a database of
approved contractors, provides an expert consultancy for the acquisition,
management and disposal of physical assets, as well as assessing and
approving suppliers of capital equipment and non-saleable revenue items. Report of the directors | 09 Northern Foods plc
Health and safety provides professional advice on best practice and also
audits health and safety procedures within the business.
Legal provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues across the
group, and ensures good title to properties and intangible assets.
Insurance, in conjunction with the group’s external insurance brokers
through a group programme, ensures adequate cover for major losses with
appropriate levels of deductible. This cover is reviewed and negotiated
annually.
Personnel, through its management resources review, ensures the adequacy
of existing management and plans succession.
Group executives oversee the companies under their control and also have
group-wide responsibility for the major customers.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit procedures
and deals with significant control issues raised.
– Review process
The management of business risks continues to be an essential part of
ensuring that the group and each operating company meets its objectives
and delivers value for shareholders.
The formal process for reviewing business risks has been embedded in the
budget process. Each company is required to carry out a formal review 
to assess business risks in terms of impact and likelihood, and the controls 
in place to manage those risks, as part of the budget process. Companies 
are required to formulate action plans where appropriate to improve
controls. Progress of these plans is reviewed by the group executive and 
the internal auditors.
Companies and specialist functions report by exception on any matters
arising during the year to the monthly group executive meetings. The results
of the formal half yearly reviews are taken forward to the audit committee.
The board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group,
that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of these accounts, and that it is regularly reviewed by the board 
and accords with Turnbull guidance.
Following the publication of the Higgs report on the role and effectiveness 
of non-executive directors, the Smith report on audit committees, and 
the setting up of a working group to be chaired by Sir Bryan Nicholson,
the board will give full consideration to the changes to be made to the
Combined Code in due course.
By order of the board
Julian Wild
Company secretary
28 May 2003 10 | Directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Directors’ remuneration 
report
Introduction
The board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The report also meets
the relevant requirements of the Combined Code annexed to the Listing
Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
It covers the remuneration policy, the level and components of directors’
remuneration, a number of formal disclosures relating to individual directors’
remuneration and a performance graph of the company’s performance.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be
proposed at the Annual general meeting of the company.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the company’s members 
on the ‘audited element’ of the Directors’ remuneration report and to state
whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
Remuneration committee
The members of the remuneration committee were J M Fry (Chairman –
resigned 28 May 2002), A J Hobson (Chairman – appointed 28 May 2002),
H A Alexander (resigned 31 December 2002), P H Blackburn, C Dyer and 
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002). All were independent non-
executive directors. The committee makes recommendations to the board.
No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her remuneration.
The remuneration committee has been formally delegated the authority 
by the board of directors to establish policy in respect of all terms of
employment for executive directors.
Advisers to the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee appointed Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow to
provide advice on matters of future remuneration policy during the year.
They are also scheme actuaries to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme.
Linklaters provided legal advice on share schemes and related matters 
and they also advise the company secretarial function. The remuneration
committee appointed DLA to advise on matters relating to the revision 
of directors’ contracts. DLA also provided specific employment law advice 
to the company’s legal department.
In determining directors’ remuneration for the year and in considering
proposals for the future, the committee consulted A J Stewart, Chief
executive. The secretary to the remuneration committee is E Cockburn,
Personnel executive, who also provided information on pay practice in
respect of executive directors and senior management.
Remuneration policy 
The group’s remuneration policy is designed to support the recruitment,
motivation and retention of employees. Remuneration is considered within
the overall context of the sector of which the group is a part and the group’s
individual businesses. The objective continues to be to pay at the relevant
mid-market level with a package designed to align interests of the employees
with shareholders, and with a reasonable proportion of total remuneration
dependent upon individual and group performance. The policy is described 
in more detail below for directors.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors
Fees for the non-executive directors are recommended by executive directors
and then approved by the board, based upon a range of external information
and set within the aggregate limits contained in the articles of association.
There is no other remuneration, except where the company meets
authorised expenses of non-executive directors incurred on Northern Foods
activities. They are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not
participate in any of the group’s annual or long term incentive schemes.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the company’s 
executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions 
to the company’s overall performance. The remuneration committee’s 
policy is to offer remuneration packages, which are capable of attracting,
retaining and motivating executive directors of high calibre, to ensure that
the company is managed effectively to the benefit of shareholders. The
remuneration committee also takes account of the remuneration awarded 
to managers throughout Northern Foods, in setting the remuneration 
of the executive directors.
The remuneration committee is currently reviewing the policy on total
remuneration for executive directors. It continues to aim for a structured 
and balanced remuneration package for each executive director by 
looking at each element as well as the package as a whole.
The remuneration committee believes that an increasing proportion of the
total remuneration of a director should be performance related and proposes
changes to both the short and long term incentive arrangements. Changes
to the annual incentive plan will be introduced for 2003/2004. The increase
in annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is set against the
introduction of stretching annual performance objectives, in addition to the
current target of growth in earnings per share. A proportion of any annual
bonus earned will be paid as deferred shares through the new Share bonus
plan, encouraging executive directors to grow their personal shareholding in
the group. Changes to the long term incentive arrangements proposed for
2004/2005 will include a review of performance targets, ensuring continued
alignment of individual and shareholder interests.
Salary will continue to be set by reference to the median level of the relevant
employment market. The remuneration committee has used annual surveys
conducted by external remuneration consultants to provide information 
on market practice, focusing on comparisons with companies which are 
of a similar size and which share similar characteristics. The remuneration
committee consults with the Chief executive about its proposals relating 
to the remuneration of other executive directors and senior management.
The five main components of the remuneration package for executive
directors and senior management in 2003/2004 are:
– basic annual salary
– the possibility of an annual cash bonus based upon performance 
of the individual and the group
– a deferred annual bonus, where a cash bonus is paid
– participation in long term incentive plans with returns based upon
the group and individual performance
– pension and other benefits. Directors’ remuneration report | 11 Northern Foods plc
Share and bonus schemes are structured to provide a strong alignment 
of interest between the individual and the shareholder.
In order to encourage and reward performance, there is a significant
proportion of potential reward dependent upon company and individual
performance. As shown below, nearly 40 per cent of directors’ total
remuneration is dependent upon target performance with a maximum
percentage at grant of 45 per cent.
The overall balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for
2003/2004, exclusive of pension benefits, is illustrated below. The table is 
a theoretical model and assumes that on target performance is achieved 
for both short and long term incentives. The value of the long term incentive
is calculated using Black Scholes methodology. The share price used is as at
31 March 2003 and an average option life of six and a half years is assumed.
Basic salary Variable pay
as proportion as proportion
of total of total
remuneration remuneration
M S Christie 62% 38%
M T Gribbin 62% 38%
H R Sims 62% 38%
A J Stewart 62% 38%
Salary 
Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually at the beginning of 
each financial year by the remuneration committee, taking into account any
changes in the individual’s responsibilities, performance and development,
the company’s overall performance and external factors. The remuneration
committee’s objective is, and will continue to be, to maintain salaries at
around the median level of the relevant employment market.
Salaries were reviewed for the Chief executive and Finance director in 
March 2003 with increases taking effect from 1 April 2003. Salaries for the
two newly appointed executive directors, M T Gribbin and H R Sims, were
considered in January 2003 and took effect from 27 January 2003. They 
will not be reviewed until April 2004.
In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain benefits,
principally a car, private medical insurance and a pension. Salary is the only
pensionable remuneration.
Annual incentive plan 
The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual performance
targets is a high priority for the executive directors. Incentive targets for
executive directors are set each year by the remuneration committee to 
take account of current business plans.
The remuneration committee has reviewed the annual incentive plan,
and the target and the maximum potential award for 2003/2004 have
been increased for this year, better to reflect current market practice for
comparator companies. The target incentive for an executive director 
is now 40 per cent of basic salary for good performance. In the case of
exceptional results the incentive payment may increase up to a maximum 
of 60 per cent of basic salary.
One quarter of any annual incentive earned will be paid as deferred shares
through the company’s Share bonus plan. Shares acquired through the Share
bonus plan will be purchased in the market and held in trust for the executive
for a period of three years. These shares will be forfeited should the executive
director leave prior to the third anniversary. During this retention period the
participants will not be entitled to dividends on the shares.
The target set for 2003/2004 is made up of both financial and business
performance measures. The financial element includes profit performance
and earnings per share growth targets. The business element is related 
to a small number of commercially sensitive strategic objectives for each
individual and the senior management team overall. The performance
targets selected are considered appropriately stretching by the remuneration
committee.
The targets for the Chief executive and the Finance director in 2001/2002
and 2002/2003 were based upon growth over the year in Northern Foods’
earnings per share. There is a threshold below which no payment is made.
The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent of salary with a
maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent. No annual bonuses were paid 
to executive directors in respect of 2001/2002. An accrued bonus in 
respect of 2002/2003, will be paid in June 2003 and is included in T able 1 
on page 14.
The targets for M T Gribbin and H R Sims were based equally upon growth
over the year in Northern Foods’ earnings per share, together with profit
after interest of the operating companies for which the individual director
was responsible. The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent 
of salary with a maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent. M T Gribbin and
H R Sims were not executive directors in 2001/2002. An accrued bonus in
respect of 2002/2003 will be paid in June 2003 and is included in T able 1
on page 14.
Long term incentive share plans
The group’s long term incentive grants have been developed to reflect
market practice and to provide long term management focus and motivation.
The remuneration committee believes that a significant element of
executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery of above average
long term returns for shareholders. Executives’ interest in both relative 
and absolute share price performance is important, and this is facilitated 
by share schemes and the encouragement to grow a significant personal
shareholding in the group.
Long term incentives are provided to executive directors in the form of
restricted shares and share options. Executive directors and senior executives
are eligible to receive awards under only one of these arrangements in any
one financial year.
Long term incentive arrangements for executive directors are currently being
reviewed by the remuneration committee with the objective of seeking
shareholder approval for the introduction of any new arrangements in 2004.
Until such review is concluded, the policy for the 2003/2004 financial period
is set out below. 12 | Directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Directors’ remuneration
report continued
Executive share options
Participation in the executive option scheme is at the discretion of the
remuneration committee. Executive directors are eligible to receive a grant
of options if they hold, at the time of any grant, unexercised options worth
on aggregate less than four times salary. Options are granted at market
value under either the company share option plan (Inland Revenue approved)
or executive share option scheme (unapproved).
Directors can exercise options in the seven year period following the third
anniversary of grant and before the tenth anniversary subject to satisfaction
of the performance condition.
Consistent with best practice, it is the remuneration committee’s intention
that grants will continue to be made annually to executive directors in the
future. Such grants will normally be equivalent to one times salary.
In making option grants, the remuneration committee sets the performance
target to be achieved before such options can be exercised. The performance
condition requires that the remuneration committee must be satisfied that
over the three year performance period the real growth in earnings per 
share is greater than 3 per cent per annum compound. If the performance
condition is not satisfied after the initial three year performance period, the
period will be extended and performance will be re-tested at the end of year
four and, if necessary, again at the end of year five against the full period
from grant. The options will lapse if the performance condition has not been
met by the end of year five of the performance period.
The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for 
the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors
with those of shareholders. The remuneration committee also believes 
that real growth in earnings per share will only be achieved through the
delivery of both the commercial and financial objectives of the company.
Furthermore, executives will only benefit from the plan if real growth in the
earnings per share target is achieved and there is growth in the share price.
Grants were made on 2 December 2002 to the executive directors.
Allocations were as shown on page 16.
Long term incentive plan
The plan is designed to align the interests of senior management with 
the interests of shareholders. The benefits available to senior management
participating in the plan will only accrue to them if the company has
delivered significant benefits to shareholders over a three year period.
Participation in this incentive plan is at the discretion of the remuneration
committee.
Under the plan, the remuneration committee awards shares in the company
to senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate
performance targets over a period of three years. The number of shares
conditionally awarded to each participant is determined by the remuneration
committee. The market value of shares which may be conditionally 
awarded to a participant in any year will be limited to a maximum 
of 75 per cent of salary.
Performance is assessed against two criteria: by comparing the growth 
in total shareholder return, in terms of share price growth and dividends,
to that of the total shareholder return of the companies comprising the 
FTSE Food Producers Index, excluding Unilever; and by assessing the
underlying performance of Northern Foods by reference to the real 
growth in earnings per share over the same period.
The total shareholder return performance is assessed by reference to a vesting
scale, whereby for the full award to qualify for vesting, the total return to the
company’s ordinary shareholders during the three year performance period
places it in the top quartile of the comparator group. If the company’s
performance is ranked at 50 per cent or lower, all of the conditional awards will
lapse. Where the company is placed between 50 per cent and the top quartile,
the maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated on
a straight line basis with 25 per cent of the conditional award being available
when the company is placed at 51 per cent and the entire award being
available where the company is placed in the top quartile.
The remuneration committee assesses the underlying performance of the
company, as measured by growth in earnings per share, to determine the
proportion of the available shares that will vest.
The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for
the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors
with those of shareholders. The remuneration committee selected the
relative total shareholder return, compared with companies in the FTSE Food
Producers Index, excluding Unilever, as a measure that reflects corporate
performance relative to companies with similar characteristics and subject 
to similar market conditions. Unilever is excluded from the comparator group
on the basis of size and product diversity. The remuneration committee also
believes that real growth in earnings per share is an appropriate measure 
of the underlying financial performance of the company.
The companies currently comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index are:
Associated British Foods Northern Foods
Cadbury Schweppes Robert Wiseman Dairies
Dairy Crest Sygen
Devro T ate & Lyle
Geest Uniq
The three year performance period for the 1999 plan ended on 31 March
2002. The committee assessed the extent to which the performance
condition had been achieved and 30 per cent of the conditional awards made
under the plan vested on 26 July 2002. The balance of the conditional award
lapsed. Shares awarded under the plan will be retained in trust on behalf 
of the participants for a further two years. During this retention period the
participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the
trustee how to vote. At the end of the retention period, the shares will 
be transferred to participants from the trust.
All employee share schemes
An approved savings-related share option scheme is open to all eligible
employees in the UK and overseas. Executive directors’ interests in savings-
related options are shown in T able 2 on page 17 . Directors’ remuneration report | 13 Northern Foods plc
Pension arrangements
Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ pensions and the payment 
of a lump sum in the event of death in service. The pension arrangements
provide for a pension on retirement at age 60 of two thirds basic annual
salary after 20 or more years’ eligible service, subject to Inland Revenue 
rules. No other payments to directors are pensionable. None of the current
directors’ benefits from the company scheme are restricted by current
Inland Revenue limits and there are no additional payments, unfunded
promises or similar arrangements.
Additional directorships
Executive directors are encouraged to hold a maximum of one non-
executive directorship in a listed business in a non-competing sector.
Fees for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
Directors’ contracts
It is the company’s policy that executive directors should have secure
agreements with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one
year’s notice. All executive directors have contracts, which are subject 
to one year’s notice by either party.
In the event of early termination, the directors’ contracts provide for
compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, company car, private
medical insurance and pension for the notice period.
The details of the directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
Date of contract Notice period
M S Christie 1 April 1996 12 months
M T Gribbin 1 April 2003 12 months
H R Sims 1 April 2003 12 months
A J Stewart 1 April 1996 12 months
The contracts for A J Stewart and M S Christie have been amended from 
the previous arrangements where they benefited from a two year contract
reducing in length over the succeeding year, being renewed to the full two
year period on 1 April each year.
M T Gribbin and H R Sims, who are proposed for election to the board, and
A J Stewart who is proposed for re-election at the Annual general meeting,
have service contracts which provide for a notice period of one year.
P H Blackburn, C Dyer, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna, who are also
proposed for re-election, being non-executive directors, do not have a service
contract. They are appointed for a three year term, at the end of which any
extension is considered and decided upon by the full board. They stand for
re-election by the shareholders annually.
Performance graph
In accordance with the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002, the following graph shows the company’s 
five year performance measured by total shareholder return, compared 
with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index also measured by total
shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate comparison 
because it represents a broad equity market index, of which Northern Foods 
is a constituent.
Total shareholder return measures share price growth with any dividends
deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date. The total shareholder
return shown is based on daily spot prices.
60
1998 1999
Northern Foods
40
80
100
120
140
20
0
Total shareholder return 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2003
FTSE 250 Index
2000 2001 2002 2003 14 | Directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Directors’ remuneration
report continued
The information on pages 14 to 18 has been audited by the company’s external auditors.
1 Directors’ remuneration and pension entitlements 
The following table shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration for the individual directors holding office during the year
ended 31 March 2003 (T able1). Pension entitlements are shown below (T able 2) and interests under long term incentive arrangements are shown on pages
15 to 17 .
Accrued
Salary/ annual
fees Benefits bonus Total Total
T able 1 2003 2003 2003 2003 2002
Directors’ remuneration ££££ £
Executive directors
M S Christie 255,000 19,369 25,000 299,369 254,122
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)* 41,827 2,446 4,167 48,440 –
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)* 41,827 2,421 2,083 46,331 –
A J Stewart 400,000 16,146 25,000 441,146 379,735
Non-executive directors
H A Alexander (resigned 31 December 2002)* 21,744 – – 21,744 25,000
P H Blackburn 125,000 – – 125,000 26,346
C Dyer 29,244 – – 29,244 25,000
J M Fry (resigned 28 May 2002)* 6,410 – – 6,410 40,000
C R Haskins (retired 1 February 2002)* –––– 112,259
A J Hobson (appointed 28 May 2002)* 33,949 – – 33,949 –
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002)* 25,462 – – 25,462 –
980,463 40,382 56,250 1,077,095 862,462
Notes to T able 1
*Figures for directors are pro-rated to reflect date of appointment or resignation.
Benefits: Benefits include private medical insurance and company car.
Annual bonus: No annual bonus was paid to executive directors in respect of 2001/2002. A bonus will be paid in June 2003 in respect of 2002/2003.
There was nil compensation for loss of office paid to or receivable by any director nor any other payments paid to or receivable by any director in connection 
with the termination of qualifying services.
Transfer
Accrued Additional Accrued value of Transfer Transfer Increase in
pension Real pension pension real increase value value transfer
at increase earned at in year* less at at value less
31 March in in 31 March directors’ 31 March 31 March directors’
T able 2
2002 year Inflation year 2003 contributions 2002 2003 contributions
Directors’ pension entitlements £ £ £ £££ £ ££
Executive directors
M S Christie 87 ,059 8,961 1,480 10,441 97,500 61,750 683,072 819,094 119,872
M T Gribbin 52,736 8,995 897 9,892 62,628 66,079 356,922 514,922 147,550
(appointed 27 January 2003)
H R Sims 107 ,770 7,570 1,832 9,402 117,172 107,239 1,365,593 1,634,345 266,085
(appointed 27 January 2003)
A J Stewart 155,382 25,109 2,641 27,750 183,132 300,755 1,798,398 2,311,452 487,721
Notes to T able 2
*Calculated as at 31 March 2003.
The company provides executive directors with a pension, which is payable at age 60, equal to two thirds base salary, reduced where service to age 60 is less
than 20 years. Member contributions are 7 per cent of base salary each year. Death in service cover is a lump sum of four times pensionable earnings.
On the death of a director or a retired director, a spouse’s pension of 50 per cent would be payable.
Early retirement may be granted with the consent of the company and the trustees of the scheme from age 50 but benefits are reduced by 4 per cent per
annum for ages 50 up to 59 years. Once in payment, pensions are increased in line with inflation up to a ceiling of 3 per cent per annum in respect of
pensionable service accrued to 31 March 1997 and inflation up to a ceiling of 5 per cent per annum on service accrued thereafter. The trustees, with the
consent of the company, have discretion to apply such greater increase as they consider appropriate. Directors’ remuneration report | 15 Northern Foods plc
2 Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Details of the LTIP and related performance criteria are described in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 12.
There were no awards made during the year ended 31 March 2003. The outstanding awards were granted on 9 September 1999 and 7 September 2000;
there were no other outstanding awards.
The performance condition for both the 1999 and 2000 awards is linked to relative total shareholder return and growth in earnings per share and is described
in detail on page 12.
1999 Award
The three year performance period for the 1999 award ended on 31 March 2002. The performance condition for the 1999 award is described on page 12 
of this report. The remuneration committee’s assessment of the extent to which the performance condition had been met translated to a partial vesting 
of 30 per cent of the conditional award on 26 July 2002 as detailed below.
Value of
Value of Shares shares
Shares vested transferred transferred
vested shares to nominee to nominee
2002 2002 2002 2002
(number) £ (number) £
M S Christie 39,651 59,711 26,962 40,602
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)* 21,171 31,882 14,396 21,679
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)* 25,708 38,71417,4 81 26,325
A J Stewart 60,491 91,094 41,133 61,943
147 ,021 221,401 99,972 150,549
Notes to the table
*At the time the awards vested, M T Gribbin and H R Sims were not directors of the company.
The conditional award was made on 9 September 1999.
The price of a Northern Foods plc share at grant was 122p.
Total number of shares vested: 1,100,407
Total number of shares transferred to nominee (after deductions for income tax): 759,612
The value of the shares vested was discounted by 20 per cent for income tax purposes.
Total number of shares lapsed: 2,567 ,820
The price of a Northern Foods plc share on vesting was 150.5911p.
2000 Award
The performance period for the 2000 awards ended on 31 March 2003. However the remuneration committee has not yet assessed whether or not, and the
extent to which, the performance condition has been met. Therefore it is not known to what extent the 2000 conditional awards will vest. The table below
shows the ordinary shares conditionally awarded to the directors on 7 September 2000 as at 31 March 2003.
The total number of shares comprised in the conditional awards for all management, including executive directors, is 4,392,028. This takes account of awards
which have lapsed when participants left employment.
Maximum
potential
award
(number)
7 September
2000
M S Christie 157 ,674
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)* 82,604
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)* 100,465
A J Stewart 240,697
581,440
Notes to the table
*At the time the awards were made, M T Gribbin and H R Sims were not directors of the company. 16 | Directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Directors’ remuneration
report continued
3 Directors’ share options
Details of grants, exercises and lapses of options to individual directors under the executive share option schemes (T able 1) and the savings-related share
option scheme (T able 2) are as follows:
Date Balance at Granted Lapsed Balance at
from 31 March during during 31 March
T able 1
Date of Option which Expiry 2002
†
year year 2003
Executive share options grant price (p) exercisable date (number) (number) (number) (number)
M S Christie 9 Jul 92 210.40 9 Jul 95 8 Jul 02 A 28,231 – 28,231 –
15 Jul 94 145.60 15 Jul 97 14 Jul 04 A 35,285 – – 35,285
3 Aug 95 133.20 3 Aug 98 2 Aug 05 B 31,051 – – 31,051
17 Jul 96 128.00 17 Jul 99 16 Jul 06 B 100,921 – – 100,921
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11C 19,087 – – 19,087
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11D 130,913 – – 130,913
2 Dec 02 168.08 2 Dec 05 1 Dec 12 D – 150,000 – 150,000
345,488 150,000 28,231 467,257
M T Gribbin 3 Aug 95 133.20 3 Aug 98 2 Aug 05 B 12,702 – – 12,702
(appointed 27 January 2003)* 17 Jul 96 128.00 17 Jul 99 16 Jul 06 B 25,406 – – 25,406
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11C 19,087 – – 19,087
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11D 60,913 – – 60,913
2 Dec 02 168.08 2 Dec 05 1 Dec 12 D – 80,000 – 80,000
118,108 80,000 – 198,108
H R Sims 19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11C 19,087 – – 19,087
(appointed 27 January 2003)* 19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11D 6 0,913 – – 60,913
2 Dec 02 168.08 2 Dec 05 1 Dec 12 D – 80,000 – 80,000
80,000 80,000 – 160,000
A J Stewart 9 Jul 92 210.40 9 Jul 95 8 Jul 02 A 42,347 – 42,347 –
15 Jul 94 145.60 15 Jul 97 14 Jul 04 A 70,570 – – 70,570
3 Aug 95 133.20 3 Aug 98 2 Aug 05 B 118,558 – – 118,558
17 Jul 96 128.00 17 Jul 99 16 Jul 06 B 102,332 – – 102,332
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11C 19,087 – – 19,087
19 Nov 01 157.17 19 Nov 0418 Nov 11D 230,913 – – 230,913
2 Dec 02 168.08 2 Dec 05 1 Dec 12 D – 250,000 – 250,000
583,807 250,000 42,347 791,460
Notes to T able 1
A The options listed were originally granted under the company’s Approved share option scheme 1984.
There was no performance condition attached to this grant of options.
B These options were granted under the company’s Executive share option scheme 1994.
These options were subject to a performance target measured by reference to a total shareholder return.
The company met the performance condition by finishing above the median point against the comparator group of companies.
C These options were granted under the company’s approved Company share option plan 1998. These options are subject to a performance target measured
by reference to earnings per share. The target requires that the real growth in earnings per share over the three year performance period is greater than
3 per cent per annum compound. The performance condition allows for re-testing after years 4 and 5 against the full period from grant. The performance
condition is described in detail on page 12.
D These options were granted under the company’s Executive share option plan 1994. These options are subject to a performance target measured 
by reference to earnings per share. The target requires that the real growth in earnings per share over the three year performance period is greater than 
3 per cent per annum compound. The performance condition allows for re-testing after years 4 and 5 against the full period from grant. The performance
condition is described in detail on page 12.
No director exercised an option during the financial year.
*At the time grants were made, M T Gribbin and H R Sims were not directors of the company.
†
Balance at 31 March 2002 or at date of appointment.
The mid-market price of the company’s shares was 174.5p at 28 March 2002 and 123.5p at 31 March 2003.
During the year the market price ranged between 112.0p and 187 .0p. Directors’ remuneration report | 17 Northern Foods plc
3 Directors’ share options continued
Date Balance at Balance at
from 31 March 31 March
T able 2
Date of which Expiry Option 2002 2003
Savings-related share options grant exercisable Date price (p) (number) (number)
M S Christie 14 Aug 00 1 Oct 05 31 Mar 06 94.00 10,771 10,771
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)* 14 Aug 00 1 Oct 03 31 Mar 0494 .00 6,183 6,183
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)* 14 Aug 00 1 Oct 05 31 Mar 06 94.00 10,771 10,771
A J Stewart 14 Aug 00 1 Oct 05 31 Mar 06 94.00 10,771 10,771
Notes to T able 2
*At the time grants were made, M T Gribbin and H R Sims were not directors of the company.
The options listed were granted at 80 per cent of the prevailing mid-market share price under the company’s Savings-related share option scheme 1996.
There were no options granted, exercised or lapsed during the year.
Share option gains
No options were exercised during the year.
4 Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration and other benefits were as follows:
2003 2002
£ £
Emoluments 1,077,095 862,462
Gains on exercise of options – –
Total 1,077,095 862,462
Aggregate emoluments described above do not include any amounts in respect of the long term incentive plan. There have been no money purchase
contributions. 18 | Directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Directors’ remuneration
report continued
5 Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003 are detailed below:
Ordinary shares Share options LTIP
(number) (number) (number)
Description 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April
of interest 2003 2002
† 
2003 2002
†
2003 2002
†
Executive directors
M S Christie Beneficial 70,628 43,666 478,028 356,259 157,674 289,846
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003) Beneficial 410,688 410,566 204,291 204,291 82,604 82,604
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003) Beneficial 38,895 38,895 170,771 170,771 100,465 100,465
A J Stewart Beneficial 126,707 85,574 802,231 594,578 240,697 442,336
Non-executive directors
P H Blackburn Beneficial 40,000 15,000
C Dyer Beneficial 10,000 10,000
A J Hobson (appointed 28 May 2002) Beneficial 4,000 –
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002) Beneficial 4,000 –
Notes to the table
†
Balance at 1 April 2002 or at date of appointment.
M S Christie, M T Gribbin, H R Sims and A J Stewart qualified, as did all employees with over four years’ service, to participate in the company’s previous 
profit sharing scheme and their beneficial holdings of ordinary shares shown above include their current entitlements under this scheme.
The company’s register of directors’ interests, which is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, contains full
details of directors’ shareholdings, options and LTIP awards.
At 31 March 2003, the executive directors of Northern Foods plc as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods Employee share ownership trust, were
interested in 4,212,749 ordinary shares held by the Trustee.
By order of the board
Tony Hobson
Chairman
Remuneration committee
28 May 2003 Independent auditors’ report | 19 Northern Foods plc
Independent
auditors’ report
To the members of Northern Foods plc
We have audited the accounts of Northern Foods plc for the year ended
31 March 2003 which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance
sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains 
and losses and the related notes 1 to 29, together with the reconciliation 
of net cash flow to movement in net debt, the reconciliation of movements
in equity shareholders’ funds and accounting policies. These accounts have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the part of the Directors’ remuneration report
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As described in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the company’s
directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual report and
the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
accounting standards. They are also responsible for the preparation of the
other information contained in the Annual report including the Directors’
remuneration report. Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the 
part of the Directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited in
accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements
and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true 
and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report 
to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the directors is not consistent 
with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records,
if we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions with the company and other members 
of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Report of the directors and the other information contained 
in the Annual report for the above year as described in the contents section,
including the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited. It also includes an assessment 
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the accounts and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the
part of the Directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited
are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
–the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and the group as at 31 March 2003 and of the profit of the
group for the year then ended; and
–the accounts and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report described
as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
28 May 2003
Notes
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the
website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether
any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first
published. These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control
procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other
jurisdictions. 20 | Consolidated profit and loss account Northern Foods plc
Consolidated profit and loss account
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Before Before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
and and and and
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items Total
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group turnover
– continuing 1,421.2 – 1,421.2 1,353.8 – 1,353.8
– discontinued ––– 105.4– 105.4
Group turnover 1 1,421.2 – 1,421.2 1,459.2 – 1,459.2
Cost of sales 2 (1,023.3) (31.9) (1,055.2) (1,069.6) (21.5) (1,091.1)
Gross profit 397.9 (31.9) 366.0 389.6 (21.5) 368.1
Net operating expenses 2 (282.3) (13.1) (295.4) (264.5) (3.0) (267 .5)
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
– continuing 5 115.6 (42.6) 73.0 115.0 (15.9) 99.1
– discontinued ––– 10.1 (6.4) 3.7
115.6 (42.6) 73.0 125.1 (22.3) 102.8
Goodwill amortisation – (2.4) (2.4) – (2.2) (2.2)
Operating profit 1/3 115.6 (45.0) 70.6 125.1 (24.5) 100.6
Share of associated undertakings 4 1.4 (0.7) 0.7 0.4(0.7) (0.3)
Profit on disposal of businesses 5 – 54.0 54.0 –7.2 7.2
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 117.0 8.3 125.3 125.5 (18.0) 107 .5
Net interest payable 6 (19.5) – (19.5) (24.5) – (24.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 97.5 8.3 105.8 101.0 (18.0) 83.0
T axation on profit on ordinary activities 7 (17.9) 12.8 (5.1) (23.6) 5.0 (18.6)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 8 79.6 21.1 100.7 77.4(13.0) 64 .4
Equity dividends 9 (44.9) – (44.9) (45.1) – (45.1)
Retained profit for the year 24 34.7 21.1 55.8 32.3 (13.0) 19.3
Basic earnings per ordinary share 10 14.81p 18.73p 13.91p 11.57p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 10 18.02p 11.37p
Dividend per ordinary share 8.70p 8.20p
Average number of shares (million) 537.6 556.4
Analysis of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items 115.6 125.1
Add: associate 1.4 0.4
depreciation 62.7 63.7
EBITDA before exceptional items 179.7 189.2 Consolidated balance sheet | 21 Northern Foods plc
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets 11 41.4 42.3
T angible fixed assets 12 670.6 695.9
Investments 13 21.5 22.9
733.5 761.1
Current assets
Stocks 14 85.1 83.0
Debtors 15 211.6 194.8
Investments 16 10.6 9.1
Cash at bank and in hand 18 33.5 22.9
340.8 309.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 17 322.1 303.7
Net current assets 18.7 6.1
Total assets less current liabilities 752.2 767 .2
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 90.5 90.3
Loans and other creditors 232.5 324.6
17 323.0 414.9
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 63.1 64.1
Net assets 366.1 288.2
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 23 130.8 139.8
Share premium account 24 57.4 57 .0
Revaluation reserve 24 3.9 4.3
Capital redemption reserve 24 19.1 10.0
Other reserves 24 6.7 6.7
Profit and loss account 24 148.2 70.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 366.1 288.2
A J Stewart Director
M S Christie Director
28 May 2003 22 | Consolidated cash flow statement Northern Foods plc
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 19 151.6 117 .8
Returns on investments and servicing of finance:
Interest received 0.4 0.3
Interest paid on finance leases (0.6) (1.1)
Other interest paid (18.4) (27 .0)
Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance (18.6) (27 .8)
T axation (9.4) (11.0)
Capital expenditure and financial investment:
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (80.0) (119.0)
Sales of tangible fixed assets 3.7 3.6
Grants received 0.3 2.0
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment (76.0) (113.4)
Acquisitions and disposals:
Cash outflow on acquisitions 27 (4.4) (17 .2)
Cash inflow on disposals 27 145.0 13.2
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from acquisitions and disposals 140.6 (4.0)
Equity dividends paid (45.1) (43.3)
Cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 143.1 (81.7)
Management of liquid resources:
Increase in current asset investments 16/20 (1.5) (0.5)
Financing:
(Decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings (4.7) 12.1
Revolving credit facility (110.0) 80.0
Repayment of amounts borrowed (7.4) (0.6)
New loans 50.0 –
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (6.4) (9.1)
(78.5) 82.4
Purchase of own shares (55.0) (9.3)
Issue of equity share capital net of costs 0.5 2.1
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing (133.0) 75.2
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 8.6 (7 .0) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Statement of total recognised gains and losses | Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds | 23 Northern Foods plc
Reconciliation of net cash flow
to movement in net debt
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 8.6 (7 .0)
Cash outflow from movement in liquid resources 1.5 0.5
Cash outflow/(inflow) from movement in short term borrowings 4.7 (12.1)
New loans (50.0) –
Decrease/(increase) in revolving credit facility 110.0 (80.0)
Repayment of amounts borrowed 7.4 0.6
Capital element of finance lease rental payments 6.4 9.1
Changes in net debt resulting from cash flows 88.6 (88.9)
Exchange adjustments 1.7 (0.2)
Amortisation of bond and financing costs (0.2) (0.2)
Movement in net debt in the year 90.1 (89.3)
Net debt at 31 March 2002 (413.7) (324.4)
Net debt at 31 March 2003 20 (323.6) (413.7)
Statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 100.7 64.4
Currency translation differences 12.1 (1.1)
Total recognised net gains for the year 112.8 63.3
Reconciliation of movements in equity
shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 100.7 64.4
Currency translation differences 12.1 (1.1)
Total recognised net gains for the year 112.8 63.3
Equity dividends 9 (44.9) (45.1)
New share capital subscribed (net of costs) 23/24 0.5 2.1
Repurchase of shares 23/24 (55.5) (9.3)
Goodwill previously written off included in retained profit for the year 65.0 2.6
Movement in equity shareholders’ funds 77.9 13.6
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 288.2 274.6
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 366.1 288.2 24 | Company balance sheet Northern Foods plc
Company balance sheet
as at 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
T angible fixed assets 12 245.6 262.7
Investments 13 532.8 521.5
778.4 784.2
Current assets
Debtors 15 483.1 511.2
Cash at bank and in hand 3.6 2.3
486.7 513.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 17 416.5 451.1
Net current assets 70.2 62.4
Total assets less current liabilities 848.6 846.6
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 90.5 90.3
Loans and other creditors 218.2 300.0
17 308.7 390.3
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 18.9 17 .1
Net assets 521.0 439.2
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 23 130.8 139.8
Share premium account 24 57.4 57 .0
Revaluation reserve 24 3.9 4.3
Capital redemption reserve 24 19.1 10.0
Profit and loss account 24 309.8 228.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 521.0 439.2
A J Stewart Director
M S Christie Director
28 May 2003 Accounting policies | 25 Northern Foods plc
Accounting
policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention except 
for the revaluation of properties which is incorporated in the accounts.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting
standards.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies applied
consistently is set out below:
Basis of consolidation
Accounts of all subsidiary undertakings are consolidated for the periods
during which they were members of the group. All principal companies 
in the group account to 31 March. Associated undertakings are dealt 
with on an equity accounting basis.
Turnover
Turnover consists of sales to third parties net of trade discounts and
excluding VAT and sales related taxes.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at 
the date of transaction, or if hedged, at the forward contract rate. Monetary
assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in sterling at the 
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or if hedged, at the
forward contract rate.
Results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at an average 
rate for the year and the balance sheet translated at the rates ruling at the
balance sheet date. All exchange differences arising on consolidation are
taken direct to reserves. Any other exchange differences are dealt with in
the profit and loss account.
Stocks
These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes
an addition for production overheads where appropriate.
Goodwill
Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the
separable net tangible assets at the date of acquisition of newly acquired
businesses or subsidiary undertakings, is recorded as an intangible fixed asset
under FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’. In the absence of indications
to the contrary, purchased goodwill will be amortised over 20 years. Prior 
to the implementation of FRS 10, the group’s policy was to write off all
goodwill directly to reserves. On disposal or closure of a previously acquired
business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to
reserves is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Fixed assets
Fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation, less any provision for
impairment, with subsequent additions at cost. Surpluses arising from 
the revaluation of properties are taken direct to reserves. Net revaluation
surpluses realised in respect of properties sold are transferred from the
revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets
and the outstanding instalments, exclusive of interest, are included in loans.
Interest is charged against profits in proportion to the amount of loan
outstanding.
Interest incurred on borrowings to finance construction of fixed assets 
is capitalised up to the date of commissioning.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on
a straight line basis over the lease term.
Depreciation
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other fixed assets are generally written 
off in equal instalments over their expected useful lives as follows:
Buildings 20-50 years
(or over the remaining life of the lease if shorter)
Plant and equipment 5-15 years
Motor vehicles 4-10 years
Government grants
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to 
deferred income and are released to profit over the expected useful lives 
of the relevant assets by equal annual instalments. Grants of a revenue
nature are credited to income so as to match them with the expenditure 
to which they relate.
T axation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided 
at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws 
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right 
to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing
differences are differences between the group’s taxable profits and its results 
as stated in the accounts that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in
tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised
in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued, unless by the
balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets
and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the
accounts. Neither is deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold 
and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being
charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold. 26 | Accounting policies Northern Foods plc
Accounting
policies continued
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply
in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a discounted basis to reflect
the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date
and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences
will reverse. The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity
that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and
currencies to those of the deferred tax liabilities.
Pension benefits
The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits are
charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over the 
service lives of employees. Such costs are calculated by reference 
to actuarial valuations and variations from such regular costs are spread 
over the remaining service lives of the current employees.
Associates
In the group accounts, investments are accounted for using the equity
method. The consolidated profit and loss account includes the group’s share
of associates’ profits less losses, while the group’s share of net assets of the
associates is shown in the consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill arising on
the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the policy
set out above. Any unamortised balance of goodwill is included in the
carrying value of investments in associates.
Financial instruments
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are used 
to hedge foreign transactional cash flows and accordingly any gains and
losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account 
when the underlying transaction is settled.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of any interest rate swap
agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised 
as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts. Notes to the accounts | 27 Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts
1 Turnover and segmental analysis 
Operating Operating
profit before profit before
goodwill goodwill
amortisation amortisation
and and Net Net
External External exceptional exceptional operating operating
turnover turnover items items assets assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Area of activity £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Convenience 1,014.1 940.2 70.0 64.5 533.7 552.8
Grocery 407.1 413.6 45.6 50.5 257.1 239.9
1,421.2 1,353.8 115.6 115.0 790.8 792.7
Discontinued operations
Convenience – 100.3 – 10.0 – 14.7
Grocery – 5.1 – 0.1 – –
– 105.4 – 10.1 – 14.7
Total group 1,421.2 1,459.2 115.6 125.1 790.8 807 .4
Of the goodwill amortisation, which relates wholly to continuing operations, £1.4m (2002: £1.3m) relates to Convenience and £1.0m (2002: £0.9m) relates
to Grocery. Of the pre-tax exceptional items, £13.4m credit (2002: charge of £11.7m) relates to Convenience and £2.0m charge (2002: charge of £3.4m)
relates to Grocery. The share of associated undertakings of £1.4m (2002: £0.4m) and the associated goodwill amortisation of £0.7m (2002: £0.7m) relates 
to Convenience. Interest of £19.5m (2002: £24.5m) cannot be allocated to a segment.
2003 2002
Analysis of net assets £m £m
Fixed assets 733.5 761.1
Stocks 85.1 83.0
Debtors 211.6 194.8
Creditors (239.4) (231.5)
Net operating assets 790.8 807 .4
Current taxation (9.7) (12.9)
Deferred taxation (63.1) (64.1)
Dividend payable (28.3) (28.5)
Trading capital employed 689.7 701.9
Net borrowings (323.6) (413.7)
Net assets 366.1 288.2
Operating Operating
profit before profit before
goodwill goodwill
amortisation amortisation
and and
External External exceptional exceptional Operating Operating
turnover turnover items items assets assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Geographical area – by origin £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,228.1 1,274.4 95.8 107 .6 685.4 723.1
Other Europe 193.1 184.8 19.8 17 .5 105.4 84.3
Total group 1,421.2 1,459.2 115.6 125.1 790.8 807 .4
Turnover by geographical market amounted to £1,310.9m (2002: £1,350.3m) in the UK, £108.9m (2002: £108.0m) to Other Europe and £1.4m 
(2002: £0.9m) to other markets. 28 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
2 Analysis of profit and loss account
Before Goodwill Before Goodwill
goodwill amortisation goodwill amortisation
amortisation and amortisation and
and exceptional exceptional and exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items Total
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 1,023.3 31.9 1,055.2 1,069.6 21.5 1,091.1
Net operating expenses:
Distribution costs 200.8 3.5 204.3 189.9 – 189.9
Administrative expenses 83.0 9.6 92.6 76.0 3.0 79.0
Other operating income (1.5) – (1.5) (1.4) – (1.4)
Total net operating expenses 282.3 13.1 295.4 264.5 3.0 267 .5
The above figures for 2002 include cost of sales £78.2m, distribution costs £18.7m and administrative expenses of £4.8m relating to discontinued operations.
Administrative expenses of £9.6m (2002: £3.0m) includes £2.4m (2002: £2.2m) goodwill amortisation. The exceptional items are explained in note 5.
3 Operating profit
2003 2002
£m £m
This is stated after charging:
Depreciation (including £3.1m (2002: £4.9m) on finance leases) 62.7 63.7
Exceptional provision for impairment of fixed assets 29.2 3.1
Amortisation of goodwill 2.4 2.2
Auditors’ remuneration – audit services 0.3 0.3
– non-audit services 0.4 0.4
Directors’ remuneration 1.1 0.9
Operating lease charges in respect of:
Plant and machinery 14.8 16.0
Land and buildings 2.8 2.7
Information concerning individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, shareholdings and share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration
report.
Non-audit services comprise £0.3m (2002: £0.3m) in respect of internal audit and £0.1m (2002: £0.1m) in respect of other services. The internal audit
function has been carried out by Deloitte & Touche under a five year contract which ended in March 2003. Internal audit is to be performed by a newly
formed in-house internal audit department.
4 Share of associated undertakings
2003 2002
£m £m
Income from interest in associated undertakings 1.4 0.4
Goodwill amortisation of associated undertakings (0.7) (0.7)
0.7 (0.3) Notes to the accounts | 29 Northern Foods plc
5 Exceptional items
2003 2002
£m £m
Operating exceptional items
Restructuring costs (42.6) (22.3)
Non-operating exceptional items
Profit on disposal of businesses 54.0 7.2
Operating exceptional items
The restructuring costs primarily relate to the remaining Eden Vale business at Minsterley following the sale of Ski and Munch Bunch, costs arising on the
closure of the Paynes’ factory in Croydon and at Pork Farms following the sale of its van operations and sausage business. These costs include fixed asset
impairment of £29.2m relating to Eden Vale.
Non-operating exceptional items
The profit on disposal of businesses relates to the sale of Ski and Munch Bunch together with the Cuddington production facility. This is after deducting
£65.0m of goodwill previously written off to reserves.
6 Net interest payable
2003 2002
£m £m
Bank interest receivable (0.4) (0.3)
Interest payable on convertible subordinated bonds 6.1 6.1
Interest payable on bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 13.1 17 .4
Interest payable on finance leases 0.6 1.1
Share of associates’ interest payable 0.1 0.2
19.5 24.5
Capitalised interest amounted to £nil (2002: £0.9m). 30 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
7 T axation on profit on ordinary activities
2003 2002
£m £m
United Kingdom taxation:
Corporation tax at 30% (2002: 30%) 8.5 12.3
Deferred taxation 7.7 8.8
16.2 21.1
Overseas taxation:
Current taxation 1.4 1.9
Deferred taxation 0.3 0.6
1.7 2.5
17.9 23.6
Exceptional items:
Current taxation (3.5) (5.6)
Deferred taxation (9.3) 0.6
(12.8) (5.0)
T axation on profit on ordinary activities 5.1 18.6
United Kingdom corporation tax includes an amount of £0.4m (2002: £0.3m) in respect of associated undertakings. Deferred taxation relates to origination
and reversal of timing differences.
The corporation tax charge for the year is lower than the standard UK corporation tax rate of 30 per cent. The differences are explained below:
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 105.8 83.0
T axation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard UK corporation 
tax rate of 30% (2002: 30%) 31.7 24.9
Factors affecting the charge:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 0.2
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (3.8) (5.1)
Short term timing differences – pension prepayment (4.2) (5.3)
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (4.5) (3.3)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (1.5) (1.7)
Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes 0.9 0.9
Net exceptional credits not taxable (6.9) (1.1)
Double tax relief on overseas dividends (2.0) –
T ax relief on loss on exchange (1.5) –
T ax relief on overseas investments (1.4) –
Other (0.7) (0.9)
Current taxation charge for year 6.4 8.6
Factors affecting future current tax charges are as follows:
The group expects to continue to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at similar levels based on current investment plans.
The group’s overseas tax rates are lower than those in the UK due primarily to the profits earned by the Irish subsidiaries and no significant changes are
expected in the Irish tax rates. The tax relief on loss on exchange is not expected to continue in the future. Notes to the accounts | 31 Northern Foods plc
8 Profit for the financial year 
Of the profit for the financial year, a profit of £181.7m (2002: loss of £10.0m) has been dealt with in the accounts of the parent company. In accordance 
with the exemptions allowed by Section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
9 Equity dividends
2003 2002
£m £m
Ordinary – interim paid: 3.25p per share (2002: 3.05p per share) 16.7 16.6
– final proposed: 5.45p per share (2002: 5.15p per share) 28.2 28.5
44.9 45.1
10 Earnings per ordinary share
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit before tax 105.8 83.0
Add back: goodwill amortisation 3.1 2.9
operating exceptional items 42.6 22.3
profit on disposal of businesses (54.0) (7 .2)
97.5 101.0
Less: taxation excluding tax relating to goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (17.9) (23.6)
Earnings used for calculation of earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional items 79.6 77 .4
Earnings used for basic earnings per share 100.7 64.4
Interest saved on conversion of debt 4.3 4.3
Earnings used for diluted earnings per share 105.0 68.7
2003 2002
No of No of
shares shares
m m
Weighted average number of shares in issue 542.2 561.9
Less: shares owned in Employee share ownership trust (4.6) (5.5)
Weighted average number of shares 537.6 556.4
Add back: dilutive effect of convertible bond 40.6 40.6
dilutive effect of share save 3.3 3.7
dilutive effect of share option 0.3 0.3
dilutive effect of LTIP 0.9 3.1
Weighted average number of shares used for calculation of diluted earnings per share 582.7 604.1
2003 2002
pence pence
Basic earnings per share – after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 18.73 11.57
Adjusted earnings per share – before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 14.81 13.91
Diluted basic earnings per share 18.02 11.37
The adjusted earnings per share figure has been calculated to provide a clearer understanding of the trading performance of the group. 32 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
11 Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
£m
Cost:
At 31 March 2002 47.2
Exchange differences 1.6
At 31 March 2003 48.8
Amortisation:
At 31 March 2002 4.9
Provided during the year 2.4
Exchange differences 0.1
At 31 March 2003 7.4
Net book amounts:
At 31 March 2003 41.4
At 31 March 2002 42.3
12 T angible fixed assets
Plant
Freehold Long Short fixtures &
property leases leases vehicles Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 31 March 2002 279.5 57.44 0.7 919.3 1,296.9
Additions 8.6 0.1 0.2 70.5 79.4
Disposals (5.9) (0.2) – (46.1) (52.2)
Reclassifications 1.0 (0.1) – (0.9) –
Disposal of businesses (7 .4) – – (41.2) (48.6)
Exchange differences 3.2 0.4– 11.2 14 .8
At 31 March 2003 279.0 57.6 40.9 912.8 1,290.3
Analysis:
Valuation – 1978 6.7 5.6 – – 12.3
Cost 272.3 52.0 40.9 912.8 1,278.0
279.0 57 .6 40.9 912.8 1,290.3
Depreciation:
At 31 March 2002 65.6 14.8 4.5 516.1 601.0
Charge for the year 5.3 1.0 1.455.0 62.7
Exceptional provision for impairment – – – 29.2 29.2
Disposals (5.1) – – (43.3) (48.4)
Reclassifications – (0.1) – 0.1 –
Disposal of businesses (2.2) – – (28.3) (30.5)
Exchange differences 0.3 0.1 – 5.3 5.7
At 31 March 2003 63.9 15.8 5.9 534.1 619.7
Net book amounts:
At 31 March 2003 215.1 41.8 35.0 378.7 670.6
At 31 March 2002 213.9 42.6 36.2 403.2 695.9
At 31 March 2003 plant, fixtures and vehicles included capitalised leases at a cost of £48.7m and depreciation of £34.8m (2002: £64.8m and £43.0m).
At 31 March 2003 the original cost of the group’s tangible fixed assets was £1,283.1m and the depreciation thereon £616.5m (2002: £1,289.3m and £597 .7m). Notes to the accounts | 33 Northern Foods plc
12 T angible fixed assets continued
Plant 
Freehold Long Short fixtures &
property leases leases vehicles Total
Company £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 31 March 2002 230.44 5.1 38.2 25.3 339.0
Additions 7.4– – 10.417.8
Disposals (6.4) – – – (6.4)
Disposal of businesses (7 .4) – – – (7 .4)
Group transfers 3.0 0.2 – (21.7) (18.5)
At 31 March 2003 227.0 45.3 38.2 14.0 324.5
Analysis:
Valuation – 1978 6.7 5.6 – – 12.3
Cost 220.3 39.7 38.2 14.0 312.2
227 .0 45.3 38.2 14.0 324.5
Depreciation:
At 31 March 2002 46.9 11.8 4.5 13.1 76.3
Charge for the year 4.3 0.9 1.4 0.3 6.9
Disposals (2.1) – – – (2.1)
Disposal of businesses (2.2) – – – (2.2)
At 31 March 2003 46.9 12.7 5.9 13.4 78.9
Net book amounts:
At 31 March 2003 180.1 32.6 32.3 0.6 245.6
At 31 March 2002 183.5 33.3 33.7 12.2 262.7
At 31 March 2003 the original cost of the company’s tangible fixed assets was £317 .4m and the depreciation thereon £75.7m (2002: £331.4m and £73.0m).
13 Fixed asset investments
Employee
share Share in
ownership associated
trust undertakings Total
Group £m £m £m
At 31 March 2002 7 .6 15.3 22.9
Share of profit retained by associated undertakings – 0.9 0.9
Vesting of own shares (1.6) – (1.6)
Goodwill amortisation – (0.7) (0.7)
At 31 March 2003 6.0 15.5 21.5
The Employee share ownership trust (ESOT) holds shares which are primarily used to satisfy awards made under the Northern Foods long term incentive
plan. At 31 March 2003 the ESOT held 4,212,749 (2002: 5,313,156) shares with a market value of £5.2m (2002: £9.3m). The ESOT has waived its rights to
dividends on these shares. The profit and loss account charge in relation to the scheme amounts to £nil. Further details of the ESOT are summarised in the
Directors’ remuneration report.
The group’s share of the post-acquisition profit retained by associated undertakings, including goodwill amortisation at 31 March 2003 is £nil (2002: loss 
of £0.2m). Goodwill relating to associates, net of amortisation, amounts to £10.7m. 34 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
13 Fixed asset investments continued
2003 2002
Company £m £m
Subsidiary undertakings:
Shares at cost
At 31 March 2002 546.2 549.6
Cost of shares acquired 140.0 4.5
Cost of shares disposed (81.2) (7 .9)
At 31 March 2003 605.0 546.2
Long term loans due from subsidiary undertakings 120.3 145.0
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings (214.6) (193.4)
510.7 497 .8
Investment in associated undertakings:
At 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2003 16.1 16.1
Own shares at cost 6.0 7.6
Total fixed asset investments 532.8 521.5
Principal operating subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2003:
Convenience Foods Limited*
F W Farnsworth Limited
Fletchers Bakeries Limited*
Northern Foods Grocery Group Limited*
NFT Distribution Limited*
Batchelors Limited (Ireland)
Green Isle Food Group Limited (Ireland)
Cavaghan & Gray Group Limited
Cavaghan & Gray Limited
*Directly owned by Northern Foods plc
The above subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned (ordinary shares), operate and are incorporated in the United Kingdom except where otherwise stated.
All are engaged in food manufacture and distribution. The company owns 40 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Solway Foods Holdings Limited, a food
manufacturer which is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
14 Stocks 
Group Group
2003 2002
£m £m
Raw materials 41.0 44.0
Work in progress 3.6 2.9
Finished goods 40.5 36.1
85.1 83.0 Notes to the accounts | 35 Northern Foods plc
15 Debtors
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 144.8 140.2 – –
Corporation tax – – 13.4 13.5
Other debtors 10.8 12.6 2.6 2.0
Pension prepayment 47.4 33.6 47.4 33.2
Other prepayments 8.6 8.4 2.0 2.3
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings – – 417.7 460.2
211.6 194.8 483.1 511.2
16 Current asset investments
Group Group
2003 2002
£m £m
At 31 March 2002 9.1 8.6
Purchased during the year 30.8 14.1
Sold during the year (29.3) (13.6)
At 31 March 2003 10.6 9.1
Analysis of investments:
Listed investments 7.5 6.6
Other investments 3.1 2.5
10.6 9.1
The listed investments, all of which are quoted on recognised stock exchanges, are shown at the lower of cost and market value. There is no material
difference between cost and market value.
17 Creditors
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.1 12.8 13.1
Bank loans 30.1 32.9 29.5 32.2
Loan notes (note 21) 6.2 8.1 0.3 0.5
Other loans (note 21) 15.0 – 15.0 –
Finance leases 6.7 6.4 – –
Total borrowings falling due within one year (note 18) 58.4 47.5 57.6 45.8
Trade creditors 123.3 115.6 4.9 2.0
Other creditors including social security 41.0 33.9 8.2 9.6
Accruals and deferred income 61.4 65.3 5.1 4.7
Corporation tax 9.7 12.9 – –
Proposed dividend 28.3 28.5 28.3 28.5
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 312.4 360.5
322.1 303.7 416.5 451.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Bank loans 0.6 1.2 – –
Revolving credit facility 2006 (note 21) 190.0 300.0 190.0 300.0
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 (note 21) 90.5 90.3 90.5 90.3
Other loans (note 21) 28.2 – 28.2 –
Finance leases – 6.7 – –
Total borrowings falling due after more than one year (note 18) 309.3 398.2 308.7 390.3
Accruals and deferred income 13.7 16.7 – –
323.0 414.9 308.7 390.3
Obligations under finance leases of £6.7m (2002: £13.1m) are secured on the assets to which they relate. 36 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
18 Analysis of borrowings
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
Total borrowings £m £m £m £m
Repayable within one year:
Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.1 12.8 13.1
Bank loans 30.1 32.9 29.5 32.2
Loan notes (note 21) 6.2 8.1 0.3 0.5
Other loans (note 21) 15.0 – 15.0 –
Finance leases 6.7 6.4 – –
Amounts falling due within one year 58.4 47.5 57.6 45.8
Repayable after more than one year:
Bank loans 0.6 1.2 – –
Revolving credit facility 2006 (note 21) 190.0 300.0 190.0 300.0
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 (note 21) 90.5 90.3 90.5 90.3
Other loans (note 21) 28.2 – 28.2 –
Finance leases – 6.7 – –
Amounts falling due after more than one year 309.3 398.2 308.7 390.3
Total borrowings 367.7 445.7 366.3 436.1
Group Group 
2003 2002
£m £m
Borrowings falling due within one year 58.4 47.5
Borrowings falling due after more than one year 309.3 398.2
Total group borrowings 367.7 445.7
Less: cash at bank and in hand (33.5) (22.9)
Current asset investments (note 16) (10.6) (9.1)
Net borrowings 323.6 413.7
Liquidity risk
The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding over the medium term by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate facilities
supplemented by uncommitted facilities. The policy is to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom are covered by
committed facilities which mature at least 12 months after the year end. At the balance sheet date £260.0m (2002: £150.0m) remained undrawn on 
the revolving credit facility.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2003 was as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
In one year or less, or on demand 58.4 47.5 57.6 45.8
In more than one year but not more than two years 16.6 7.9 16.0 –
In more than two years but not more than five years 202.2 300.0 202.2 300.0
In more than five years 90.5 90.3 90.5 90.3
Total borrowings 367.7 445.7 366.3 436.1
Further details of the group’s facilities are set out in note 21.
Interest rate risk
The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings. The objective
for the mix of fixed and floating rate is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range of 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the
medium term, although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
The group’s fixed rate debt is based principally on the £91.28m 6.75 per cent convertible subordinated bonds 2008 detailed in note 21. The group does 
not use derivatives for interest rate management. Notes to the accounts | 37 Northern Foods plc
18 Analysis of borrowings continued
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Group Group
2003 2002
£m £m
Assets held as part of the financing arrangements of the group:
Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 12.6
Foreign currency deposits:
Euro 5.5 10.2
Other currency 0.4 0.1
Current asset investments 10.6 9.1
44.1 32.0
The euro deposits comprise floating rate deposits at 2.5 per cent (2002: 3.3 per cent).
Current asset investments comprise fixed rate sterling deposits and securities of £6.9m (2002: £2.9m) with a weighted average interest rate of 6.7 per cent
(2002: 6.5 per cent) and a weighted average period to maturity of 2.7 years (2002: 1.1 years). The remaining current asset investments comprise overseas
fixed rate deposits of £1.2m with a weighted average interest rate of 4.9 per cent and a weighted average period to maturity of 4.0 years and sterling
securities of £2.5m which do not bear any interest.
Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate
financial financial Group financial financial Group
liabilities liabilities total liabilities liabilities total
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
Currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 270.5 97.2 367.7 334.7 111.0 445.7
The fixed rate financial liabilities comprise the convertible subordinated bonds and finance leases.
Fixed rate liabilities
Weighted Weighted
Weighted average Weighted average
average period for average period for
interest which rate interest which rate
rate is fixed rate is fixed
2003 2003 2002 2002
Currency % years % years
Sterling 6.7 5.0 6.7 5.1
The floating rate liabilities comprise amounts drawn on the revolving credit facility, bank loans, loan notes and other loans bearing interest by reference to 
market rates.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The book value of the convertible subordinated bonds was £90.5m (2002: £90.3m) and the fair value was £91.4m (2002: £90.3m) based on the quoted
market price at the balance sheet date. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts by reference to market exchange rates at the balance sheet date
was a cost of £1.7m (2002: £nil). The book value of other financial assets and liabilities approximates to fair value due to their short maturities.
Currency exposure
The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately 13.6 per cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies other than sterling,
principally the euro, giving rise to an exposure to the euro. Group policy is to hedge against transactional risk, by spot and forward foreign exchange contracts,
but not to hedge against translation. The average and closing rates used in the accounts to translate euro to sterling were 11.559 = £1 and 11.4581 = £1
respectively (2002: 11.62 = £1 and 11.6323 = £1). 38 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
18 Analysis of borrowings continued
The monetary assets and liabilities of the group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the relevant operating companies involved were 
as follows:
Net foreign currency assets/(liabilities)
Other Other
Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies Total
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
Functional currency of group operating companies £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (0.1) (0.1) –0.1 0.1
Euro 18.8 – 18.8 4.2 (0.4) 3.8
18.8 (0.1) 18.7 4.2 (0.3) 3.9
19 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2003 2002
£m £m
Operating profit per profit and loss account 70.6 100.6
Adjust for non-cash items:
Depreciation 62.7 63.7
Exceptional provision for impairment of fixed assets 29.2 3.1
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets – 0.2
Amortisation of goodwill 2.4 2.2
Amortisation of bond and financing costs 0.2 0.2
Government grants (1.6) (1.5)
92.9 67 .9
Operating working capital movements:
Stock increase (2.5) (5.3)
Debtors increase (14.1) (22.2)
Creditors increase/(decrease) 4.7 (23.2)
(11.9) (50.7)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 151.6 117 .8
20 Analysis of net debt
At 31 March Cash Other non- Exchange At 31 March
2002 flow cash changes movement 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash 22.9 8.8 – 1.8 33.5
Overdrafts (0.1) (0.2) – (0.1) (0.4)
Net cash 22.8 8.6 – 1.7 33.1
Debt due after one year (391.5) 82.4(0.2) – (309.3)
Debt due within one year (41.0) (10.3) – – (51.3)
Finance leases (13.1) 6.4– – (6.7)
Current asset investments 9.1 1.5 – – 10.6
Total net debt (413.7) 88.6 (0.2) 1.7 (323.6) Notes to the accounts | 39 Northern Foods plc
21 Financing
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008
The bonds are in issue, in registered form in amounts of £1,000 or multiples thereof or in bearer form in denominations of £1,000 and £50,000 and, unless
previously redeemed, purchased or converted, will be redeemed at their principal amount by 8 August 2008. Interest is payable at the rate of 6.75 per cent
per annum semi-annually on 8 February and 8 August in each year. The bonds were originally convertible into ordinary shares of the company at 326p per
ordinary share. Following the demerger of the Dairy business in March 1998, the conversion price was adjusted to 225p in accordance with the trust deed.
The company has had the option, since 31 August 1998, to redeem the bonds in multiples of £10m, at their principal price.
Revolving credit facility 2006
The five year syndicated revolving credit facility for £450m was entered into in September 2001. At 31 March 2003 borrowings under this facility were
£190.0m. These borrowings are repayable in periods of up to one year but are capable of being immediately refinanced as part of the committed revolving
credit facility.
Loan notes
Loan notes due within one year include £5.9m which bear interest by reference to London Inter-Bank market rates. These can be redeemed in amounts of
£100 or multiples thereof at their nominal principal amount semi-annually on 30 June and 31 December each year. Loan notes not previously redeemed will
be redeemed at their nominal amount by 31 December 2003.
Other loan notes due within one year include £0.3m which bear interest at 1 per cent below the base rate. They can be redeemed in amounts of £10,000 
or multiples thereof at their nominal principal amount semi-annually on 30 June and 31 December each year. Loan notes not previously redeemed will be
redeemed at their nominal amount by 30 June 2005.
Other loans
Other loans of £43.2m arise from the issue of preference shares by a subsidiary to a third party undertaking. This would normally be disclosed as a minority
interest but in accordance with paragraph 49 of FRS 4, has been disclosed as a liability. Interest is payable on the loan by reference to LIBOR.
Other facilities and interest rates
At 31 March 2003, the group had in place other uncommitted facilities with a number of banks which totalled £80.0m (2002: £104.0m). The group’s
borrowings under the revolving credit and uncommitted facilities bear interest at rates which generally fluctuate in line with market rates.
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred 
taxation
Group £m
At 31 March 2002 64.1
Credited to profit and loss account (1.3)
Other movements 0.3
At 31 March 2003 63.1
Company
At 31 March 2002 17 .1
Charged to profit and loss account 1.8
At 31 March 2003 18.9
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
Deferred tax liabilities are analysed as follows: £m £m £m £m
Amounts provided in respect of:
Accelerated capital allowances 61.3 69.3 13.1 16.2
Other timing differences 13.5 9.3 13.5 9.3
Undiscounted provision for deferred tax 74.8 78.6 26.6 25.5
Discount (11.7) (14.5) (7.7) (8.4)
Discounted provision for deferred tax 63.1 64.1 18.9 17 .1 40 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
23 Share capital
2003 2003 2002 2002
Number Amount Number Amount
million £m million £m
Authorised ordinary shares of 25p each 760.0 190.0 760.0 190.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:
At 31 March 2002 559.1 139.8 563.7 140.9
Shares issued for cash under company share option schemes 0.5 0.1 1.6 0.4
Repurchase of shares (36.4) (9.1) (6.2) (1.5)
At 31 March 2003 523.2 130.8 559.1 139.8
During the year 36.4m ordinary shares of 25p each were purchased by the group in the market for cancellation, at a cost of £55.5m including stamp duty,
commission and levies.
Details of movements in share capital are shown in the Report of the directors. At 31 March 2003 options were outstanding on 19,819,809 ordinary shares,
exercisable at various dates to December 2012 at subscription prices ranging from 94.0p to 210.4p.
24 Reserves
Capital Profit
Share Revaluation redemption Other and loss 
premium reserve reserve reserves account
Group £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2002 57 .0 4.3 10.0 6.7 70.4
Retained profit for the year – – – – 55.8
Premiums on shares issued under company share option schemes net of costs 0.4– – – –
Repurchase of shares – – 9.1 – (55.5)
Goodwill previously written off included in retained profit for the year – – – – 65.0
Other movements – (0.4) – – 0.4
Exchange differences – – – – 12.1
At 31 March 2003 57.4 3.9 19.1 6.7 148.2
At 31 March 2003, prior to the implementation of FRS 10, the accumulated amount of goodwill written off against consolidated reserves was £237 .2m
(2002: £302.2m).
Capital Profit
Share Revaluation redemption and loss
premium reserve reserve account
Company £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2002 57 .0 4.3 10.0 228.1
Retained profit for the year – – – 136.8
Premiums on shares issued under company share option schemes net of costs 0.4– – –
Repurchase of shares – – 9.1 (55.5)
Other movements – (0.4) – 0.4
At 31 March 2003 57.4 3.9 19.1 309.8 Notes to the accounts | 41 Northern Foods plc
25 Pensions 
Pensions
The pensions costs for the UK principally relate to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) which is a defined benefit scheme providing 
members with benefits based on pay and service. The assets of the Scheme are held in trustee administered funds separate from the finances of the group.
SSAP 24
The pension cost relating to the Scheme is assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary, Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow, using 
the projected unit method. For the purposes of determining pension costs the most significant assumptions adopted were as follows:
Rate of increase in pensionable earnings 3.9 per cent per annum
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.8 per cent per annum
Rate of investment return 7 .3 per cent per annum
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2002 using a market based approach. The market value of the Scheme’s
assets was £449.9m which represented 95 per cent of the value of accrued benefits allowing for assumed future increases in earnings on the basis of the
assumptions adopted for that valuation.
As required by SSAP 24, the figures included in the accounts in respect of the group’s pension schemes are based on actuarial valuations carried out at
31 March 2002. This does not take into account any impact of the fall in general stock markets since that date. Any such impact will be reflected in the next
triennial valuation, based upon which subsequent pension costs will be determined until adoption of FRS 17 .
The contribution rate for the year ended 31 March 2003 was 12.7 per cent of pensionable earnings and the agreed contribution rate for the next 2 years 
is 12.7 per cent of pensionable earnings.
FRS 17
Additional disclosure regarding the group’s defined benefit schemes are required under the transitional provisions of FRS 17 .
The actuarial valuation described above has been updated at 31 March 2003 by an independent, qualified actuary, Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow, using revised
assumptions that are consistent with the requirements of FRS 17 . Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at fair value.
For the purposes of determining the Scheme liabilities under FRS 17 the most significant assumptions adopted were as follows:
2003 2002
% %
Rate of increase of salaries 3.6 3.9
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.5 2.8
Rate of increase to deferred pensions 3.0 3.0
Discount rate 5.9 6.3
Inflation assumption 2.6 2.9
The fair value of the assets in the Scheme, together with those of the overseas schemes, the present value of the liabilities and the expected rate of return at
31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 were as follows:
2003 2002
Long term Long term
expected rate expected rate
of return 2003 of return 2002
%£m %£m
Equities 8.3 264.7 8.3 370.6
Bonds 5.0 103.7 6.0 100.0
Other 4.0 29.0 5.0 3.1
Total fair value of assets 397.4 473.7
Present value of scheme liabilities (600.9) (540.9)
Deficit in scheme (203.5) (67 .2)
Related deferred tax asset 60.0 20.2
Net pension deficit (143.5) (47 .0) 42 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
25 Pensions continued
If the group had adopted FRS 17 early, the group’s profit and loss account reserve at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 would have been restated as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
Group profit and loss account reserve excluding pension deficit 148.2 70.4
Pension deficit (143.5) (47 .0)
SSAP 24 prepayment (47.4) (33.6)
Deferred tax on SSAP 24 prepayment 14.1 10.0
Group profit and loss account reserve (28.6) (0.2)
The amounts charged to operating profit under FRS 17 would have been as follows:
2003
£m
Current service cost 20.4
Net operating charge 20.4
The amounts credited to net finance income under FRS 17 would have been as follows:
2003
£m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 37.3
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (34.3)
Net finance income 3.0
The amounts included within the group’s statement of total recognised gains and losses under FRS 17 would have been as follows:
2003
£m
Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets (127.9)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 7.0
Effects of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (23.0)
Total actuarial gains and losses recognised in group’s statement of total recognised gains and losses (143.9)
Deferred tax movement 42.3
Total actuarial gains and losses recognised in group’s statement of total recognised gains and losses net of deferred tax (101.6)
The movement in deficit during the year under FRS 17 would have been as follows:
2003
£m
Deficit in scheme at the beginning of the year (67.2)
Movement in year:
Current service cost (20.4)
Contributions 25.4
Other finance income 3.0
Exchange adjustments (0.4)
Actuarial loss (143.9)
Deficit in scheme at the end of the year (203.5)
Related deferred tax asset 60.0
Net pension deficit at the end of the year (143.5) Notes to the accounts | 43 Northern Foods plc
25 Pensions continued
The experience gains and losses under FRS 17 would have been as follows:
2003
Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (127.9)
Percentage of scheme assets (%) (32.2)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 7.0
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) 1.2
Total actuarial gain or loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) (143.9)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) (23.9)
26 Financial commitments
Capital expenditure authorised by the directors and to which the group and the company are contracted amounts to £1.0m (2002: £6.6m) for the group and
£nil (2002: £nil) for the company.
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
Annual commitments existing under non-cancellable operating leases: £m £m £m £m
Leases relating to land and buildings which expire:
Within one year – 0.1 – –
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.5 0.8 – –
Over five years 1.2 1.5 – –
2.7 2.4 – –
Leases relating to plant and machinery which expire:
Within one year 2.1 2.8 0.2 0.3
In the second to fifth years inclusive 8.0 9.1 0.6 0.4
Over five years 3.6 1.1 – –
13.7 13.0 0.8 0.7
27 Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions
The group paid a further deferred consideration of £4.4m during the year in connection with the acquisition of the entire share capital of Lacemont Limited 
in January 2001.
Disposals
On 2 April 2002 the group disposed of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands, together with the yogurt facility at Cuddington, to Nestlé UK Limited for a cash
consideration of £145m. This resulted in a profit on sale of £54m after charging goodwill previously written off to reserves of £65m. 44 | Notes to the accounts Northern Foods plc
Notes to the
accounts continued
28 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities existed at 31 March 2003 in relation to guarantees given by the parent company on behalf of subsidiary undertakings, together with
contingencies in the normal course of the group’s business. The parent company has guaranteed the overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £nil.
Various group undertakings are also parties to litigation, none of which is considered material.
29 Employees
2003 2002
Group Number Number
Average number employed during the year:
Production 18,504 19,102
Distribution 1,742 1,888
Administration 1,765 1,941
22,011 22,931
2003 2002
£m £m
Remuneration:
Wages and salaries 371.4 378.8
Social security costs 26.5 28.5
Other pension costs 11.9 12.0
409.8 419.3 Five year record | 45 Northern Foods plc
Five year
record
Profit and loss account 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Turnover Continuing £m 1,145.6 1,203.1 1,256.1 1,353.8 1,421.2
Discontinued £m 140.3 136.0 121.8 105.4 –
Total £m 1,285.9 1,339.1 1,377 .9 1,459.2 1,421.2
Operating profit*Continuing £m 97.4103.2 108.9 115.0 115.6
Discontinued £m 12.4 14.2 14.0 10.1 –
Total £m 109.8 117.4122.9 125.1 115.6
% of turnover % 8.5 8.8 8.9 8.6 8.1
Share of associated undertakings £m 1.9 0.2 1.40.4 1.4
Net interest payable £m (17 .2) (17 .4) (20.2) (24.5) (19.5)
Profit before taxation* £m 94.5 100.2 104.1 101.0 97.5
Profit after taxation* £m 69.9 74.8 79.2 77 .4 79.6
Exceptional items after taxation £m – (21.3) 5.5 (10.1) 24.2
Goodwill amortisation £m – (1.3) (2.1) (2.9) (3.1)
Profit after taxation (FRS 3) £m 69.9 52.2 82.6 64.4 100.7
Earnings per share
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 12.6 13.7 13.9 14.8
after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 8.8 14.3 11.6 18.7
Dividend per share p 6.8 7 .3 7 .7 8.2 8.7
Dividend cover* times 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8
Asset analysis
Operating assets £m 554.4 637 .2 695.2 807 .4 790.8
Other liabilities and provisions £m (105.7) (95.4) (96.2) (105.5) (101.1)
Trading capital employed £m 448.7 541.8 599.0 701.9 689.7
Accumulated goodwill written off £m 304.8 306.1 308.2 308.5 246.6
Total invested capital £m 753.5 847 .9 907 .2 1,010.4 936.3
Net borrowings £m (176.0) (276.9) (324.4) (413.7) (323.6)
Total equity funds invested £m 577 .5 571.0 582.8 596.7 612.7
Equity shareholders’ funds £m 272.7 264.9 274.6 288.2 366.1
Net gearing % 64.5 104.5 118.1 143.5 88.4
Interest cover* times 6.5 6.8 6.2 5.1 6.0
Capital expenditure £m 110.5 88.0 78.3 123.6 79.4
Shareholder value analysis
Profit before interest* £m 111.7 117 .6 124.3 125.5 117.0
Attributable taxation* £m (29.9) (30.6) (31.0) (30.9) (23.8)
Normalised operating profit after tax (NOPAT) £m 81.8 87 .0 93.3 94.6 93.2
Return on average invested capital (ROIC) % 11.7 10.9 10.6 9.9 10.0
†
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) % 8.0 7 .6 7 .3 7 .3 6.3
Margin over cost of funds % 3.7 3.3 3.3 2.6 3.7
Post tax return on average equity funds invested* % 12.5 13.0 13.7 13.1 13.2
*Stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
†
Stated after reducing the 2002 invested capital by £87m to reflect the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.
The years ending 1999 to 2001 have been restated to comply with FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’. 46 | Investor information Northern Foods plc
Investor
information
Financial calendar 2003
Final results announcement 28 May
Annual report and Annual review issued 13 June
Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy 15 July
Annual general meeting 17 July
Shares quoted ex-dividend 23 July
Record date for final dividend 25 July
Half-yearly interest payment on convertible subordinated bonds 8 August
Final dividend payment on ordinary shares 29 August
Interim results announcement November 
2004
Half-yearly interest payment on convertible subordinated bonds 8 Feb
Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares March
Financial year end 31 March Shareholder analysis | 47 Northern Foods plc
Shareholder analysis
at 19 May 2003
Holders Shares held
% of Number % of
Number holders ’000s capital
By classification
Individuals 41,482 90.45 64,987 12.42
Banks and nominees 3,951 8.62 430,930 82.36
Corporate shareholders 312 0.68 16,283 3.11
Investment companies 26 0.06 320 0.06
Insurance companies 69 0.15 7,414 1.42
Pension funds 20 0.04 3,316 0.63
45,860 100.00 523,250 100.00
By size of holding
1-100 6,585 14.36 310 0.06
101-500 15,605 34.03 4,063 0.78
501-1,000 7,323 15.97 5,488 1.05
1,001-2,000 6,043 13.18 9,074 1.73
2,001-5,000 6,339 13.82 20,816 3.98
5,001-50,000 3,409 7.43 40,161 7.67
50,001-100,000 191 0.42 13,546 2.59
100,001 and over 365 0.79 429,792 82.14
45,860 100.00 523,250 100.00 48 | Company information Northern Foods plc
Company
information
Registered office
Beverley House
St Stephen’s Square
Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Facsimile: 01482 226136
Website: www.northern-foods.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales
No 471864
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche
Merchant bankers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
Cazenove & Co Ltd
Registrar to the ordinary shareholders
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 435
Owen House
8 Bankhead Crossway North
Edinburgh EH11 4BR
Telephone: 0870 702 0134
Email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Website: www.computershare.com
Principal paying and conversion agent and
registrar to the convertible bond holders
J P Morgan Chase Bank
1 Chaseside
Bournemouth
Dorset BH7 7DA Our business
Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.We operate
in eight core product areas which benefit from long term
demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality 
foods that are convenient to eat.
Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we 
have strong market positions in the supply of high 
quality chilled foods under their retail names.We also 
have successful brands in biscuits,frozen food and 
savoury products.
Designed and produced by
Fitch:London
Front cover photography 
Nick Sinclair
Printed in England by
the colourhouse
Contents
01 Financial highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
03 Chief executive’s statement 
04 Financial review
06 Report of the directors
10 Directors’ remuneration report
19 Independent auditors’ report
20 Consolidated profit and loss account
21 Consolidated balance sheet
22 Consolidated cash flow statement
23 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Statement of total recognised gains and losses
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
24 Company balance sheet
25 Accounting policies
27 Notes to the accounts
45 Five year record
46 Investor information
47 Shareholder analysis
48 Company information Northern Foods plc
Annual report 2003
www.northern-foods.co.uk
Northern Foods plc Annual report 2003 Northern Foods plc
Annual review 2003
www.northern-foods.co.uk Designed and produced by
Fitch:London
Principal photography 
Directors – Bill Robinson
Food products – Jean Cazals
People/manufacturing – Nick Sinclair
Printed in England by
the colourhouse
Company
information
Registered office
Beverley House
St Stephen’s Square
Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Facsimile: 01482 226136
Website: www.northern-foods.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales
No 471864
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche
Merchant bankers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
Cazenove & Co Ltd
Registrar to the ordinary shareholders
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 435
Owen House
8 Bankhead Crossway North
Edinburgh EH11 4BR
Telephone: 0870 702 0134
Email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Website: www.computershare.com
Principal paying and conversion agent 
and registrar to the convertible bond holders
J P Morgan Chase Bank
1 Chaseside
Bournemouth
Dorset BH7 7DA
Annual
report
The Northern Foods Annual review 2003 aims to give shareholders 
a clear and concise overview of the group’s business and prospects.
For this reason the review contains a summary financial statement 
rather than the full accounts.
The Annual review does not contain sufficient information to allow 
for as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the 
group as would be provided by the Northern Foods Annual report 2003.
If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual report, please contact:
Public relations department
Northern Foods plc
Beverley House
St Stephen’s Square
Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Our business
Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.We operate
in eight core product areas which benefit from long term
demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality 
foods that are convenient to eat.
Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we 
have strong market positions in the supply of high 
quality chilled foods under their retail names.We also 
have successful brands in biscuits, frozen food and 
savoury products.
Contents
01 Financial highlights
02 Our core product areas
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief executive’s statement 
08 Operating review
18 Recognising our social responsibilities
21 Financial review
24 Board of directors
25 Summary report of the directors
Independent auditors’ statement
26 Summary directors’ remuneration report
31 Consolidated profit and loss account
32 Consolidated balance sheet
33 Consolidated cash flow statement
Analysis of activities
34 Five year record
35 Financial calendar
Investor information
36 Principal operations
Company information
Annual report  Financial highlights | 01 Northern Foods plc
Financial highlights
2003
> Continuing sales up 5.0% to £1,421.2m
driven by Convenience up 7 .9%
> Continuing operating profit
*
up £0.6m to £115.6m:
– disappointing performance in biscuits 
offsets good progress elsewhere
– Convenience up 8.5%
– Grocery down 9.7%
> Earnings per share
*
up 6.5% to 14.81p
benefits from lower tax charge and share 
buyback programme
> Dividend increased 6.1% to 8.7p per share:
– dividend cover
*
increased
> Profit on sale of Ski and Munch Bunch brands 
less operational costs lifts FRS 3 pre-tax profit 
by 27 .5% and earnings per share by 61.9%
> Net debt reduced by £90.1m:
– £100.1m returned to shareholders through 
dividends and share buybacks
– disposal proceeds £145m
– strong operational cash generation
> Biscuit stabilisation and recovery plans in place:
– accelerated new product development programme
– cost reduction initiatives
– price increases successfully implemented
> Further group-wide initiatives to reduce cost base
*
Figures quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. 02 | Our core product areas Northern Foods plc
Our core
product
areas
1 Recipe dishes
The UK market leader in high quality
chilled recipe dishes, developing 
and manufacturing products which
include a wide range of Italian pasta
meals and snacks, Indian, Chinese and
other international dishes, together
with traditional British specialities.
2 Chilled savoury products
Manufacturing savoury products
under the Pork Farms, Bowyers and
Hollands brands and major retailers’
labels. Products include hot and
cold-eating pies, pasties, sausage
rolls, quiches, flans and Scotch eggs.
3 Speciality bread
A leading manufacturer of fresh 
and frozen speciality bread products
for the retail and foodservice sector.
Principal product lines include rolls,
baps, muffins, burger buns, scones,
doughnuts, tea cakes, fruited bread,
croissants, baguettes, panettone and
other speciality loaves.
13
24 Our core product areas | 03 Northern Foods plc
4 Bread-based snacks
Manufacturing fresh chilled
sandwiches, filled rolls and pizzas
under the labels of major retailers.
5 Cakes and puddings
The UK’s leading supplier of own
label cakes to the major retailers and
the country’s largest manufacturer 
of both branded and retailer label
Christmas puddings.
6 Fresh chilled dairy products
Manufacturing fresh chilled dairy
products including dairy desserts,
yogurt, fromage frais and cottage
cheese for major retailers’ labels.
7 Biscuits
Fox’s is the UK’s largest
manufacturer of premium quality
biscuits. The complementary 
Elkes business produces everyday
and everyday treat biscuits, mainly
under retailers’ labels.
8 Frozen foods
Producing deep pan, thin and crispy
and speciality frozen pizzas under 
the Goodfella’s brand and retailers’
labels. Dalepak manufactures
grillsteaks, burgers and a growing
range of meat-free products.
57
68 04 | Chairman’s statement Northern Foods plc
Aim
> Creation of 
shareholder value
Framework 
for success
> Clear strategy
> Co-ordinated 
group action
> Increased 
competitiveness
Progress
> Increased focus 
on core areas
> Operational 
improvements
> Market challenges,
particularly biscuits
Chairman’s statement
Peter Blackburn Chairman’s statement | 05 Northern Foods plc
Trading results were below our original plan, primarily due 
to disappointing results in biscuits. Progress in other key areas
resulted in earnings per share growth, despite tightening market
conditions, disposal dilution and significant cost pressures.
We are responding to the challenges of our market place through
determined and co-ordinated action.We are driving operational
improvements throughout the group, notably by a greater focus on
leveraging synergies in productivity, procurement and systems. Specific
action is being taken to stabilise and improve our performance in
biscuits.We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure that we
concentrate on activities where we can achieve and retain competitive
advantage and a strong customer franchise.
Results
Continuing sales grew by 5.0 per cent to £1,421.2 million, driven by strong
progress in our Convenience chilled food operations, though total sales were
2.6 per cent lower as a result of the disposal of the Ski and Munch Bunch
brands to Nestlé UK in April 2002. Underlying sales trends, excluding the
effects of divestments and currency movements, improved in the last three
months of the financial year, after a slower performance in the third quarter.
Continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was up 0.5 per cent at £115.6 million, with improved results from our
Convenience operations offset by a decline in Grocery as a result of our poor
performance in biscuits. Dilution from disposals and the cost of the share
buyback programme depressed profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, which was 3.5 per cent lower at £97 .5 million.
The reduction in share capital, together with a lower underlying tax charge,
resulted in enhanced earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, which improved by 6.5 per cent to 14.81 pence.
The disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch generated a £54.0 million exceptional
profit, which has been partially offset by £42.6 million of reorganisation costs
and asset impairment. As a result, on an FRS 3 basis, pre-tax profit increased
by 27 .5 per cent to £105.8 million, and earnings per share by 61.9 per cent 
to 18.73 pence, compared with the previous year.
Dividend and share buyback
The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.45 pence per 
share (2002: 5.15 pence). Together with the increased interim dividend 
of 3.25 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year of 
8.70 pence, a rise of 6.1 per cent. We remain committed to a progressive
dividend policy, taking account of the long term earnings potential and 
cash flow of the group.
In addition, we continued to make market purchases of our shares 
for cancellation, acquiring a total of 36.4 million shares, representing 
6.5 per cent of our equity, at a cost of £55.5 million. This brings the 
total to £106.5 million since we began our share buyback programme 
in February 2000.
Strategic priorities
In a climate of intense food retailer competition, it is more important than
ever that Northern Foods leverages its scale advantages in procurement and
ensures that best practice in productivity, food technology and systems is
applied throughout the group. We are working with increasing dedication 
and effectiveness to ensure that we maximise these opportunities, and deliver 
the planned returns on our investments. The sale of Ski and Munch Bunch 
has demonstrated our willingness to adjust our portfolio when appropriate,
and we will continue to examine all aspects of our business to ensure that 
we focus on activities where we have a real competitive edge as the base 
for delivering shareholder value.
The board
Following extensive changes to the non-executive directorate in 2002, we
further improved the strength and balance of the board with the appointment
of two new executive directors in January 2003. Matthew Gribbin, 45, has
been with Northern Foods for over 20 years and Howard Sims, 55, joined 
the company in 1998 on the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray plc, of which 
he was Chief executive.
Corporate social responsibility
Northern Foods has a long tradition of sensitivity to social issues and of
supporting the disadvantaged in our society. During the year we have taken
further steps to clarify the principles on which we conduct our relations with
all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, customers and consumers,
suppliers, the communities in which we operate, and the wider environment.
Outlook
Sales in the first seven weeks of the current year are up 7 .6 per cent overall,
and up 9.5 per cent with our five largest customers. This strong start was
assisted by the timing of Easter and recent new business gains, although we
anticipate that progress may moderate in the months ahead. In a demanding
trading climate, we are pursuing a range of initiatives to enhance efficiencies
and returns across the group. Action is being taken in our biscuit businesses 
to recover inflation, reduce costs and accelerate new product development;
this is helping to arrest the trend of the second half of last year, though 
biscuit trading is expected to dampen Grocery performance in the first half.
The entire Northern Foods team shares my determination that the group 
will fulfil its potential by delivering appropriate returns on our investments
and maximising the potential of our strong positions in the growing
convenience food market.
Peter Blackburn
Chairman
28 May 2003 Strategy
> Product focus on
high added value
> Customer focus on
major UK food
retailers
> Operational focus 
to increase
competitiveness 
Framework 
for success
> Matching products
to lifestyle trends
> Market growth 
in eight core
product areas
> Growth in 
major retailers’
market share
> Investment and
rationalisation
> Development 
of synergies 
Progress
> Strong Convenience
sales growth
> Grocery sales 
growth reduced by 
biscuit performance
> Continued growth
with our five largest
customers
> Major investment
projects complete
> Initiatives to realise 
synergy benefits 
underway 
06 | Chief executive’s statement Northern Foods plc
Chief executive’s statement
Jo Stewart Chief executive’s statement | 07 Northern Foods plc
Our aim remains the creation of shareholder value 
as the most effective added value food manufacturer
addressing the UK retail market.
By focusing on the supply of added value products to the major retailers,
and on innovation and the highest food standards, we have positioned
ourselves to benefit from the key long term trends in our market 
place. Organisational and strategic refinement, combined with prudent
investment, are designed to drive further improvements in our
competitiveness.
Market environment
In a time of increasing economic uncertainty, the food market stands out 
for its long term overall stability. The sectors on which we have chosen to
focus continue to outperform the market as a whole, driven by consumer
demand for increasing convenience and quality. The UK retailing
environment, always demanding, awaits the outcome of the competition
authorities’ review of the various options for further consolidation. However
this finally unfolds, we believe that Northern Foods is strongly placed as a
well-invested business capable of meeting retailer needs for innovation,
quality assurance, service and value.
Retailer consolidation will inevitably be matched by rationalisation of their
supply base, and some players will not survive this process. This may lead 
to some instability, but this should correct itself as a more stable supply base
emerges. We are confident that Northern Foods will be a winner from the
further consolidation of food manufacturing in the UK.
Business focus
We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that we have the right 
profile to achieve the returns and value generation we seek. The changes 
we have made in recent years, through acquisitions, disposals and
investments in new facilities, have been designed to drive Northern Foods
further up the scale of both added value and convenience. Good examples 
of this include the development of new facilities to manufacture chilled 
ready meals and stonebaked pizzas, and our withdrawal from van sales 
of savoury pastry products. We remain confident that our recent major
investment and restructuring projects have been accurately targeted 
and will deliver the expected returns. In the near term, we anticipate levels 
of capital expenditure to be similar to last year as we concentrate on 
delivery from these past initiatives.
Trading
Our Convenience businesses have delivered good top line growth, based 
on the positive consumer and retailer trends we had identified. This has also
been translated into strong profit progress. Clearly performance in Grocery
has been disappointing, chiefly as a result of intense competitor activity in
biscuits, including the entry of new players from the confectionery sector 
and significant increases in cocoa costs. Despite these well-publicised issues,
Fox’s remains one of the strongest and most profitable brands in its sector,
and urgent action is being taken to stabilise the business through accelerated
new product development, price increases and cost reductions. Our other
Grocery businesses, principally in the frozen foods sector, have continued 
to perform well.
Synergy development
Central to the Northern Foods proposition is the belief that each of our
activities should have bespoke strategies tailored to their precise market 
type, positioning and customer profile. We then seek to overlay scale and
synergy benefits that reflect the size and strength of our group. These are
concentrated in six key areas:
– market development and customer relations, including the identification
of market trends and opportunities and the exploitation of group strengths
to drive category management for our key customers;
– productivity, with an emphasis on continuously improving the effectiveness
of our manufacturing activities and supply chain;
– procurement, ensuring that correct standards are applied and cost
reduction strategies developed to optimise value in use of the materials 
we purchase;
– food technology, applying the latest scientific advances in a practical 
way to aid innovation and productivity across the business;
– systems, both in management processes and information technology,
to provide a common platform for use within our business activities;
– people, including recruitment, training and development, and the effective
deployment of management resources.
Over the last year, we have placed particular emphasis on productivity 
and procurement. We have a common group-wide approach to the
measurement and improvement of manufacturing performance, utilising 
a lean manufacturing template to drive efficiencies in our factories. This 
is accompanied by the strengthening of our group buying disciplines for 
raw materials and packaging, which will enhance consistency and quality 
as well as delivering cost savings.
These initiatives are assisted by our investment in systems, with the roll-out
of a common SAP platform for all our companies well advanced and poised
to deliver further benefits in the future.
Prospects
We will continue to refine our portfolio to ensure that it is attuned both 
to market trends and to our core competencies as a group. Relationships 
with our key retailer partners will continue to be fostered to ensure we
become even closer and more proactive, with a high priority accorded to
innovation, and synergies between our businesses exploited ever more
systematically. Our ability to cope with testing times has been strengthened
by the strategy and investments we have put in place, and our teams have
demonstrated great resilience and dedication in defending and building our
business, and seeking new opportunities for growth.
Jo Stewart 
Chief executive Chilled product
characteristics
> Short shelf life
> Product variety
> Product complexity
> Low stock levels
Manufacturing
challenges
> Frequent
production of full
portfolio
> Short production
runs
> Limited opportunity
for automation
> Just in time
distribution
Framework
for success
Progress
report
> Sophisticated
customer order and
data collection
systems
> Productivity
improvement
> Multi-skilled teams
> Cost control
08 | Operating review | Convenience Northern Foods plc
Convenience
Manufacturing 
challenges Using technology to replicate authentic 
cooking methods
Mirroring traditional Chinese wok cooking, a unique in-line induction
wok has been developed and installed at Pennine Foods. The continuous
wok process combines steam, microwave and induction cooking 
and was developed by our engineering and technical teams on site 
to provide product taste and texture authenticity.
Sales of Chinese recipe dishes made at Pennine Foods for Marks 
& Spencer increased by 15 per cent during the year, underpinned 
by the company’s culture of technical and product innovation.
Waste reduction through electronic data capture
Using technology to overcome manufacturing challenges, electronic
tagging of work in progress allows automatic shop floor data collection
and transmission, increasing visibility and control and leading to
reduced cost and wastage.
We have piloted a radio frequency identification (RFID) system at 
our Pork Farms Bowyers’ site in Nottingham with direct interfaces 
to our SAP system. The RFID tags are attached to each raw material
container, and these containers are then tracked through the processes
of cleaning, ingredient weighing, and chilling. Data is automatically
added and stored on the tag at each stage, then read and compared
against standard recipe requirements and production plans.
In conjunction with our suppliers and customers, RFID technology 
can potentially be used to track raw material and product movements
throughout the supply chain.
Efficiency of distribution channels
The constraints of short shelf life products necessitate speed and
efficiency of distribution. Our distribution agreement with Kerry and 
the sale of our Pork Farms van sales operation, completed at the end 
of last year, has reduced our distribution costs, increased efficiencies
and enabled the business to focus successfully on the growth of the
Pork Farms brand with major retailers.
Growth in the cold pie market sector accelerated during the year 
to 9 per cent, and the Pork Farms brand advanced within this to 
over 23 per cent of this market. Brand sales to Asda were particularly 
strong, exceeding budgeted levels by almost 60 per cent.
Operating review | Convenience | 09 Northern Foods plc
The pace of change in chilled
food production continues to
grow. Product diversification and
innovation to satisfy sophisticated
consumer tastes are increasing
operational challenges for market-
leading manufacturers.
The key characteristic of chilled
convenience food is its short 
shelf life which necessitates short,
frequent production cycles 
of a complex product portfolio.
The manufacturing processes demand 
a firm focus on cost and variance 
control to drive efficiencies. Innovation 
in advanced food technology provides 
a competitive edge, which is reliant
upon the flexibility and expertise 
of our employees.
Balancing taste, nutrition and efficiency
The Cavaghan & Gray fish businesses have further developed
production methods this year, harnessing new technology and product
innovation to match increasing consumer demand for high quality 
fish products.
Investment in a new fish frying process at Cavaghan & Gray in
Grimsby was completed in the fourth quarter. The new frying process
produces a very light batter coating, in tune with consumer trends
towards healthier eating, and the factory has subsequently gained 
over £7 million of coated fish business from Marks & Spencer.
Against a background of reductions in North Sea fishing quotas and
rising raw fish prices, an advanced grading, weighing and freezing
system has been installed in Aberdeen. Processing and freezing times
have been reduced from 2-3 hours to less than 10 minutes, with
corresponding improvements in efficiency and product quality. 10 | Operating review | Convenience Northern Foods plc
Sales, profit and efficiency gains
from restructuring 
Following our £16 million restructuring and investment in dedicated
production facilities which we completed in 2001, our Tesco pizza and
savoury products factories have made very good progress this year.
The Pizza Factory achieved substantial sales and profit growth, with
annual sales of the thin and crispy range up by 25 per cent to March
2003. Core sales growth has been accompanied by a successful new
product development programme including smaller size 8 inch thin 
and crispy pizzas in April 2002, an ultra thin range in September 2002,
healthy living pizzas in January 2003 and a new deep pan range in
March 2003.
At Trafford Park Bakery, a culture of continuous improvement has
continued to increase sales and deliver profit growth. The highly
automated production of folded pastry products and quiche is
supported by cross-functional action teams. These action teams focus
on increasing efficiency and reducing waste and are accompanied by
weekly good manufacturing practice audits and a joint communications
initiative with union officials. Improvements in systems, planning 
and plant maintenance have increased process reliability and reduced
downtime, with the consequent increase in service levels leading
to further sales growth.
Convenience
continued Operating review | Convenience | 11 Northern Foods plc
Effective category management
Successful category management is dependent upon a clear analysis 
and understanding of consumer shopping patterns.
Consumers are likely to shop for a variety of eating occasions, from
children’s tea-time to a lunchtime buffet, a quick snack, or a late 
supper. This analysis underpins range development and extension,
with portion sizes, packaging, convenience and taste all reflecting 
the intended eating occasion.
Riverside Bakery has worked closely with Sainsbury’s during the year 
to further develop the T aste the Difference premium quiche range.
The addition of new flavours and sizes has seen sales rise by over 
50 per cent.
Efficiency improvements at Cavaghan & Gray
Cavaghan & Gray’s Hull factory has continued to build sales of
Safeway recipe dishes with relaunched American, traditional British,
eat smart and vegetable accompaniment ranges.
The site is Safeway’s category owner for traditional recipe dishes, and
now manufactures every product in this category. Traditional category
sales grew by over 50 per cent to March 2003, building on a successful
relaunch programme in Autumn 2002.
Sales in the growing vegetable accompaniments sector have also
increased dramatically following the Autumn launch of Safeway’s
Additions range.
The factory has seen good improvement in efficiencies, with significant
increases in labour and materials utilisation during the year and the
systematic implementation of Northern’s four primary, operational key
performance indicators which are common throughout the group.
The site’s continued focus is to increase sales to reach profitable levels
within the planned timeframe.
Cost control at Eden Vale
Following the disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch in April 2002, we began
to reshape the remaining Eden V ale chilled desserts facility in Minsterley.
We have reduced the cost base and won some additional business from
Marks & Spencer and Safeway. The factory began production of Marks &
Spencer’s Count on us yogurt range in November 2002, followed by the
Whisp range of lightly whipped yogurt in January 2003, and both ranges
are showing good sales growth.
The restructuring of the business has included a reduction in the
workforce, the closure of the dairy ingredients operation, and the
creation of new operational teams to match the changing business
focus. These actions have more than halved the overhead costs 
of the business.
The Minsterley factory also produces a range of Mars desserts,
including Galaxy, Milky Way and Starburst. Mars and Bounty desserts
were added in September 2002. Further business gains are needed 
in order to utilise the factory’s capacity and increase profitability from
its restructured cost base to the required level. Frozen/ambient
product
characteristics
> Longer shelf life
> Higher sales per
product line
> Branded product
opportunities
> Able to hold stock 
Manufacturing
challenges
> Longer production
runs
> Further opportunity
for automation
> High promotional
activity
> Warehouse stock
distribution
Framework
for success
Progress
report
> Operational
efficiency
> Investment
in automation
> Commercial
expertise
> Cost control
12 | Operating review | Grocery Northern Foods plc
Grocery
Manufacturing 
challenges
Northern Foods Grocery division
consists of our businesses
manufacturing frozen and ambient
products. These products are
characterised by a longer shelf life
and the consequent ability to hold
stock. In turn this leads to longer
production runs and the opportunity
for automation. Profitable
production is underpinned by high
levels of operational efficiency 
and cost control in well-invested,
automated facilities.
The key grocery markets for
Northern Foods of biscuits, frozen
pizza and grills, offer branded product
opportunities and success in these
markets requires high levels of
commercial expertise. Our progress
this year has been strong in our
frozen foods sector. However the
mature biscuit market has seen very
high levels of branded promotional
activity. These difficult market
conditions have been reflected 
in the disappointing performance 
of our biscuit companies. Biscuit company plans for recovery
Difficult trading in the biscuit market affected the performance of Elkes 
and Fox’s Biscuits this year. Each of our biscuit businesses has pursued 
a differentiated and well defined long term strategy to compete in this
mature market, however trading conditions this year have led to profit
reductions at both companies.
The factors contributing to these difficult trading conditions include 
a decline in the chocolate biscuit bar, everyday and treat biscuit sectors
of the market in which our companies compete. In addition, fierce
branded competitor activity and aggressive promotional campaigns,
particularly in the chocolate biscuit bar sector, have been compounded
by the entry of confectionery manufacturers into the market. A third
contributing factor during the year was a rise in cocoa prices, which
reduced margins at Fox’s Biscuits, particularly in the second half.
Against this background, Fox’s Biscuits is continuing to defend its
premium niche market position. Cocoa cost inflation has now largely
been recovered through price increases and a programme of cost
reduction will also have a positive impact on profitability.
Sales growth for Fox’s Biscuits will continue to be driven through
innovation, and a new range of mini biscuits was launched in March
2003 to build on the strength of the Rocky brand. Rocky Rounds,
a bite-size variant packaged in mini bags, will capitalise on the growing
consumer trend to eat outside of the home. The mini biscuits are
produced at Fox’s Biscuits in Kirkham.
Operational excellence at Elkes Biscuits underpins the company’s
primary activity in the private label biscuit market. Investment in
highly automated plant, long production runs and high efficiencies 
are key to Elkes’ profit performance.
The private label sector within the biscuit market has declined 
by 6 per cent during the year, and over-capacity in the market has 
further intensified competition. Elkes’ sales fell during the year, with 
a corresponding profit reduction.
Elkes has responded to the market challenges in a number of ways
including a major cost reduction initiative. The team is also continuing
to develop strong relationships with its key retailer customers, and 
has been successful in winning additional business.
In order to differentiate its product offering, two character licensed
chocolate biscuit bars featuring The Simpsons were launched in
October 2002, and sales are exceeding expectations. The character
licensing concept has been well supported by our retailer customers
and further developments are planned.
Operating review | Grocery | 13 Northern Foods plc 14 | Operating review | Grocery Northern Foods plc
Streamlining processes and strengthening 
core product sales at Dalepak
A project to streamline production at Dalepak’s Leeming Bar factory 
was completed during the year, with new freezing equipment, revised
factory layout and a segregated meat-free production area delivering
significant production efficiencies.
The simplification of factory processes has been accompanied by a
comprehensive branded relaunch of Dalepak products. The new brand
identity covers a focused range of core meat and meat-free products 
in premium sectors of the frozen grills and burgers markets.
Dalepak’s focus on a smaller number of core products has driven 
good year round sales performance with all retailers, underpinned 
by non-promotional sales growth, particularly with Tesco and Asda.
This focus on simplification of process and products combined 
with overhead cost control helped achieve a significant increase 
in Dalepak’s profitability for the year.
Commercial expertise in brands
In a highly competitive market place, Goodfella’s pizzas gained share
during the year following a full brand relaunch in October supported 
by a strong television advertising and marketing campaign.
The thin and crispy, deep pan and ciabatta style pizzas made at Green
Isle’s Naas and Longford factories were all upgraded and relaunched.
As a result, Goodfella’s has now achieved the leading brand position 
in the frozen pizza market, with a market share of 19 per cent.
No.1
brand position 
in frozen pizza
Grocery
continued Operating review | Synergy benefits | 15 Northern Foods plc
Development of
group synergies
> Markets and
customer relations
> Productivity
> People
> Systems
> Procurement
> Technology
Framework
for success
Progress
report
> Identification of market trends and
development of key customer relationships
> Increased efficiency and productivity
> Employee skills, commitment and motivation
> Common systems to optimise ways of working
> Increasing value-in-use and ensuring robust
traceability systems
> Innovation and advancement in food production
Synergy benefits
in key spheres 
of activity
Northern Foods has a devolved
management structure which
ensures that each of our operating
companies formulates and drives 
a tailored strategy for growth 
based on a clear and accurate
understanding of its source 
of competitive advantage within 
its market.
The group has identified six key areas
of synergy in which group activities
add value to the performance of 
our operating companies. These six
areas cover market development 
and customer relations, productivity,
people, systems, procurement 
and technology.
Our framework for success
recognises the contribution that 
the development of these group
synergies can make to well defined
and well executed operating
company strategies. 16 | Operating review | Synergy benefits Northern Foods plc
Responsiveness and innovation
The challenge for successful food manufacturers is to continue to
develop products which match the needs and lifestyles of consumers.
Increasingly busy lifestyles have led to a reduction in the amount
of time consumers choose to spend in the kitchen, and also to an
increase in the number of snacks eaten outside the home. These twin
facets of convenience and snacking are driving growth in Northern’s
core market segments. Consumer demand for premium quality and
taste also underpin this growth in high added value product markets.
Reflecting these trends towards increased convenience and premium
products, we supported Marks & Spencer’s Christmas individual
customer order programme for meal accompaniments, en croute
products, party food and desserts. At Evesham Foods and Cavaghan 
& Gray Carlisle, all customer order sales estimates were far exceeded 
in a short pre-Christmas period, making accurate and flexible planning
of labour and production essential.
Other innovative premium Christmas products included cocktail glass
shots developed by Park Cakes. These four flavours of small alcoholic
mousses packaged in glass, capitalised on the factory’s high technical
and operational competency and exceeded rate of sale forecasts.
Developing key customer relationships
Our ability to identify and respond to market trends is an important
component of our relationships with our retail customers. We continue
to develop partnerships with the major food retailers and sales to our
top five customers made up over 70 per cent of our total sales during
the year. The total market share of those top five customers also
continues to grow, and currently represents over 60 per cent of retail
food sales.
Employee skills, commitment and motivation
Northern has long identified people as an essential driver of
performance. We therefore continue to invest in the development 
of our people, we focus on communicating effectively and we 
recognise the importance of employee commitment to the business.
This year we have continued to develop the key skills, knowledge and
experience necessary to support our business initiatives. In particular,
we are supporting the development of lean manufacturing through a
strengthened programme of development for operations managers. We
have redefined and relaunched our management competency framework,
and managers are recruited, appraised and developed in line with this.
Communication continues to be an important focus, both at group 
and operating company levels. We are undertaking an evaluation 
and review of our employee forums to ensure their effectiveness as 
a method of communication and consultation. Improvements in
methods of communication with all employees will be influenced by
the views expressed by employees in a second biennial group-wide
survey carried out in Spring 2003.
We have continued to evolve our voluntary employee benefits
schemes, using the breadth of the group to add value for employees
and pensioners. We have also introduced a group programme to
recognise long-serving employees. Following a detailed review 
of our pension scheme, we announced in June 2002 our intention
to continue to operate the final salary scheme for all employees.
With the costs of pension provision rising due to increasing longevity
and lower stock market returns, employee contributions to the
defined benefits scheme were raised by 2 per cent in August 2002.
Increasing procurement value, ensuring robust
traceability systems
Northern’s partnership with suppliers is fundamental to our
commitment to food safety, traceability and quality. We have
continued to consolidate our supply base, working with a reducing
number of suppliers and developing strategic partnerships for the
supply of key materials. These partnerships are built upon Northern’s
Code of Practice for suppliers, detailing our food safety and food
management standards, and are backed by terms and conditions 
of supply designed to minimise business risk.
During the year 2002/2003, Northern’s specialist team increased 
the efficiency of the procurement of non-saleable materials. Supply
and service level agreements have been negotiated for engineering 
and non-consumable items, improving effectiveness in these areas.
Synergy benefits
continued Operating review | Synergy benefits | 17 Northern Foods plc
Innovation and advancement in food production
Food safety and quality carry the highest priority across Northern
Foods. Our technical standards are backed by a robust audit
programme of both our own sites and our raw materials suppliers.
We pursue a culture of continuous technical improvement through 
the expertise and knowledge of our people, investment in high quality
technical facilities and a critical attention to detail throughout all
elements of the manufacturing process. Ideas, innovation and best
practice are shared throughout the business, and operational problem
solving can be supported through specific research projects.
During this year, a steering group has formalised a technical
competency framework, defining the knowledge and experience
necessary for successful technical management.
Investing in technology
The opening of a new technical centre at Smiths Flour Mills in January
2003 demonstrates Northern’s commitment to technical innovation.
The centre houses evaluation and test equipment to replicate
manufacturing processes and will be used by both group and external
customers. The facility will be used in the process of new product
development and will help to extend Northern’s expertise in cereal
technology.
Our chilled savoury products business at Palethorpes has also completed
the development of technical facilities during the year as part of 
a £3 million extension project. The centre will facilitate new product
development processes, building on close co-operation between the
company’s development chefs, retailer customers and factory teams.
Increasing efficiency and productivity
Further improvements in productivity and operational effectiveness have
been secured across our operating companies this year, with a group-
wide improvement of over 6 per cent in overall effective efficiency. This
has been secured through a number of complementary initiatives, co-
ordinated by senior operations directors within our companies. We have
a robust framework of key performance indicators (KPIs) in place across
all of our sites and a group template for manufacturing improvement.
Sites have developed individual manufacturing improvement plans
drawing upon the tools and techniques of lean manufacturing. These
plans are being implemented by dedicated manufacturing improvement
managers and line managers.
Multi-skilled teams driving productivity gains
The development of methods of knowledge sharing and team working
has been a key theme across the group, with cross-functional working
parties contributing to real efficiency improvements.
Close links between planning, technical, production and development
functions and the involvement of all levels of employees have improved
product quality, speed and efficiency of production in the cookhouse 
at Riverside Bakery in Nottingham. These efficiency gains have been
brought about as a result of new training methods and a streamlined
process of product development, developed by the working party.
Systems
The full benefits of an integrated KPI reporting and measuring 
system will be realised once our phased rollout of SAP is complete.
By the end of September 2003, the SAP implementation of our 
core financial, sales and distribution systems will cover all of our
companies. The second phase of our SAP rollout has implemented
common manufacturing systems in a third of our companies and 
will be complete by the end of 2004. Our stakeholders
> Shareholders
> Employees
> Customers
> Suppliers
> The community
> The wider 
environment
> Creating
shareholder value
> Making the most 
of all our people
>Developing
responsible
relationships
throughout the
supply chain with
both customers
and suppliers
> Contributing to 
local communities
> Measuring and
managing our
impact on the
environment
Framework
for success
Progress
report
Recognising our social
responsibilities
18 | Social responsibility Northern Foods plc Social responsibility | 19 Northern Foods plc
Measuring and managing our impact 
on the environment
Northern Foods manages its impact on the environment by reducing
emissions and increasing efficiency in the use of resources.
A clear policy framework has been drawn up at group level and
communicated throughout our operating companies. We have made
considerable efforts to improve our measurement and recording
systems. Our participation in the seventh Business in the Community
Corporate Environment Engagement Index showed an improvement 
of 17 percentage points from the previous year.
Northern Foods met its group target for energy efficiency
improvement in line with the Climate Change Levy Agreement.
The majority of our qualifying sites exceeded the required 2 per 
cent reduction in energy consumption per tonne of product, and the 
group will continue to qualify for a climate change levy discount 
until at least 2005. We have developed a computerised programme 
to help all of our factories monitor energy consumption and
performance against target.
Our focus on the efficient use of resources has ensured that we
continue to meet all of our obligations under the Packaging 
Waste Regulations. We have investigated the commercial viability 
of alternatives to landfill for the disposal of biodegradable food 
waste and have undertaken pilot composting and anaerobic 
digestion projects.
We have continued our development of an environmental
management system. Gunstones Bakery, our initial pilot programme,
reached Acorn level 5 at both sites, following an external audit and
certification by the British Standards Institute.
Contributing to our local communities
We continue to support communities near to our operating companies,
through donations, employee secondments and employee fundraising.
Cash donations are made through the Northern Foods Social
Responsibility Committee and through a growing network of site-
based local charity committees. These cash donations totalled
£266,000 in the year, and included support for agencies working 
in the developing world.
We also continue to offer graduate trainee managers the opportunity 
to carry out a two week assignment with a local community
organisation, and last year about a third volunteered to do so.
Many other employees are active in their local communities, in a wide
variety of roles such as mentors, trustees and fundraisers. Creative
fundraising ideas and on-going commitment have helped to build and
extend good links between our sites, employees and local communities.
Principal donations
Addiction Rehabilitation Centre, Manchester
Apex Trust, North West
Barnardos, Sheffield
Children’s University, Hull
Citizens Advice Bureau, Grimsby
Common Purpose, Hull
Disability Rights Advisory Service, Hull
Fairbridge, Salford
Family Service Unit, Sheffield
Farm Africa
Foyer Federation, Sheffield
Hope for the Homeless, Worksop
Hull Compact
Hull Independent Housing Aid Centre
Lifeshare Limited, Manchester
Lifestyle, Hull
Manor Reborn, Sheffield
Minshull Street Day Centre, Manchester
New Bridge
Nottingham on Board
Oxfam
Park Lane College, Leeds
Princess Royal Trust for Carers, Accrington
REACH
Samaritans
Sobriety Project, Y orkshire
Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Trust, Warrington
Y oung People in Bassetlaw
Y oung Potential, Nottinghamshire
Developing responsible relationships throughout
the supply chain
Northern Foods has a long history of trading fairly and responsibly
throughout the supply chain. With the increasing consolidation of 
our supply base, we have continued to work closely with suppliers to
ensure that they can consistently match all of Northern’s high standards.
These include our raw material product standards, commercial
standards, technical standards and animal welfare standards.
We are working towards monitoring the ethical standards of our
suppliers and collaborating with other parts of the supply chain to ensure
that monitoring is carried out efficiently and to appropriate standards.
Northern Foods has always
recognised the importance of its
relationships with major stakeholders.
We have a firm commitment to
creating value for our shareholders,
and we recognise the crucial role
that employees and suppliers play 
in fulfilling that commitment.
Our customers and consumers rely
on our competency and integrity and
fulfilling this responsibility well is key
to the group’s long term success.
We have a responsibility for the 
impact our business has on the wider
environment. We are working hard 
to manage this impact and have
continued to develop environmental
initiatives during this year.
Our relationships with local community
groups have also continued to develop
this year. The interdependence of 
our factories, employees and members 
of the community underlines the
importance of local links and the
facilitation of these links has provided
the main thrust of Northern’s
community involvement this year. Making the most of all of our people
The group’s responsibilities to its employees are undertaken seriously
and proactively. We have strong health and safety policies and
practice, we are committed to fair employment and provide varied
training and development opportunities across our sites.
We have many positive partnerships and joint initiatives with the
trade unions who represent our employees, and we also promote good
consultation and communication with employees who are not trade
union members.
A safe working environment
Northern is committed to providing a safe place of work for our
employees. We recognise the important role that team leaders play 
in promoting health and safety in our factories and have developed
a Supervising for Safety programme to underpin that commitment.
An innovative training programme supported by a practical tool 
kit helps team leaders to carry out their day to day responsibilities.
The programme has reached over 400 supervisors this year,
delivered through specially trained health and safety managers and 
co-ordinators. Many of Northern’s operating companies have been
presented with awards for health and safety performance, with
Pennine Foods, Walter Hollands and Palethorpes each receiving a gold
award from The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents. Elkes
Biscuits received an award from the Health and Safety Executive for 
a successful and original programme of on-site activities in support 
of European Week of Safety and Health held in October 2002.
We recognise that our responsibility for the provision of a safe working
environment extends to contractors’ employees working at our sites,
and we therefore pioneered the development of a Safety Passport
Scheme accredited by the Chartered Institution of Occupational 
Safety and Health. We work in partnership with contractors, providing
support and training to ensure that our health and safety standards
are met by all workers at all Northern’s sites. As a result, hundreds 
of contractors’ employees have been awarded safety passports 
on completion of the training programme.
Developing for the future
Northern continues to invest in training and development activities 
to ensure the skills and knowledge of our employees match current
and future business needs.
The development of future business leaders has been a key focus this
year, with the creation of two new group-wide business management
courses for senior and younger managers. We have also worked 
in partnership with Cranfield University to develop a tailor-made
programme for senior operations managers.
The Northern Foods Manufacturing Management Postgraduate
Certificate has been updated with the assistance of the accrediting
body, Sheffield Hallam University. It continues to provide a flexible,
modular training programme with business benefits accruing from
work-related projects which form part of the curriculum.
In support of changing business needs, our operating companies 
have also undertaken a wide range of employee training. Initiatives
include literacy and numeracy training and a range of national
vocational qualifications (NVQs) for line operatives. At Gunstones
Bakery, all supervisors have been offered the opportunity to study 
for NVQ level 3 in Supervisory Management.
Our operating companies’ commitment to accessible learning 
is demonstrated by the creation of learning resource centres at 
a number of sites. Each resource centre is available to employees 
and is equipped with training equipment, audio visual facilities,
networked computer systems and a library.
Fair employment
Northern has always had a firm commitment to the principles of fair
employment. We monitor employment patterns of gender, race and
disability across the group and we continue to run group-wide equal
opportunities training courses to reinforce this commitment.
A diversity working party of senior personnel directors from across 
the group was set up in August 2002 to assist in the evolution 
and promotion of equal opportunities for all employees. Cultural 
awareness and the reconsideration of work life balance issues are 
the first projects underway.
Some practical steps have already been taken in order to promote
cultural awareness for the benefit of employees and the business.
At Pennine Foods in Sheffield, changes in working practices have been
implemented to take account of the religious needs of ethnic minority
employees. Changes were supported by management and supervisor
training and full briefings were given to all employees. Such steps have
helped Pennine to attract skilled candidates from diverse backgrounds 
in a competitive recruitment market.
20 | Social responsibility Northern Foods plc
Recognising our social
responsibilities
continued Financial review | 21 Northern Foods plc
Financial strategy
6
4
8
10
12
14
2
0
Post-tax return on average equity funds invested five year trend,
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (%)
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
EPS
Dividends
6
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
4
8
10
12
14
16
2
0
Earnings per share and dividend five year trend, before 
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (p)
> Maximise financial
returns for equity
investors
Framework 
for success
> Earnings growth
> Return on total
capital invested
higher than cost 
of capital
Progress
> Growth dampened
by biscuit trading
> Share buybacks,
efficient funding 
and disposals 
improved returns
Financial review
Sean Christie Return on average
invested capital (ROIC)*
ROIC quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
2003 ROIC stated after reducing 2002 invested capital by £87 million to reflect 
the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.     
*
Weighted average cost 
of capital (WACC)
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Margin over costs of funds (%)
4
2
6
10
8
12
0
22 | Financial review Northern Foods plc
Difficult trading in biscuits held back the results of our 
Grocery division, but performance in almost all other areas
was strong, with returns on past investments coming through.
The reduced capital base following the disposal of Ski and Munch 
Bunch to Nestlé, means that ROIC increases, despite operating profit
being below our original target.The WACC continues to fall, resulting in 
an improved margin over the cost of funds, one of our two key financial
performance measures.The other metric, growth in earnings per share
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 6.5 per cent,
with the trading uplift boosted by share buybacks and a lower tax charge.
Sales – continuing operations
Sales were up 5.0 per cent, driven by our Convenience operations.Price
increases averaging 0.5 per cent were achieved, recovering input cost
inflation. Third quarter sales were below our forecasts, but we saw improved
trends in the final quarter.
Convenience
Sales were up 7 .9 per cent to £1,014.1 million, despite the effects of the poor
summer and the quieter third quarter, with particularly strong performances
in recipe dishes, chilled pizza and fresh chilled dairy products.
Grocery
Overall sales were down 1.6 per cent at £407 .1 million. Biscuits were the 
key problem, with sales down overall despite the Fox’s brand making volume
progress. Dalepak’s sales of frozen ready meals were also lower, but there
were strong uplifts in frozen pizza and Dalepak’s core grills and burgers range.
Operating profit – continuing operations, before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items
Operating profit was up 0.5 per cent, with growth in Convenience just
outweighing the Grocery shortfall. Both divisions had to cope with a near
doubling of insurance costs, which rose by £7 .0 million across the group.
Convenience
Convenience operating profit was up 8.5 per cent to £70.0 million, despite
start-up costs in recipe dishes and losses in the remaining Eden Vale business
following the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands to Nestlé at the start
of the year. Significant profit uplift came from the restructuring of our 
Tesco pizza and quiche operations and increased manufacturing throughput
at Pork Farms as a result of our deal with Kerry Foods in the prior year.
Speciality bread also performed well. When Solway, our associate company,
is added to our continuing businesses, the Convenience operating profit
shows an increase of 10.0 per cent.
Grocery
Grocery operating profit declined by £4.9 million to £45.6 million. Biscuits
more than accounted for this shortfall, which resulted from a combination 
of manufacturer driven promotional activity coupled with increases in cocoa
prices. Elsewhere in Grocery we made reasonable profit progress with Green
Isle doing well and Dalepak turning round the first half deficit and making
profit progress for the year.
Discontinued operations
These were the main cause of sales and profit shortfall, with turnover 
reduced by £105.4 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items by £10.1 million as a result of the disposals. The key
elements were the divestment of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and 
of our van sales operations to Kerry Foods. The Lift lemon tea brand and our
V anderheul biscuit business in Holland were also sold during the previous year.
Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Pre-tax profit was down £3.5 million to £97 .5 million, with the discontinued
activities showing a net deficit of £3.2 million (operating profit foregone less
the interest benefit on £145 million of disposal proceeds) and the share
buyback programme increasing interest costs by £1.8 million. Our associate
Solway made strong profit progress, with our share up £1.0 million to £1.4
million as it recovered from the prior year’s factory commissioning problems.
Interest costs reduced by £5.0 million primarily as a result of the disposals.
T axation
T axation on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for 
the year was 18.4 per cent. This is lower than the basic UK tax rate primarily
because of the low rates of corporation tax which apply to our operations 
in Ireland, discounting of the deferred tax liability and the tax efficient
structuring of our funding arrangements, including a non-recurring element 
of £1.5 million relating to exchange losses. Excluding this item,the 
underlying charge was 19.9 per cent.
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were
up 6.5 per cent at 14.81 pence, with share buybacks and the lower tax charge
contributing to the progress. On an FRS 3 basis, earnings per share were up
61.9 per cent at 18.73 pence, with profit on sale from the disposals less the
associated restructuring costs boosting the result.
Exceptional items and goodwill
There was a post-tax exceptional net credit of £24.2 million versus a charge
of £10.1 million in the previous year. The main features of this year’s credit
were profit on disposal of businesses of £54.0 million (after charging goodwill
previously written off totalling £65.0 million), less restructuring costs 
of £42.6 million, the main element of which was a charge relating to asset
impairment at Eden Vale of £29.2 million. This followed a full review of the
carrying value of the remaining assets at Minsterley following the Ski and
Munch Bunch sale. Other exceptional costs relate to redundancy, disruption
and asset write-offs following the disposals. Goodwill amortisation on past
acquisitions was £3.1 million versus £2.9 million last year.
Distributions to shareholders
During the year we returned £100.1 million to shareholders via share
buybacks and dividends.
Buybacks
We bought 36.4 million shares back during the year (6.5 per cent of our
equity) at a cost of £55.5 million, which represented an average price of 
152 pence per share. This was the largest annual programme we have
undertaken so far and helped mitigate the earnings dilution from disposals.
We intend to continue to buy shares in the market as opportunities arise. Financial review | 23 Northern Foods plc
Dividends
We propose a final dividend of 5.45 pence making a total of 8.70 pence for
the year, up 6.1 per cent on last year’s figure of 8.20 pence. Dividend cover,
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, increases to 1.8 times
due to the reduced shareholder base.
Acquisitions and divestments
The only divestment was the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands plus
the Cuddington factory to Nestlé for £145 million in April 2002. We made 
no acquisitions.
Capital expenditure
Tight control of capital was a key theme during the year. Our facilities 
are well-invested following expenditure over the last few years and capital
expenditure totalled £79.4 million compared with £123.6 million in the 
prior year. This spend was 1.3 times the depreciation charge of £62.7 million.
The largest project in the year (other than replacement capital) was the
continuing drive to implement SAP in all companies, the main phase of 
which will be completed in the current year.
Cash flow
Cash flow was very encouraging with a £90.1 million reduction in net debt,
despite £100.1 million being returned to shareholders. The disposal proceeds
of £145.0 million were the largest single contributor to this, but strong
operational cash generation was also an important factor. The working capital
outflow of only £11.9 million was caused primarily by the difference between
the actuarial based cash contributions to the pension fund and the SSAP 24
basis used in the profit and loss account. All of this meant trading cash flow
was far stronger than last year.
Treasury management
The treasury function of the group operates within a policy framework
approved and regularly reviewed by the board. The department is not run 
as a profit centre and is subject to internal audit review. Its activities are
routinely reported to the board. Whilst each business in the group is
responsible for its own cash management, all resulting cash flows and
balances are managed by the central treasury to minimise borrowings 
and interest costs.
Bank facilities
The group has a £450 million, five year, revolving credit facility which,
together with the £90 million fixed rate bond, form the committed 
core of our funding arrangements.
Liquidity
The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding over 
the medium term by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate
facilities supplemented by uncommitted facilities. The policy is to ensure
that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom 
are covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months 
after the year end.
Interest rates
The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its
borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range 
of 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term,
although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
Currency
The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately 13.6 per
cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies other than
sterling, principally the euro. Group policy is to hedge against transactional
risk, by spot and forward foreign exchange contracts. We do not hedge
against translation.
Balance sheet
Shareholders’ funds increased from £288.2 million to £366.1 million over the
year, primarily as a result of the disposals. Borrowings fell from £413.7 million
to £323.6 million, resulting in gearing of 88.4 per cent (last year: 143.5 per
cent) and interest cover, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items,
rising to 6.0 times (last year: 5.1 times).
Return on investment before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Adjusting the opening invested capital for the Ski and Munch Bunch disposal,
which completed on 2 April 2002, our ROIC (post-tax return on average
invested capital) rises from 9.9 per cent last year to 10.0 per cent in the year
to March 2003. The cost of debt and equity capital continued to fall, reducing
our WACC (weighted average cost of capital), which resulted in the margin
over cost of funds rising to 3.7 percentage points (last year: 2.6 percentage
points). We will continue to manage both sides of the equation, improving
ROIC whilst keeping our cost of capital down to maximise the return to
equity investors.
Pensions
The changes we have made to our pension funding arrangements have been
an important factor behind this year’s results. Depressed equity markets 
and increasing life expectancy are putting great strains on company 
pension funds. We have taken steps to ensure the latter does not become 
an increasing burden to the company. We decided to keep our final salary
scheme but have increased contributions for all employees by 40 per cent
from 5 to 7 per cent of earnings and removed a number of company 
funded early retirement provisions for future service. Our fund is relatively
immature, with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions
paid out, which leaves us able to take a long term view of investment 
returns. We continue to charge pension costs against profits based 
on SSAP 24. These results incorporate the latest triennial valuation as at
March 2002 and the increased employee contributions have offset the
increased cost. The variation credit due to the amortisation of past surpluses
reduces the pension charge by £2.4 million.
The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are that the post-tax balance sheet
deficit rises to £143.5 million (last year: deficit £47 .0 million) reflecting the
trends seen in the equity markets. The effect on pre-tax profit would have
been a reduction of £5.5 million (made up of the loss of the SSAP 24 credit
and other calculation differences between the two methodologies). It is our
intention to continue to report profits under SSAP 24 until the new standard
is implemented.
Information technology
One of the major capital projects has been the introduction of SAP across 
the group, permitting a move to state of the art systems for both financial
reporting and operational control. Our decentralised IT arrangements 
have been replaced with a central structure. It is our intention, subject to
consultation, to take all remaining IT staff out of our operating companies
in the coming year, saving costs and improving service. Another benefit 
from the implementation of SAP is that, again subject to consultation, we
plan to centralise all financial accounting and reporting across the group.
We propose to roll out the changes in the first half and expect the benefits 
to build steadily over the next two years.
Sean Christie
Finance director 1
3
5
7
9
2
4
6
8
1 Peter Blackburn CBE (62), Chairman 
•*
†‡
Joined the board in 2001 and was previously Chairman and Chief executive 
of Nestlé UK Limited. He is a non-executive director of SIG plc and 
Compass Group PLC, and is past President of the Food and Drink Federation.
He was awarded the CBE in 2003 for services to the food and drink industry.
He chairs the nomination committee.
2 Jo Stewart (53), Chief executive 
Joined Northern Foods in 1988 as Managing director of Fox’s Biscuits, having
previously held a number of senior posts at United Biscuits. He was appointed
to the board in 1994 as Managing director of Prepared Foods, and became
Chief executive of Northern Foods in March 1998. He is a non-executive
director of Enterprise Inns plc.
3 Tony Hobson (55), Deputy chairman 
•*
†‡
Joined the board on 28 May 2002. He is a non-executive director of 
HBOS plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Glas Cymru. A chartered
accountant, he was the Group finance director of Legal & General Group plc
for 14 years until his retirement from the board in 2001. He was previously
the senior independent director of Thames Water plc until its acquisition 
by RWE in 2000. He chairs the remuneration committee.
4 Sean Christie (45), Finance director 
Joined Northern Foods in 1979 and was Finance director of Pork Farms and
Fox’s Biscuits, and subsequently of Northern Foods’ Prepared Foods activities,
prior to his appointment to the board in 1996. He is a non-executive director
of Kingston Communications (Hull) PLC.
5 Matthew Gribbin (45)
Joined Northern Foods in 1981 and has held a number of senior positions
within the Northern Foods group. He is a Council member of the Federation
of Bakers.
6 Howard Sims (55)
Joined Northern Foods in 1998 upon the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray
Group plc, of which he was Chief executive. He had been employed by
Cavaghan & Gray since November 1971.
7Colin Dyer (50),
•*
†‡ 
Joined the board in 1997 . He is Chief executive officer of WorldWide Retail
Exchange and was formerly Chief executive officer of Courtaulds Textiles plc.
He chairs the audit committee.
8 Orna Ni-Chionna (47),
•*
†‡ 
Joined the board on 28 May 2002. She is a former partner of McKinsey 
& Company. She is a non-executive director of Bank of Ireland UK Holdings
plc, Bristol & West plc, BUPA and is a trustee of the Soil Association.
9 Julian Wild (50), Company secretary
Joined Northern Foods in 1979. He is a non-executive director of Newlands
Scientific plc and is a board member of the Y orkshire Cultural Consortium.
He is also a commissioner with the Independent Football Commission.
•
Non-executive director
*
Remuneration committee member
† Audit committee member
‡ Nomination committee member
Board
of directors
24 | Board of directors Northern Foods plc Summary report of the directors | Independent auditors’ statement | 25 Northern Foods plc
Summary report
of the directors
Independent
auditors’ statement
Principal activities and business review
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairman’s statement, the
Chief executive’s statement and the Financial review, which together include
information about group activities, the financial performance during the year
and likely developments.
Dividend 
An interim dividend of 3.25 pence per share was paid on 28 March 2003 
and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.45 pence per share to be
paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 25 July 2003.
Directors
The directors are listed on page 24, together with their biographical details,
and were directors of the company throughout the year except for
AJ Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna, who were appointed on 28 May 2002,
MTGribbin and H R Sims, who were appointed on 27 January 2003, and 
J M Fry and H A Alexander, who resigned on 28 May 2002 and 31 December
2002 respectively.
In accordance with the company’s articles of association, P H Blackburn,
CDyer, A J Hobson, O G Ni-Chionna and A J Stewart retire and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election.
M T Gribbin and H R Sims, having been appointed directors since the 2002
Annual general meeting, offer themselves for election.
Corporate governance
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 Northern Foods has been 
in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by
the Financial Services Authority.
In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the 
company has the following main committees:
Audit committee
Executive committee
Nomination committee
Remuneration committee
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the group’s
system of internal control for the year ended 31 March 2003 and the period
to 28 May 2003 in line with the publication ‘Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code’.
Annual general meeting
The notice convening the company’s Annual general meeting to be held 
at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 17 July 2003 is contained in the circular sent to
shareholders with this review.
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office
as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment
will be submitted to the company’s Annual general meeting.
By order of the board
Julian Wild
Company secretary
28 May 2003
To the members of Northern Foods plc
We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the
Summary directors’ remuneration report, profit and loss account, balance
sheet and cash flow statement.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. Our work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for 
our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised Annual review
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law. Our responsibility is 
to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial
statement with the full annual accounts, the Report of the directors and 
the Directors’ remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant
requirements under section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the
regulations made thereafter. We also read the other information contained 
in the summarised Annual review as described in the contents section,
and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the summary
financial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999/6 ‘The auditors’
statement on the summary financial statement’ issued by the United
Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full
annual accounts, the Report of the directors and the Directors’ remuneration
report of Northern Foods plc for the year ended 31 March 2003 and the
Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
28 May 2003
Notes
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the
website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether
any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first
published. These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control
procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other
jurisdictions. Northern Foods plc
Summary directors’
remuneration report
Introduction
The board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The report also meets
the relevant requirements of the Combined Code annexed to the Listing
Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
It covers the remuneration policy, the level and components of directors’
remuneration, a number of formal disclosures relating to individual directors’
remuneration and a performance graph of the company’s performance.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be
proposed at the Annual general meeting of the company.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the company’s members 
on the ‘audited element’ of the Directors’ remuneration report and to state
whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
Remuneration committee
The members of the remuneration committee were J M Fry (Chairman –
resigned 28 May 2002), A J Hobson (Chairman – appointed 28 May 2002),
H A Alexander (resigned 31 December 2002), P H Blackburn, C Dyer and 
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002). All were independent non-
executive directors. The committee makes recommendations to the board.
No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her remuneration.
The remuneration committee has been formally delegated the authority 
by the board of directors to establish policy in respect of all terms of
employment for executive directors.
Advisers to the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee appointed Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow to
provide advice on matters of future remuneration policy during the year.
They are also scheme actuaries to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme.
Linklaters provided legal advice on share schemes and related matters 
and they also advise the company secretarial function. The remuneration
committee appointed DLA to advise on matters relating to the revision 
of directors’ contracts. DLA also provided specific employment law advice 
to the company’s legal department.
In determining directors’ remuneration for the year and in considering
proposals for the future, the committee consulted A J Stewart, Chief
executive. The secretary to the remuneration committee is E Cockburn,
Personnel executive, who also provided information on pay practice in 
respect of executive directors and senior management.
Remuneration policy 
The group’s remuneration policy is designed to support the recruitment,
motivation and retention of employees. Remuneration is considered within
the overall context of the sector of which the group is a part and the group’s
individual businesses. The objective continues to be to pay at the relevant
mid-market level with a package designed to align interests of the employees
with shareholders, and with a reasonable proportion of total remuneration
dependent upon individual and group performance. The policy is described 
in more detail below for directors.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors
Fees for the non-executive directors are recommended by executive directors
and then approved by the board, based upon a range of external information
and set within the aggregate limits contained in the articles of association.
There is no other remuneration, except where the company meets authorised
expenses of non-executive directors incurred on Northern Foods activities.
They are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate
in any of the group’s annual or long term incentive schemes.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the company’s
executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions
to the company’s overall performance. The remuneration committee’s 
policy is to offer remuneration packages, which are capable of attracting,
retaining and motivating executive directors of high calibre, to ensure that 
the company is managed effectively to the benefit of shareholders. The
remuneration committee also takes account of the remuneration awarded 
to managers throughout Northern Foods, in setting the remuneration 
of the executive directors.
The remuneration committee is currently reviewing the policy on total
remuneration for executive directors. It continues to aim for a structured 
and balanced remuneration package for each executive director by 
looking at each element as well as the package as a whole.
The remuneration committee believes that an increasing proportion of the
total remuneration of a director should be performance related and proposes
changes to both the short and long term incentive arrangements. Changes 
to the annual incentive plan will be introduced for 2003/2004. The increase
in annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is set against the
introduction of stretching annual performance objectives, in addition to the
current target of growth in earnings per share. A proportion of any annual
bonus earned will be paid as deferred shares through the new Share bonus
plan, encouraging executive directors to grow their personal shareholding in
the group. Changes to the long term incentive arrangements proposed for
2004/2005 will include a review of performance targets, ensuring continued
alignment of individual and shareholder interests.
Salary will continue to be set by reference to the median level of the relevant
employment market. The remuneration committee has used annual surveys
conducted by external remuneration consultants to provide information 
on market practice, focusing on comparisons with companies which are 
of a similar size and which share similar characteristics. The remuneration
committee consults with the Chief executive about its proposals relating 
to the remuneration of other executive directors and senior management.
The five main components of the remuneration package for executive
directors and senior management in 2003/2004 are:
– basic annual salary
– the possibility of an annual cash bonus based upon performance 
of the individual and the group
– a deferred annual bonus, where a cash bonus is paid
– participation in long term incentive plans with returns based upon 
the group and individual performance
– pension and other benefits.
Share and bonus schemes are structured to provide a strong alignment 
of interest between the individual and the shareholder.
In order to encourage and reward performance, there is a significant
proportion of potential reward dependent upon company and individual
performance. As shown below, nearly 40 per cent of directors’ total
remuneration is dependent upon target performance with a maximum
percentage at grant of 45 per cent.
The overall balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for
2003/2004, exclusive of pension benefits, is illustrated below. The table is 
a theoretical model and assumes that on target performance is achieved 
for both short and long term incentives. The value of the long term incentive 
is calculated using Black Scholes methodology. The share price used is as at
31 March 2003 and an average option life of six and a half years is assumed.
26 | Summary directors’ remuneration report Summary directors’ remuneration report | 27 Northern Foods plc
Basic salary Variable pay
as proportion as proportion
of total of total
remuneration remuneration
M S Christie 62% 38%
M T Gribbin 62% 38%
H R Sims 62% 38%
A J Stewart 62% 38%
Salary 
Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually at the beginning of 
each financial year by the remuneration committee, taking into account any
changes in the individual’s responsibilities, performance and development,
the company’s overall performance and external factors. The remuneration
committee’s objective is, and will continue to be, to maintain salaries at
around the median level of the relevant employment market.
Salaries were reviewed for the Chief executive and Finance director in 
March 2003 with increases taking effect from 1 April 2003. Salaries for the
two newly appointed executive directors, M T Gribbin and H R Sims, were
considered in January 2003 and took effect from 27 January 2003. They 
will not be reviewed until April 2004.
In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain benefits,
principally a car, private medical insurance and a pension. Salary is the only
pensionable remuneration.
Annual incentive plan 
The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual performance
targets is a high priority for the executive directors. Incentive targets for
executive directors are set each year by the remuneration committee to 
take account of current business plans.
The remuneration committee has reviewed the annual incentive plan, and 
the target and the maximum potential award for 2003/2004 have been
increased for this year, better to reflect current market practice for
comparator companies. The target incentive for an executive director is now
40 per cent of basic salary for good performance. In the case of exceptional
results the incentive payment may increase up to a maximum of 60 per cent
of basic salary.
One quarter of any annual incentive earned will be paid as deferred shares
through the company’s Share bonus plan. Shares acquired through the Share
bonus plan will be purchased in the market and held in trust for the executive
for a period of three years. These shares will be forfeited should the executive
director leave prior to the third anniversary. During this retention period the
participants will not be entitled to dividends on the shares.
The target set for 2003/2004 is made up of both financial and business
performance measures. The financial element includes profit performance
and earnings per share growth targets. The business element is related 
to a small number of commercially sensitive strategic objectives for each
individual and the senior management team overall. The performance 
targets selected are considered appropriately stretching by the remuneration
committee.
The targets for the Chief executive and the Finance director in 2001/2002
and 2002/2003 were based upon growth over the year in Northern Foods’
earnings per share. There is a threshold below which no payment is made.
The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent of salary with a
maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent. No annual bonuses were paid 
to executive directors in respect of 2001/2002. An accrued bonus in
respect of 2002/2003, will be paid in June 2003 and is included in T able 1
on page 29.
The targets for M T Gribbin and H R Sims were based equally upon growth
over the year in Northern Foods’ earnings per share, together with profit
after interest of the operating companies for which the individual director
was responsible. The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent 
of salary with a maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent. M T Gribbin and
H R Sims were not executive directors in 2001/2002. An accrued bonus in
respect of 2002/2003 will be paid in June 2003 and is included in T able 1
on page 29.
Long term incentive share plans
The group’s long term incentive grants have been developed to reflect 
market practice and to provide long term management focus and motivation.
The remuneration committee believes that a significant element of 
executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery of above average
long term returns for shareholders. Executives’ interest in both relative 
and absolute share price performance is important, and this is facilitated 
by share schemes and the encouragement to grow a significant personal
shareholding in the group.
Long term incentives are provided to executive directors in the form of
restricted shares and share options. Executive directors and senior executives
are eligible to receive awards under only one of these arrangements in any
one financial year.
Long term incentive arrangements for executive directors are currently being
reviewed by the remuneration committee with the objective of seeking
shareholder approval for the introduction of any new arrangements in 2004.
Until such review is concluded, the policy for the 2003/2004 financial period
is set out below.
Executive share options
Participation in the executive option scheme is at the discretion of the
remuneration committee. Executive directors are eligible to receive a grant 
of options if they hold, at the time of any grant, unexercised options worth 
on aggregate less than four times salary. Options are granted at market 
value under either the company share option plan (Inland Revenue approved)
or executive share option scheme (unapproved).
Directors can exercise options in the seven year period following the third
anniversary of grant and before the tenth anniversary subject to satisfaction
of the performance condition.
Consistent with best practice, it is the remuneration committee’s intention
that grants will continue to be made annually to executive directors in the
future. Such grants will normally be equivalent to one times salary.
In making option grants, the remuneration committee sets the performance
target to be achieved before such options can be exercised. The performance
condition requires that the remuneration committee must be satisfied that
over the three year performance period the real growth in earnings per 
share is greater than 3 per cent per annum compound. If the performance
condition is not satisfied after the initial three year performance period, the
period will be extended and performance will be re-tested at the end of year
four and, if necessary, again at the end of year five against the full period 
from grant. The options will lapse if the performance condition has not been
met by the end of year five of the performance period.
The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for 
the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors
with those of shareholders. The remuneration committee also believes 
that real growth in earnings per share will only be achieved through the
delivery of both the commercial and financial objectives of the company.
Furthermore, executives will only benefit from the plan if real growth in the
earnings per share target is achieved and there is growth in the share price.
Grants were made on 2 December 2002 to the executive directors.
The aggregate of all share options is shown in note 2 on page 30. 28 | Summary directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
Summary directors’
remuneration report continued 
Long term incentive plan
The plan is designed to align the interests of senior management with
the interests of shareholders. The benefits available to senior management
participating in the plan will only accrue to them if the company has
delivered significant benefits to shareholders over a three year period.
Participation in this incentive plan is at the discretion of the remuneration
committee.
Under the plan, the remuneration committee awards shares in the company
to senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate
performance targets over a period of three years. The number of shares
conditionally awarded to each participant is determined by the remuneration
committee. The market value of shares which may be conditionally 
awarded to a participant in any year will be limited to a maximum 
of 75 per cent of salary.
Performance is assessed against two criteria: by comparing the growth 
in total shareholder return, in terms of share price growth and dividends,
to that of the total shareholder return of the companies comprising the 
FTSE Food Producers Index, excluding Unilever; and by assessing the
underlying performance of Northern Foods by reference to the real 
growth in earnings per share over the same period.
The total shareholder return performance is assessed by reference to a vesting
scale, whereby for the full award to qualify for vesting, the total return to the
company’s ordinary shareholders during the three year performance period
places it in the top quartile of the comparator group. If the company’s
performance is ranked at 50 per cent or lower, all of the conditional awards will
lapse. Where the company is placed between 50 per cent and the top quartile,
the maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated on 
a straight line basis with 25 per cent of the conditional award being available
when the company is placed at 51 per cent and the entire award being
available where the company is placed in the top quartile.
The remuneration committee assesses the underlying performance of the
company, as measured by growth in earnings per share, to determine the
proportion of the available shares that will vest.
The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for 
the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors
with those of shareholders. The remuneration committee selected the 
relative total shareholder return, compared with companies in the FTSE Food
Producers Index, excluding Unilever, as a measure that reflects corporate
performance relative to companies with similar characteristics and subject 
to similar market conditions. Unilever is excluded from the comparator group
on the basis of size and product diversity. The remuneration committee also
believes that real growth in earnings per share is an appropriate measure 
of the underlying financial performance of the company.
The companies currently comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index are:
Associated British Foods Northern Foods
Cadbury Schweppes Robert Wiseman Dairies
Dairy Crest Sygen
Devro T ate & Lyle
Geest Uniq
The three year performance period for the 1999 plan ended on 31 March
2002. The committee assessed the extent to which the performance
condition had been achieved and 30 per cent of the conditional awards made
under the plan vested on 26 July 2002. The balance of the conditional award
lapsed. Shares awarded under the plan will be retained in trust on behalf 
of the participants for a further two years. During this retention period the
participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the
trustee how to vote. At the end of the retention period, the shares will 
be transferred to participants from the trust.
All employee share schemes
An approved savings-related share option scheme is open to all eligible
employees in the UK and overseas. Executive directors’ interests in savings-
related options are included in note 2 on page 30.
Pension arrangements
Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ pensions and the payment 
of a lump sum in the event of death in service. The pension arrangements
provide for a pension on retirement at age 60 of two thirds basic annual
salary after 20 or more years’ eligible service, subject to Inland Revenue 
rules. No other payments to directors are pensionable. None of the current
directors’ benefits from the company scheme are restricted by current 
Inland Revenue limits and there are no additional payments, unfunded
promises or similar arrangements.
Additional directorships
Executive directors are encouraged to hold a maximum of one non-
executive directorship in a listed business in a non-competing sector.
Fees for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
Directors’ contracts
It is the company’s policy that executive directors should have secure
agreements with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one
year’s notice. All executive directors have contracts, which are subject 
to one year’s notice by either party.
In the event of early termination, the directors’ contracts provide for
compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, company car, private 
medical insurance and pension for the notice period.
The details of the directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
Date of contract Notice period
M S Christie 1 April 1996 12 months
M T Gribbin 1 April 2003 12 months
H R Sims 1 April 2003 12 months
A J Stewart 1 April 1996 12 months
The contracts for A J Stewart and M S Christie have been amended from 
the previous arrangements where they benefited from a two year contract
reducing in length over the succeeding year, being renewed to the full two
year period on 1 April each year.
M T Gribbin and H R Sims, who are proposed for election to the board, and
A J Stewart who is proposed for re-election at the Annual general meeting,
have service contracts which provide for a notice period of one year.
P H Blackburn, C Dyer, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna, who are also
proposed for re-election, being non-executive directors, do not have a service
contract. They are appointed for a three year term, at the end of which any
extension is considered and decided upon by the full board. They stand for 
re-election by the shareholders annually. Summary directors’ remuneration report | 29 Northern Foods plc
Performance graph
In accordance with the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002, the graph opposite shows the company’s 
five year performance measured by total shareholder return, compared 
with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index also measured by total
shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate comparison 
because it represents a broad equity market index, of which Northern Foods 
is a constituent.
Total shareholder return measures share price growth with any dividends
deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date. The total shareholder
return shown is based on daily spot prices.
1 Directors’ remuneration and pension entitlements 
The following table shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration of the directors holding office during the year ended
31 March 2003 (T able1). Pension entitlements and interests under long term incentive arrangements are shown on page 30.
Accrued
Salary/ annual
fees Benefits bonus Total Total
T able 1 2003 2003 2003 2003 2002
Directors’ remuneration ££££ £
Executive directors
M S Christie 255,000 19,369 25,000 299,369 254,122
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003)* 41,827 2,446 4,167 48,440 –
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003)* 41,827 2,421 2,083 46,331 –
A J Stewart 400,000 16,146 25,000 441,146 379,735
Non-executive directors
H A Alexander (resigned 31 December 2002)* 21,744 – – 21,744 25,000
P H Blackburn 125,000 – – 125,000 26,346
C Dyer 29,244 – – 29,244 25,000
J M Fry (resigned 28 May 2002)* 6,410 – – 6,410 40,000
C R Haskins (retired 1 February 2002)* –––– 112,259
A J Hobson (appointed 28 May 2002)* 33,949 – – 33,949 –
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002)* 25,462 – – 25,462 –
980,463 40,382 56,250 1,077,095 862,462
Notes to T able 1
*Figures for directors are pro-rated to reflect date of appointment or resignation.
Benefits: Benefits include private medical insurance and company car.
Annual bonus: No annual bonus was paid to executive directors in respect of 2001/2002. A bonus will be paid in June 2003 in respect of 2002/2003.
There was nil compensation for loss of office paid to or receivable by any director nor any other payments paid to or receivable by any director in connection 
with the termination of qualifying services.
Share option gains
No options were exercised during the year.
60
1998 1999
Northern Foods
40
80
100
120
140
20
0
Total shareholder return 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2003
FTSE 250 Index
2000 2001 2002 2003 30 | Summary directors’ remuneration report Northern Foods plc
1 Directors’ remuneration and pension entitlements continued
T able 2
Directors’ pension entitlements 2003 2002
Aggregate company contributions in respect of directors to money purchase pension schemes – –
Number of directors with retirement benefits accruing under
– money purchase schemes – –
– defined benefit schemes 4 2
2 Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003 are detailed below.
Ordinary shares Share options LTIP
(number) (number) (number)
Description 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April
of interest 2003 2002
†
2003 2002
†
2003 2002
†
Executive directors
M S Christie Beneficial 70,628 43,666 478,028 356,259 157,674 289,846
M T Gribbin (appointed 27 January 2003) Beneficial 410,688 410,566 204,291 204,291 82,604 82,604
H R Sims (appointed 27 January 2003) Beneficial 38,895 38,895 170,771 170,771 100,465 100,465
A J Stewart Beneficial 126,707 85,574 802,231 594,578 240,697 442,336
Non-executive directors
P H Blackburn Beneficial 40,000 15,000
C Dyer Beneficial 10,000 10,000
A J Hobson (appointed 28 May 2002) Beneficial 4,000 –
O G Ni-Chionna (appointed 28 May 2002) Beneficial 4,000 –
Notes to the table
†
Balance at 1 April 2002 or at date of appointment.
M S Christie, M T Gribbin, H R Sims and A J Stewart qualified, as did all employees with over four years’ service, to participate in the company’s previous profit
sharing scheme and their beneficial holdings of ordinary shares shown above include their current entitlements under this scheme.
The company’s register of directors’ interests, which is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, contains full
details of directors’ shareholdings, options and long term incentive plan (LTIP) awards.
The mid-market price of the company’s shares was 174.5p at 28 March 2002 and 123.5p at 31 March 2003.
During the year the market price ranged between 112.0p and 187 .0p.
At 31 March 2003, the executive directors of Northern Foods plc as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods Employee share ownership trust, were
interested in 4,212,749 ordinary shares held by the Trustee.
By order of the board
Tony Hobson
Chairman
Remuneration committee
28 May 2003
Summary directors’
remuneration report continued  Consolidated profit and loss account | 31 Northern Foods plc
Before Before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
and and and and
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items Total
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Group turnover
– continuing 1,421.2 – 1,421.2 1,353.8 – 1,353.8
– discontinued ––– 105.4 – 105.4
Group turnover 1,421.2 – 1,421.2 1,459.2 – 1,459.2
Cost of sales (1,023.3) (31.9) (1,055.2) (1,069.6) (21.5) (1,091.1)
Gross profit 397.9 (31.9) 366.0 389.6 (21.5) 368.1
Net operating expenses (282.3) (13.1) (295.4) (264.5) (3.0) (267 .5)
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
– continuing 115.6 (42.6) 73.0 115.0 (15.9) 99.1
– discontinued ––– 10.1 (6.4) 3.7
115.6 (42.6) 73.0 125.1 (22.3) 102.8
Goodwill amortisation – (2.4) (2.4) – (2.2) (2.2)
Operating profit 115.6 (45.0) 70.6 125.1 (24.5) 100.6
Share of associated undertakings 1.4 (0.7) 0.7 0.4 (0.7) (0.3)
Profit on disposal of businesses – 54.0 54.0 –7.2 7.2
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 117.0 8.3 125.3 125.5 (18.0) 107 .5
Net interest payable (19.5) – (19.5) (24.5) – (24.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 97.5 8.3 105.8 101.0 (18.0) 83.0
T axation on profit on ordinary activities (17.9) 12.8 (5.1) (23.6) 5.0 (18.6)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 79.6 21.1 100.7 77 .4 (13.0) 64.4
Equity dividends (44.9) – (44.9) (45.1) – (45.1)
Retained profit for the year 34.7 21.1 55.8 32.3 (13.0) 19.3
Basic earnings per ordinary share 14.81p 18.73p 13.91p 11.57p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 18.02p 11.37p
Dividend per ordinary share 8.70p 8.20p
Average number of shares (million) 537.6 556.4
Analysis of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items 115.6 125.1
Add: associate 1.4 0.4
depreciation 62.7 63.7
EBITDA before exceptional items 179.7 189.2
Consolidated profit and loss account
for the year ended 31 March 2003 32 | Consolidated balance sheet Northern Foods plc
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets 41.4 42.3
T angible fixed assets 670.6 695.9
Investments 21.5 22.9
733.5 761.1
Current assets
Stocks 85.1 83.0
Debtors 211.6 194.8
Investments 10.6 9.1
Cash at bank and in hand 33.5 22.9
340.8 309.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 322.1 303.7
Net current assets 18.7 6.1
Total assets less current liabilities 752.2 767 .2
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 90.5 90.3
Loans and other creditors 232.5 324.6
323.0 414.9
Provisions for liabilities and charges 63.1 64.1
Net assets 366.1 288.2
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 130.8 139.8
Share premium account 57.4 57 .0
Revaluation reserve 3.9 4.3
Capital redemption reserve 19.1 10.0
Other reserves 6.7 6.7
Profit and loss account 148.2 70.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 366.1 288.2
A J Stewart Director
M S Christie Director
28 May 2003 Consolidated cash flow statement | Analysis of activities | 33 Northern Foods plc
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March 2003
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 151.6 117 .8
Returns on investments and servicing of finance – net interest paid (18.6) (27 .8)
T axation (9.4) (11.0)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (net) (76.0) (113.4)
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment (76.0) (113.4)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from acquisitions and disposals 140.6 (4.0)
Equity dividends paid (45.1) (43.3)
Cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 143.1 (81.7)
Purchase of own shares (55.0) (9.3)
Issue of equity share capital net of costs 0.5 2.1
Exchange adjustments 1.7 (0.2)
Amortisation of bond and financing costs (0.2) (0.2)
Movement in net debt in the year 90.1 (89.3)
Analysis of activities
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Operating Operating
profit before profit before
goodwill goodwill
amortisation amortisation
and and Net Net
External External exceptional exceptional operating operating
turnover turnover items items assets assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Area of activity £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Convenience 1,014.1 940.2 70.0 64.5 533.7 552.8
Grocery 407.1 413.6 45.6 50.5 257.1 239.9
1,421.2 1,353.8 115.6 115.0 790.8 792.7
Discontinued operations
Convenience – 100.3 – 10.0 – 14.7
Grocery – 5.1 – 0.1 – –
– 105.4 – 10.1 – 14.7
Total group 1,421.2 1,459.2 115.6 125.1 790.8 807 .4 34 | Five year record Northern Foods plc
Five year 
record
Profit and loss account 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Turnover Continuing £m 1,145.6 1,203.1 1,256.1 1,353.8 1,421.2
Discontinued £m 140.3 136.0 121.8 105.4 –
Total £m 1,285.9 1,339.1 1,377 .9 1,459.2 1,421.2
Operating profit* Continuing £m 97 .4 103.2 108.9 115.0 115.6
Discontinued £m 12.4 14.2 14.0 10.1 –
Total £m 109.8 117 .4 122.9 125.1 115.6
% of turnover % 8.5 8.8 8.9 8.6 8.1
Share of associated undertakings £m 1.9 0.2 1.4 0.4 1.4
Net interest payable £m (17 .2) (17 .4) (20.2) (24.5) (19.5)
Profit before taxation* £m 94.5 100.2 104.1 101.0 97.5
Profit after taxation* £m 69.9 74.8 79.2 77 .4 79.6
Exceptional items after taxation £m – (21.3) 5.5 (10.1) 24.2
Goodwill amortisation £m – (1.3) (2.1) (2.9) (3.1)
Profit after taxation (FRS 3) £m 69.9 52.2 82.6 64.4 100.7
Earnings per share
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 12.6 13.7 13.9 14.8
after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 8.8 14.3 11.6 18.7
Dividend per share p 6.8 7 .3 7 .7 8.2 8.7
Dividend cover* times 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8
Asset analysis
Operating assets £m 554.4 637 .2 695.2 807 .4 790.8
Other liabilities and provisions £m (105.7) (95.4) (96.2) (105.5) (101.1)
Trading capital employed £m 448.7 541.8 599.0 701.9 689.7
Accumulated goodwill written off £m 304.8 306.1 308.2 308.5 246.6
Total invested capital £m 753.5 847 .9 907 .2 1,010.4 936.3
Net borrowings £m (176.0) (276.9) (324.4) (413.7) (323.6)
Total equity funds invested £m 577 .5 571.0 582.8 596.7 612.7
Equity shareholders’ funds £m 272.7 264.9 274.6 288.2 366.1
Net gearing % 64.5 104.5 118.1 143.5 88.4
Interest cover* times 6.5 6.8 6.2 5.1 6.0
Capital expenditure £m 110.5 88.0 78.3 123.6 79.4
Shareholder value analysis
Profit before interest* £m 111.7 117 .6 124.3 125.5 117.0
Attributable taxation* £m (29.9) (30.6) (31.0) (30.9) (23.8)
Normalised operating profit after tax (NOPAT) £m 81.8 87 .0 93.3 94.6 93.2
Return on average invested capital (ROIC) % 11.7 10.9 10.6 9.9 10.0
†
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) % 8.0 7 .6 7 .3 7 .3 6.3
Margin over cost of funds % 3.7 3.3 3.3 2.6 3.7
Post-tax return on average equity funds invested* % 12.5 13.0 13.7 13.1 13.2
*Stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
†
Stated after reducing the 2002 invested capital by £87m to reflect the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.
The years ending 1999 to 2001 have been restated to comply with FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’. Financial calendar | Investor information | 35 Northern Foods plc
Investor
information
Shareholder services and helpline
Shareholders who change address, want to have their dividends paid directly
into their bank account, have a query regarding their shares, or who otherwise
require some information about their holding should contact the Registrar,
Computershare Investor Services PLC, on the dedicated Northern Foods
shareholder information telephone line: 0870 702 0134. Alternatively,
they should write to the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, at 
PO Box 435, Owen House, 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh EH11 4BR,
or email their enquiry, indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder,
to web.queries@computershare.co.uk.
Shareholder information on the internet
The Northern Foods website: www.northern-foods.co.uk provides shareholder
information including copies of the Annual report and Annual review. The 
site also contains information on recent trends in the company’s share price.
Shareholders can gain access to their individual shareholder details via a
link to our Registrar’s website and will then be required to pass an identity
check to access their personal shareholding. Alternatively, shareholders can
gain access directly to the Registrar’s website: www.computershare.com.
From either site, shareholders can download stock transfer, dividend mandate
and change of address forms.
Dividend mandates
Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically into their 
bank or building society account, using the BACS system. This process ensures
that the amount of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as
cleared funds, on the date the payment is due. Confirmation of payment 
is contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to shareholders’
registered addresses at the time of payment. This voucher should be kept
safely for future reference.
Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should complete
a dividend mandate form, which can be found attached to the last dividend
warrant. Alternatively, a form can be downloaded from the Registrar’s 
website or requested by calling the above telephone helpline.
Capital gains tax
The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 1982 for
capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence. This figure is the adjusted price 
to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, the one-for-one
capitalisation issue in August of the same year, and the demerger of 
Express Dairies plc on 30 March 1998.
Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted to take account 
of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will depend on
individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their
financial advisers.
Financial
calendar
2003
28 May Final results announcement
13 June Annual report and Annual review issued
15 July Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy
17 July Annual general meeting
23 July Shares quoted ex-dividend
25 July Record date for final dividend
8 August Half-yearly interest payment on convertible
subordinated bonds
29 August Final dividend payment on ordinary shares
November Interim results announcement
2004
8 February Half-yearly interest payment on convertible
subordinated bonds
March Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares
31 March Financial year end Principal
operations
Northern Foods Head Office
Beverley House, St Stephen’s Square, Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Technical Services
Farnsworth House, Lenton Lane, Nottingham NG7 2NS
Telephone: 0115 986 8231
Riverside and Evesham Foods
Crossgate Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LW
Telephone: 0115 986 6462
Operations at Nottingham and Evesham
Pork Farms Bowyers
Queens Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LU
Telephone: 0115 986 6541
Operations at Nottingham, Trowbridge and Binghams, Sheffield
Premium Savoury Products
Maer Lane, Market Drayton TF9 3AW
Telephone: 01630 655095
Operations at Palethorpes, Market Drayton, Trafford Park Bakery, Manchester,
The Pizza Factory, Nottingham and Dorset Chilled Foods, Shaftesbury
Walter Hollands
Baxenden, nr Accrington BB5 2SA
Telephone: 01706 213591
The Recipe Dish Company
Drakehouse Crescent, Waterthorpe, Sheffield S20 7JG
Telephone: 0114 247 6864
Operations at Pennine Foods, Sheffield and Fenland Foods, Grantham
Cavaghan & Gray 
Brunel House, Brunel Way, Carlisle CA1 3NQ
Telephone: 01228 518200
Operations at Carlisle, Aberdeen, Grimsby and Hull
Fletchers Kara Grain D’Or
Claywheels Lane, Sheffield S6 1LY
Telephone: 0114 234 8171
Operations at Fletchers Bakeries, Sheffield, Kara, Manchester 
and Grain D’Or, Harlesden
Gunstones Bakery
Stubley Lane, Dronfield, Sheffield S18 6PF
Telephone: 01246 414651
Operations at Dronfield and La Baguette Dorée, Barnsley
Cakes and Puddings
Ashton Road, Oldham OL8 2ND
Telephone: 0161 633 1181
Operations at Park Cake Bakeries, Oldham and Bolton 
and Matthew Walker, Heanor
Eden Vale
Station Road, Minsterley, Shropshire SY5 0BN
Telephone: 01743 791301
Fox’s Biscuits
PO Box 10, Batley WF17 5JG
Telephone: 01924 444333
Operations at Batley and Kirkham 
Elkes Biscuits
Dove Valley Bakeries, Cheadle Road, Uttoxeter ST14 7BT
Telephone: 01889 563131
Green Isle Food Group
I.D.A. Industrial Estate, Naas, Co Kildare, Ireland
Telephone: 00 353 45 876511
Operations at Naas, Boyle, Gurteen, Portumna and Longford
Dalepak Foods
Dale House, Leeming Bar, Northallerton DL7 9UL
Telephone: 01677 424111
Operations at Leeming Bar and Emile Tissot, Telford
Smiths Flour Mills
PO Box 3, Eastgate, Worksop S80 1QY
Telephone: 01909 472216
Operations at Worksop, Langley Mill and Holbeach
NFT Distribution
Azalea Close, Clover Nook Industrial Estate, Somercotes
Alfreton DE55 4QX
Telephone: 01773 523523
Operations throughout the country
Batchelors
72-74 Bannow Road, Cabra West, Dublin 7 , Ireland
Telephone: 00 3531 8380133
Operations at Dublin and Athy
Fox’s Confectionery 
Sunningdale Road, Braunstone, Leicester LE3 1UE
Telephone: 0116 287 3561
36 | Principal operations Northern Foods plc Designed and produced by
Fitch:London
Principal photography 
Directors – Bill Robinson
Food products – Jean Cazals
People/manufacturing – Nick Sinclair
Printed in England by
the colourhouse
Company
information
Registered office
Beverley House
St Stephen’s Square
Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Facsimile: 01482 226136
Website: www.northern-foods.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales
No 471864
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche
Merchant bankers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
Cazenove & Co Ltd
Registrar to the ordinary shareholders
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 435
Owen House
8 Bankhead Crossway North
Edinburgh EH11 4BR
Telephone: 0870 702 0134
Email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Website: www.computershare.com
Principal paying and conversion agent 
and registrar to the convertible bond holders
J P Morgan Chase Bank
1 Chaseside
Bournemouth
Dorset BH7 7DA
Annual
report
The Northern Foods Annual review 2003 aims to give shareholders 
a clear and concise overview of the group’s business and prospects.
For this reason the review contains a summary financial statement 
rather than the full accounts.
The Annual review does not contain sufficient information to allow 
for as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the 
group as would be provided by the Northern Foods Annual report 2003.
If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual report, please contact:
Public relations department
Northern Foods plc
Beverley House
St Stephen’s Square
Hull HU1 3XG
Telephone: 01482 325432
Our business
Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.We operate
in eight core product areas which benefit from long term
demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality 
foods that are convenient to eat.
Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we 
have strong market positions in the supply of high 
quality chilled foods under their retail names.We also 
have successful brands in biscuits, frozen food and 
savoury products.
Contents
01 Financial highlights
02 Our core product areas
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief executive’s statement 
08 Operating review
18 Recognising our social responsibilities
21 Financial review
24 Board of directors
25 Summary report of the directors
Independent auditors’ statement
26 Summary directors’ remuneration report
31 Consolidated profit and loss account
32 Consolidated balance sheet
33 Consolidated cash flow statement
Analysis of activities
34 Five year record
35 Financial calendar
Investor information
36 Principal operations
Company information
Annual report  Northern Foods plc
Annual review 2003
www.northern-foods.co.uk
