 Northern Foods plc
2180 Century Way
Thorpe Park
Leeds
LS15 8ZB
Tel: 0113 390 0110
Fax: 0113 390 0211
www.northernfoods.com
 Northern Foods plc Annual report 2008/09
Annual Report 2008/09
Making great tasting food  Designed and produced by 35 Communications
Food photography: Rob White
People and location photography: Simon Kreitem and Philip Gatward
We would like to thank our employees at the following sites for their 
assistance in the photography featured within this report: Gunstones Bakery, 
Northern Foods Grimsby, Thorpe Park, Northern Foods Swansea, 
Fox’s Biscuits (Kirkham), Cavaghan & Gray (Carlisle), Matthew Walker, 
The Pizza Factory, Solway Foods (Worksop).
Printed at The Colourhouse, ISO14001 and CarbonNeutral
®
This report is printed on Hello Silk, which is produced using wood ﬁ bre from fully 
sustainable forests in Europe, Canada, the USA and Chile, with FSC certiﬁ cation. 
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and manufactured at a mill 
that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certiﬁ cates for environmental 
management. The use of the FSC logo identiﬁ es products, which contain wood 
from well-managed forests certiﬁ ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council.
Financial highlights
>  Good sales growth, increasing total revenue by 4.6% to £975.2m (2007/08: £931.9m)
>  Proﬁ t from operations* up 8.9% at £52.7m (2007/08: £48.4m), after £4.2m of incremental 
investment in the business
>  Proﬁ t before tax* (PBT) at £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m) reﬂ ecting a reduced pension credit
>  Proﬁ t for the period
1
 of £2.5m (2007/08: £34.5m), after restructuring costs of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) 
and tax allowance changes
>  Underlying EPS
2
 of 6.45 pence per share (2007/08: 5.62p)
>  Proposed dividend maintained at 4.50 pence per share (2007/08: 4.50p)
>  Robust balance sheet with new Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) in place through to 2012; 
net debt
3
 £206.7m (2007/08: £200.2m)
 Highlights
IFC Financial and operating highlights
 Directors’ report
02  Chairman’s review
04  Chief executive’s review
08  Performance review
10 Operational review
26  Corporate social responsibility review
32  Board of directors and company secretary
33  Corporate governance
41  Remuneration report
53  Other statutory and regulatory information
56   Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 Financial statements
57  Independent auditors’ report – Group
58  Consolidated income statement
59  Consolidated balance sheet
60  Consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement
61    Reconciliation of net cash ﬂ ow to 
movements in net debt 
  Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
62 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial
 statements
99 Independent auditors’ report – Company
100 Company balance sheet
101  Company cash ﬂ ow statement
  Company statement of recognised 
income and expense
102  Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial statements
112 Five year record
 Shareholder information
113 Shareholder analysis
114  Financial calendar
 Company information
115 Shareholder information
116 Principal operations
Footnote deﬁ nitions throughout this report:
*  Items which relate to signiﬁ cant restructuring events are presented as a separate column within their relevant Consolidated income statement category. Presentation of these items in a 
separate column helps to provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Restructuring items includes costs or income associated with the restructuring of 
businesses and gains or losses on the disposal or closure of businesses
1  Proﬁ t for the period includes restructuring costs of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) – including £22.9m for Fenland mothballing – and an exceptional tax charge of £12.5m following the withdrawal 
of Industrial Buildings Allowances
2  Underlying earnings per share (EPS) is before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation, one-off release of prior year tax liability, and the net pension 
ﬁ nancing. This is reconciled to earnings per share in the ﬁ nancial statements
3  Net debt is deﬁ ned as total borrowings (including both short and long term bank loans, bonds, loan notes and ﬁ nance leases) less cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. 
Net debt will also include the proportion of the fair value of the currency swaps, hedging the balance sheet value of the Group’s US Dollar denominated loan notes
4  Underlying proﬁ t before taxation reﬂ ects Group proﬁ t before tax before restructuring items and net pension ﬁ nancing. This is reconciled to PBT in the ﬁ nancial statements 
5  ROIC is proﬁ t from operations before restructuring items for continuing operations divided by a 13 month average invested capital (net equity adjusted to exclude retirement beneﬁ t 
obligations net of deferred tax, and net debt, together with accumulated goodwill previously written off)
6  Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) is basic EPS before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation and one-off release of prior year tax liability. This is 
reconciled to earnings per share in the ﬁ nancial statements
Go online…
www.northernfoods.com
 2008/09 2007/08
 £m £m
Revenue 975.2 931.9
Proﬁ t from operations* 52.7 48.4
Proﬁ t before taxation* 47.5 50.1
Underlying PBT
4
 39.0 34.4
Proﬁ t for the period
1
  2.5 34.5
Operating margin* 5.4% 5.2%
Return on invested capital* (ROIC
5
) 11.7% 11.0%
Underlying earnings per share (EPS
2
) 6.45p 5.62p
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS
6
) 7.76p 7.88p
Dividend per share (proposed) 4.50p 4.50p 1 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Our business
Northern Foods has delivered a resilient performance this year, 
in challenging economic conditions
We have successfully adapted the business to the current retail 
environment, whilst continuing to invest to enhance the trading 
position of the Group
Operating highlights
Business successfully adapted to current retail environment; growth 
in discount sector and value products complementing our strength 
in the premium market
Strong performance in Chilled and Bakery, reﬂ ecting our superior 
product offering; Frozen division growth impacted by Euro strength
Signiﬁ cant commodity cost increases successfully recovered
Frozen Bakery Chilled
Northern Foods makes great tasting food. We produce 
outstanding branded and retailer own brand ready meals, 
sandwiches and salads, pizza, biscuits and puddings 2 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Chairman’s 
review
Anthony Hobson
Chairman 3 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
and acquisition led investments. The Board 
has considered that the prudent approach 
is to maintain the dividend at the prior year 
level of 4.50p per share, giving a dividend 
cover of 1.7 times from pre-restructuring 
cash ﬂ ows. The ﬁ nal dividend of 2.95p 
per share will be payable in August 2009.
Key to our future success is attracting 
and retaining the right management talent. 
We have made a number of important and 
high quality appointments during the year 
and enhanced our performance culture. 
A focus on efﬁ ciency and innovation is 
at the heart of everything we do and is a 
key building block in our reward structures. 
During the year we took the difﬁ cult 
decision to mothball our Fenland Foods 
site, when we were unable to reach 
agreement with the main customer of that 
site which would ensure its ﬁ nancial viability. 
At our Hull ready meals site, the conclusion 
of negotiations with our main customer 
of that site has led to a termination of 
the supply contracts. As a result, we are 
consulting with our employees on a 
proposal to cease production and close 
the site. Our decision to discontinue supply 
contracts reﬂ ects the need for the Group 
to eliminate unproﬁ table, or marginal, 
business, and ensure that Northern Foods 
is best placed to succeed in this very 
competitive environment.
We also continue to evaluate a proposal 
to invest in a new world class biscuit 
manufacturing facility. In a highly 
competitive market, this is a signiﬁ cant 
initiative for us, but the current volatile and 
difﬁ cult economic conditions mean that the 
decision process is complex. The Board 
fully recognises the impact these difﬁ cult 
choices have on our employees and their 
local communities. Our top priority is 
to continue our timely communication 
with all those affected and to ensure 
that the consequences of our decisions 
are mitigated as far as possible.
Overview 
In a tough market and set against a 
backdrop of a recessionary environment, 
Northern Foods has continued to grow into 
a stronger and more effective business, 
which is well placed in our sector. We 
are delivering growth in value products 
alongside our traditional premium ranges; 
maintaining our drive towards lowering 
costs and increasing efﬁ ciency; and 
targeting investment and new channels 
to develop our business.
Performance and dividend 
Despite very challenging trading conditions; 
continued high commodity costs; the 
impact of the stronger Euro for our non-UK 
operations; and investment to build our 
brands, we have reported a proﬁ t from 
operations* of £52.7m, an increase of 
nearly 9% on the previous year. After a 
lower pension ﬁ nancing credit (reﬂ ecting 
reduced asset returns), we reported a 
proﬁ t before tax* of £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m). 
Underlying proﬁ t before tax
4
 increased 
by 13% to £39.0m (2007/08: £34.4m). 
During the year we spent £11.0m on a share 
buy-back programme which beneﬁ ted 
our earnings per share. Adjusted EPS
6
 
was 7.76p (2007/08: 7.88p) whilst underlying 
EPS
2
 increased by 15% to 6.45p (2007/08: 
5.62p). Proﬁ t for the period
1
 was £2.5m 
(2007/08: £34.5m), after restructuring 
items of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) and the 
withdrawal of tax allowances of £12.5m. 
Our balance sheet is strong with a new 
revolving credit facility in place to 2012. 
Your Board is strongly committed to 
enhancing shareholder value and 
maintaining a strong balance sheet. 
We have, in this challenging and uncertain 
economic environment, to be prudent 
and ensure that we have the capacity to 
maintain the appropriate levels of organic 
These are challenging market conditions, 
but our operational and ﬁ nancial strengths 
position us favourably to address these 
markets; to continue our good progress; 
and to build a strong business
In other initiatives, we succeeded in winning 
a major contract (jointly with DHL) to supply 
British Airways with on-board catering for 
its short haul ﬂ eet starting in 2010. This 
takes us into a new market, which plays to 
our strength in providing high quality and 
innovative convenience food. We have also 
been enhancing our customer base by 
building strong relationships with discount 
retailers and developing our range of value 
products, which are becoming increasingly 
important in these difﬁ cult times. 
Our employees
The challenging market in which we 
operate requires the very best from our 
colleagues within Northern Foods. Our loyal 
employees have contributed greatly to our 
results in this challenging year and I would 
like to thank them for their continuing efforts.
Your Board
Your Board has continued to beneﬁ t from 
the skills and depth of experience available 
to support the management team and 
I thank colleagues for their continued 
commitment and support. Andy Booker, 
Group Finance Director, joined the Board 
in November 2008, replacing Jez Maiden 
who left the Group to take up a role at 
National Express Group plc. Jez made 
a very important contribution during his 
three years at Northern Foods and we 
wish him well.
Summary
We have much still to do to realise our 
potential and deliver value for all our 
stakeholders. However, we have made 
good progress over the past few years, 
in restructuring and repositioning your 
business for success. We are operationally 
and ﬁ nancially stronger; have a high quality 
management team and are a better 
balanced and more resilient business. 
These are challenging market conditions, 
but our operational and ﬁ nancial strengths 
position us favourably to address these 
markets; to continue our good progress; 
and to build a strong business.
Anthony Hobson
Chairman
27 May 2009 4 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Chief executive’s 
review
Stefan Barden
Chief Executive 5 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Northern Foods – many opportunities 
in the food sector
Food is a good market in which to operate 
during a recession. Today, total UK food 
expenditure continues to grow, as it has in 
previous downturns. Management believes 
that there are many proﬁ table opportunities 
available for an innovative manufacturer like 
Northern Foods. 
Over the past few years, the big four 
retailers have seen relatively similar 
market share growth. Despite much press 
comment, absolute changes in their sales 
are small from year to year; but all are 
growing. A key plank in each retailer’s 
strategy is to win more sales from each 
customer already within their store and to 
increase their customers’ loyalty. As they 
seek to build loyalty through greater 
differentiation in their product offerings, 
we believe they will focus more on building 
their own label ranges. 
Northern Foods is well positioned to 
support speciﬁ c retailers achieve their 
differentiation goals:
>   we have created and supported many 
of the new food markets over the past 
30 years, especially in chilled food; for 
example chilled ready meals, chilled 
sandwiches and chilled salads;
>   we have a deserved reputation in the 
industry for being a leader in quality 
and innovation, which we value and 
want to build upon;
>   we are investing in new initiatives in 
recipe science and food technology. 
In addition, we have two strong brands, 
with opportunities of their own: 
>   the Fox’s management team has rebuilt 
the Fox’s brand and refreshed customer 
relationships. In 2008/09 we grew brand 
sales by 10.5% to exit the year with a 
52 week value brand share of 9.3% 
(ACN Scantrack 52 w/e 21/03/09);
>   whilst Goodfella’s has been impacted 
recently by a strong Euro (all our frozen 
pizza is made in Ireland and will be again 
this year), we are working on restaging 
our brand and manufacturing base.
Dear Shareholder,
Northern Foods – a stronger, 
better balanced business
Three years ago, management laid out 
a clear, simple strategy focussed on the 
single key performance indicator (KPI) of 
creating ‘above market average rate of 
sale products’. The strategy is built on a 
foundation of producing great tasting food 
from superior insights into recipe science 
and food technology, together with our 
long standing culinary capabilities.
Today, this strategy is beginning to show 
results. Northern Foods is now less reliant 
on any single retailer and has a growing 
representation with discount retailers and 
in value products, which now account 
for around a ﬁ fth of our business. This 
complements our strength in the premium 
market. Our 2008/09 year end results 
demonstrate Northern Foods’ ability to 
continue delivering a resilient performance 
in challenging economic conditions.
During 2008/09 we overcame £52.3m of 
inﬂ ation. A quarter of the products which we 
sell in the UK are manufactured in Ireland 
so we also tackled the appreciation of the 
Euro head on. This was a further headwind 
of £5m. 
Despite all this we have been able to report:
>   sales up 4.6% to £975.2m (underlying 
revenue
7
 up 5.0%);
>   proﬁ t from operations* up 8.9% to £52.7m.
Whilst these results underline our resilience, 
the management team remains determined 
to drive further growth from this stronger 
and more sustainable business.
We have successfully adapted our business 
to the current retail environment. We are 
working hard to create a strong business 
to serve the millions of people who buy our 
products every day
7   Underlying revenue excludes the impact of currency rate 
changes, product categories no longer manufactured, 
acquisitions and discontinued operations, including Fenland
Revenue by division 2008/09
01 Chilled £486.8m
02 Frozen £272.4m
03 Bakery £216.0m
03
01
02
Profit by division 2008/09
01 Chilled £22.9m
02 Frozen £9.3m
03 Bakery £20.5m
03
01
02 6 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Our strategy is built on a foundation 
of producing great tasting food from 
superior insights into recipe science 
and food technology, coupled with 
our long standing culinary capabilities
Northern Foods – working hard to 
capitalise upon new opportunities
We have key initiatives in hand and 
investment opportunities are anticipated 
to materialise as the recession ends.
We are in the detailed planning stages 
of several important projects:
>   our investment in a new facility, together 
with DHL, will deliver on-board catering 
to British Airways; this investment offers 
British Airways better quality food at 
substantially lower costs than incumbent 
suppliers;
>   we are evaluating a ‘state of the art’ 
biscuit facility, which offers good cost 
saving potential compared to our two 
existing facilities at Batley and Uttoxeter;
>   it is our intention, in due course, 
to re-open our Fenland site with a 
number of next generation technologies. 
Although acquisitions are not essential to 
our strategy, we are alert to opportunities. 
We believe further opportunities may 
begin to crystallise as the full extent of 
the recession become clear. A number 
of food companies, historically funded 
by cheap debt, are in a weak position. 
The credit crunch will expose the poor 
proﬁ tability of the private label UK food 
manufacturing base over the next ﬁ ve years 
(branded manufacturers have always made 
strong returns, and continue to do so).
We believe that the current changes in 
the economic environment have yet to be 
fully understood. Your management team 
remains cautious for 2009/10. We do not 
want to undermine our strong industry 
position by moving too quickly. We intend 
to restart investment when we see the 
economy recover and when we have 
greater clarity on ﬁ nancial markets.
Northern Foods is 
a stronger, better 
balanced business 
today than it was 
three years ago
 We target attractive  
 growing markets
 Ready Meals
 Our Ready Meals continue to deliver high  
 repeat purchase for our customers
 Pizza
 We have a good market position in 
 both Frozen and Chilled pizza
 Sandwiches & Salads
 Our Sandwiches & Salads business 
 is in tune with the healthier lifestyle
  Biscuits
 Our premium Fox’s brand and own label  
 business have seen strong sales growth  
 this year
  Puddings
 We have the expertise to deliver a 
 unique range of Christmas puddings 
 for our customers 7 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Chilled – page 14 Frozen – page 18 Bakery – page 22
Northern Foods – preparing for 
investment
Management continues to strengthen the 
business, generating cash and ensuring 
that we operate from a position of ﬁ nancial 
strength:
>   in 2008/09 we generated £35.4m of free 
cash ﬂ ow
8
 before restructuring, which 
covers our dividend payment of £20.7m 
at 4.50p per share 1.7 times;
>   we have secured a new revolving credit 
facility with completion of a new £250m 
Forward Start banking facility through 
to July 2012, which replaces the existing 
£460m facility in July 2010. Effective 
April 2009, the current £460m facility 
was reduced to £305m. This new facility 
positions us well in these uncertain times;
>   we continue to manage our pension 
schemes. In consultation with employees, 
we have ended our Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
schemes for existing employees in 
the leadership population, moving to a 
Deﬁ ned contribution scheme. In parallel 
we are working to reduce the volatility of 
historic liabilities.
We continue to invest in talent, hiring more 
senior management with global FMCG 
experience as well as investing in our own. 
Today our senior teams are well balanced, 
with about a third being new hires over 
the last two years. 
Above all, we continue to invest in the 
fundamentals of what we do – ‘making 
great tasting food that people want to buy, 
again and again . . . and again’. We have 
created a new role of Chief Scientist, and 
have redeﬁ ned roles to focus on innovation 
through science and technology. Our initial 
progress in this area has already been 
noted with interest by our customers, 
who know that our goal is simply to 
continue giving them the highest rate 
of sale products in the market place. 
Looking ahead
Northern Foods is a stronger, better 
balanced business today than it was three 
years ago, as we continue to strengthen 
our position within the UK food industry. We 
are investing in the business to ensure that 
it can capitalise upon the new opportunities 
in the food sector which are emerging in 
these turbulent times. 
Your management team, indeed everyone 
at Northern Foods, is excited about the 
opportunities that are developing. We are 
all working hard to create a strong business 
to serve the millions of people who buy our 
products every day – the deﬁ nitive sign of 
quality and value for money.
Stefan Barden
Chief Executive
27 May 2009
+4.6%
sales up 4.6% to £975.2m 
(underlying sales up 5.0%)
£52.7m
proﬁ t from operations* up 8.9% 
to £52.7m
8  Free cash ﬂ ow is net cash from operating activities, adjusted 
for special pension contributions, less net capital expenditure, 
plus interest received. Net capital expenditure is purchase 
of property, plant and equipment (PPE) less grants received 
and proceeds from sale of PPE 8 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Northern Foods has delivered a resilient 
performance this year, in challenging 
economic conditions. We have successfully 
adapted the business to the current retail 
environment, responding quickly to the 
recession with new value products and 
discount ranges alongside our core market 
and premium heartland. Our business with 
the discount retailers, or based around 
value products, is now around a ﬁ fth of 
the Group’s sales.
We have continued to drive performance 
improvements right across the Group, 
growing sales, exiting low margin business, 
investing in the future, improving operational 
efﬁ ciencies and ensuring that we are cash 
focused and cost conscious. We remain 
focused on the key markets of Ready Meals; 
Sandwiches & Salads; Pizza; Biscuits and 
Puddings. This year also saw Northern 
Foods secure a prestigious contract to 
serve British Airways.
Total revenue increased by 4.6% to £975.2m 
and proﬁ t from operations* by 8.9% to 
£52.7m over the prior year. Group proﬁ t 
before tax* at £47.5m, was lower than the 
prior year, primarily reﬂ ecting a reduced 
pension credit. However, underlying proﬁ t 
before tax
4
 (PBT) grew by 13.4%, despite 
headwinds from the strong Euro, increased 
investment in our brands and business 
start-ups. Return on invested capital
5
 (ROIC) 
improved from 11.0% to 11.7%.
Proﬁ t before taxation* reduced by 5.2% to 
£47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m) reﬂ ecting £4.2m 
of incremental investment in marketing and 
start-up costs for our acquisitions made in 
 The Northern Foods Operating board from left to right: 
Julian Slade, Garry Walsh, Robin Walker, Stefan Barden, 
Andy Booker, Kuldip Kular and Graham Hunter.
We have successfully adapted the business 
to the current retail environment, responding 
quickly to the recession with new value 
products and discount ranges alongside 
our core market and premium heartland
Performance
review 9 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
the prior year. Proﬁ t for the period
1
 was 
£2.5m (2007/08: £34.5m), as we absorbed 
restructuring items before taxation of 
£35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m), relating primarily 
to the mothballing of the Fenland facility; 
and £12.5m following the withdrawal of 
Industrial Buildings Allowances (IBAs).
A stronger underlying performance in 
Chilled and margin improvement in Bakery 
emphasised the beneﬁ ts we are starting 
to see from the strategy put in place during 
2007. Whilst proﬁ tability declined in Frozen, 
which is the division most impacted by 
the Euro, Frozen retains a strong market 
position and we are working hard to 
enhance its proﬁ t performance through 
cost reduction, simpliﬁ cation and innovation.
Over the course of the year, material costs 
were around 12% higher than the prior year 
whilst energy costs were approximately 
64% higher. We, and other manufacturers, 
see continued inﬂ ation looking ahead, with 
many key commodity prices still up year on 
year. We continued to recover higher input 
costs fully through the year. 
The integration of the prior year acquisitions 
– Ethnic Cuisine; chilled soup at Grimsby; 
and McDougalls frozen pastry – was 
completed during the period. We also 
remained focused on reducing our 
cost base across the divisions; and we 
continued the evaluation of the proposed 
investment in a world class biscuits factory 
to deliver a step change in efﬁ ciency. 
We have a key focus on driving cash 
generation, with pre-restructuring free 
cash ﬂ ow
8
 of £35.4m in the year (2007/08: 
£48.3m). Net capital expenditure to enhance 
our manufacturing infrastructure saw 
investment increase to 80% of depreciation 
(2007/08: 42%); whilst working capital 
continues to be tightly managed with an 
increase of only £10.0m (2007/08: £11.6m) 
driven by input inﬂ ation and increased sales.
Our balance sheet remains robust and 
year end debt was £206.7m (2007/08: 
£200.2m). Alongside our US Private 
Placement of £143m, which matures 
between 2012-2017, in March 2009 we 
completed a new £250m Forward Start 
banking facility to July 2012, which will 
replace the existing £460m facility in July 
2010. In this unprecedented economic 
environment and with weakness elsewhere 
in the food manufacturing sector, our 
strong balance sheet provides us with the 
capacity to support our future investment 
plans. We are actively managing the 
Group’s retirement beneﬁ t obligations 
to maintain a manageable service cost, 
whilst reducing risk and volatility.
Outlook
Northern Foods has delivered a resilient 
performance in challenging economic 
conditions. We anticipate that next 
year will be equally challenging, with 
the continuation of food inﬂ ation and 
competitive pressures. Our operational 
and ﬁ nancial strengths position us well 
to beneﬁ t when markets recover. 
Financial performance and dividend
Revenue increased by 4.6% to £975.2m 
(2007/08: £931.9m), with underlying revenue
7
 
5.0% ahead. Proﬁ t from operations* 
improved to £52.7m (2007/08: £48.4m) and 
operating margin* increased by 20 basis 
points to 5.4%. Group proﬁ t before tax* 
declined 5.2% to £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m) 
reﬂ ecting a reduced net pensions ﬁ nancing 
credit. Underlying PBT
4
, increased 13.4% to 
£39.0m (2007/08: £34.4m). After restructuring 
items including the mothballing of the 
Fenland facility, asset impairments in 
relation to the Hull site, and an increased 
tax charge of £12.5m due to the phasing 
out of Industrial Buildings Allowances, 
the statutory proﬁ t for the period
1
 
was £2.5m (2007/08: £34.5m).
Underlying earnings per share (EPS)
2
 
increased 14.8% to 6.45p (2007/08: 5.62p), 
whilst adjusted EPS
6
 declined 1.5% to 
7.76p (2007/08: 7.88p). Basic EPS was 
0.54p (2007/08: 7.08p).
The underlying full year effective tax rate 
(excluding the release of a prior year tax 
liability) is 23.8% (2007/08: 23.4%), reﬂ ecting 
the lower Irish tax rate. Following a change 
in UK corporate tax legislation in the 
Finance Act 2008, there is a one-off 
non-cash charge of £12.5m in the current 
year to reﬂ ect the phasing out of IBAs. 
This phasing out was offset by a reduction 
in the headline rate of UK Corporation Tax 
from 30% to 28% in the current year. 10 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Operational review
To reﬂ ect our prudent approach in this 
challenging and uncertain economic 
environment, the Board proposes to 
maintain the total dividend payable in 
respect of 2008/09 at 4.50p per share 
(2007/08: 4.50p). This represents adjusted 
EPS cover of 1.7 times (2007/08: 1.8 times) 
and is consistent with our policy of ensuring 
that our dividend is well covered by free 
cash ﬂ ows.
Subject to shareholder approval, a ﬁ nal 
dividend of 2.95 pence per share (2007/08: 
2.95p) will be payable on 28 August 2009 to 
shareholders on the register at 31 July 2009.
Key performance indicators
Alongside absolute proﬁ t and debt 
measures, the Group uses the following 
key performance indicators (KPIs) to 
measure progress, as shown in the 
KPI table.
Each KPI is deﬁ ned and assessed within 
this review. Non-ﬁ nancial KPIs are featured 
in the Northern Way (our Corporate social 
responsibility review).
Revenue
The Group seeks to deliver selective, 
proﬁ table increases in revenue by focusing 
on attractive market segments with strong 
growth potential in areas where margin is 
enhanced. We continue to exit low margin 
and low volume products through selective 
range rationalisation. This, in turn, reduces 
complexity and drives efﬁ ciency 
improvements in our facilities.
Revenue was up 4.6% at £975.2m (2007/08: 
£931.9m). Underlying revenue growth
7
, 
a key measure for the Group, was up 5.0%. 
Prices increased by 4.2%, reﬂ ecting the 
commodity price recovery effect, whilst 
volumes were up 0.8%. Northern Foods 
continues to demonstrate it is a better 
balanced business through capitalising 
on the growth of discount retailers, 
alongside its traditional premium heartland. 
Sales to the Group’s top ﬁ ve customers 
by value (M&S, Tesco, Sainsbury, Asda, 
Morrisons) remain at 77% and sales of 
our value ranges to target cash conscious 
consumers now represent around a ﬁ fth 
of our business.
Operating margin
Proﬁ t from operations* rose 8.9% to £52.7m 
(2007/08: £48.4m) and operating margin* 
improved 20 basis points to 5.4% (2007/08: 
5.2%). A strong performance in our Chilled 
and Bakery divisions was offset by lower 
proﬁ ts in our Frozen division. Commodity 
inﬂ ation was in double digits during the 
year and, working with our customers, we 
successfully recovered this in full through 
a mix of selling price increases and other 
initiatives. We expect commodity inﬂ ation 
to continue through 2009/10 albeit at 
lower levels and we plan to recover 
inﬂ ation fully and drive margin improvement 
through investment in the business and 
efﬁ ciency initiatives.
RONA
Each business is focused on driving 
stronger returns from the assets utilised 
in that business. Better management of 
capital investment, together with careful use 
of working capital, leads to improved asset 
utilisation. The combination of margin and 
asset utilisation is measured through return 
on net assets (RONA), which is deﬁ ned as 
proﬁ t from operations* divided by average 
operating assets invested in the business. 
During the year RONA improved from 13.7% 
to 14.7%, reﬂ ecting improvements in both 
operating margin and asset utilisation. 
We target 15% as a minimum medium term 
RONA for each business and in 2008/09 
the Bakery division continued to achieve 
a return well above 15% and the Chilled 
division made further progress towards 
this target. The impact of the stronger 
Euro on the Frozen division, together 
with a competitive pizza market, resulted 
in a decline in RONA.
Proﬁ t before taxation
Proﬁ t before taxation* reduced by 5.2% 
to £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m). Proﬁ t for 
the period
1
 was £2.5m (2007/08: £34.5m). 
The charge for restructuring items before 
taxation was £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m), 
relating primarily to the mothballing 
of the Fenland facility and other cost 
reduction projects. The charge for 
restructuring items comprised £11.8m 
in cash and £23.6m in non-cash items.
Net ﬁ nancing costs decreased to £13.7m 
(2007/08: £14.0m), reﬂ ecting lower ﬂ oating 
rates in the second half year as LIBOR 
declined. The net pensions ﬁ nancing 
credit reduced to £8.5m (2007/08: £15.7m) 
due to lower asset returns. As a result the 
net ﬁ nance charge was £5.2m compared 
to a credit in the prior year of £1.7m.
In accordance with accounting standards, 
the Company records its expected return 
on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension assets within 
the ﬁ nancial statements each ﬁ nancial year. 
It has been our practice to show this as 
a separate line within the ﬁ nance and 
expense section of the income statement. 
Whilst the assets are held as long term 
investments to meet the long term pension 
scheme obligations, the nature of the 
assets means that there can be signiﬁ cant 
annual movements in asset values 
and hence returns. This has been very 
pronounced in the last twelve months. We 
believe that this masks the true underlying 
performance of the business and we have 
therefore introduced an underlying PBT
4
 
and underlying EPS
2
 calculation in this 
report, eliminating the distorting impact 
of net pension ﬁ nancing.
Free cash ﬂ ow and capital management
A continued focus on cash management 
was supported by our drive to achieve 
more proﬁ table utilisation of existing 
manufacturing capacity. Using RONA as 
a KPI to embed this discipline across the 
Group, each business assesses its capital 
requirements, utilising robust project 
evaluation techniques which evaluate 
economic and cash criteria.
Gross capital expenditure (the purchase 
of property, plant and equipment) in the 
year was £31.0m (2007/08: £21.5m), compared 
with depreciation and amortisation of 
£39.3m (2007/08: £41.7m). This represents 
80% of depreciation (2007/08: 52%) with 
a key project being the investment in 
increased automation within our biscuits 
manufacturing. We expect capital 
expenditure, excluding the new proposed 
biscuit investment which is currently being 
evaluated, to continue at broadly similar 
levels in 2009/10.
 KPI 2008/09 2007/08
Revenue growth (underlying)
7
 5.0% 3.3%
Operating margin* 5.4% 5.2%
Return on net assets (RONA)* 14.7% 13.7%
Pre-restructuring free cash ﬂ ow
8
 £35.4m £48.3m
Debt ratio (pre-restructuring) 2.1 times 2.0 times
Return on invested capital (ROIC)* 11.7% 11.0% 11 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
  2008/09 2007/08
 £m £m
Operating cash ﬂ ow (before working 
capital & special pension contributions) 80.7 84.0
Movement in working capital  (10.0) (11.6)
Net interest paid (15.2) (13.6)
Net taxation paid (1.0) (3.0)
Capital expenditure (31.0) (21.5)
Asset sales – 4.4
Grants received 0.7 0.3
Free cash ﬂ ow 24.2 39.0
Restructuring items 11.2 9.3
Pre-restructuring free cash ﬂ ow 35.4 48.3
Despite continued double digit inﬂ ationary 
increases, working capital remained tightly 
managed, increasing by only £10.0m during 
the year. At the balance sheet date, net 
working capital
9
 remained favourably 
negative at £(14.3m) (2007/08: £(25.9m)). 
The Group has successfully maintained 
its discipline over cash management and 
generated further free cash ﬂ ow of £24.2m 
(2007/08: £39.0m) including restructuring 
cash items of £11.2m (2007/8: £9.3m).
Free cash ﬂ ow measures the cash 
generated by the Group from its normal 
trading activities and represents the cash 
available (after paying tax and interest 
costs) to ﬁ nance dividends, investments 
or acquisition activity. It is analysed in the 
adjacent table.
Debt
A key measure of our ﬁ nancial ﬂ exibility is 
our debt ratio. This is the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA
10
 (calculated under ‘frozen UK 
GAAP’ (the accounting basis used when 
the Group’s current ﬁ nancing facilities 
were established)). This is targeted to be 
below 3.5 times, the limit imposed by our 
ﬁ nancing agreements. For 2008/09, the 
debt ratio was 2.1 times (2007/08: 2.0 times).
Using its free cash ﬂ ow, the Group invested 
£11.0m in returning cash to shareholders 
through a share buy-back. A total of 
17,500,000 shares were repurchased during 
this ﬁ nancial year under the buy-back 
programme at an average share price 
of 63p, enhancing earnings per share. The 
Group incurred £11.2m in cash restructuring 
costs relating to the Fenland mothballing 
and cost reduction programmes.
After dividend payments of £20.7m (2007/08: 
£21.0m); a share buy-back of £11.0m; and 
cash restructuring costs of £11.2m, the 
year end net debt
3
 was £206.7m (2007/08: 
£200.2m). This level of debt, the majority of 
which is at ﬁ xed rates, continues to position 
the Group favourably in current volatile 
credit markets. The Group’s ﬁ xed rate 
funding is through US private placement 
notes of £143m, which mature between 
2012 and 2017. In March 2009, we completed 
a new £250m Forward Start banking facility 
through to July 2012, which replaces the 
existing £460m facility in July 2010. Effective 
April 2009, the current £460m facility was 
reduced to £305m. This reduction in 
facilities is more cost effective by avoiding 
commitment fees on unused facilities whilst 
remaining sufﬁ cient to support the Group’s 
future investment plans. Reﬂ ecting the 
prevailing ﬁ nancial market conditions, this 
will incur higher interest costs next year.
ROIC
Group total equity reduced to £54.1m 
(2007/08: £165.4m) primarily reﬂ ecting the 
change in the retirement beneﬁ t obligation. 
The Group’s ROIC
5
, measuring the pre-tax 
return on shareholders’ invested capital, 
increased during the year to 11.7% (2007/08: 
11.0%), as we continued to improve the 
efﬁ ciency of the business.
Pensions
Under International Accounting Standard 
(IAS) 19, there is a £71.5m deﬁ cit in the 
pension fund, compared with a surplus of 
£61.6m at the end of our 2007/08 ﬁ nancial 
year. This primarily reﬂ ects the impact 
of economic conditions on asset values 
during the year.
Northern Foods’ long history of providing 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pensions to its employees 
has resulted in a large pension fund 
which we need to manage prudently. 
The principal UK Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme 
is now closed to new members and 
work is well advanced to reduce, but not 
eliminate, the potential for future funding 
volatility which will be achieved through 
a liability driven investment programme. 
We need to ensure that the future service 
accrual remains affordable to both 
the Company and scheme members. 
Our triennial actuarial pension funding 
review for the period to 31 March 2008 
was completed, resulting in a funding 
deﬁ cit of £75m (Trustee basis) and required 
no additional cash contributions from 
the Company, relying instead on fund 
out-performance over an eight year period 
to meet the deﬁ cit. To maintain the ﬁ nancial 
stability and competitiveness of the 
business, it has been necessary to make 
changes to the Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme. 
After a period of consultation, member 
contributions have been increased 
and the leadership population has been 
transferred to a Deﬁ ned contribution 
scheme. We continue to keep all pension 
arrangements under review.
Whilst the principal UK Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
scheme has been closed to new entrants 
since 2005, there remain some 2,207 active 
members of the scheme. Our aim is to 
continue to provide competitive pension 
beneﬁ ts to our employees at a cost that is 
affordable to the Company and enables us 
to compete effectively in the marketplace.
9  Net working capital is deﬁ ned as inventories plus trade 
and other receivables less trade and other payables
10  EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation. It is calculated as proﬁ t from operations 
plus depreciation and amortisation, all measured before 
restructuring items 12 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Risks and uncertainties
The operation of a public company involves 
a series of risks and uncertainties across 
a range of strategic, commercial, operational 
and ﬁ nancial areas. Northern Foods has a 
robust internal control and risk management 
process, as outlined in the Corporate 
governance review, which is designed 
to provide assurance but which cannot 
avoid all risks. Outlined below are potential 
risks that could impact the Company’s 
performance, causing actual results to 
vary from those experienced previously 
or described in forward looking statements 
within this document. These risks are 
monitored on an ongoing basis through 
the Company’s risk management 
processes. Additional risks and 
uncertainties not identiﬁ ed may also have 
an adverse material effect on the Company.
>  Economic uncertainty – the Company 
is responding to the current economic 
conditions by balancing its product 
portfolio in those markets where this 
is considered to be appropriate. 
A number of discount products have 
been introduced in different markets 
to compete with the current trend 
of consumers turning towards value 
products, whilst maintaining acceptable 
margins. Given the uncertain consumer 
outlook, the Company continues to 
manage cost and cash closely. Sales 
weighting to the second half year, in 
particular, assumes sales will be in line 
with historical sales patterns over the 
seasonal trading period;
>  Customer relationships – the Company 
seeks to manage the risks presented 
by its consolidated customer base, 
and the highly competitive environment 
that characterises the industry (which 
generally operates without long term 
contracts), through its high service, high 
quality, low cost model targeted across 
a portfolio of markets where it has strong 
positions. This is supported by product 
development programmes and by 
maintaining and developing strong 
robust relationships with customers. The 
Company also monitors customer credit 
risk to manage exposure in the current 
challenging environment;
>  Consumer trends – exposure to 
changing consumer trends can impact 
proﬁ tability. The Company seeks 
to manage these through portfolio 
changes, with greater weight towards 
growth trends (which include health, 
convenience and indulgence) – for 
example, by managing new product 
innovation to expand sales in these 
areas, while managing the exposure 
to declining market sectors – and to 
providing proﬁ table value sector products 
during times of economic slowdown;
>  Operational disruption – the short lead 
times involved in servicing our customers 
can lead to an adverse impact from 
disruption to our manufacturing and 
distribution facilities (for example, 
by ﬁ re, health and safety failure, problems 
of supply, information systems failure, 
workforce action or environmental 
incident). This is managed through 
a process including systems of 
standard operating procedure, regulatory 
compliance, dedicated steering groups, 
monitoring, audit, consultation and 
multiple sourcing. Insurance cover 
is maintained where appropriate but 
may not cover all risks and losses;
>  Business continuity – the Group is at risk 
to disruption at key sites from incidents 
such as a major ﬁ re which could result 
in signiﬁ cant operational issues. Our 
businesses have incident management 
processes and continuity plans in place 
to manage the impact of such an event 
as well as insurance to mitigate the 
ﬁ nancial impact. A major update of these 
plans is currently nearing completion;
>  Legislation, regulation and litigation 
– Northern Foods manages a range 
of regulatory requirements regarding 
the production, sale, safety, labelling, 
composition/ingredients and disposal 
of its products. Compliance monitoring 
and proactive initiatives seek to manage 
this risk. The Group has policies and 
ongoing monitoring in place to ensure 
that employees are aware of their 
regulatory responsibilities. Litigation 
claims and proceedings can have an 
adverse effect on the Company’s results;
>  Change management, recruitment and 
retention – ongoing change requires 
close management attention and the 
Company has experience of managing 
such risks and has action plans to 
mitigate them, including Board oversight 
and project management processes. 
Failure to implement and complete 
change can impact ﬁ nancial results, 
employee recruitment and retention, with 
the latter also subject to the availability of 
a suitable pool of domestic and overseas 
staff. Proactive initiatives for this are 
included in the Northern Way contained 
later in this report;
>  Managing procurement costs – exposure 
to price (including foreign exchange 
impact) and supply ﬂ uctuations for 
raw materials and services is managed 
by a central procurement function, 
to better negotiate with relationship based 
suppliers, agreeing forward prices where 
appropriate and available. The Company 
seeks to pass on cost increases, where 
possible, to its customers through price 
rises but constraints in achieving this can 
affect the Company’s results. In addition, 
the Company manages exposure to key 
suppliers through dual supplier sourcing 
where feasible;
>  Food safety – appropriate product 
manufacturing, storage and avoidance 
of contamination are critical. Standard 
manufacturing and distribution protocols 
are in place, together with proven 
product recall processes for product 
recovery. Widespread food scares 
can impact directly through the sale 
of a contaminated product or indirectly 
through lack of supply or reduced 
consumer demand; Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
13 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
>  Environment – the Company maintains 
environmental policies and relationships 
with relevant regulators to manage 
the impact its activities have on the 
environment. In addition, the Company 
has an active programme (described in 
the Northern Way) to reduce this impact 
over time. Nevertheless, changes in 
environmental legislation or unplanned 
incidents could impact the Company’s 
operations adversely; 
>  Financial risks – the Company has 
committed ﬁ nancing in place, which 
can only be withdrawn in the event of a 
breach of ﬁ nancing agreement, such as 
covenants, when the Company might be 
restricted in its ability to operate normally 
and could be required to dispose of 
assets to pay down debt and incur 
additional costs. The principal banking 
facility is now in place until July 2012 and 
funding availability for that renewal may 
be more constrained in light of recent 
credit market conditions. Board policy 
is to operate with ﬁ xed rate borrowings 
within a range of 20% to 50% of net 
borrowings over the medium term, to 
manage interest rate risk (although the 
Group may operate outside this range 
from time to time). Pension schemes 
could require increases in future Company 
funding and pension regulation could 
restrict the freedom of the Company 
to undertake certain corporate activities 
(including disposals and return of capital 
to shareholders). The Company has 
certain tax exposures in addition to 
current trading tax balances. These 
exposures total £23.8m which are provided 
for but which, in the event of an adverse 
ﬁ nding by taxation authorities, could result 
in a substantial payment of cash. The 
Irish business is exposed to foreign 
exchange risk and transaction exposure 
is hedged on a rolling 12 month basis. 
Basis of preparation
This ﬁ nancial information has been 
prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Forward looking statements
Forward looking statements are made 
throughout this review. These forward 
looking statements are based on a number 
of assumptions concerning future events 
and information currently available. The 
user of this Performance review should 
not rely unduly on these forward looking 
statements, which are not a guarantee 
of performance and which are subject 
to a number of uncertainties and other 
facts, many of which are outside of the 
Company’s control and could cause 
actual events to differ materially from 
those in these statements.
Although Northern Foods believes 
that the expectations reﬂ ected in those 
forward looking statements are reasonable, 
it cannot assure users that those 
expectations will prove to be fulﬁ lled. 
In addition to those factors described 
under ‘Risks and Uncertainties’, other 
factors could cause actual results to differ 
materially from our expectation, including 
economic and political conditions, 
changes in laws, regulation and accounting 
standards, customer relationships and 
actions, effectiveness of spending and 
marketing programmes and unusual 
weather patterns. No guarantee can be 
given of future results, levels of activity, 
performance or achievements.
Comparative statements
In this report, Northern Foods makes 
certain statements with respect to its 
market position or its products’ or its 
brands’ market positions by comparisons 
with third parties or their products or 
brands. These statements are based on 
both internal sources and independent 
sources and are accurate to the best of the 
knowledge and belief of Northern Foods.
Going concern 
In determining whether the Group’s annual 
consolidated ﬁ nancial statements can be 
prepared on a going concern basis, the 
directors considered the Group’s business 
activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance 
and position. The review also includes 
the ﬁ nancial position of the Group, its 
cash ﬂ ows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities. The key factors considered 
by the directors were as follows:
>  the implications of the challenging 
economic environment and future 
uncertainties on the Group’s revenues 
and proﬁ ts. The Group undertakes 
forecasts and projections of trading and 
cash ﬂ ows on a regular basis. This allows 
the Group to target performance and 
identify areas of focus for management;
>  the impact of the competitive 
environment within which the Group’s 
businesses operate;
>  the potential actions which could be taken 
in the event that revenues are worse 
than expected, to ensure that operating 
proﬁ t and cash ﬂ ows are protected;
>  the Group has access to overdraft 
facilities and a committed bank facility 
to meet day-to-day working capital 
requirements. Following the reﬁ nancing of 
the bank facility in March 2009, the Group 
has committed bank facilities to July 2012. 
In April 2009 the existing facility was 
reduced from £460m at March 2009 to 
£305m. The facility will reduce to £250m 
in July 2010.
As at the date of this report, the directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and Group have adequate 
resources to continue in business for the 
foreseeable future.  Accordingly, the Annual 
report and ﬁ nancial statements for the 
52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 have been 
prepared on the going concern basis. Chilled
The Chilled division delivered 
improved performance, 
growing revenue, operating 
margin and proﬁ t
We are responding 
to the current retail 
environment with 
our range of 
competitively priced 
sandwiches; T esco 
Chicken & Sweetcorn, 
£1.00 RSP*
* Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009
14 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09  Our premium 
sandwiches are 
ﬁ lled with delicious 
ingredients; M&S 
Crayﬁ sh & Rocket, 
£3.00 RSP*
15 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 16 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Ready Meals
Sales growth outperformed the market, 
with underlying sales increasing by 6.6% 
in a market which fell by 2.0% (TNS data 
52 w/e 22/03/09). This emphasised the 
importance we place on repeat purchase 
rates as a key success driver across 
all of our businesses. We are committed 
to driving improvements in proﬁ tability 
across Ready Meals and we saw a good 
performance. Three speciﬁ c products – 
Melt in the Middle Fishcakes, Sweet & Sour 
Battered Balls and Prawn Primavera – 
performed strongly during the period 
and were featured in TV advertising by 
Marks & Spencer. Our Accompaniments 
range for M&S also saw strong growth, 
helping provide products for the time 
poor consumer. In the run up to Christmas, 
we saw over one million Ultimate Mash 
products supplied to M&S, a great example 
of the high volume we can deliver from 
our modern, automated sites. We are 
continuing to ensure that we utilise capacity 
at our sites in the best way possible.
In May 2008 we announced the 
mothballing of our Fenland Foods facility 
in Grantham, which produced Italian based 
cuisine for M&S. We were unable to reach 
agreement to return Fenland to proﬁ tability, 
consistent with our stated strategy to 
continue with business only where terms 
generate an adequate return for the 
Group’s shareholders. The Fenland 
mothballing has resulted in restructuring 
items of £22.9m which includes impairment 
of ﬁ xed assets of £18.1m and other costs of 
£4.8m, net of a retirement beneﬁ t obligation 
curtailment gain of £0.4m. Cash costs 
associated with the Fenland mothballing 
were £5.2m and non-cash costs were 
£17.7m. We continue to discuss the potential 
re-opening of Fenland in the future with 
new customers.
The division delivered a robust 
performance over the year. Revenue 
increased by 1.1% to £486.8m (2007/08: 
£481.5m). Ready Meals growth offset slightly 
lower volume growth in Sandwiches and 
Salads due to the poor summer weather. 
Underlying revenue
7
 increased by 5.6% 
as a result of average selling prices being 
2.9% ahead, as we increased prices to 
recover commodity inﬂ ation, and volumes 
were 2.7% ahead.
We worked closely with our customers to 
develop new value and discount products 
in Pizza, Sandwiches and Salads, alongside 
our premium ranges. Improvements in 
underlying performance were offset by 
start-up costs of £1.2m in commissioning 
our chilled soup plant at Grimsby. Divisional 
proﬁ t from operations* increased to £22.9m 
(2007/08: £22.1m) and operating margin* 
increased slightly to 4.7% (2007/08: 4.6%).
With constrained capacity in the industry 
for producing ready meals, sandwiches 
and salads proﬁ tably and with the high 
quality that consumers demand, we are 
well positioned in markets which offer 
good long term growth prospects.
Sainsbury’s Taste the Difference Moroccan 
Cous-Cous
Sandwich ﬁ llers for retailers including Morrisons
Chilled
The focus for the Chilled division is on 
making fresh, short shelf life products which 
meet consumers’ desires for convenient, 
high quality food that reﬂ ects the demands 
of busy, healthier lifestyles Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
17 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Following the conclusion of negotiations to 
seek mutually acceptable and commercially 
viable terms for business supplied from 
Northern Foods’ Hull ready meals facility, 
Northern Foods and its main customer 
served by the site have agreed to terminate 
the existing supply contracts. As a result, 
we will be commencing consultation 
with employees on a proposal to cease 
production and close the site, in 
accordance with our strategy to continue 
with business only where terms generate 
an adequate return. The proposal includes 
consultation to move a proportion of 
production to other facilities. The net 
proﬁ t impact in 2009/10 will be minimal 
and the Company will incur a one-off cash 
restructuring cost in the 2009/10 ﬁ nancial 
year which is expected to be less than 
£5m. Our 2008/09 accounts include a 
non-cash impairment of £5.9m. 
Promotional activity increased during 
the period as retailers sought to deliver 
better value for hard-pressed consumers. 
Whilst we worked closely with all of our 
major customers, we are less reliant on 
promotions to drive sales. 
Sandwiches and Salads
In Sandwiches and Salads, revenue growth 
was ahead by 6.0% against market growth 
of 0.7% in Sandwiches (ACN 52 w/e 18/04/09) 
and 1.1% in Salads (ACN 52 w/e 18/04/09), 
but slower than anticipated due to the poor 
summer weather. The business performed 
creditably despite the difﬁ cult market 
conditions. We successfully introduced 
sandwiches for our major customers, 
including Wiltshire Ham & West Country 
Cheddar for the Tesco Finest range, 
and a range of sandwiches for M&S 
in its ‘Best of British’ range. 
Our prepared Salads business delivered 
a commendable performance. Investment 
to expand capacity at our Corby salads site 
was successfully completed during the ﬁ rst 
half, providing us with additional capacity 
in this market. 
Chilled pizza continues to operate in 
a challenging and promotionally driven 
competitive environment, although we 
have been able to secure new business to 
capitalise on the downturn and consumers 
looking for healthy yet convenient products. 
Our chilled pizza sales remained stable 
during the year, supported by premium 
and value ranges for several of our main 
customers. In line with other areas of our 
business, we launched products under 
two new tertiary brands for Tesco, Pizza 
Americano and Trattoria Verdi, focused 
on a speciﬁ c price point. 
The Chicken Fajita forms part of the American range 
launched exclusively in Sainsbury’s
Melt in Middle Fishcakes were one of three products 
featured in M&S adverts during the year
+6.6%
Ready Meals sales growth 
outperformed the market, 
with underlying sales increasing 
by 6.6% in a market which fell 
by 2.0%
One million
In the run up to Christmas, 
we supplied over one million 
Ultimate Mash products to M&S
  2008/09 2007/08
 52 weeks 52 weeks
Revenue £486.8m £481.5m
Operating margin* 4.7% 4.6%
Proﬁ t from operations* £22.9m £22.1m Frozen
Frozen operates in attractive and 
growing markets. The division’s 
proﬁ tability was impacted by 
a strong currency exchange 
this year
In both branded 
and own label pizza, 
we are targeting 
the cash conscious 
consumer; San 
Marco Deep Pan 
Margherita, 
£1.99 RSP*
* Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009
18 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09  Our premium 
pizzas address 
the eating-in 
culture; Goodfella’s 
La Bottega 
Pepperoni Classic, 
£2.79 RSP*
19 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 20 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Pizza
We are adjusting our business model 
to the current economic conditions with 
a continuous drive to lower cost in our 
manufacturing base. We consolidated 
pizza production into two well invested 
lean manufacturing sites, with the move 
of operations and employees as we closed 
the smaller Poldys site in Ireland to the 
larger scale facilities at Naas and Longford. 
We re-launched our San Marco pizza range 
during the second half, proﬁ tably targeting 
a speciﬁ c price point for the constrained 
consumer. We expect further promotional 
activity to also drive sales in this segment. 
In retailer own brand, we continued to 
develop new products for several of our 
customers, reﬂ ecting market data showing 
supermarket’s own label ranges to be 
increasingly popular. 
Fish & Vegetables
Donegal Catch, our branded ﬁ sh business 
predominantly retailed in Ireland, continues 
to experience good growth in the sector 
and remains number one in Ireland, along 
with our Green Isle vegetable brand. With 
over half of the Irish market, Donegal Catch 
was introduced into the UK during the 
second half of the year and we continue 
to work hard to secure business through 
our major customers. 
Further strengthening of the Euro (our 
manufacturing operations are based in 
Ireland) and increased promotional activity 
impacted the Frozen division this year. 
Total revenue was 11.0% ahead at £272.4m 
(2007/08: £245.4m) with underlying revenue
7
 
3.7% higher. The impact of price increases 
of 8.6%, as we successfully recovered 
commodity inﬂ ation, saw Frozen volumes 
decline by 4.9%. Despite volume decline, 
frozen food, as evidenced by most market 
data, remains a popular choice for time 
poor families and cash conscious 
consumers. 
The impact from the continued strength 
of the Euro impacted overall proﬁ tability 
by £5.0m in the full year. As a result, 
proﬁ t from operations* reduced to £9.3m 
(2007/08: £11.4m), with operating margin* 
at 3.4% (2007/08: 4.6%). The division has 
undertaken a number of cost reduction 
programmes to lower its cost base.
Frozen
The focus for our Frozen division is 
to meet the needs of the cash conscious 
consumer’s desire for healthy yet 
convenient food
Our McDougalls frozen pies are a value choice for 
all the family
We produce over two million frozen and chilled pizzas 
every week 21 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Pastry, Meat & Meat-Free Grills
Our prior year acquisition of the 
McDougalls brands in Pastry has been 
successful, with good progress made. 
Our challenge to improve the performance 
of the Pastry and Meat Grills businesses 
was set out last year and remains a key 
priority. The McDougalls acquisition was 
fully integrated into our centre of excellence 
at Portumna in Ireland. Consolidating 
capacity is helping to improve the efﬁ ciency 
of our operation, enabling us to provide 
a better service for customers and drive 
superior product innovation and margin 
improvement. The McDougalls frozen pies 
range was successfully re-launched during 
the year, establishing itself as the number 
one frozen pie brand in the 52 weeks 
to 21 March 2009 (ACN Scantrack 
52 w/e 21/03/09). 
Holland’s continued its recovery plan, 
through product improvement and effective 
press promotion. Holland’s, which remains 
a strong brand in the North West of 
England, has re-focused on its core chip 
shop outlets and is looking to increase 
distribution in foodservice and at sporting 
venues. Whilst Meat Grills were again 
impacted adversely by the poor summer 
weather in the important barbeque season, 
the Dalepak business beneﬁ ted from a 
number of performance improvements 
and the launch of the exciting Gardein 
Meat-Free brand. The growth in the 
healthier cooking market continues 
to provide attractive opportunities.
No.1
The McDougalls frozen pies 
range was successfully 
re-launched during the year, 
establishing itself as the 
number one frozen pie brand
Pizza
We re-launched our San Marco 
pizza range during the second 
half, proﬁ tably targeting a speciﬁ c 
price point for the constrained 
consumer
Our modern sites help us to deliver high volumes for 
our customers, day in, day out
Donegal Catch, the number one Irish ﬁ sh and vegetable 
brand, was launched in the UK during the year
  2008/09 2007/08
 52 weeks 52 weeks
Revenue £272.4m £245.4m
Operating margin* 3.4% 4.6%
Proﬁ t from operations* £9.3m £11.4m Bakery
The progress made in our 
Bakery performance has 
been particularly pleasing
Oatland Oaties is 
just one of the own 
label brands we 
helped to develop; 
Tesco Oatland 
Oaties, 45p RSP*
* Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009
22 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09  Our Fox’s brand 
continues to 
focus on premium 
indulgence; 
Fox’s half coated 
Chunkie, £1.59 RSP*
23 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 24 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Biscuits
Biscuits represents a signiﬁ cant growth 
opportunity for Northern Foods, with our 
commitment to invest in the Fox’s brand 
showing real beneﬁ ts. Our increased 
spend, by £1.8m, in the new ‘Vinnie’ TV 
advertising campaign helped increase 
the number of households buying Fox’s 
biscuits during the period. As with all our 
businesses, Fox’s has focused on its 
‘Power 5’ (its top ﬁ ve best selling products), 
with our top ﬁ ve products driving 
incremental sales and margins. Our most 
popular product, Rocky, is set for re-launch 
in the autumn.
Reducing complexity has helped our 
overall performance and, whilst our exit 
from a number of low proﬁ t own label 
contracts has helped us to focus on 
higher value business, we continue to work 
with our retail customers to develop new 
propositions. Examples include the Oatland 
Oaties range, which is targeted at cash 
conscious consumers. We have seen 
further growth with our ability to adapt 
products for customers such as Aldi and 
Netto helping us to increase orders for 
retailer own brand business.
We announced in July that we would 
evaluate a project to streamline our 
biscuit manufacturing operations and 
reduce costs by transitioning from three 
production sites to two world class facilities, 
building on recent investments in greater 
automation. We are continuing the feasibility 
phase of this project to ensure that we 
rigorously assess all the options in view 
of the extremely volatile and recessionary 
environment. This project offers the 
potential to improve efﬁ ciency. Whilst 
we recognise the uncertainty for our 
employees, we have to evaluate all the 
options comprehensively. We are working 
towards concluding the feasibility at the 
end of 2009. In the meantime, we remain 
committed to open communication with 
our employees throughout this process.
The Bakery division delivered a strong 
performance over the year, building on 
the improvement from the prior year. 
We further increased our investment in the 
Fox’s brand through the Vinnie campaign, 
driving improved national awareness and 
distribution. Revenue increased by 5.4% 
to £216.0m (2007/08: £205.0m). Selling prices 
increased by 1.5% as we successfully 
recovered commodity inﬂ ation and 
volumes increased by 3.9%, despite exiting 
some unproﬁ table or low margin retailer 
own brand contracts. The premium nature 
of the Fox’s brand and increased focus on 
higher margin retailer own brand business 
helped drive operating margin improvement, 
with proﬁ t from operations* increasing 
by 37.6% to £20.5m (2007/08: £14.9m), 
and operating margin* improving to 
9.5% (2007/08: 7.3%).
Competitive pressure in the puddings 
market will bring challenges to improve 
proﬁ tability, yet we are focused on retaining 
our market leadership. In the biscuits 
market, there is potential to continue proﬁ t 
improvement over the medium term. 
The sweet biscuit market grew by 8.0% 
in 2008/09 (ACN Scantrack 52 w/e 21/03/09), 
with the Fox’s brand share increasing to 9.3%. 
Bakery
The focus in the Bakery division is to sell 
premium indulgent Fox’s biscuits and 
Christmas puddings which meet consumer 
desires for quality, taste and enjoyment
Fox’s premium indulgence sales grew during the year We made over 18 million Christmas puddings for our 
customers during the year 25 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Puddings
In Puddings, a market where we have 
leadership, our Christmas trading period 
was successfully delivered. All of the 
Christmas pudding stock we made at 
our Matthew Walker site was sold and 
once again we received excellent feedback 
on the quality and taste of our products, 
which derives from a unique steaming 
process, built on 110 years of experience. 
Our unique pressurised steam cook 
process and range of different recipes, 
from extra-matured to nut-free, saw our 
products featured across all of the major 
retailers, from the traditional discount 
supermarkets to the premium end 
of the market.
A new competitor to target mainstream 
retailers in the puddings market for 
Christmas 2009 emerged during the year. 
The necessary investment to maintain our 
leadership in this market will reduce short 
term proﬁ tability. However, we believe that 
the quality required by consumers in this 
market will keep us well placed across 
our customer base. We also continue 
to manage the complexity within this 
business, whilst ensuring that our quality 
is undiminished. Elsewhere in our 
Puddings business, we launched a range 
of sponge puddings, including a new 
brand, ‘Scrummie’, to help support our 
all year round business. In four exciting 
ﬂ avours, Scrummie evokes memories of 
childhood with its innovative ‘sticky ﬁ ngers’ 
packaging design. Our belief is that our 
main retailer own brand and branded 
ranges continue to offer attractive 
opportunities for further development.
Vinnie
Our increased spend in the new 
‘Vinnie’ TV advertising campaign 
helped to increase the number 
of households buying Fox’s 
biscuits during the period
Unique
Our unique pressurised steam 
cook process and range 
of different recipes saw our 
puddings featured across 
all of the major retailers, 
from the traditional discount 
supermarkets to the premium 
end of the market
The delicious Scrummie sponge pudding was 
launched to develop our all year round Puddings 
business
Our proposal to integrate our biscuits manufacturing 
and develop a new world class facility would improve 
efﬁ ciency
  2008/09 2007/08
 52 weeks 52 weeks
Revenue £216.0m £205.0m
Operating margin* 9.5% 7.3%
Proﬁ t from operations* £20.5m £14.9m Corporate social 
responsibility review
The Northern Way – Northern Foods 
is committed to making great tasting 
food in a responsible and sustainable 
manner 
26 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09  27 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Our Northern Way KPIs are detailed 
in the table on pages 30 and 31, which 
gives a detailed picture of our progress 
to date and targets for the next two years.
Workplace
Northern Foods is a great place to work, 
we operate in 21 manufacturing sites 
and employ around 10,000 people. 
We understand that skilled and motivated 
people are fundamental to our performance. 
Considerable time and resources 
are invested to ensure that the safety, 
well-being and development needs of 
our people are addressed and that we 
support our people to deliver better results.
Health & Safety (H&S)
We have continued to deliver improvements 
in performance, with a 19% reduction 
in headline statistics from 0.66 to 0.54 
(see graph below). In addition, we have 
developed our H&S leadership model 
and have embedded processes at Board, 
Business unit and site levels in accordance 
with the IOD/HSE guidance on ‘Leading 
Health and Safety at Work’.
Key areas of focus in our strategy are audits 
and surveys, training/technical development 
and property protection enhancement. 
This includes the delivery of behavioural 
safety and business continuity management 
processes across Group sites.
This strong H&S leadership model, 
pro-active strategy and excellent capability 
now in place are together helping to ensure 
that we maintain and develop a sustainable, 
continuously improving H&S culture.
Our Dalepak Foods site has recently 
achieved a 12 month period with an 
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) of zero. 
Strong leadership on H&S through 
a difﬁ cult change process and the 
application of the strategic initiatives 
outlined above, have helped this operation 
improve from an AFR of 1.58 in March 2008 
to an AFR of 0.0 in March 2009. This 
represents an excellent improvement 
story for this site and underlines the 
effectiveness of our developed strategy.
Training
Training is fundamental to delivering the 
quality, service and efﬁ ciency standards 
demanded by our customers and 
consumers. To be successful, we must 
ensure our employees have the skills they 
need to be efﬁ cient in their current role 
and to develop their careers. 
Northern Foods signed the Skills Pledge 
in May 2007, this is a public declaration to 
deliver nationally recognised qualiﬁ cations 
to our people. To deliver this pledge, we 
have signed a strategic agreement with 
the Grimsby Institute who will work with 
us to develop and deliver all of our training 
needs. In 2008/09, 548 people achieved 
national qualiﬁ cations through the pilot, the 
aim in 2009/10 is for a further 1,700 people 
to gain nationally recognised qualiﬁ cation 
standards.
Well-being
The health and Well-being of our 
employees contributes to the health of 
the business. Pro-active management 
in this area can help reduce absence 
costs and improve productivity. Over the 
last 12 months a Group wide Well-being 
programme has been delivered across 
all sites (see table below).
This activity has had a positive contribution 
on our Company absence rate, which has 
reduced from 5.83% to 4.65%.
How we do business
Highlights 
>  Achieving Gold status in the Business 
in the Community (BITC) Corporate 
Responsibility Index;
>  Improving energy efﬁ ciency and 
delivering the fourth Climate Change 
Levy target; 
>  Sponsoring 60 food science 
undergraduates in 2008 with a further 
90 planned over the next three years;
>  Supporting 565 primary schools with 
their healthy eating programmes 
through our Phunky Foods sponsorship; 
>  Engaging with over 20 policy making 
and industry bodies to shape future 
good practice;
>  Sustaining a strong performance on 
Health & Safety; 
>  Developing the Northern Foods Academy 
to deliver our commitment to training;
>  Delivering Well-being programmes 
across the Company;
>  Maintaining our status as the only food 
manufacturer to have achieved UKAS 
(United Kingdom Accreditation Services) 
accreditation for both our food testing 
and site certiﬁ cation activities, for the 
eighth year running;
>  Securing The Good Egg Award for the 
commitment to use only cage-free and 
organic eggs in our Biscuits business.
During 2008/09 we made great progress 
in our Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
agenda (the Northern Way), embedding 
this into our ways of working and identifying 
partners to help deliver change.
The Northern Way is central to how 
we do business and is aligned with our 
business goals of increasing proﬁ tability, 
by developing our people, improving 
sustainability, husbanding resources 
and working with partners to deliver 
the required change.
We continue to build on our relationship 
with BITC, the UK’s acknowledged thought 
leaders in CSR and continue to develop 
programmes which impact on the 
workplace, marketplace, environment 
and community.
Well-being calendar
27 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Month Focus  Activity
September Know your numbers Individual blood pressure and heart rate 
  sessions with occupational health experts
October World sight day Free eye tests for VDU users and 
  Specsaver activity
March Mother’s Day Payment for Parents, information based 
  activity to ensure all parents are claiming 
  their entitlements
Left: Our advanced efﬂ uent plant at Carlisle releases 
water of rainwater quality back into the water system
12 month rolling accident frequency rates
Per hundred thousand hours worked
1.20
1.10
1.00
0.90
0.80
0.70
0.60
0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00
Mar 06
0.88
0.56
Mar 07
0.66
Mar 08 Mar 09
0.54
Food industry average 28 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Community
Northern Foods can have a positive impact 
on the community at a national and local 
level. We have focused on projects which 
enhance our links with the local community 
and contribute to consumer well-being in 
the area of food.
Phunky Foods
In 2008/09 we continued our support 
of Phunky Foods, the unique primary 
school programme, which delivers healthy 
lifestyle education for 5 to 11 year olds. The 
programme supports the development 
of informed choice by introducing children, 
their families and their teachers to the 
science of healthy lifestyles. Four operating 
sites have each formed strong partnerships 
with 13 local schools, with the Pizza Factory 
in Nottingham delivering a full day’s training 
in pizza making at the local primary school.
As founder sponsors, Northern Foods 
has supported the programme since 
its pilot stage and is delighted to have 
the programme in 565 schools across 
England this year.
Sponsorship of undergraduate 
food scientists
One in four food science roles is vacant 
at any one time in our industry. In January 
2007 Northern Foods launched a 
Foundation for Food Science and 
Technology, providing bursary support 
for food science and technology 
undergraduates. The Foundation will 
provide support for undergraduates 
for the duration of their courses at Leeds, 
Nottingham and Reading Universities.
In addition, we continue to work with these 
Universities to identify ways to increase 
participation in these areas, and this 
includes the introduction of the Nottingham 
Summer School in Food Sciences in 2009, 
aimed at helping GCSE students to ﬁ nd 
out more about what it is like to work in the 
Food Industry and to study a food science 
related degree at University. This will 
complement the long-established Summer 
School for A level students run by the 
University of Reading, for which Northern 
Foods has been a key sponsor for 
many years.
Stakeholder engagement
Effective stakeholder management can 
help us to manage risk and optimise our 
performance. Northern Foods is actively 
involved in relevant industry and regulatory 
bodies, which allows us to respond 
effectively to emerging challenges. 
During 2008/09 our involvement included, 
but was not limited to:
>  Chief Executive membership of the 
Prince’s Rural Action Programme;
>  Regional Ambassador for Yorkshire & 
Humberside for BITC;
>  Board membership of Improve, 
the sector skills council for food 
manufacturing;
>  Board membership for the Centre 
for Robotics and Automation (CENfRA);
>  Acting as a member of a pilot project 
for the Health & Safety Executive (HSE);
>  Furthering the food chain safety and 
sustainability activities of the executive 
committee of the Chilled Food 
Association (CFA);
>  Chairing the Microbiological Assurance/
Quality Control working party for 
the world renowned Camden and 
Chorleywood Food Research Association 
(CCFRA); 
>  President of the Irish National Training 
Council;
>  Chair of the Economic Affairs Committee 
for the Irish Business and Employers 
Confederation.
Overall Northern Foods is involved with more 
than 20 external bodies, to which it devoted 
an estimated 20 months of senior executive 
time. This investment helps the sector 
to share best practice and support the 
consumer’s needs as efﬁ ciently as possible. 
Northern Foods donated £74,000 (2007/08: 
£60,000) to various charities during 2008/09.
Rural action awards
The year saw the Group’s continued 
sponsorship of the Rural Action Award, 
one of BITC’s Awards for Excellence which 
showcase CSR best practice in the UK. 
Supporting this award nationally recognises 
companies which are working hard to 
create and maintain a vibrant, sustainable 
rural economy. 
Environment
Northern Foods understands that 
sustainability and environmental 
commitment makes great business sense 
and can deliver competitive advantage. 
In 2008/09, the Group revisited its carbon 
footprint to align itself to the World Resource 
Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 
3 Emissions. The project identiﬁ ed energy 
usage as the main area in which we could 
make the most difference. 
Progress on environmental issues is 
assessed by the Operating board on 
a monthly basis. Energy, waste and water 
reduction targets have been agreed (see 
table on pages 30 and 31). Northern Foods 
was delighted to be recognised as one 
of the most improved companies in the 
BITC environmental index (see table on 
pages 30 and 31).
Energy
Northern Foods has delivered its Climate 
Change Levy targets for the fourth time. 
Energy teams at each site continued to 
identify areas for further efﬁ ciency gains, 
these projects are coordinated, including 
monitoring and targeting, through the 
Operations Excellence team. In some 
sites we have delivered signiﬁ cant energy 
reduction and now we are identifying 
best practice and rolling this out across 
the Group. 
We have also provided an annual update 
to the Carbon Disclosure Project, an initiative 
which benchmarks progress of ‘UK plc’ 
in mitigating the impact of climate change. 
Corporate social responsibility review
continued
Highlights
Insulation
Saving energy is all about detail; 
lagging pipes and turning lights 
off can make a big difference 
Our employees are helping us to save energy Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
The new Fat Strippa™ at our Kirkham site collects fat 
to re-use as biofuel
We are a signatory to the Courtauld commitment 
on reducing waste, packaging and landﬁ ll
29 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Waste
Good husbandry of our resources brings 
environmental and ﬁ nancial beneﬁ ts. 
Northern Foods was one of the ﬁ rst food 
manufacturers to sign the Courtauld 
Commitment in November 2006. This is a 
public declaration to deliver zero packaging 
growth by 2008 and 3% packaging 
reduction from 2010 whilst simultaneously 
tackling the issue of food waste. We have 
worked with the Waste Resources Action 
Programme (WRAP), the architects of the 
Courtauld Commitment, to agree targets 
and report results. 
In last year’s report we repeated our 
commitment to zero waste to landﬁ ll by 
2010. Due to the economic changes we 
have all witnessed, the anticipated Encycle 
solution is not yet commissioned. Northern 
Foods is still committed to zero waste to 
landﬁ ll and we will achieve this through local 
site and regional partnerships, ranging from 
anaerobic digesters, to composting, reuse 
of material on site and better streaming 
of our contaminated waste. 
Two examples of effective local 
management are:
1.  The Fat Strippa™ at our Fox’s site in 
Kirkham, which captures one tonne of fat 
each month, from the wash room waste 
water, which is recycled into bio fuel.
2.  The introduction of Wormtech to the 
Swansea site, where we will send 50% 
of our current landﬁ ll waste to be 
composted and recycled.
The Group has nine sites which are 
compliant for Integrated Pollution Prevention 
and Control (IPPC), a government regulated 
Environmental Management System (EMS), 
and a further two will be IPPC compliant 
this year. We are proactively introducing 
EMS to all sites during 2009/10. 
Market place
Our market place activities cover the 
Group’s responsibilities to create food that 
is safe to eat, that reﬂ ects the healthy eating 
agenda and that helps consumers make 
informed purchasing decisions. 
policy is how we work in partnership with 
our supply chain. The policy has been 
approved by the National Farmers Union 
and is available on our website.
Sedex is the largest Ethical Trading 
database in the world, active in 132 
countries with over 18,000 companies 
participating. Northern Foods was a 
founding member of Sedex in 1998. 
This year we have targeted ourselves 
with persuading 75 of our top 150 suppliers 
to become members of Sedex (see 
table overleaf for current details). This will 
provide a better connection between our 
businesses and that of our global suppliers 
in order to improve the sharing of ethical 
data and to enable the continuous 
improvement of ethical performance. 
Northern Foods has a great commitment 
to employees, agency staff and migrant 
labour. Our labour policy ensures all staff, 
including agency workers and migrant 
labour, are given the same support on 
health & safety, including the provision 
of full training. 
Conclusion
Our aim during the year was to secure real 
business beneﬁ t from the Northern Way.
The Northern Way is delivering 
measurable beneﬁ ts in energy, waste 
and water reduction, as well as employee 
development to achieve nationally 
recognised qualiﬁ cations. 
This structured approach is ﬁ rmly 
embedding the Northern Way in how 
we do business and Northern Foods was 
pleased to be recognised in April 2009 with 
a gold rating in the BITC ‘100 Companies 
That Count’ rankings.
Food safety
Having appropriate testing and audit 
procedures in place to assure food 
safety and quality is core to the Group’s 
proposition. Our Nottingham based 
accredited central testing laboratory 
continues to occupy an unparalleled 
position for results reliability, with more than 
half a million tests conducted throughout 
our Group every week.
To support the continuous development 
of leading standards in the safe production 
of wholesome food, the Group continued to 
share expert microbiological and technical 
knowledge with key organisations such 
as the Food Standards Agency (FSA), the 
Chilled Food Association (CFA), Department 
of Environment Foods and Rural Affairs 
(DEFRA), the British Retail Consortium 
and Campden BRI.
Recipe reformulation
The Group has continued on course to 
meet the national targets for salt reduction 
ahead of the FSA’s 2010 schedule. In 2008, 
we again supported the FSA, this time 
as industry stakeholders in the Saturated 
Fat & Energy Density agenda for both 
biscuits and meat products, and hosted 
FSA Nutrition Group visits to our Fox’s 
biscuits site in Kirkham and our Holland’s 
site in Accrington. We continue to consider 
nutritional quality in each and every product 
reformulation. 
Supporting informed purchasing
Front of pack additional nutritional labelling, 
based on clearly deﬁ ned recommended 
portions, for example half a pizza or a single 
biscuit, is in place across our brands, giving 
the consumer the knowledge they need 
to make an informed choice.
Supply chain impact
The Group continues to recognise the 
potential impact it has on those in our 
wider supply chain. It is now recognised 
that primary agriculture accounts for more 
than 60% of the total carbon footprint in the 
food supply chain. We continue to work with 
our approved suppliers to champion best 
practice and to minimise our impact where 
possible. Northern Foods’ farm assurance 
Food waste
Our Swansea site composts 
food waste instead of sending 
it to landﬁ ll Environment Direct company impact Non-ﬁ nancial indicators Target 2010/11 2007/08 2008/09 
Global warming, CO 2 emissions Meet our bi-annual UK Climate Change Levy targets by site n/a 24,653T 
A measure of our climate change impact as agreed with the Government   
Power efﬁ ciency  Increase of efﬁ cient use of electricity by 5% year on year 472KwH/T 483KwH/T 
A measure of our use of resources     
     
Waste to landﬁ ll and recycling  Zero packaging growth 155kg/T 150kg/T 
A measure of our use of resources 125kg/T of product by 2010/11   
 Zero waste to landﬁ ll 2014   
     
Water use  Target 4.5M
3
 per tonne of product produced by 2010/11 5.5M
3
/T 5.6M
3
/T 
A measure of our future impact      
 Workplace Direct company impact Non-ﬁ nancial indicators Target 2010/11 2007/08 2008/09 
H&S: lost time injury rate Reduce to 0.54 cases per 100,000 over 3 days lost on a rolling 0.64 0.54 
Lost time injury incidents expressed 12 month basis   
as a rate per 100,000 hours worked Major injury days lost 11 5
on a 12 month rolling average Total injury days lost 3,375 2,761 
H&S: sickness absence rate Reduce absence rate to 4.0% by 2010/11 5.83% 4.65% 
Percentage of calendar days lost     
to sickness absence expressed     
as a rolling 12 months     
     
Training: NVQs and basic skills Deliver full national qualiﬁ cations to 3,000 employees by n/a 548 
A measure of our investment in 31 December 2010   
our employees     
Employee engagement index The Northern Foods Engagement Survey was launched in 2008/09  n/a 48.3% 
A measure of the success of our and targeted the top 350 leadership population. In 2009/10 it will    
relationship with our employees be extended to 2,000 employees. The target is to deliver 45%   
 satisfaction by 2009/10 as the survey will be expanded to include   
 a larger population
 Marketplace Direct company impact Non-ﬁ nancial indicators Target 2010/11 2007/08 2008/09 
Ethical trading To achieve 100 of top 150 supplier membership of Sedex by 2010 Data 44 
A measure of the application of Sedex    not  
labour standards within our supply chain   collected  
 Community Direct company impact Non-ﬁ nancial indicators Target 2010/11 2007/08 2008/09 
Phunky Foods  To increase the number of primary schools participating 282 565 
A measure of our commitment to alter to 2,000 by 2010   
the obesity trend in primary schools     
Food science Number of undergraduates on food science courses 30 60 
A measure of our commitment sponsored by Northern Foods – 90   
to ﬁ ll an industry wide skills need     
30 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Corporate social responsibility review
Key performance indicators
We enabled 548 employees to achieve national 
qualiﬁ cations this year
exceeded by 
24,653 Tonnes Financial indicators 2007/08 2008/09 Indirect impacts
Total energy costs (gas and electricity for Group) £15.0m £24.0m Positive impact from introduction of clear site 
including inﬂ ation   targets and monthly reporting
Total energy cost per tonne of product £45.08 £69.90 Negative impact on producing goods,  
including inﬂ ation   excellent employee response to company 
    focus in this area
Waste disposal £3.3m £3.3m Deliver Courtauld commitment in the  
    food sector
    Ensure the UK delivers its EU landﬁ ll targets
    Increase land available for other uses
Water & efﬂ uent costs £6.1m £4.3m Reducing the impact on waste   
    infrastructure in the UK
Financial indicators 2007/08 2008/09 Indirect impacts
Financial impact to the business of days lost £1.6m £1.2m Improves the reputation of the sector enabling
through accidents   lower insurance costs and better recruitment
    
Cost to the business of absences £12.4m £10.0m Increasing days at work reduces NHS costs  
    and increases productivity
    Northern Foods’ Well-being programme will 
    enable our employees to be happy, healthy
    and here
Investment in training per 1,000 employees £100,000 £93,000 Increases the level of skills within the UK
    population, increasing productivity and 
     ﬂ exibility. A further £88,000 per 1,000 employees 
will be delivered from the Learning and Skills 
Council by August 2009
Recruitment costs for salaried employees  £1.4m £0.9m Employee engagement is a driver of customer  
    satisfaction
Number of employees 10,767 9,890 Increasing automation will continue to impact
    on the number of people and skills required
Financial indicators 2007/08 2008/09 Indirect impacts
£ purchased from Sedex suppliers Data £153.2m Increased visibility across the supply chain  
  not  leading to the ability to share best practice
  collected
Financial indicators 2007/08 2008/09 Indirect impacts
Investment in Phunky Foods £100,000 £100,000 Education for families, ensuring NHS obesity 
    related costs are decreased across 
    the population
Financial investment in universities £37 ,900 £63,900 Increase attractiveness of sector to graduates,
(augmented by additional Northern Foods    making it easier to recruit the right talent
resource as required)   
31 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
We rolled out our Well-being programme this year 32 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
01
04
07
02
05
08
03
06
01 Anthony Hobson Chairman •‡
Joined the Board in 2002 and became Chairman in 2005. 
He is also Chairman of The Sage Group plc and a non-executive 
director of Glas Cymru (Welsh Water). A Chartered Accountant, 
he was the Group Finance Director of Legal & General Group plc 
from 1987 to 2001. He chairs the nomination committee.
02 Stefan Barden Chief Executive
Joined the Board in 2006 and was appointed Chief Executive on 
5 February 2007. He was formerly Managing Director of Heinz UK 
and Ireland from 2003 to 2005. He has extensive experience of the 
food industry having held roles with Iceland, McKinsey & Company 
and Unilever. He sits on the policy issues committee of the 
IGD and is a director of Improve, the UK’s food and drink sector 
skills council.
03 Andrew Booker Group Finance Director
Joined the Board in 2008. He was formerly European Finance 
Director of Japan Tobacco International Inc/Gallaher plc, a role 
he held from 2004. He has held senior ﬁ nancial, sales and 
general management roles with Gallaher Group over 19 years. 
04 Orna Ni-Chionna Senior independent non–executive director •*†‡
Joined the Board in 2002 as a non-executive director. She is 
Chair of the Soil Association, a member of Eden McCallum’s 
Advisory Board, and is also a director of The British United 
Provident Association Limited. She was formerly a partner of 
McKinsey & Company. She is the senior independent director 
and chairs the remuneration committee.
05 Ronnie Bell Non–executive director •*‡
Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive director. 
He was formerly President of Kraft Foods Europe until 2004. 
He is Chairman of Milk Link and is a non-executive director of 
Ansell Limited, Tagboard Limited and The Edrington Group Limited. 
06 Tony Illsley Non-executive director •*†‡
Joined the Board in 2006 as a non-executive director. He was 
Chief Executive of Telewest plc until 2000, and has held roles 
with PepsiCo and Colgate Palmolive. He is Chairman of 
Plastic Logic Limited, Velocix Limited, holds a non-executive 
position with Sepura plc, and is a trustee of the charity Whizz-Kidz.
07 David Nish Non–executive director •*†‡
Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive director. He is 
Group Finance Director of Standard Life plc. Formerly he held the 
positions of Executive Director, Infrastructure, and Group Finance 
Director of Scottish Power plc, prior to which he was a partner 
with Pricewaterhouse. He chairs the audit committee.
08 Carol Williams Company Secretary
Joined Northern Foods in 1990. She is Head of Legal and was 
appointed Company Secretary in March 2005. She is a director 
of C&I Group Services Limited.
• Non-executive director
* Remuneration committee member
† Audit committee member
‡ Nomination committee member
Board of directors and company secretary 33 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Compliance
Northern Foods is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group, and seeks to 
remain at the forefront of corporate governance best practice. 
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate governance 
and is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance. The directors recognise the importance of this 
responsibility and can confirm that the Company has complied 
fully throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 
of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
(the ‘Combined Code’) and the associated Turnbull Guidance, 
as annexed to the Financial Services Authority’s Listing Rules.
This review describes the Company’s governance policies and 
explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting 
principles of the Combined Code.
Directors
The Board
The Board determines the strategic direction of the Company and 
reviews its operating and financial position. The Board ensures that 
the necessary resources are in place in order for the Company 
to meet its objectives. It has a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved to it, which can be amended only by the Board itself and 
which has been reviewed and updated during the financial year 
under review.
These matters include approval of:
> membership of the Board and its committees;
>   the annual and half year results and interim management 
statements;
>   the Group strategy, operating plans and financial policy;
>  acquisitions and divestments;
>  the annual budget including operating and major capital 
expenditure;
>  treasury and tax policies;
>  dividend policy;
>  material amendments to the Company’s pensions schemes;
>  the overall system of control and risk management.
The schedule of matters is available on the Company’s website. 
All other matters relating to the management of the Company are 
delegated to the Operating board within clearly defined limits of 
authority. The Board monitors the performance of management 
and aims to ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures 
adopted are not only in the long term interest of shareholders but 
also meet the needs of Northern Foods’ customers, employees, 
suppliers and the local communities in which it operates. The 
Operating board is responsible to the Board for developing the 
strategy and for the overall performance of the Group and for 
managing the Group’s businesses as defined by the Board.
The Board, chaired by Anthony Hobson, has seven directors, 
comprising two executive directors and five non-executive directors. 
The executive directors are Stefan Barden, Chief Executive and 
Andrew Booker, Group Finance Director. Orna Ni-Chionna is the 
senior independent director. The non-executive directors possess 
a range of skills and experience and bring independent judgement 
to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are 
vital to the success of the Group. The non-executive directors have 
a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy 
proposed by the executive directors; to scrutinise, and challenge 
performance; and to satisfy themselves that the Group maintains 
a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Company’s assets.
Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board
The Board met nine times during the year, including one meeting 
devoted to strategy review. In addition, the chairman held one 
separate meeting with the non-executive directors without the 
executive directors being present to discuss Board related issues 
including structure and succession planning. The non-executive 
directors also met once without the chairman present to appraise 
his performance. The Board holds meetings in London or 
Leeds and at least one meeting each year is held at one of the 
operational sites. In April 2008 the Board met in Naas, Ireland 
at the site of the Green Isle Foods’ business.
The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, audit, 
remuneration and nomination committees held during the year, 
and the number of meetings attended by each director. The 
directors attended Board and committee meetings wherever 
possible unless personal circumstances prevented their attendance, 
as shown below. Where a director is unable to attend a Board or 
committee meeting, his/her views on agenda items are canvassed 
in advance of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions. 
Number of 
meetings held
30 March 2008 to Board
1
 Audit
2
 Remuneration
3
 Nomination
4
28 March 2009 9 3 5 2
Number of meetings attended
S Barden 9/9 n/a n/a n/a
R J S Bell 8/9 n/a 5/5 2/2
A M Booker
5
 3/3 n/a n/a n/a
A J Hobson 9/9 n/a n/a 2/2
A K Illsley 8/9 3/3 5/5 2/2
J K Maiden
6
 6/6 n/a n/a n/a
O G Ni-Chionna 9/9 3/3 5/5 2/2
D T Nish 9/9 3/3 2/5 1/2
Notes
1  A J Hobson is chairman of the Board
2  D T Nish is chair of the audit committee 
3  O G Ni-Chionna is chair of the remuneration committee 
4  A J Hobson is chair of the nomination committee 
5  A M Booker was appointed to the Board on 17 November 2008 
6   J K Maiden resigned from the Board on 14 November 2008
The chairman is not a member of the remuneration and audit 
committees but attends by invitation. Senior executives below 
Board level are periodically invited to attend Board meetings 
to make presentations on their areas of responsibility. 
Corporate governance 34 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Procedures to deal with directors’ conflicts of interest
The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation 
where a director has a conflict of interest and intends to report 
annually on the effectiveness of these procedures.
A Code of Practice on Conflicts of Interest was approved by the 
Board on 1 October 2008 and can be viewed on the Company’s 
website. As part of this process for dealing with conflicts, the 
members of the Board will endeavour to:
>  consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts;
>  keep records and board minutes of authorisations granted 
by directors and the scope of any approvals given; 
>  annually review conflict authorisations.
Appointments to the Board
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board 
on the recommendation of the nomination committee. There is 
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors which is made on merit and against objective 
criteria. The criteria are set by the non-executive directors and 
include identifying any areas where skills are lacking and making 
appointments to enhance the balance of skills and experience 
of the Board. In addition, care is taken to ensure that appointees 
have enough time available to devote to their role. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive 
directors are available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and at the Annual general 
meeting (for 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting). 
An example of the letter of appointment is available on the 
Northern Foods website, www.northernfoods.com.
In November 2008 Andrew Booker was appointed to the Board 
as group finance director following a careful selection process 
and the use of recruitment consultants, The Miles Partnership. 
An executive director is permitted to hold one non-executive 
directorship (and retain the fees from that appointment) provided 
that the Board considers that this will not adversely affect his 
executive responsibilities. Any proposed appointment to the board 
of another company requires the prior approval of the Board. The 
current executive directors do not hold any such appointments.
Information and professional development
All directors have unlimited access to information regarding 
the Company, and to the advice and services of the company 
secretary, whose appointment and removal requires the approval 
of the Board, and they may obtain external advice, as required, 
at the expense of the Company. 
One week prior to each scheduled Board meeting, the chairman 
and the company secretary ensure that the directors receive 
all relevant papers so that they are properly appraised of the 
Company’s current performance and information on any other 
matter which is referred to the Board for consideration.
Chairman and chief executive 
There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the 
chairman and the chief executive. The chairman is responsible 
for leadership of the Board, setting the agenda and ensuring 
its effectiveness. He is also responsible for ensuring that the 
directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and 
for effective communication with shareholders. The chairman 
also facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executives 
directors and ensures a good working relationship between 
executive and non-executive directors. The chairman’s other 
significant commitments and any changes during the year 
are detailed in his biography on page 32. The Board is satisfied 
that the commitments of the chairman outside the Company 
are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties. 
The chief executive is responsible for operating the business 
and implementing the Board’s strategies and is supported in 
these matters by the Operating board.
Board balance and independence
The Company complies with the requirement of the Combined 
Code that there should be a balance of executive and non-
executives, such that no one individual has unrestricted powers 
of decision. There is a succession plan, approved by the Board, 
to ensure continual review of the balance of skills and experience. 
Influence is balanced within the Board by virtue of a non-executive 
senior independent director and a further three non-executive 
directors whose skills and business experience are invaluable 
in constructively challenging and developing the Group’s strategy 
and direction. 
The Board uses criteria to assist in arriving at its decision that 
the non-executive directors are independent. These include:
>  a deep appreciation of the Group’s business and activities so 
that a thorough evaluation of information received can be made;
> objective decision-making after debate;
> objective challenge of management;
>  a clear and consistent approach demonstrating that he/she 
has the good of the Group uppermost in his/her behaviour 
when challenging others and defending his/her viewpoints.
Following the annual review of independence, the Board is of 
the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are 
independent by these criteria and are free from any relationship 
or circumstance which could affect, or appear to affect, their 
independent judgement. David Nish is the Group Finance Director 
of Standard Life plc which owned 11.26% of the Company’s shares 
as at 27 May 2009. The Company does not consider that this 
affects his independence, as his role at Standard Life does not 
include direct responsibility for investment decisions. This potential 
conflict of interest was thoroughly reviewed by the directors at 
a Board meeting held in November 2008, and a resolution was 
passed authorising the potential conflict. However, should any 
circumstances change in relation to his role at Standard Life this 
will be reconsidered and, if necessary, appropriate action taken.
Corporate governance
continued 35 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
There is a comprehensive induction process, tailored to the needs 
of the individual directors, which is arranged by the company 
secretary. This includes meetings with management and external 
advisors so that the new director receives an appreciation of the 
activities of the Group, the key drivers of business performance 
and the significant current issues. Visits to operational sites are 
encouraged. The training also covers the role of the Board and 
its committees, corporate governance practices and procedures, 
and the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a director of a 
public listed company. Following his recruitment to the Board, 
Andrew Booker undertook a formal induction process which 
included specific training in the role and duties of a director 
and pensions training. The induction also included prearranged 
visits to each business within the Group to meet the senior 
management teams. 
Additional training is arranged, by the company secretary, 
on a group or individual basis as needs arise; for example, 
when a non-executive director is appointed to a Board committee.
During the year, in order to assist them in their duties, the directors 
received presentations on the legislative changes implemented 
under the Companies Act 2006, including the codification of 
directors’ duties and, in particular, directors’ obligations in relation 
to conflicts of interests.
Board performance evaluation 
It is recognised that the effectiveness of the Board is vital to 
the success of the Group. In order to evaluate the effectiveness 
of the performance of the Board, the chairman and its principal 
committees, a rigorous evaluation is undertaken annually. 
This process is conducted internally, led by the chairman and 
supported by the company secretary. As in previous years, 
this has taken the form of obtaining completed detailed 
questionnaires, (which are updated and revised each year) from 
all Board members, analysing the responses, and providing the 
opportunity for directors to comment on any issues not covered 
directly by the questionnaire. The responses were analysed and 
discussed at a meeting of the Board held in April 2009. It was 
agreed that the results confirmed that the Board and its 
committees continued to be effective.
The Board evaluation process also aims to identify the areas 
where improvements can be made. Following last year’s 
performance evaluation the Board requested regular exposure 
to, and the opportunity to meet with, senior management, and 
this has been actioned during the course of this financial year.
Orna Ni-Chionna, Senior Independent Director, has analysed 
responses to a detailed questionnaire designed to evaluate the 
performance of the chairman. The results of the survey were 
discussed with the executive and non-executive directors when 
the chairman was not present. The outcome of these discussions 
confirmed that the performance of the chairman was effective 
and that he continues to provide strong leadership to the Board.
The chairman assesses the performance of the non-executive 
directors, after consultations with the executive directors and 
the senior independent director. Following this process, it was 
confirmed that each individual non-executive director continued to 
act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected, 
demonstrating commitment to the role, including commitment of 
time for Board and committee meetings and other duties.
Re-election of directors
Under the Company’s Articles, all directors are subject to election 
by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and 
then to re-election at intervals of no more than three years. Retiring 
directors may offer themselves for re-election.
Following his appointment as group finance director in November 
2008, Andrew Booker will be seeking election by shareholders at 
this year’s Annual general meeting. In addition, Stefan Barden and 
Ronnie Bell will be standing for re-election. The Board has set out 
in the Notice of Annual general meeting (enclosed with this report) 
their reasons for supporting the election and re-election of these 
directors at the forthcoming Annual general meeting.
The biographical details of all the directors put forward for 
re-election are contained on page 32 of the Annual report and 
in the explanatory notes contained in the Notice of meeting.
Remuneration
Remuneration is set out in the Remuneration report and the work 
of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 41 and 42.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. This 
responsibility extends to annual and half year reports and other 
price sensitive reports. The Company is also required to present 
interim management statements covering the first and third quarter 
trading during each six months trading, following implementation 
of the Transparency Directive in January 2007. For the financial 
year 2008/09, the Company made two such interim management 
statements in compliance with the regulations.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligations in presenting 
a balanced and clear assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. This assessment is provided in the Directors’ report 
which incorporates the Chief executive’s report, the Performance 
review, and the Corporate social responsibility review. The 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial 
statements is set out on page 56. 36 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Corporate governance
continued
Roles and responsibilities for each area of identified risk are 
outlined below:
>  Strategic delivery: through its regular meetings, the Board 
assesses performance against objectives. In doing so, it 
considers performance data and also considers external 
dynamics, such as shifting customer and consumer trends, 
that could affect the delivery of these objectives.
>  Health & safety: the Group’s health & safety team sets strategy 
and risk management standards. A detailed monthly review 
process facilitates performance measurement against targets. 
Governance is maintained through the coordination and delivery 
of an operationally focused audit which complies with Health & 
Safety Executive guidance. The Group function also provides 
a centre of excellence to support each business and site in 
working to defined risk management standards.
  Key improvement activities are defined and assistance 
provided to aid the implementation of improvement activities. 
These activities include processes such as behavioural 
safety programmes, safety training initiatives and site based 
improvement project support. Networking is strongly supported 
through the operation of an annual best practice award scheme, 
annual safety conference and the safety function contact 
group activities.
  A dedicated risk management steering group identifies and 
manages fire risk through site audits and the implementation 
of recommendations and standards, together with sharing of 
best practice.
>  Talent management and human resources: centrally driven 
organisational capability reviews ensure that each of the 
businesses and functions regularly reviews its existing 
management capability and succession plans in the context 
of the Company’s strategic plans.
>  Food safety and quality: the technical services team 
assesses and approves raw material suppliers, audits the 
quality management systems in the Group, provides guidance 
on compliance with food related and environmental legislation, 
sets technical standards and offers expertise on food science 
and technology. This expertise and governance is reflected in 
the independent accreditation of the team as UKAS Certification 
Body No.199 and UKAS Testing Laboratory No. 2087. The 
dual accreditation has again continued without interruption 
in 2008/09, a record that is unique to Northern Foods.
>  Asset management and engineering: contractors for building, 
engineering and professional services are approved by the 
businesses’ engineering resource in conjunction with Group 
Procurement and Group Health & Safety.
>  Procurement: Group Procurement supports the businesses 
in identifying, contracting and managing strategic supply 
relationships. It plays a key role in the Group’s risk management 
of external third party expenditure.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system 
of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness which 
covers all aspects of the business. Key risks are identified in the 
Performance review on pages 12 and 13 and include strategic, 
commercial, operational and financial risks. These risks are 
managed through a comprehensive internal control and risk 
management system as outlined below. 
Underlying this process is the Board’s aim to safeguard 
shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets. It also aims 
to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and 
that the financial information used within the business and for 
publication is accurate, reliable and fairly presents the financial 
position of the Company and results of its business operations.
In line with Turnbull guidance (as revised), the directors regularly 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s system of controls and 
risk management. The directors believe that appropriate steps 
are being taken to embed internal control and risk management 
further into the operations of the business and to identify 
opportunities for improvement which come to the attention of 
management and the Board. The system is designed to provide 
reasonable (not absolute) assurance of effective operations and 
compliance with laws and regulations.
As part of its review process, the Board considers new and 
emerging risks and also considers key external business drivers 
such as market trends and competitive activity. The Board also 
plays an important role in driving continuous improvement in the 
management of risk by encouraging the sharing of best practice 
across the business. 
A summary of the principal control structure and processes 
in place across the Group is set out below.
Control structure and processes
The Board assesses key areas of internal control and risk 
management and sets policy accordingly. It tasks each business 
to identify and document each significant risk and to implement 
appropriate controls for that risk. The Board also requires the 
businesses to manage, monitor and report on the effectiveness 
of these controls. 
The businesses are supported by appropriate corporate 
management resources which provide the technical skills and 
expertise needed to supplement the businesses’ own resource 
and to provide overall assurance for the major areas of risk. 
There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability.
The internal auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted 
by the Company towards its risk management activities.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit 
procedures and monitors response to any significant control 
issues raised.  37 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
>  Finance: each business prepares detailed annual budgets 
and strategic plans, which are reviewed and updated on a 
regular basis. Weekly and monthly accounts are prepared 
for each business and performance is monitored against 
the original budget, and updated forecasts. The Group’s chief 
executive and group finance director meet on a formal basis 
each month to review the performance of each of the 
businesses with its managing director and finance director.
Capital expenditure planning, budgeting and approval 
of expenditure is performed by executive management, 
up to an agreed level delegated by the full Board.
The internal audit function reviews the standard of internal financial 
control and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling 
cycle of audit visits under a programme of activity approved by 
the audit committee. 
The central finance function obtains advice and provides 
adequate insurance cover for major losses with appropriate 
levels of deductibles, through a Group programme with external 
insurance brokers. This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
Financial and treasury management oversee the principal areas 
of treasury risk including liquidity, interest and currency risk.
>  Information technology: the Information Services function 
provides appropriate systems infrastructure and back-up 
services to the business.
>  Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal 
issues across the Group, and ensures good title to properties 
and intangible assets. 
>  Corporate social responsibility: the corporate social 
responsibility director ensures that there are effective systems 
in place for evaluating and managing social, environmental 
and ethical (SEE) risks. Further information is provided in 
the Corporate social responsibility review on pages 26 to 31.
Review process 
An ongoing review process includes an assessment of internal 
controls, in particular, internal financial controls. It also includes 
reports from the internal audit function as well as the external 
auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
Businesses and specialist functions report by exception on any 
matters arising during the year to the monthly Business review 
meetings. The results of formal half yearly internal reviews are taken 
forward to the audit committee, which oversees both internal and 
external audit and monitors management’s response.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year 
under review and up to the date of approval of these financial 
statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that 
it accords with Turnbull guidance.
Audit committee and auditors
A principle of the Combined Code is that the Board should 
establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering 
how it should apply the financial reporting and internal control 
principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the 
external auditors, Deloitte LLP. These responsibilities are delegated 
to and are discharged by the audit committee whose work is 
described on pages 39 and 40.
Relations with shareholders 
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 
relationships with all shareholders, who are kept informed of 
significant Company developments. Presentations are made 
of the half year and full year results, briefings are given to analysts, 
and other meetings to discuss Company direction are held 
with institutional shareholders on a regular basis. Significant 
matters relating to the trading or development of business 
are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange 
announcements. 
The chief executive and group finance director are closely 
involved in investor relations and report the views of major 
shareholders back to the Board. Investor meetings are arranged 
through the Company’s broker, UBS Investment Bank, and 
others. The chairman, the senior independent director and other 
non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders 
whenever necessary, and the chairman did so during the year. 
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is 
simultaneously published on the Company’s website affording all 
shareholders full access to Company announcements. In addition, 
the Company has introduced an electronic communication facility 
to allow shareholders to receive information more quickly and in 
a manner more convenient for them. The Company has also taken 
advantage of provisions under the Companies Act 2006 which 
allows the use of the website to communicate with shareholders 
as an alternative to receiving hard copies. A resolution to this effect 
was passed at the Company’s Annual general meeting in 2007. 
It was implemented in November 2007 by shareholders being 
offered the choice of receiving communications from the 
Company either via the website or by way of hard copy. It is 
intended that this exercise will be repeated during 2009/10. 38 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Corporate governance
continued
Search consultants have been used extensively in the identification 
of new Board appointments. For the appointment of the group 
finance director, the committee was supported by external 
executive recruitment consultants, The Miles Partnership, who 
conducted a thorough search and identified a number of high 
quality candidates for the role. The nomination committee reviewed 
the proposed candidates and identified Andrew Booker as the 
best applicant and took the recommendation to the full Board 
for final approval.
When the need for a new director is identified, the criteria in 
respect of the background and competencies of potential 
candidates are approved by the Board before the search is 
started. This specification is drawn up after consideration of the 
skills, knowledge and experience of existing Board members. 
The committee also ensures that candidates have enough time 
available to devote to the position. As part of the process for 
nominating candidates for appointment, the committee will also 
obtain details and review any interests the candidate may have 
which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Company. 
If such conflict is found to exist, the committee will consider 
whether there are grounds for recommending the candidate 
for appointment and for the Board to authorise such conflict. 
The committee also reviews annually the need for succession 
planning, particularly for the chairman, chief executive and other 
key Board positions, and makes recommendations accordingly. 
In formulating its succession plans, the committee takes into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company 
and what skills and expertise therefore will be required on the 
Board and from senior management in the future.
Remuneration committee 
O G Ni-Chionna Chair
R J S Bell
A K Illsley
D T Nish
The remuneration committee, which is chaired by the senior 
independent director, consists of the non-executive directors and 
determines the broad policy and framework for the remuneration 
of executive directors and senior managers. No director 
is permitted to be present when his/her own remuneration 
is being discussed, nor to vote on his/her own remuneration. 
The committee also determines the nature and scale of 
incentive performance arrangements that encourage enhanced 
performance and which reward individuals in a fair and 
responsible manner for their contribution to the success of the 
business. In setting the remuneration policy for executive directors 
and senior managers, the committee also takes into account 
the reward policies for managers in the marketplace generally.
An integral part of the role of the remuneration committee is to 
carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chief executive.
Constructive use of the Annual general meeting
The Board regards the Annual general meeting, which will be held 
on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, as an opportunity to communicate 
directly with private investors. Wherever possible, all directors 
attend the Annual general meeting. A presentation is made to 
shareholders at the meeting to facilitate greater awareness of the 
Group’s activities. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and 
are able to meet the directors informally. Notice of Annual general 
meeting is circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days 
prior to the meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed on each 
substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes cast 
for and against each resolution, as well as the number of votes 
withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting on a 
show of hands. A poll would be called on any resolution where 
it was appropriate or required. The Company offers an electronic 
voting facility to investors. 
Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, 
are announced through the London Stock Exchange and are 
also placed on the Company’s website.
Board committees
Each Board committee has written terms of reference which 
define the role and responsibilities of the committees and are 
reviewed annually. The terms of reference of each committee 
are available from the company secretary or can be viewed 
on the Company’s website.
Appointments to the committees are made on the 
recommendation of the nomination committee but subject to 
Board approval. Membership of the committees is for periods 
of up to three years, normally extendable by no more than two 
additional three year periods. The company secretary acts as 
secretary to the Board committees.
Nomination committee 
A J Hobson Chair
R J S Bell
A K Illsley
O G Ni-Chionna
D T Nish
The committee meets as required to review the structure, 
size and composition of the Board and, if appropriate makes 
recommendations for changes to the Board. The committee 
leads the process for Board appointments, in both executive and 
non-executive capacities, and the re-election and succession of 
directors. During 2008/09 the committee met twice: (i) to consider 
the terms of appointment of directors, succession planning and 
Board skill and balance; and (ii) to consider the candidates put 
forward for the role of group finance director and make 
recommendations to the Board. 39 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Audit committee
D T Nish Chair
A K Illsley
O G Ni-Chionna
The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors; 
each is considered to be independent as required by the 
Combined Code. The chairman of the Board is invited to attend 
meetings of the committee. The committee is authorised by the 
Board to obtain outside legal and other independent professional 
advice within its terms of reference, and to secure the attendance 
of advisers with relevant experience and expertise, if it considers 
this necessary. Members of the audit committee have unrestricted 
access to the external auditors.
The main duties of the committee, set out in its terms of reference, 
are to:
>   make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration 
of external auditors and to monitor their performance;
>  approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors to ensure that the independence 
of the auditors is not compromised;
>  review and advise the Board on the Company’s financial 
statements, its accounting policies and on the control and 
mitigation of its financial and business risks;
>  review the nature and scope of the work to be performed 
by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit 
work and of the response of management;
>  review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal control environment, including its 
‘whistleblowing’ procedures.
 
D T Nish took over the chair of the committee on his appointment 
to the Board. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and is Group Finance Director of 
Standard Life plc. He is considered to have the recent and relevant 
financial experience required for the provisions of the Combined 
Code. The other members of the committee have a wide range 
of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical 
summaries on page 32. The Board has reviewed the audit 
committee’s composition during the year and is satisfied 
that it has the expertise and resource to fulfil effectively its 
responsibilities, including those relating to any risk controls. 
Meetings
The committee invites executive directors, management, 
external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers 
appropriate for the matters being discussed. The committee 
receives sufficient, timely and reliable information prior to each 
meeting in order to reach an informed decision on any issue.
Work of the committee
During 2008/09, the audit committee met on three occasions 
and reported its conclusions to the Board. It met privately with 
the internal and external auditors without executives present. 
It also met with executive management and executive directors.
The committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2008/09 
as follows:
Financial reporting
During the year the committee reviewed the draft half year and 
annual financial statements prior to Board approval. The committee 
received a report from the external auditors setting out the 
accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention. 
The auditors’ reports were based on an independent review 
(Half year report) and a full scope audit (Annual report) respectively.
The committee has also advised the Board on accounting 
policies, disclosure and controls.
Internal controls and risk management
The committee reviews reports from internal audit at three 
meetings during the year. These reports consider the operation 
of, and issues arising from, the Group’s internal control procedures, 
together with observations from the external auditors. The 
committee monitored the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management process, which considers the key risks, both 
financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness 
of the Group’s controls to manage and reduce the impact of 
those risks.
Internal audit
It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board 
on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective 
and to provide independent and objective assurance that the 
processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed 
and managed are appropriate and effectively applied. The internal 
audit plan, which covers the scope, authority and resources of 
the function, is determined through a structured process of risk 
assessment and is approved by the audit committee. The nature 
and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed 
and approved, the reports of results received and the responses 
of management considered. The plan set out at the beginning 
of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in 
line with expectations. To ensure the independence of the internal 
audit function, the senior internal auditor has the right of direct 
access to the chair of the committee and to the chairman of the 
Board; this right was not invoked in the year under review. The 
head of internal audit has a separate session with the chair of the 
audit committee before or after a formal audit committee meeting. 40 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Corporate governance
continued
External audit
The committee reviews auditor independence annually. The 
committee also monitors the cost effectiveness and objectivity of 
the external auditors. The engagement and independence of the 
external auditors is considered annually by the audit committee 
before it recommends its selection to the Board. The committee 
has satisfied itself that Deloitte LLP is independent and that there 
are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity. To assist 
in ensuring independence, the role of the audit partner on the 
audit is rotated every five years. The provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditors is considered in line with the committee’s 
terms of reference. The audit committee must approve all services 
of at least £100,000 and executive approval must be given for all 
approved services of less than £100,000. The auditor should only 
provide non-audit services where such advice does not conflict 
with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance. The audit 
committee has sole authority to approve non-audit services from 
the external auditors. 
During the year, the auditors also provided tax advice. Auditor 
objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the 
use of a separate tax audit partner. In addition, the auditors report 
annually on the actions taken to comply with professional and 
regulatory requirements and on current best practice required to 
ensure independence. The audit committee reviewed the external 
auditors’ proposed plan in November 2008 and their report of May 
2009 and has considered the effectiveness of the external audit.
Operating board 
The Board delegates responsibility for the management of the 
business to the Operating board, led by the chief executive. The 
Operating board is comprised of the chief executive, the group 
finance director and the five managing directors with responsibility 
for the individual business units.
Going concern 
In determining whether the Group’s annual consolidated financial 
statements can be prepared on a going concern basis, the 
directors considered the Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position. These statements are set out in the Performance review. 
The review also includes the financial position of the Group, its 
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities. The key factors 
considered by the directors were as follows:
>   the implications of the challenging economic environment 
and future uncertainties on the Group’s revenues and profits. 
The Group undertakes forecasts and projections of trading and 
cash flows on a regular basis. This allows the Group to target 
performance and identify areas of focus for management;
>   the impact of the competitive environment within which the 
Group’s businesses operate;
>   the potential actions which could be taken in the event that 
revenues are worse than expected, to ensure that operating 
profit and cash flows are protected; 
>   the Group has access to overdraft facilities and a committed 
bank facility to meet day-to-day working capital requirements. 
Following the refinancing of the bank facility in March 2009, the 
Group has committed bank facilities to July 2012. In April 2009 
the existing facility was reduced from £460m at March 2009 
to £305m. The facility will reduce to £250m in July 2010.
As at the date of this report, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the Annual report and financial statements for 
the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 have been prepared on 
the going concern basis.
By order of the Board
Carol Williams 
Company Secretary 
27 May 2009 41 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the remuneration committee’s report on 
directors’ remuneration for 2008/09, as well as for the forthcoming 
financial year and, subject to ongoing review, subsequent years.
This has been a year of unprecedented economic turmoil. 
However, the committee believes that it has appropriate pay 
practices in place and, during this time, the decisions made by 
the committee have been made with the objective of maintaining 
a coherent remuneration policy.
At the 2009 review, the committee awarded salary increases to 
executive directors that are consistent with general salary awards 
for the rest of the Company’s workforce.
The bonus targets set at the start of the year were applied, 
resulting in no bonus payout for the financial element of the 
bonus, despite a good financial result in the circumstances, 
and a modest payout on the personal element of bonus.
The 2008 awards under the Performance share plan (PSP) were 
made as contemplated in last year’s Annual report and accounts, 
except that the grants had to be delayed until early July because 
the Company was in a prohibited period at the beginning of 
the financial year. The TSR target for these awards was based 
on the Company’s share price in the month prior to grant.
Finally, in order to manage effectively the costs and risks of future 
pension provision, the Company decided to move from defined 
benefit to defined contribution provision for senior employees. 
The maximum Company contribution under the new defined 
contribution arrangement is 10% of salary and is intentionally 
below market norms for the executive population.
A resolution to vote for the Directors’ remuneration report will be 
put to the Annual general meeting. I hope that you will support 
this resolution.
Orna Ni-Chionna
Chair of the Remuneration committee
Remuneration report
1 Introduction
The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the 
requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. 
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the revised 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (‘the Combined Code’) and is 
prepared for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009.
This report to shareholders sets out the remuneration policy and 
explains the policy under which the executive and non-executive 
directors and management team were remunerated for the 
52 weeks ended 28 March 2009. It also provides details of the 
salary, incentives, share and pension interests of all the directors 
for the year and, subject to ongoing review by the remuneration 
committee, outlines remuneration policy for the forthcoming and 
subsequent years.
The auditors are required to report to the Company’s members 
on the audited element of the Directors’ remuneration report and 
to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Unaudited information
The information in this following section of the remuneration report 
has not been audited by the Company’s external auditors.
2 Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is a committee of the Board and 
the members, all of whom are independent, during the year were 
O G Ni-Chionna (Chair), R J S Bell, D T Nish, and A K Illsley. Details 
of attendance for the committee are provided in the Corporate 
governance review on page 33. At the invitation of the chair of 
the committee, the chief executive, the group finance director 
and group HR director attend committee meetings to provide 
background and context on matters relating to executive 
remuneration. A J Hobson is not a member but attends the 
committee by invitation. The secretary to the committee is 
C Williams, Company Secretary.
The role of the remuneration committee is to approve, implement 
and keep under review the remuneration policy and practice of 
the Group, and specifically to:
>  agree with the Board the framework and the value of the 
remuneration of the chairman, executive directors and senior 
managers;
>  agree the terms of the executive directors’ and company 
secretary’s service contracts and remuneration;
>  determine the nature and scale of short and long term 
performance incentive arrangements that drive high 
performance whilst rewarding individuals in a fair and reasonable 
manner for their contribution to the success of the Group. 42 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Remuneration report
continued
The committee regularly monitors and reviews the Company’s 
remuneration policy to ensure that the policy adopted continues 
to ensure that the remuneration of executive directors and senior 
managers is directly linked to, and supports the delivery of 
strategic objectives closely aligned to the interests of shareholders. 
This is achieved by the delivery of differentiated rewards 
dependent on performance. The measurement of an individual’s 
personal performance and delivery is determined by a set of 
rigorous individual performance measures aligned to the delivery 
of these strategic objectives, clearly linking pay to performance.
A significant proportion of an executive’s remuneration package 
is dependent on the attainment of demanding performance 
objectives, both short and long term. The annual bonus scheme 
is designed to incentivise and reward the achievement of 
demanding financial and business related objectives. Long term 
share based incentives are designed to align the interests of 
executive directors and other senior managers with the longer 
term interests of shareholders by rewarding them for delivering 
sustained increased shareholder value.
In agreeing the level of base salaries and the performance related 
elements of the remuneration package, the committee considers 
the potential maximum remuneration that executives could receive. 
The committee reviews the packages and varies individual 
elements when appropriate from year to year. The policy continues 
to reward senior managers at the relevant mid-market level for on 
target performance, whilst delivering highly competitive rewards for 
outstanding performance.
5 Remuneration policy for 
non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three 
years with the expectation that, subject to satisfactory performance, 
they will be invited to serve a second and third three year term. 
The dates of the chairman’s and current non-executive directors’ 
letters of engagement, the dates on which their appointment 
took effect and the current expiry dates are as follows:
 Date of Effective date Expiry date
 commencement of current term of current term
R J S Bell 1 Sep 05 1 Sept 08 31 Aug 11
A J Hobson  28 May 02 28 May 08 27 May 11
A K Illsley 2 Oct 06 2 Oct 06 1 Oct 09
O G Ni-Chionna 28 May 02 28 May 08 27 May 11
D T Nish 1 Jul 05 1 Jul 08 30 Jun 11
A K Illsley, whose letter of engagement expires on 1 October 2009, 
will be offered a further three year term of engagement, subject 
to confirmation by the Board that his performance continues to 
be effective.
The appointments of the chairman and the non-executive directors 
may be terminated by the Company on six months’ notice and 
by the relevant non-executive directors on three months’ notice. 
No compensation is payable by the Company on termination 
of an appointment with due notice.
In undertaking this role, the committee considers remuneration 
policy and rewards across the Company and not just at 
Board level.
The committee has been formally delegated the authority, by the 
Board, to establish policy in respect of all terms of employment 
for executive directors. No individual plays a part in any discussion 
about his or her remuneration.
It is the role of the committee to ensure that the Group’s 
remuneration policy and framework provides competitive reward 
for its executive directors and other senior managers, taking 
into account the Company’s performance, the markets in which 
it operates and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Board believes that a properly constituted remuneration 
committee is essential in establishing a system of remuneration 
which clearly aligns the interests of executive directors and 
senior managers with those of shareholders, and links incentives 
to improvements in the absolute performance and relative 
competitiveness of the Company. The committee’s terms 
of reference are published on the Company’s website.
3 Advisers to the remuneration committee
During the year the committee continued to engage the services 
of Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (‘HNBS’) to provide 
advice in the formulation of executive remuneration packages. 
HNBS provided no other services to the Company. However, 
Hewitt Associates Limited is the appointed scheme actuary to the 
principal Northern Foods UK pension schemes. HNBS operates 
separately from the rest of Hewitt and there are provisions in place 
to ensure that there is no crossover of information between the 
two teams. The committee retained DLA Piper UK LLP as solicitors 
to advise on matters relating to directors’ contracts and specific 
employment law advice. The committee appointed Pinsent Masons 
LLP to provide advice regarding the principal Northern Foods UK 
pension schemes. 
The company engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to act 
as advisers to management regarding the design of the pension 
arrangements available to both the executive directors and senior 
management population.
The committee identified no conflict in the nature of the services 
provided by its advisers. The terms of business of HNBS, DLA 
Piper UK LLP, Pinsent Masons LLP and PwC are available from 
the company secretary.
4 Remuneration policy
To deliver its objective of creating real increases in shareholder 
value relative to its peers, the Company needs to attract and retain 
the most talented and committed people in the industry, and 
create the right employment conditions and reward opportunities 
for them.
The Company’s remuneration policy is designed to support 
the recruitment, motivation and retention of such high calibre 
employees. Remuneration is considered within the context of the 
sector of which the Company is a part, and the wider FTSE 350 
community where the Company competes for talent. The sector 
includes companies operating as fast moving consumer goods 
(FMCG) companies. 43 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
The balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for 
2009/10, exclusive of pension and benefits, is illustrated below for 
the two executive directors. The table is a theoretical model and 
assumes that on target Group performance is achieved for short 
term incentives and the director’s individual performance, and that 
long term incentive awards under the PSP, with an initial value at 
the time of grant of 150% of salary, are valued at an expected value 
of 55% of the initial value. 
   Basic  Annual  Long term
   salary as a  bonus as a  incentives as a
   proportion of  proportion of proportion of
  Performance remuneration (%) remuneration (%) remuneration (%)
S Barden On Target 44.0% 19.7% 36.3%
  Maximum 28.6% 28.6% 42.9%
A M Booker On Target 44.0% 19.7% 36.3%
  Maximum 28.6% 28.6% 42.9%
6.1 Salary
Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually taking into 
account information from independent sources for comparable 
roles in the industry and in other selected quoted companies. 
Reviews also reflect the individual’s responsibilities, performance 
and development, and the Group’s performance. Basic salary is 
the only pensionable remuneration.
The executive directors’ current salaries effective as at 1 April 2009 
(before salary sacrifice in relation to Northern Foods Employees’ 
Self Invested Pension Plan (‘the SIPP’) membership) are: 
 Basic salary as at 1 April 2009
S Barden £486,400
A M Booker £291,840
For S Barden and A M Booker this represents an increase of 
2.4% over the prior year and is the average increase awarded 
to other members of senior management, consistent with the 
general salary awards for the rest of the Company’s workforce.
6.2 Annual incentive plan
The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual 
performance targets is a high priority for the executive directors. 
Incentive targets for executive directors are set each year by the 
committee to take account of current business plans.
The Company continues to be committed to driving a high 
performance culture at all levels in the business. To support this 
aim, the annual incentive plan drives differentiation in the level of 
award based upon the individual’s contribution to the delivery of 
Group performance. The target incentive for an executive director 
remains at 45% of basic salary for on target performance. In line 
with the Group’s ethos of pay for performance, in the case of 
exceptional individual performance and Group results significantly 
above operating plan, the executive can continue to expect to 
receive an incentive payment up to a maximum of 100% of basic 
salary representing a significant increase in reward in return for 
over performance.
Northern Foods’ policy regarding non-executive directors’ fees 
takes into account the need to attract individuals of the right 
calibre and experience and reflects the responsibilities and time 
commitments of the role. Fees for the non-executive directors 
are reviewed annually on the recommendation of the executive 
directors and the chairman and are then subject to approval 
by the Board. Fees are set with regard to a range of external 
information for equivalent companies. There are no other 
emoluments for non-executive directors, except where the 
Company meets authorised expenses incurred on the Company’s 
activities. They are not eligible for pension scheme membership 
and do not participate in any of the Company’s annual or long 
term incentive schemes. 
Fees were reviewed in 2008 and a decision was taken to increase 
the basic fees of the non-executive directors to £38,500 per annum 
and to increase the chairman’s fee to £150,000 per annum. These 
fee increases were implemented effective 1 June 2008, and fees 
will remain unchanged in 2009.
6 Remuneration policy for executive directors 
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the Company’s 
executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the Group’s performance. The committee’s policy 
is to offer differentiated remuneration packages, clearly linked to 
both individual and business performance, which are capable 
of attracting, retaining and motivating executive directors of high 
calibre, providing both short and long term focus for the business. 
The approach is designed to ensure that the Company is 
managed effectively for the benefit of shareholders and will 
create real increases in shareholder value. 
The committee seeks to align the remuneration of executive 
directors with that of the wider Northern Foods senior management 
team. The committee’s objective is to achieve a structured and 
balanced remuneration package. 
The committee believes that a significant proportion of the total 
remuneration of an executive director should be performance 
related. Accordingly, a rigorous approach has been adopted 
to the assessment of individual performance, whereby significant 
emphasis is placed upon the individual’s contribution to 
the Group’s overall performance. This is to ensure that the 
remuneration package for executive directors is aligned closely 
with shareholder interests and individual performance. 
The four main components of the ongoing remuneration package 
for executive directors and senior management in 2009/10 are:
>   basic annual salary, targeted at market median within the 
sectors where we compete for talent, although it is recognised 
that it may occasionally be necessary to pay above this to 
attract sufficiently high calibre executives;
>  an annual incentive plan, based upon the delivery of annual 
operating plans for the Group and individual strategic 
objectives described in performance contracts;
>  participation in long term incentive plans based upon the 
delivery of sustainable high performance;
>  pension and other benefits. 44 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Remuneration report
continued
6.3.1 Performance share plan 2007
As part of the development of the Group’s senior executive 
incentive strategy and in order to further align the interests of 
executives and shareholders through the use of greater variable 
reward, the committee introduced the PSP in 2007/08.
In terms of quantum, participants may be granted annual awards 
over shares in the Company worth no more than 200% of base 
salary. In practice, the committee intends to operate within a limit 
of 150% of salary for awards made under the PSP. 
The committee believes that the performance conditions for the 
PSP reinforce the alignment of the interests of senior executives 
with those of shareholders. The benefits available to participants 
of the PSP only accrue to them when the Company has delivered 
significant benefits to shareholders over a fixed three year period. 
Awards vest three years after grant, subject to the extent to which 
demanding performance conditions have been achieved by the 
end of a single three year period. Two performance conditions 
determine the vesting of awards. These are based on growth in 
the Company’s return on invested capital (ROIC) and its absolute 
total shareholder return (TSR) performance. Each determines the 
vesting of one half of each award.
6.3.1.1 Return on invested capital 
The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference 
to a vesting scale, as follows:
 Percentage of the total number
Growth in ROIC over the of performance shares under
performance period an award that will vest
Less than 100 basis points 0%
100 basis points 7.5%
Between 100 basis points Straight line vesting between
and 200 basis points 7.5% and 50%
200 basis points or more 50%
For the purpose of determining any reward, ROIC is defined as 
profit from operations before restructuring items (adjusted to 
exclude any non-service charge element of pension costs), divided 
by average invested capital. Average invested capital is calculated 
as the sum of net equity (adjusted to exclude retirement benefit 
obligation, net of deferred tax thereon), net debt and accumulated 
goodwill previously written off.
In response to any significant events, including material trading 
events, the committee may at its discretion amend the 
performance conditions to reflect these changes. In addition, 
the ROIC element will only vest if the committee is satisfied that 
the investment level over the performance period was appropriate 
for ensuring the business’ long term growth.
Under the annual incentive plan, 80% of annual bonus opportunity 
is linked to Group financial targets in the form of profit before tax 
and restructuring items. The other 20% is directly related to the 
committee’s assessment of the directors’ individual performances 
against their personal performance contracts. These contracts 
are set at the start of the financial year and contain six individual 
performance targets, achievement of which is integral to the 
performance of the business. These are considered appropriately 
stretching by the committee. 
The level of profit before tax and restructuring items achieved 
in 2008/09 was £47.5m, which was below that required to trigger 
payment under the profit element of bonus. The committee 
determined that the individual performance measures had 
been satisfactorily met to trigger payment under the personal 
element of bonus. A payment equivalent of 15% of salary was 
awarded to S Barden. A M Booker received a payment equivalent 
of 10% of salary pro-rated to reflect length of service in the 
performance period.
The targets set for 2009/10 continue to be made up of financial, 
business and individual performance measures. The financial 
element is set in terms of the Group’s performance based on 
profit before tax and restructuring items, and performance versus 
operating plan. The business and individual elements comprise 
a number of commercially sensitive strategic objectives for each 
individual and the executive team, encompassing both financial 
and non-financial targets such as economic, environmental and 
social targets. 
The performance targets selected are considered appropriately 
stretching by the committee.
6.3 Long term incentive share plans
The Company’s long term incentive policy has been developed 
to provide long term management focus and motivation, creating 
a clear link between sustainable business performance and an 
executive’s reward. The committee believes that a significant 
element of executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery 
of long term returns for shareholders.
During 2007 the committee introduced, and shareholders 
approved, the PSP (details set out under section 6.3.1) to act as 
the primary vehicle for the delivery of long term incentives across 
the Group. 45 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
6.4 Savings-related share option scheme
The Company introduced an HMRC approved Savings-related 
share option scheme (the ‘Scheme’) for all employees during 
2007/08. This Scheme is open to all employees (subject to 
eligibility), including executive directors. Options are normally 
exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant. 
In accordance with HMRC requirements, there are limits on the 
number of shares which could be issued under the Scheme. In 
addition, the use of new issue shares under the Scheme is limited 
to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company, taking account 
of shares issued or to be issued under any other Company 
employee share schemes over the previous ten year period. 
A grant was made under the Scheme in December 2007. The 
price at which options were offered was not less than 80% of the 
middle market price on the dealing day immediately preceding 
the date of invitation. To date no further invitations have been 
offered under this Scheme.
6.5 Executive shareholding 
Executives’ interest in both relative and absolute share price 
performance is important, and this is facilitated by share 
schemes and the encouragement to build a significant personal 
shareholding in the Company. 
The Company has introduced a policy requiring the executive 
directors to build a significant level of shareholding. It is the 
view of the committee that the act of building and maintaining 
a substantial shareholding in the Company creates a strong 
alignment of interest between shareholders and executives.
6.5.1 Minimum shareholding requirements
The Company’s minimum shareholding policy requires 
the retention of a value of shares as follows:
>  300% of basic salary for the chief executive;
> 200% of basic salary for other executive directors.
Executives are expected to retain all shares acquired through 
share option plans, long term incentive plans or deferred share 
plans (other than those sold to meet income tax and national 
insurance contribution (NIC) liabilities) until the required minimum 
shareholding is achieved. 
The number/value of shares required as the minimum share 
holding is fixed for each year. No purchases are required to 
respond to share price falls during the year.
6.3.1.2 Total shareholder return
In order to focus executives on delivering outstanding returns to 
shareholders, the committee has decided to set the TSR targets 
in terms of improvement measured from the Company’s share 
price normally averaged over the three months immediately prior 
to the beginning of the financial year. 
The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference 
to the following scale:
 Percentage of the total number
TSR at the end of the of performance shares under
performance period an award that will vest
Less than 30% growth  Nil
30% growth 7.5%
Between 30% growth Straight line vesting between
and 80% growth 7.5% and 50% 
Growth of 80% or more 
(equivalent to a share price 
plus dividends of £2.23 or more)  50%
The base prices, threshold and maximum TSR for each award 
(expressed as share price plus dividends) are as follows:
   2007/08 2008/09 2009/10
Base price  £1.24 £0.659
1
 £0.531
Threshold (30% growth) £1.61 £0.857 £0.690
Maximum (80% growth) £2.23 £1.186 £0.955
1
The awards made in July 2008 were subject to a TSR 
performance condition requiring growth from the one month 
average share price at the date of awards of 65.9p which was 
above the actual share price at grant. The committee had originally 
contemplated using a base figure calculated at the end of the 
preceding financial year but, in view of delays in making the 
award because the Company was in a prohibited period and 
the turbulent state of the Stock Market at the time, it concluded 
that it was more appropriate to use the average share price over 
the month prior to the actual award. 
The TSR will be calculated using the closing return indices over 
the final three months of the performance period. 
In addition, the TSR element will only vest to the extent that the 
committee is satisfied that the Company’s TSR over the period is 
reflective of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Awards vest on a change of control or cessation of employment 
under ‘good leaver’ provisions, subject to the performance 
conditions having been met pro-rata, and are normally reduced 
to reflect the shortened performance period.
The committee intends to make further awards in 2009 in 
accordance with its policy of awarding shares worth around 150% 
of salary to executive directors with similar performance conditions 
to those set out above. A proportion of PSP awards will be made 
using HMRC approved options in order to secure potential tax 
and national insurance savings available for such awards within 
the HMRC limit of £30,000. 46 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Remuneration report
continued
6.6 Benefits
In addition to basic salary, all the executive directors receive 
certain benefits, principally a car or car allowance, private medical 
insurance and a pension.
6.6.1 Pensions
Prior to 1 April 2009, the executive directors were members 
of Northern Foods Pension Builder (‘Pension Builder’). Their 
dependents were eligible for dependents’ pensions and the 
payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service. 
For all employees, including the executive directors, appointed 
after 22 March 2005, the pension arrangements provided by 
Pension Builder for pension on retirement at age 65 are based 
upon a career average accrual of either:
>  1.25% of annual salary per annum revalued, before retirement, 
by inflation up to 5.0%, with an employee contribution of 6.0%; or
>  1.0% of annual salary per annum revalued, before retirement, 
by inflation up to 5.0%, with an employee contribution of 4.5%.
In January 2009, the Company entered into a consultation 
process with the leadership population whereby the Company 
proposed a move from the established defined benefit pension 
arrangements to an alternative pension plan, the Northern Foods 
Employees’ Self Invested Personal Pension Plan (‘the SIPP’), a 
defined contribution pension arrangement operated by Legal and 
General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd. Following completion 
of the consultation process, the Company took the decision 
to implement the proposal and the leadership population was 
offered membership of the SIPP in respect of service from 1 April 
2009. Whether or not an individual accepts membership of the 
SIPP, no further accruals will be made under Pension Builder.
For all eligible employees, including the executive directors, 
participating in the SIPP, the Company supplements a core 
employee contribution of 5% of pensionable earnings with 
a Company contribution of 10% of pensionable earnings.
Members of the SIPP are also eligible to join the Northern Foods 
Life Assurance Scheme where, subject to the terms of the Life 
Assurance Scheme, their dependants are eligible for a lump sum 
payment in the event of a member’s death in service.
The design of the new SIPP serves to strengthen further the link 
between an executive’s performance and reward. Executives 
have the opportunity to invest any awards received through the 
Northern Foods Short Term Incentive Plan into the SIPP, potentially, 
subject to the investment performance of the scheme, increasing 
their fund value. Executives also receive the benefit of the National 
Insurance savings made by the Company (currently 12.8% of the 
total award), which are invested into the SIPP on their behalf.
The SIPP has an optional salary sacrifice arrangement.
Following the removal of the pension’s earnings cap and the 
introduction of the lifetime allowance under the Finance Act 2004, 
with effect from 6 April 2006, the Company provides executives 
who hold pension benefits in excess of the lifetime allowance 
with the following options:
>    continue to accrue pension under the SIPP (previously 
Pension Builder) subject to the recovery charge; or 
>  a cash alternative, paid on a monthly basis, reflecting the 
Company’s contribution rate to the SIPP (previously Pension 
Builder). The cash alternative for executive directors who 
are members of the SIPP will be 10% of basic salary.
6.7 Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors should have 
secure agreements, providing for a maximum of one year’s notice. 
The contracts of A M Booker and S Barden are terminable upon 
six months’ notice by the executive director and one year’s notice 
by the Company.
In the event of early termination, the contracts of S Barden and 
A M Booker provide for compensation up to a maximum of 
basic salary, together with continued provision or payment of a 
sum equal to the fair value of the car allowance, private medical 
insurance, permanent health cover and outstanding Working Time 
Regulation holiday.
The details of the contracts are summarised in the table below:
Table 1 Date of contract Notice period
S Barden 30 May 2007 12 months by the Company
 and 6 months by S Barden
A M Booker 13 October 2008 12 months by the Company
 and 6 months by A M Booker
J K Maiden 5 September 2005 12 months by both parties
To protect the interests of the Company and its shareholders, 
the executive directors’ contracts contain restrictive covenants, 
the principal terms of which prevent the executive directors:
>   undertaking work for direct competitors, either during 
their employment with the Company or within nine months 
of their employment terminating, without the express permission 
of the Board;
>   enticing away from the Group individuals or customers with 
whom the executive directors had material contact with or 
responsibility for in the 12 months prior to termination; and
>   enticing away from the Group or employing senior or middle 
managers from within the business with whom the executive 
directors had direct contact or knowledge in the 12 months prior 
to termination.
J K Maiden gave the Company his notice of resignation on 
22 June 2008 and continued to work full time until 14 November 
2008, being responsible for the finance function throughout this 
period as well as a number of strategic initiatives, including the 
significant changes to the Company’s pension arrangements. 
He continued to receive his salary and contractual benefits until 
his departure but received no compensation for loss of office or 
other termination payment and all unvested share awards lapsed 
on his departure. He remained eligible to be considered for 
an annual bonus for the period he worked. Consistent with the 
other executive directors, he received no payment in respect of 
the financial targets and was awarded £40,631 in relation to his 
personal element. 47 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
TSR
250
200
150
100
50
0
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Financial period end
Northern Foods  FTSE 250 Index
7 Performance graph
In accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the 
Companies Act 1985, the graph adjacent shows the Company’s 
five year performance measured by TSR, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE 250 Index also measured by TSR.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate 
comparison because it represents a broad equity market index, 
of which Northern Foods is a constituent.
TSR measures share price growth with any dividends deemed 
to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date. The TSR shown 
is based on daily spot prices.
Audited information
The information in this following section of the Remuneration report has been audited by the Company’s external auditors.
8  Directors’ remuneration and pension entitlements
8.1 Emoluments
Table 2 shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration for the individual directors who held office 
during the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009. Pension entitlements are shown in Table 3 and interests under the Company’s Long term 
incentive plans and Deferred share bonus plan are disclosed in the sections covering share awards on pages 48 to 52.
    Accrued Compensation  
  Salary/  annual for loss  
  fees Benefits bonus of office Total Total
Table 2 
  2008/09 2008/09
1
 2008/09 2008/09 2008/09 2007/08
Directors’ remuneration  £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive directors
S Barden
2
   461,450 576 71,250 – 533,276 836,247
A M Booker
2
   135,274 240 13,254 – 148,768 –
J K Maiden
2
   231,998 11,848 40,631 – 284,477  650,372
Non-executive directors
R J S Bell
3
   38,208 – – – 38,208 36,458
A J Hobson   148,667 – – – 148,667 142,000
A K Illsley
3
   38,208 – – – 38,208 36,458
O G Ni-Chionna
3
   50,208 – – – 50,208 47,792
D T Nish
3
   45,208 – – – 45,208 43,292
Notes to Table 2
Note 1
Benefits include medical insurance and company car.
Note 2
The salaries are net of salary sacrifice in relation to Pension Builder membership. The salary paid to J K Maiden included a 
non-pensionable salary supplement in lieu of pension contribution of £40,603. Where a cash car allowance is taken in lieu of 
company car, this is included as salary.
Note 3
From 1 June 2008 the fee payable to non-executive directors was increased to £38,500. The additional annual fees of £7,000 paid 
to the chairs of the audit and remuneration committees and of £5,000 to the senior independent director were not increased. The 
chairman’s fee was increased to £150,000. These increases were intended to bring the fees of the non-executive directors into line 
with those of non-executives in companies of a similar size in the food and beverage industry and in the general industry as a whole. 
No increases will be awarded during 2009.
TSR Performance index comparison
Northern Foods TSR compared to FTSE Mid 250 – 
1 April 2004 to 1 April 2009 48 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Remuneration report
continued
8.2 Pension benefits
       Transfer   
       value   
  Accrued    Accrued of real   Increase in
  pension   Additional pension increase in Transfer Transfer transfer
  as at Real  pension as at year less value value value
  29 March increase  earned 28 March directors’ 29 March 28 March directors’
Table 3 
  2008 in year Inflation in year  2009 
2
 contributions 2008
3
 2009 
3
 contributions
Directors’ pension entitlements Notes £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
S Barden 1 10,316 5,600 516 6,116 16,432 39,472 75,961 115,835 39,874
A M Booker 1 – 1,484 0 1,484 1,484 8,978 – 8,978 8,978
J K Maiden 1 9,772 2,269 489 2,758 12,530 17,274 77,526 95,392 17,866
Notes to Table 3
Note 1
The Company provided executive directors who were members of Pension Builder up to 1 April 2009 with a pension payable at age 65. 
The accrual rates and member contributions for the scheme are set out in section 6.6.1. Death in service cover was a lump sum of 
three times annual earnings. On the death of a director or a retired director, a spouse’s pension of 50% would be payable.
Early retirement may be granted with the consent of the Company and the Trustee of the scheme from age 55 but benefits are 
reduced by 4% per annum for ages 55 up to 64 years. Once in payment, pensions are increased in line with Retail Price Index inflation 
up to a ceiling of 2.5% per annum. The Trustee, with the consent of the Company, has discretion to apply such greater increase as it 
considers appropriate.
Note 2
The accrued pension at 28 March 2009 is the pension which the director would have been entitled to receive based on completed 
pensionable service to 28 March 2009, payable from normal pension date and subject to revaluation increases between leaving 
and retirement.
Note 3
The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 29 March 2008 and at 28 March 2009 and are calculated as at 29 March 2008 
and at 28 March 2009 respectively based on actuarial factors. The transfer values are the lump sums which would have been paid to 
another pension scheme for the benefit of the director if they left service at the respective dates. A transfer value cannot be paid to a 
director personally.
8.3 Long term incentive plans
8.3.1 Executive share option plan 2004 (ESOP)
Details of grants, exercises and lapses of options for individual executive directors under the ESOP are as follows:
       Balance at Exercised Granted Lapsed Balance at
    Option Date from  29 March during during during 28 March
Table 4 
   Date of price which Expiry 2008 year year year 2009
Executive share options
1
   grant (p) exercisable date (number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
S Barden   04 Jul 06 79.67 04 Jul 09 03 Jul 16 37,655 – – – 37,655
   04 Jul 06 79.67 04 Jul 09 03 Jul 16 376,554 – – – 376,554
       414,209 – – – 414,209
J K Maiden   14 Dec 05 153.33 14 Dec 08 13 Dec 15 19,565 – – 19,565 –
   14 Dec 05 153.33 14 Dec 08 13 Dec 15 151,634 – – 151,634 –
   04 Jul 06 79.67 04 Jul 09 03 Jul 16 414,209 – – 414,209 –
       585,408 – – 585,408 – 49 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Notes to Table 4
Note 1
These options were granted under the ESOP and are subject to a performance condition measured by reference to growth adjusted 
earnings per share over three years in excess of RPI as set out below:
>  3% real annual growth in earnings per share: allocations up to 100% of salary;
>  4% real annual growth in earnings per share: allocations between 100–149% of salary vest;
> 5% real annual growth in earnings per share: allocations between 150–199% of salary vest;
>  6% real annual growth in earnings per share: allocations at 200% of salary vest.
The performance condition does not allow for retesting.
Participation in the Company’s ESOP is at the discretion of the committee. The plan comprises an HMRC approved section and an 
unapproved section. Options are generally exercisable in the seven year period following the third anniversary of grant and before the 
tenth anniversary, provided that the executive remains in employment and subject to satisfaction of the performance condition. Should 
an employee leave the organisation by virtue of redundancy or retirement, the requirement under the performance condition remains 
in place. Company performance is measured on a pro-rated basis to assess the extent to which it has been met. 
Note
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares at 28 March 2009 was 51p (29 March 2008: 92.50p) and the range during the year was 
42p to 95p.
8.3.2 Long term incentive plan 1997 (LTIP)
Details of the awards made under the LTIP are as follows:
      Shares   
      released   
    Beneficial Conditional by the Awards Shares Beneficial Conditional
1
    interest at interest at nominee made lapsed interest at interest at
Table 5 
    29 March 29 March during during during 28 March 28 March
Executive long term incentive plan    2008 2008 the year the year the year 2009 2009
S Barden    – 93,750 – – – – 93,750
J K Maiden    – 128,176 – – 128,176 – –
    – 221,926 – – 128,176 – 93,750
Notes to Table 5
Note 1
The interest in shares at 28 March 2009 for Stefan Barden is comprised of an award made on 4 July 2006. The shares will vest after 
three years from the date of grant, subject to performance conditions. The market price of the shares at the date of grant for this award 
was 80.00p.
Note 2
Vesting of awards is determined by performance against two performance conditions:
>   Vesting of 50% of the LTIP is triggered by comparing the growth in TSR, in terms of share price growth and dividends, to that of 
the TSR of the companies comprising a selected group of comparable companies from the FTSE Food Producers All Share Index. 
>   The remaining 50% is triggered by the achievement of a minimum growth in ROIC of 100 basis points over three years, measured 
against a base year. If the minimum target is not achieved this part of the conditional award will lapse.
Shares awarded under the LTIP are retained in trust on behalf of the participants for a further two years after vesting. During the 
retention period the participants are entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the nominee how to vote. The performance 
measurement date is the three year period from the commencement of the financial year in which the award was made. 50 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
8.3.3 Performance share plan 2007 (PSP)
The committee has awarded shares under the PSP conditional upon the achievement of corporate performance targets in accordance 
with section 6.3.1, as follows:
       Market Awards  
      Maximum price transferred  
     Conditional potential of the by the Awards Conditional
     interest at award shares at nominee lapsed interest at
Table 6 
     29 March granted date of during during 28 March
Performance share plan     2008 2008
1
 grant (p) the year the year 2009 
2
S Barden     683,544 779,984 57.00 – – 1,463,528
A M Booker     – 233,995 55.75 – – 233,995
J K Maiden     481,581 – – – 481,581 –
     1,165,125 1,013,979  – 481,581 1,697,523
Notes to Table 6
Note 1
The award for Stefan Barden was made on 4 July 2008, the award made to Andrew Booker was made on 9 December 2008 following 
his appointment as group finance director.
Note 2
The interest in shares at 28 March 2009 for Stefan Barden includes an award made on 29 August 2007. 
The shares awarded under the PSP will vest after three years from the date of grant, subject to performance conditions being met, 
further details are set out in section 6.3.1.
8.3.4 Award of matching shares to S Barden
The committee granted a one off award of matching shares on 4 June 2007 pursuant to the exemption from the need for prior 
shareholder approval contained in Listing Rule 9.4.2.
     Maximum Market price  Awards  
     potential of the  transferred  
     award shares at Conditional by the Awards Conditional
     granted date of interest at nominee lapsed interest at
Table 7 
     4 June grant 29 March during during 28 March
Matching share award     2007 (p) 2008 the year the year 2009
1
S Barden     1,040,460 129.75 1,040,460 – – 1,040,460
Notes to Table 7
Note 1
As part of the terms of his recruitment as chief executive, (and fully disclosed in the 2006/07 Annual report), S Barden was provided 
with the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company worth up to 100% of his salary and in return receive an award of matching 
shares of up to three shares for every one share purchased. The matching award is non-pensionable and non-transferable (other than 
on death).
Note 2
The performance conditions attached to the matching award are the same as those that apply to the first PSP award detailed in section 
6.3.1, save that threshold vesting of the TSR element will not occur unless the Company achieves growth in TSR of 35% over the relevant 
period. Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment, other than in specified good leaver circumstances, in which case awards 
would normally vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions have been met and pro-rating.
Half of the matching award will vest on the third anniversary of grant with the other half vesting on the fourth anniversary of grant in 
each case to the extent that the performance conditions are met and providing S Barden retains the purchased shares and remains 
employed by the Group. To the extent that the award vests the relevant shares will be delivered free of charge.
Remuneration report
continued 51 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
8.4 Deferred share bonus plan 2006 (DSBP)
This table relates to the DSBP introduced in June 2006 which was subject to a one year performance period.
        Awards  
        transferred  
      Beneficial Awards by the Awards Beneficial
      interest at granted nominee lapsed interest at
Table 8 
      29 March during during during 28 March
Deferred share bonus plan      2008 the year the year the year 2009
S Barden      366,972 – – – 366,972
J K Maiden      376,146 – – 376,146 –
      743,118 – – 376,146 366,972
Notes to Table 8
Note 1
The DSBP was introduced in June 2006 so as to incentivise and retain the key talent necessary to drive the specific performance 
improvements required to deliver the business strategy at that time. The DSBP provided a small number of key senior executives with 
an award of shares with a value up to 100% of base salary, at the prevailing market price of 81.75 pence per share on the 13 July 2006. 
These shares will be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares held in trust after the vesting date in July 2009.
The executives were required to remain in the employment of the Group for a further two year period before any share award vested. 
Awards will transfer after the vesting date on 13 July 2009 and include a dividend equivalent which will be paid on vesting. No further 
awards can be made under this plan.
8.5 Savings-related share option scheme
This table relates to the Savings-related share option scheme launched in November 2007. Full details are set out in section 6.4.
      Balance at Exercised Granted Lapsed Balance at
    Date  29 March during during during 28 March
Table 9 
  Date of Option from which Expiry 2008 year the year the year 2009
Savings-related share options  grant price (p) exercisable date (number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
S Barden  20 Dec 07 76.00 1 Mar 11 31 Aug 11 11,166 – – – 11,166
J K Maiden  20 Dec 07 76.00 1 Mar 11 31 Aug 11 11,166 – – 11,166 –
Note to Table 9
Note 1
The share options listed were granted at 80% of the prevailing middle market share price under the Northern Foods plc Savings-related 
share option scheme, which was approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual general meeting in July 2007. Consistent with the 
relevant legislation, there are no pre-vest performance conditions.
8.6 Dilution Limits 
Northern Foods’ share plans comply with recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has always operated within 
these limits. Assuming none of the extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having included all exercised options, the Company 
has utilised 2.9% of the 10% in ten years and 0.68% of the 5% in ten years, of the dilution limits, in accordance with the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI) guidance on dilution limits.
8.7 Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The total amount of directors’ remuneration and other benefits was as follows:
Table 10
        2007/08 2008/09
Directors’ aggregate remuneration       £ £
Emoluments       1,950,802 1,287,020
Gains on exercise of options and award of performance share plan shares    – –
        1,950,802 1,287,020 52 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Remuneration report
continued
8.8 Directors’ interests in shares 
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company at 29 March 2008 and 28 March 2009 are detailed below.
  Ordinary shares
1
 Share options Conditional awards SAYE – share options 
  (number) (number) (number)
2
 (number)
Table 11 
  Description 29 March 28 March 29 March 28 March 29 March 28 March 29 March 28 March
Directors’ interests in shares  of interest  2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009
Executive directors
S Barden  Beneficial 910,043 1,736,001 414,209 414,209 2,184,726 2,964,710 11,166 11,166
A M Booker  Beneficial – 250,000 – – – 233,995 – –
J K Maiden  Beneficial 64,387 – 585,408 – 985,903 – 11,166 –
Non-executive directors
R J S Bell  Beneficial 100,000 100,000 – – – – – –
A J Hobson  Beneficial 30,000 30,000 – – – – – –
A K Illsley  – – – – – – – – –
O G Ni-Chionna  Beneficial 25,000 25,000 – – – – – –
D T Nish  – – – – – – – – –
Notes to Table 11
Note 1
This includes beneficial interests in ordinary shares, together with beneficial interests under the Share bonus plan.
Note 2
This includes conditional awards made under the LTIP, the PSP and DSBP. In the case of S Barden the total also includes shares under 
the matching share award.
At 28 March 2009 the executive directors of Northern Foods, as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods ESOT, were interested 
in 7,682,843 (2007/08: 6,697,363) ordinary shares held by the trustee. 
By order of the Board
Orna Ni-Chionna
Chair of the Remuneration committee
27 May 2009 53 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Other statutory and regulatory information
Principal activity
The principal activity of Northern Foods remains unchanged as 
one of the UK’s leading food producers, manufacturing a mix of 
own label and branded products for retailers. Reporting under 
three divisions; Chilled, Frozen and Bakery, the Group operates 
in five businesses primarily producing chilled Ready Meals, chilled 
Sandwiches & Salads, Biscuits, Puddings, Pizza, Pastry, Meat and 
Meat-free Grills.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 1.55 pence per share was paid to 
shareholders on 30 January 2009 and the directors recommend 
a final dividend of 2.95 pence per share, subject to shareholders’ 
approval, which will be paid on 28 August 2009 to shareholders 
on the register on 31 July 2009. The total dividend in respect 
of the year amounts to 4.50 pence per share (2007/08: 4.50p). 
In accordance with IFRS the final dividend has not been accrued 
in the results to 28 March 2009. 
Directors 
The following were directors of the Company during the year:
S Barden
R J S Bell*
A M Booker  (appointed 17 November 2008)
A J Hobson*
A K Illsley*
J K Maiden  (resigned 14 November 2008)
O G Ni-Chionna*
D T Nish*
* non-executive directors
Directors’ biographical details are set out on page 32.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are 
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’), 
and on page 34 of the Corporate governance section of this 
report. Under the Articles, and the provisions of the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance, any director appointed to the 
Board must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general 
meeting following their appointment and directors are required to 
stand for re-election in the third calendar year following the year of 
their appointment. Under these provisions A M Booker is required 
to stand for election and S Barden and R J S Bell for re-election 
at this year’s Annual general meeting.
The executive directors’ service contracts are referred to in 
the Remuneration report set out on pages 41 to 52. The executive 
directors’ service contracts are terminable by the Company 
giving one year’s notice.
Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial 
interest in any contract to which the Company, or any of its 
subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
Details of the remuneration of individual directors, and their 
interests in the share capital of the Company, are shown in 
the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
Indemnity of directors and officers
The Company’s Articles include provisions for the indemnity 
of directors, the company secretary and other officers of 
the Company to the extent permitted by law. This permits the 
Company to provide indemnities to cover defence costs in civil 
and criminal proceedings. The director, employee or officer would 
still be liable to pay damages and to repay defence costs to the 
Company if his/her defence was unsuccessful. The Company has 
executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the 
Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their 
capacity as directors of the Company or associated companies. 
These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in 
force at the date of approval of this report. Copies of the deeds 
of indemnity are available to shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office.
Structure of share capital
As at 28 March 2009, the Company’s authorised share capital 
comprises ordinary shares of 25 pence each nominal value. 
All of the Company’s issued ordinary shares are fully paid up 
and rank equally in all respects. The rights attached to them, 
in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out 
in the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from 
the company secretary.
Details of the issued, ordinary share capital of the Company 
and movements during the year are set out in note 28 to the 
Consolidated financial statements. During both the current and 
prior period, the Company did not issue any shares.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary 
share held. Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the 
Articles, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where 
declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Treasury shares
As at the date of this report 45,461,961 ordinary shares were held 
in treasury. The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance 
with Companies Acts and, in particular, the voting rights attaching 
to these shares are automatically suspended.
Restrictions on transfer of securities
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on 
the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except (i) where 
the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights 
or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder 
or any person interested in them to provide the Company with 
information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the 
Companies Act 2006; or (ii) where their holder is precluded from 
exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing 
Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. 54 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Other statutory and regulatory information
continued
Powers of the directors
The directors’ authority to effect purchases of the Company’s 
shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution of shareholders and 
is renewed annually at the Company’s Annual general meeting. 
At the Annual general meeting in 2007, shareholders authorised 
the Company to purchase up to 49,220,947 of its own shares. This 
authority concluded at the Annual general meeting in 2008. A total 
of 23,546,961 shares were purchased between 19 December 2007 
and 22 July 2008 for an average share price of 69.09 pence 
per share and representing 5.02% of the Company’s issued 
share capital as at 28 March 2009. The repurchased shares 
were placed in treasury. At the date of this report, no shares 
have been purchased under the authority granted at the 
Annual general meeting in 2008, to make market purchases 
up to a further 10% of the Company’s shares.
At the forthcoming Annual general meeting, the Company will 
be seeking authority again to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary 
shares, although at present the directors have no plans to buy back 
any further shares. It is, however, considered prudent to have 
the authority in place in order that the Company is able to act 
at short notice if circumstances warrant.
At the Annual general meeting held in July 2008, the directors 
were given the power to issue new shares up to an amount of 
£40,416,885. This power will expire at the conclusion of the Annual 
general meeting on 15 July 2009. Accordingly, a resolution will be 
proposed to renew the Company’s authority to issue further new 
shares. In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued 
by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), the proposed new 
authority will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares equal 
to an amount of up to one third of the Company’s existing issued 
ordinary share capital plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights 
issue only, a further amount of up to an additional one third of the 
Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital.
The powers of the directors are conferred on them by UK 
legislation and the Articles. Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by shareholders passing a special resolution at a 
general meeting. 
Northern Foods employee share ownership trust (the ‘ESOT’)
The ESOT holds ordinary shares in the Company (acquired in the 
market) in order to meet obligations under the Northern Foods plc 
Performance share plan or to provide similar employee benefits. 
A further one million shares were purchased on 10 March 2009. 
The trustees have waived their right to receive dividends in respect 
of the ordinary shares held by the trust.
At the end of the year, 7,682,843 shares were held in the ESOT, 
representing 1.64% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company. The trustees of the ESOT may vote or abstain from 
voting shares held in the trust in any way they see fit. 
Restrictions on voting deadlines
The Notice of general meeting will specify the deadline for 
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote 
in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting. 
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect 
of each resolution are announced via an RNS and published 
on the Company’s website after the meeting.
Change of control – significant agreements
The Company is party to significant agreements, including 
commercial contracts, financial and property agreements, and 
employees’ share plans, which contain certain termination and 
other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control 
of the Company. Should the counterparties choose to exercise 
their rights under the arrangements on a change of control, such 
arrangements would need to be renegotiated. None of these are 
considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. There are no agreements 
between any Group company and any of its employees or any 
director of the Company which provide for compensation to be 
paid to the employee or director for termination of employment 
or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the 
Company, other than provisions that would apply on any 
termination of employment.
Employees and employee involvement
Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees seriously 
and places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made 
by employees at all levels. The Company recognises the value 
of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and 
responsive environment in which to work. It places considerable 
importance on communications with employees, which occur 
throughout the organisation on both a formal and informal 
basis. The Group’s policy is to provide opportunities for active 
participation and personal development, with the goals of 
motivating individuals and helping them to enhance their skills 
and maximise their potential.
The Group is committed to:
>  providing equality of opportunity for all existing and potential 
employees. It aims to treat all of its employees fairly in every 
aspect of employment;
>  ensuring that employees have access to information that 
enables them to contribute and participate fully in the Group’s 
achievement of its objectives;
>  providing employees with clear and fair terms of employment 
and competitive remuneration packages.
The Company encourages involvement in the Company’s 
performance in a variety of ways, including senior management 
briefings and via the Company’s intranet. The philosophy of 
encouraging employees to contribute to the performance 
of the Group is reinforced by a number of incentive schemes. 
A new savings-related share option scheme was approved by 
shareholders at the Annual general meeting in 2007. The first 
invitation, aimed at maximising employees’ involvement and 
interest in the success of the Company as a whole through 
share ownership, was successfully launched in November 2007. 55 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Further information about our employment practices and our 
commitment to learning and development can be found in 
the Corporate social responsibility review on pages 26 to 31.
Disabled persons
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, 
every effort is made to ensure their employment with the Group 
continues and appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of 
the Group that training, career development and promotion of 
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that 
of other employees.
Significant direct and indirect holders of securities
At the date of this report the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following interests in 3% or more of the total voting 
rights in the issued share capital of the Company:
 % of total voting rights
Standard Life Investments Limited 11.26%
GAM International Investment Management Limited 7.32%
Odey Asset Management 6.56%
Barclays plc and group companies 5.47%
UBS AG 4.78%
Legal & General Group plc 4.60%
Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 4.01%
Allianz SE 4.00%
Supplier payment policy
It is the Company’s policy that payments to suppliers are made 
in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between 
the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms 
and conditions have been met. Suppliers were paid on average 
52 days from receipt of invoice, in line with the Group’s standard 
payment terms (2007/08: 49 days).
Research and development
Throughout the year the Company invested across the business 
in product development and research, further details are set 
out in the Performance review. These costs comprise all directly 
attributable costs necessary to create and produce new products 
which are both brand new in design and those being modified.
Financial instruments
Information on the Group’s financial risk management objectives 
and policies, and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks 
in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading 
‘Risks and uncertainties’ on pages 12 and 13 of the Performance 
review and in note 25 of the financial statements.
Auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the 
Company at the date when this report was approved:
>  so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as defined in the Companies Act 1985) of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
>  each of the directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a director to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information (as defined in the Companies Act 1985) 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 234A of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte LLP acted as auditors for the 52 weeks ended 
28 March 2009 and have expressed their willingness to continue 
in office as auditors of the Company. A resolution proposing 
their re-appointment will be submitted at the Company’s Annual 
general meeting.
Annual general meeting 
The notice convening the Company’s Annual general meeting 
to be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 15 July 2009 at the 
Thorpe Park Hotel, 1150 Century Way, Leeds LS15 8ZB, is contained 
in the circular sent to shareholders who requested a hard copy, 
together with this report and is also available on the Company’s 
website at www.northernfoods.com.
By order of the Board 
Carol Williams
Company Secretary
27 May 2009 56 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the financial statements
To the members of Northern Foods plc
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction 
with the auditors’ responsibilities set out in their report, is made 
with a view to distinguishing, for shareholders, the respective 
responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation 
to the financial statements. 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and 
the financial statements. The directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements for the Group in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare 
financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial 
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and 
Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard (IAS) Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial 
statements present fairly for each financial period, the Company’s 
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This 
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set 
  out in the IASB’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and Presentation 
of Financial Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair 
presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable 
IFRS. The directors are also required to:
> properly select and apply accounting policies;
>  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
>  provide additional disclosures when compliance with 
specific requirements in IFRS is sufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation 
of a Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration report which 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
(a)  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole; and
(b)  the management report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board
S Barden A M Booker
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
27 May 2009 27 May 2009 57 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Northern Foods plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Northern 
Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 which comprise 
the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance 
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the reconciliation 
of net cash flow to movements in net debt, the Consolidated 
statement of recognised income and expense and the related 
notes 1 to 37.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. 
We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration 
report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 
28 March 2009. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the 
Directors’ remuneration report and the Group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union 
are set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial 
statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 
and whether the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
described as having been audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you 
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report 
is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements 
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do 
not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the 
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the Group financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
>  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 28 March 2009 and 
of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended;
>  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation; 
>  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report described 
as having been audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
>  the information given in the Directors report is consistent 
with the Group financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Leeds
27 May 2009 58 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Consolidated income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
   Before   Before 
   restructuring Restructuring  restructuring Restructuring
   items items Total items items Total
   2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  3, 4 975.2 – 975.2 931.9 – 931.9
Profit from operations  4, 5, 6, 7 52.7 (35.4) 17.3 48.4 (4.7) 43.7
Finance income   3, 9 54.2 – 54.2 59.2 – 59.2
Finance expense   9 (59.4) – (59.4) (57.5) – (57.5) 
Profit before taxation   47.5 (35.4) 12.1 50.1 (4.7) 45.4
Taxation   (6.6) 9.5 2.9 (11.7) 0.8 (10.9)
Movement on deferred tax due 
 to change in legislation   (12.5) – (12.5) – – –
Taxation  10 (19.1) 9.5 (9.6) (11.7) 0.8 (10.9)
Profit for the period  4, 29 28.4 (25.9) 2.5 38.4 (3.9) 34.5
All amounts in the current and prior periods relate to continuing activities.
The result for the period is all attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic   12   0.54   7.08
Diluted  12   0.52   6.95 59 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 28 March 2009
       28 March 29 March
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill      13 57.1 54.8
Other intangible assets      14 3.9 4.6
Derivative financial instruments      25 26.6 –
Property, plant and equipment      15 301.6 320.0
Retirement benefit assets      35  – 71.5
Deferred taxation assets      27 17.1 –
        406.3 450.9
Current assets
Inventories      16 48.5 47.2
Trading investments      17 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables      19 120.0 111.3
Derivative financial instruments      25 1.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents      20 60.8 72.9
        230.5 231.5
Total assets        636.8 682.4
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables      21 (182.8) (184.4)
Provisions      22 (3.6) (2.3)
Current taxation liabilities       (22.0) (26.0)
Bank loans and overdrafts      23 (9.9) (0.3) 
        (218.3) (213.0)
Non-current liabilities
Revolving credit facility 2010      23, 24  (115.0) (130.0)
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      23, 24 (162.0) (131.6)
Derivative financial instruments      25 – (4.1)
Retirement benefit obligations      35 (71.5) (9.9)
Deferred taxation liabilities       27 (2.0) (14.7)
Accruals and deferred income       (13.9) (13.7) 
        (364.4) (304.0)
Total liabilities        (582.7) (517.0) 
Net assets        54.1 165.4 
Equity
Share capital       28 128.6 128.6
Share premium account      29 65.1 65.1
Capital redemption reserve      29 23.6 23.6
Reserve for own shares      29 (50.5) (39.5)
Employee share ownership trust reserve     29 (8.8) (8.3)
Hedging and translation reserve      29 39.8 21.4
Other reserves      29 8.0 5.2
Accumulated deficit      29 (151.7) (30.7) 
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent      54.1 165.4
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 27 May 2009. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
S Barden A M Booker
Director Director
27 May 2009 27 May 2009 60 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Net cash from operating activities      30 54.1 32.5 
Investing activities:
Interest received       0.4 1.3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (31.0) (21.5)
Proceeds of sale of property, plant and equipment      – 4.4
Disposal of trading investments       – 4.8
Acquisitions of subsidiary and businesses 
 (net of cash acquired, acquisition costs, working capital and debt adjusters)    – (22.0)
Receipt of deferred consideration       – 6.7
Grants received       0.7 0.3 
Net cash used in investing activities        (29.9) (26.0) 
Financing activities:
Dividends paid      11 (20.7) (21.0)
(Decrease)/increase in amounts drawn on Revolving credit facility 2010   23 (15.0) 45.0
Purchase of treasury shares      29 (11.0) (5.3)
Purchase of shares for Employee share ownership trust     29 (0.5) (4.1) 
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities      (47.2) 14.6 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (23.0) 21.1 
Net cash and cash equivalents:
At start of period       72.6 47.9
Effect of foreign exchange rates       1.3 3.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period      50.9 72.6 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents       60.8 72.9
Bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes due within one year     (9.9) (0.3) 
        50.9 72.6 61 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movements in net debt
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (23.0) 21.1
Decrease in trading investments      17 – (4.8)
Decrease/(increase) in amounts drawn on Revolving credit facility 2010   23 15.0 (45.0)
Decrease/(increase) in finance leases      33 0.3 (0.8) 
        (7.7) (29.5)
Effect of foreign exchange rates       1.3 3.6
Other movements       (0.1) (0.1)
Movements in net debt in period       (6.5) (26.0)
Net debt at start of period       (200.2) (174.2) 
Net debt at end of period      26 (206.7) (200.2) 
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Currency translation differences on overseas investments    29 16.9 13.0
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes    29, 35 (143.1) 35.3
Taxation on actuarial (losses)/gains taken directly to equity    27, 29 40.1 (12.8)
Fair value movement on cash flow hedge     29 34.0 2.4
Transfer to profit and loss on cash flow hedge     29 (32.5) 1.1
Net income recognised directly in equity      (84.6) 39.0
Profit for the period from operations       2.5 34.5
Total recognised income for the period      (82.1) 73.5
Total recognised income and expense for the period is all attributable to equity holders of the parent.  62 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 General information
Northern Foods plc (Northern Foods) is a company incorporated 
in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The 
address of the registered office is included within the Company 
information section (page 114). The nature of the Group’s operations 
and its principal activities are set out in the segmental reporting 
note and in the Performance review. 
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling 
because that is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Group operates. Overseas operations are included in 
accordance with the accounting policies.
2 Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS. These financial statements have also been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union (EU) 
and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 
of the EU IAS Regulation.
 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
Further information is included in the derivative financial 
instruments and hedge accounting section on pages 83 to 87.
Northern Foods’ management considers the following to 
be the most important accounting policies for the Group. In 
applying these accounting policies, management makes certain 
judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities at the period end date and the reported 
revenues and expenses during the financial year. The financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies described below. 
Key accounting judgements and sources 
of estimation uncertainty 
The key accounting judgements and sources of estimation 
uncertainty with a significant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to assets and liabilities in the next 12 months include the following:
Pensions – movements in equity markets, interest rates, inflation 
and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses 
and deficits in the pension schemes. The key assumptions used 
to value pension assets and liabilities are set out in note 35 
Retirement benefit obligations;
Tax – the Group carries out tax planning consistent with a group of 
its size, and makes appropriate provision, based on best estimates, 
until tax computations are agreed with the taxation authorities;
Useful economic life estimates – the Group reviews the useful 
economic lives attributed to assets on an ongoing basis to 
ensure they are appropriate. Changes in economic life could 
impact the carrying value and charges to the income statement 
in future periods;
Provisions – using information available at the balance sheet date, 
the directors make judgements based on experience on the 
level of provision required. Further information received after the 
balance sheet date may impact the level of provision required;
Share based payments – in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based 
payments’, share options and other share awards are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined is 
then expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis 
over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value of the options and other share awards are measured 
using the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo option pricing models. 
The valuation of these share based payments requires several 
judgements to be made in respect of the number of options that 
are expected to be exercised including behavioural considerations, 
exercise restrictions and historical volatility in the share price. 
Details of the assumptions made in respect of each of the 
share based payment schemes are disclosed in note 34 Equity 
settled share based payments. Changes in these assumptions 
could lead to changes in the income statement expense in 
future periods;
Impairment – the Group reviews the carrying value of goodwill and 
fixed assets and other intangibles, including acquisition intangibles. 
The Group has impaired certain asset values on a fair value less 
costs to sell basis, using past experience and external sources 
of information. Future changes in performance or disposals 
could impact this value. Management’s assumptions for testing 
the carrying value of goodwill are included within note 13.
Going concern
In determining whether the Group’s annual consolidated financial 
statements can be prepared on a going concern basis, the 
directors considered the Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position. These statements are set out in the Performance 
review. The review also includes the financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities. The key 
factors considered by the directors were as follows:
>  the implications of the challenging economic environment and 
future uncertainties on the Group’s revenues and profits. The 
Group undertakes forecasts and projections of trading and 
cash flows on a regular basis. This allows the Group to target 
performance and identify areas of focus for management;
>  the impact of the competitive environment within which the 
Group’s businesses operate;
>  the potential actions which could be taken in the event that 
revenues are worse than expected, to ensure that operating 
profit and cash flows are protected; 
>  the Group has access to overdraft facilities and a committed 
bank facility to meet day-to-day working capital requirements. 
Following the refinancing of the bank facility in March 2009, the 
Group has committed bank facilities to July 2012. In April 2009, 
the existing facility was reduced from £460.0m at March 2009 
to £305.0m. The facility will reduce to £250.0m from July 2010. 
As at the date of this report, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the Annual report and financial statements for the 
52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 have been prepared on the 
going concern basis. 63 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 28 March 2009, together 
known as the Group. Control is achieved where the Company 
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and businesses acquired or disposed 
of during the period from the effective date of acquisition, or up to 
the effective date of disposal are included in the Group’s results, 
as appropriate.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary, or trade and assets of businesses acquired, are 
measured at their fair value. Any excess of the cost of acquisition 
over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 
(i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the Consolidated income 
statement during the period of any acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries and businesses acquired to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses acquired are 
accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the 
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the 
date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, 
and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the 
business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition 
under IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ are recognised at their 
fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets 
(or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in 
accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non Current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations’, which are recognised and measured 
at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, 
the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement 
as a profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially 
measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value 
of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, 
net of discounts, Value Added Tax (VAT) and other sales 
related taxes.
(a) Sales of goods
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title 
has passed.
(b) Finance income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount.
Finance income includes the expected return on pension 
scheme assets. 
Foreign currencies
(a) Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each Group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the 
consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position 
of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which 
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation 
currency for the consolidated financial statements.
(b) Transactions and balances
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are 
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of 
the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary 
items, and on the retranslation of monetary items are included 
in the income statement for the period.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of 
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and are translated at the closing rate. 
(c) Group companies
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or an expense in the period in which 
the operation is disposed of.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of 
the lease involve the substantial transfer of the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as 
operating leases. 64 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of 
the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of 
the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in 
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments 
are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the 
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on 
the remaining balance of the liability. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income 
on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits 
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating 
lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable 
and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on the taxable profit or loss 
for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported 
in the income statement because it excludes items of income 
and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods 
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from 
the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of 
other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference, and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited to the income statement, except where 
it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority, and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the production or 
supply of goods, or for administrative purposes is stated in the 
balance sheet at historical cost or deemed cost, less depreciation. 
Historical cost includes the expenditure that is directly attributable 
to the acquisition of the items. Deemed cost includes surpluses 
arising on the revaluation of certain properties to their fair values 
prior to the date of transition to IFRS. Land is not depreciated.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount 
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it 
is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item 
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the 
income statement during the financial period in which they 
are incurred.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less 
any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees 
which are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets 
are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation 
of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line 
method, on the following basis:
Property  20–50 years
   (or over the remaining life of the lease if shorter)
Plant and equipment 5–15 years
Motor vehicles 4–10 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their 
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, 
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an 
asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the 
income statement.
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities at the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed 
for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently 
reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill 
is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 65 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRS has been retained at the previous UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP) amount subject to being tested 
for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
(b) Computer software
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, 
plant or equipment is classified as an intangible asset and is held 
on the balance sheet at cost net of amortisation and any provision 
for impairment. These costs are amortised over their estimated 
useful lives of ten years.
(c) Customer relationships
Customer relationships are included at fair value at the date 
of acquisition and are held on the balance sheet at cost net 
of amortisation and any provision for impairment. These costs 
are amortised over their estimated useful lives of ten years.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding 
goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate 
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time 
value of money, and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be 
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss 
is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset or CGU in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct 
labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred 
bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less 
all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
Retirement benefit costs
(a) Pension obligations/assets
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes for 
qualifying employees, principally the Northern Foods Pension 
Scheme (‘the Scheme’) and Northern Foods Pension Builder 
(‘Pension Builder’) in the United Kingdom and the Green Isle 
Foods Group Retirement and Death Benefit Plan (‘the Plan’) in the 
Republic of Ireland. A defined benefit scheme is one where the 
amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement 
is dependent on age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is 
determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial 
valuations for the purpose of the financial statements being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are 
recognised outside the income statement and are presented in 
the statement of recognised income and expense. 
The retirement benefit obligation/asset recognised in the balance 
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation/asset as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, 
and net of the fair value of the scheme assets. Any asset resulting 
from this calculation is limited to the past service cost plus the 
present value of the available refunds and reductions in future 
contributions. The Group has considered the impact of IFRIC 14. 
The rules of the Scheme give the Company an unconditional right 
to a refund of the current residual surplus and as such there is 
no restriction to the level of surplus that can be recognised in the 
balance sheet.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
Current service cost is recognised within profit from operations 
in the income statement.
The expected return on scheme assets and the interest on 
pension scheme liabilities are recognised in finance income 
and finance expense respectively.
(b) Post retirement healthcare
The Group provides post retirement healthcare benefits to eligible 
retired employees. An employee is eligible if granted the benefit 
and if retirement occurred on or before 31 March 1999. Employees 
who were granted the benefit, but retired after 31 March 1999, 
will not receive this benefit in retirement. Post 31 March 1999, the 
benefit was not granted to any employees.
The expected cost of this benefit has been computed using an 
accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension 
schemes. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are 
recognised in full in the period in which they occur. 
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented 
in the statement of recognised income and expense. These 
obligations are valued annually for the purpose of the financial 
statements by independent qualified actuaries. 66 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
Financial assets
Trading investments are classed as held for trading. Any gains 
and losses arising from the change in fair value are recognised 
in the income statement for the period.
Financial assets held by the Company are classified as held 
for trading or loans and receivables at amortised cost. The 
classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial 
assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, other receivables and cash and cash 
equivalents that have fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables 
at amortised cost. Loans and receivables are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any 
impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the 
effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when 
the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there 
is evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred 
after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated 
future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the 
impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception 
of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced 
through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable 
is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance 
account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written 
off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the 
carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in 
the income statement.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss 
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the 
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through 
the income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of 
the investment at the date the impairment is reversed and does 
not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the 
impairment not been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held 
at call with banks and other short term, highly liquid, investments 
with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowing in current liabilities 
on the balance sheet.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it 
transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities held by the Group are classified as financial 
liabilities measured at amortised cost, financial liabilities held at 
amortised cost in a cash flow hedging relationship, and derivatives 
that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried 
at fair value. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are initially 
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Interest expense is recognised on an effective yield basis. The 
effective interest method is used to calculate the amortised cost 
of a financial liability by allocating interest expense over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the 
financial liability.
Bank borrowings 
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are classified as other 
financial liabilities at amortised cost. They are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the 
income statement using the effective interest rate method. They 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent 
that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, 
the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks 
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest 
rates. The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and 
interest rate swap contracts to hedge some of these exposures. 
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written 
principles on the use of financial derivatives. Further information 
on currency and interest rate management is provided in note 25 
Financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated and effective as hedging instruments are recognised 
directly in equity. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm 
commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition 
of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that 
had been previously recognised in equity are included in the initial 
measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result 
in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in 
equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period 
in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 67 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
2 Significant accounting policies continued
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents 
the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged 
item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy 
for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group 
documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a 
hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in 
fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss 
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained 
in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedging 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative 
gain or loss that was recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss for the period.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are 
measured at their present value and at the directors’ best estimate 
of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance 
sheet date.
Share based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based 
payments’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 
has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005. 
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain 
employees in addition to issuing an HM Revenue & Customs 
approved Savings-related share option scheme for all employees. 
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions) 
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a 
straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the 
effect of non-market based vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes and Monte 
Carlo models. The expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural 
considerations.
Government grants
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited 
to deferred income and are released to the income statement 
over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets by equal 
annual instalments. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to 
the income statement so as to match them with the expenditure 
to which they relate.
Research and development
Research and development costs comprise all directly attributable 
costs necessary to create and produce new products which 
are both brand new in design and those being modified. Costs 
classified as research and development include raw materials, 
labour costs, artwork origination and market research directly 
attributable to developing the product. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are 
recognised in the Group and Company financial statements 
as follows:
>   Final dividend: when approved by the Company’s shareholders 
at the Annual general meeting;
> Interim dividend: when paid by the Company.
Accounting standards in issue but not yet effective 
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following 
standards and interpretations, considered relevant to the Group, 
were in issue but not yet effective and have not been applied in 
these financial statements:
> amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share based payments’
> IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’
> IFRS 7 (revised) ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’
> IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’
> IAS 1 (revised) ‘Presentation of financial statements’
> IAS 7 (revised) ‘Statement of cash flows’
> IAS 16 (revised) ‘Property, plant and equipment’
> IAS 17 (revised) ‘Leases’
> IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee benefits’
> IAS 20 (revised) ‘Government grants’
> IAS 23 (revised) ‘Borrowing costs’
> IAS 27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
> IAS 36 (revised) ‘Impairment of assets’
> IAS 38 (revised) ‘Intangible assets’
>  IAS 39 (revised) ‘Financial instruments: recognition and 
measurement’
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and 
interpretations in future periods will not have an expected material 
impact on the financial statements of the Group. 68 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Non-GAAP measures
Definitions of non-GAAP measures used by Northern Foods are 
shown below:
(a) Net debt
Net debt is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore 
be comparable with other similarly titled non-IFRS debt measures 
reported by other companies. Net debt is defined as total 
borrowings (including both short term and long term bank loans, 
bonds, loan notes and finance leases) less cash and cash 
equivalents and short term investments. Net debt will also include 
the proportion of the fair value of the currency swaps hedging 
the balance sheet value of the Group’s US Dollar denominated 
loan notes. The Group adopts this measure because it is used 
in calculating the banking covenants. It is also the measure 
used for internal debt analysis. In addition, the net debt balance 
provides an indication of the net borrowings on which the 
Company is required to pay interest. For further information 
see note 26 Analysis of net debt.
(b) Underlying revenue
Underlying revenue excludes the impact of currency rate 
changes, product categories no longer manufactured, 
acquisitions and discontinued operations including Fenland.
 
(c) Restructuring items
Items which relate to significant restructuring are presented as a 
separate column within their relevant Consolidated income 
statement category. Presentation of these items in a separate 
column helps to provide a better indication of the Group’s 
underlying business performance. Restructuring items include 
costs or income associated with the restructuring of businesses 
and gains or losses on the disposal or closure of businesses.
(d) Free cash flow
Free cash flow is net cash from operating activities, adjusted for 
special pension contributions, less net capital expenditure, plus 
interest received. Net capital expenditure is purchase of property, 
plant and equipment (PPE) less grants received and proceeds 
from sale of PPE.
(e) Net working capital
Net working capital is defined as inventories plus trade and other 
receivables less trade and other payables.
(f) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is basic earnings per share before 
restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change 
in legislation and one off release of prior year tax liability.
(g) Profit from operations
Profit from operations is earnings stated before finance income 
and expense and taxes. Further information is provided within 
note 5 Analysis of consolidated income statement. 
(h) EBITDA
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation. It is calculated as profit from operations plus 
depreciation and amortisation, all measured before 
restructuring items.
(i) Underlying profit before taxation
Underlying profit before taxation is profit before restructuring 
items and net pensions financing. This is reconciled to profit 
before taxation* in note 4.
(j) Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is before restructuring items, 
movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation, one off 
release of prior year tax liability and net pensions financing. This 
is reconciled to earnings per share in note 12.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 69 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
3 Revenue
The analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
       2009 2008
Continuing operations:       £m £m
Sale of goods        975.2 931.9
Revenue       975.2 931.9
Finance income       54.2 59.2
Other operating income        1.4 0.9
Total        1,030.8 992.0
4 Segmental reporting
Business segments
For management purposes the Group is organised into three operating divisions; Chilled, Frozen and Bakery. These divisions are the 
basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. The operating divisions are as follows:
Division Major product category
Chilled Ready Meals, Sandwiches & Salads
Frozen Pizza, Fish & Vegetables, Pastry, Meat & Meat-free products
Bakery  Biscuits, Puddings
Segment information
The segment information is as follows:
 Chilled Frozen Bakery Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
Revenue  486.8 481.5 272.4 245.4 216.0 205.0 975.2 931.9
Less revenue from 
 acquisitions (15.0) –  (5.2) –  – – (20.2) –
Product categories no 
 longer manufactured (18.8) (52.6) – – – – (18.8) (52.6)
Foreign exchange – – (12.6) –  – – (12.6) –
Underlying revenue 453.0 428.9 254.6 245.4 216.0 205.0 923.6 879.3
Underlying revenue allows comparability between the current and prior periods. Underlying revenue excludes the impact of currency 
rate changes, product categories no longer manufactured, acquisitions and discontinued operations including Fenland.
Underlying revenue has been adjusted to exclude revenue earned in the current period from acquisitions which corresponds to the 
period in the prior year when the acquired operations were not part of the Group. 70 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
4 Segmental reporting continued
    External revenue Profit from operations*
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
Chilled     486.8 481.5 22.9 22.1
Frozen     272.4 245.4 9.3 11.4
Bakery     216.0 205.0 20.5 14.9 
      975.2 931.9 52.7 48.4
Net finance (costs)/income*       (5.2) 1.7 
Profit before taxation*       47.5 50.1
Taxation*       (19.1) (11.7) 
Profit for the period*       28.4 38.4
A reconciliation of profit before taxation* to underlying profit before tax* is shown below:
Profit before taxation*       47.5 50.1
Net pensions financing credit       (8.5) (15.7) 
Underlying profit before tax*       39.0 34.4
*  Before restructuring items
Restructuring items from operations of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) comprised Chilled £30.2m (2007/08: £1.3m), Frozen £2.7m (2007/08: £2.9m) 
and Bakery £2.5m (2007/08: £0.5m).
Intersegmental sales were charged at prevailing market prices and were immaterial for both the current and prior periods.
Profit from operations after restructuring items was: Chilled £7.3m loss (2007/08: £20.8m profit), Frozen £6.6m (2007/08: £8.5m) and Bakery 
£18.0m (2007/08: £14.4m).
    2009   2008
   Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total
Assets/(liabilities)   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Chilled   229.1 (74.0) 155.1 260.8 (76.8) 184.0
Frozen   194.2 (67.6) 126.6 176.1 (59.0) 117.1
Bakery   103.7 (36.5) 67.2 99.8 (35.0) 64.8 
Operating assets/(liabilities)   527.0 (178.1) 348.9 536.7 (170.8) 365.9 
Unallocated corporate assets:
Cash at bank and in hand   60.8 – 60.8 72.9 – 72.9
Trading investments   0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Corporate other receivables   4.1 – 4.1 1.2 – 1.2
Retirement benefit assets   – – – 71.5 – 71.5
Deferred tax assets   17.1 – 17.1 – – –
Derivative financial instruments   27.7 – 27.7 – – –
Unallocated corporate liabilities:
Total borrowings   – (286.9) (286.9) – (261.9) (261.9)
Derivative financial instruments   – – – – (4.1) (4.1)
Retirement benefit obligations   – (71.5) (71.5) – (9.9) (9.9)
Deferred tax liabilities   – (2.0) (2.0) – (14.7) (14.7)
Current tax liabilities   – (22.0) (22.0) – (26.0) (26.0)
Corporate other payables   – (22.2) (22.2) – (29.6) (29.6) 
Total assets/(liabilities)   636.8 (582.7) 54.1 682.4 (517.0) 165.4 
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 71 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
4 Segmental reporting continued
     Chilled Frozen Bakery Group
Other information – 2009      £m £m £m £m
Capital additions     15.1 6.6 8.7 30.4
Depreciation     16.9 13.7 8.0 38.6
Amortisation of other intangible assets     0.4 0.2 0.1 0.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment    24.0 – – 24.0
     Chilled Frozen Bakery Group
Other information – 2008      £m £m £m £m
Capital additions     11.2 2.9 5.2 19.3
Depreciation     19.7 12.4 9.0 41.1
Amortisation of other intangible assets     0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6
Impairment of property, plant and equipment    0.9 0.3 0.3 1.5
Geographical segments
The Group operates in two main geographical areas; the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. The Chilled and Bakery divisions 
operate in the United Kingdom while the Frozen division operates in both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. The following 
table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods/services:
      Revenue
       2009 2008
       £m £m
United Kingdom       892.1 858.1
Other       83.1 73.8
        975.2 931.9
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets, analysed by geographical area in which the assets are located:
     Additions to property,
     plant and equipment
    Segment assets and intangible assets
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom     458.1 529.8 24.6 17.1
Republic of Ireland     178.7 152.6 5.8 2.2 
      636.8 682.4 30.4 19.3
5 Analysis of consolidated income statement
   Before   Before
   restructuring Restructuring  restructuring Restructuring
   items items Total items items Total
   2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations:      
Revenue   975.2 – 975.2 931.9 – 931.9
Cost of sales   (769.8) (31.3) (801.1) (736.0) (2.5) (738.5)
Gross profit   205.4 (31.3) 174.1 195.9 (2.5) 193.4
Distribution costs   (65.0) (0.2) (65.2) (65.2) – (65.2)
Administrative expenses   (89.1) (3.9) (93.0) (83.2) (2.2) (85.4)
Other operating income   1.4 – 1.4 0.9 – 0.9 
Profit from operations   52.7 (35.4) 17.3 48.4 (4.7) 43.7 72 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
6 Restructuring items
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Restructuring items from operations       (35.4) (4.7)
Taxation       9.5 0.8
Total        (25.9) (3.9)
Restructuring items of £35.4m comprised: £22.9m relating to the impact of mothballing the Fenland ready meals facility, with an 
£18.1m non-cash asset impairment, a £0.4m curtailment gain and a £5.2m cash rationalisation cost. Other costs relate to asset 
impairments of £5.9m in relation to the Hull site, and other rationalisation charges totalling £6.6m across the Chilled, Bakery and Frozen 
divisions will help drive future profitability improvement. 
Items which relate to significant restructuring events are presented as a separate column within their relevant Consolidated income 
statement category. Presentation of these items in a separate column helps to provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance. Restructuring items include costs or income associated with the restructuring of businesses and gains or 
losses on the disposal or closure of businesses.
7 Profit from operations
Profit from operations after restructuring items has been arrived at after charging/(crediting) the items below:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Net foreign exchange losses       0.9 1.7
Research and development costs (principally new product development)    8.0 9.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      38.6 41.1
Impairment of property, plant and equipment      24.0 1.5
Amortisation of other intangibles       0.7 0.6
Staff costs (note 8)       216.8 218.5
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services      0.3 0.2
Government grants       (1.6) (1.1)
Cost of inventories recognised as expense       766.7 731.8
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense      3.1 4.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment      0.1 0.3
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables      2.2 1.0
Reversal of impairment losses recognised on trade receivables     (0.1) (0.3)
Operating lease charges – Plant and machinery      2.2 2.7
Operating lease charges – Land and buildings      0.8 2.2
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
       2009 2008
       Deloitte  Deloitte 
       LLP LLP
       £’000  £’000
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Group’s Annual report   85 80
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for the audit of the
  Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation      173 163 
        258 243
Other services
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation – Half year review     38 37
Other services – Accounting advice       – 30
Other       – 20 
        38 87
Tax services
Advisory services       142 119
Compliance       139 143 
        281 262
Total       577 592
Deloitte LLP were appointed sole Group auditors for both the current and prior periods.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 73 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
8 Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
       2009 2008
       number number
Continuing operations:
Production       8,399 9,281
Distribution       565 544
Administration       926 942 
        9,890 10,767
Aggregate remuneration comprised:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Continuing operations:        
Wages and salaries       203.2 207.1
Social security costs       17.4 17.6
Other pension income       (3.8) (6.2) 
        216.8 218.5
In addition to the staff costs disclosed above, redundancy costs of £7.3m (2007/08: £1.0m) were charged to restructuring. 
9 Net finance (expense)/income
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Finance income:
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
 Bank interest receivable        0.3 0.8
 Other interest receivable       0.1 0.2
Expected return on pension scheme assets      53.8 58.2 
        54.2 59.2 
Finance expense:
Financial liability held at amortised cost in a cash flow hedging relationship:
 Interest on Senior loan notes 2012–2017      (7.8) (7.8)
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost:
 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans      (6.1) (7.2)
 Other interest payables       (0.2) –
Interest on pension scheme liabilities       (45.3) (42.5) 
        (59.4) (57.5) 
Net finance (expense)/income       (5.2) 1.7 74 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
10 Taxation 
       2009 2008
        £m £m
Current taxation:
UK corporation tax       1.8 (0.4)
Overseas tax       2.0 1.2
Tax on restructuring items – UK       (4.2) –
Tax on restructuring items – overseas       (0.2) (0.2) 
        (0.6) 0.6
Deferred taxation:
UK deferred tax        3.2 11.2
Overseas tax       (0.4) (0.3)
Movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation      12.5 –
Tax on restructuring items – UK       (5.1) (0.6) 
        10.2 10.3
Tax charge for the period       9.6 10.9
The movement on deferred tax due to the change in legislation arose from the amendments to the industrial buildings allowance 
regime which were substantively enacted in the Finance Act 2008. 
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28.0% (2007/08: 30.0%) of the estimated assessable profit or loss for the period. Overseas tax is 
taxation on profits made in the Republic of Ireland which is calculated at 12.5% (2007/08: 12.5%).
A deferred tax credit of £0.3m (2007/08: £0.1m charge) was taken to equity relating to equity settled incentive schemes.
A deferred tax credit of £40.1m (2007/08: £12.8m charge) was taken to equity relating to the actuarial gains and losses on the retirement 
benefit assets and obligations.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit as per the Consolidated income statement as follows:
     2009 2009 2008 2008
     £m % £m %
Profit before taxation     12.1 100.0 45.4 100.0
Taxation at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% (2007/08: 30.0%)   3.4 28.0 13.6 30.0
Effect of lower overseas tax rates     (1.7) (14.0) (1.9) (4.2)
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior periods:
 Corporation tax     (4.7) (38.8) (0.7) (1.5)
 Deferred tax     (1.4) (11.6) 2.1 4.6
Change in UK tax legislation     12.5 103.3 – –
Change in UK taxation rate from 30.0% to 28.0%    – – (2.8) (6.2)
Expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit and other items   1.5 12.4 0.6 1.3
Tax charge and effective tax rate for the period    9.6 79.3 10.9 24.0
The adjustments in respect of prior periods relate to the finalisation of previous years’ tax computations and a switch from current to 
deferred tax with respect to capital allowance disclaimers.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 75 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
11 Dividends
       2009 2008
Equity dividends on ordinary shares       £m £m
Amounts recognised in the period:
Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 of 2.95p (2006/07: 2.75p) per share   13.6 13.4
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 of 1.55p (2007/08: 1.55p) per share   7.1 7.6 
        20.7 21.0
Proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 of 2.95p (2007/08: 2.95p) per share  13.6 14.2
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual general meeting and accordingly has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements.
12 Earnings per share
    Basic Diluted  Basic Diluted
    earnings earnings  earnings earnings
   Earnings per share per share Earnings per share per share
   2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
Earnings and earnings per share   £m pence pence £m pence pence
Earnings used for calculation of earnings per share   2.5 0.54 0.52 34.5 7.08 6.95
Restructuring items   25.9 5.55 5.40 3.9 0.80 0.79
Movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation 12.5 2.68 2.61 – – –
One off release of prior year tax liability   (4.7) (1.01) (0.98) – – – 
Adjusted earnings per share*   36.2 7.76 7.55 38.4 7.88 7.74
Net pensions financing credit net of tax   (6.1) (1.31) (1.27) (11.0) (2.26) (2.22)
Underlying earnings per share**   30.1 6.45 6.28 27.4 5.62 5.52
        2009 2008
Number of shares       number (m) number (m)
Weighted average number of shares       514.2 514.2
Own shares held       (41.2) (22.5)
Shares held in Employee share ownership trust (ESOT)     (6.2) (4.3)
Weighted average number of shares used for calculation of basic earnings 
 per share and earnings per share before restructuring items     466.8 487.4
Savings-related share options       –  0.8
Executive share options       – 0.7
Long term incentive plan       0.4 0.7
Deferred share bonus plan       2.8 3.4
Matching share award       1.0 0.9
Performance share plan       8.3 2.4 
Weighted average number of shares used for calculation of diluted earnings
 per share and diluted earnings per share before restructuring items    479.3 496.3
*   Adjusted earnings per share is basic earnings per share before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation and one off 
release of prior year tax liability
**  Underlying earnings per share is before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation, one off release of prior year tax liability 
and net pensions ﬁ nancing 76 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
13 Goodwill
        £m
Cost: 
At start of prior period         49.8
Acquisitions        7.9
Exchange movements        2.4
At end of prior period        60.1
At start of period        60.1
Exchange movements        3.1
At end of period        63.2
Accumulated impairment losses:
At start of prior period        4.8
Exchange movements        0.5
At end of prior period        5.3
At start of period        5.3
Exchange movements        0.8
At end of period        6.1
Carrying amount:
At end of period        57.1
At start of period        54.8
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected 
to benefit from that business combination. The CGUs have been defined as the operating business to which the goodwill relates. The 
carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Solway Foods       30.1 30.1
Ethnic Cuisine       5.1 5.1
Green Isle       20.1 17.8
Convenience Foods       1.8 1.8
        57.1 54.8
Impairment tests for goodwill
The Group tests for impairment of goodwill at least annually.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates, gross margin and expected changes to selling prices and direct 
costs during the period. The key assumptions are based on past experience which has been adjusted for expected changes in 
future conditions. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management for the next five years 
and extrapolates these cash flows in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector. The growth rate used is 
not more than 3.0% (2007/08: not more than 3.0%), and is not considered to be higher than the average long term industry growth rate.
The rates used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs are based on the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 
of 11.1% (2007/08: 11.1%). 
The recoverable amount for each CGU exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date. The Group has conducted sensitivity 
analysis based on reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions used for the impairment test. This has not resulted in any 
impairment of the carrying value of goodwill as at 28 March 2009. 
In relation to Ethnic Cuisine, reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would cause the recoverable amount 
of the CGU to be equal to its carrying amount. The recoverable amount of Ethnic Cuisine is 23.0% higher than the carrying amount and 
a reduction of 3.0% in the gross margin percentage or a reduction of 3.0% in forecast sales would result in the recoverable amount 
being equal to the carrying amount.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 77 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
14 Other intangible assets 
      Customer  Software 
      relationships licences Total 
      £m £m £m
Cost:
At start of prior period      – 5.9 5.9
Acquisitions      1.7 – 1.7
At end of prior period      1.7 5.9 7.6
At start of period      1.7 5.9 7.6
At end of period      1.7 5.9 7.6
Accumulated amortisation:  
At start of prior period      – 2.4 2.4
Charge for prior period      – 0.6 0.6
At end of prior period      – 3.0 3.0 
At start of period      – 3.0 3.0
Charge for period      0.1 0.6 0.7
At end of period      0.1 3.6 3.7
Carrying amount:
At end of period      1.6 2.3 3.9
At start of period      1.7 2.9 4.6
The Group tests for impairment of customer relationships where there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired. The key 
assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding forecast sales volumes and prices. The growth rate used is not 
more than 3.0% and is not considered to be higher than the average long term industry growth rate. Management estimates discount 
rates using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 11.1% (2007/08: 11.1%). 78 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
15 Property, plant and equipment
     Freehold Leasehold Plant, fixtures 
     property property and vehicles Total
     £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation: 
At start of prior period     167.9 27.1 554.0 749.0
Additions     2.7 – 16.6 19.3
Disposals     (5.1) – (2.5) (7.6)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses    – 5.8 8.6 14.4
Reclassifications     0.1 – (0.1) –
Exchange movements     5.1 – 20.5 25.6
At start of period     170.7 32.9 597.1 800.7
Additions     0.7 – 29.7 30.4
Disposals     – – (0.8) (0.8)
Exchange movements     6.1 – 25.2 31.3
At end of period     177.5 32.9 651.2 861.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses:
At start of prior period     54.5 6.2 367.3 428.0
Charge for prior period     3.2 0.5 37.4 41.1
Restructuring provision for impairment     – – 1.5 1.5
Disposals      (0.8) – (2.1) (2.9)
Exchange movements     0.9 – 12.1 13.0
At start of period     57.8 6.7 416.2 480.7
Charge for period     2.0 0.6 36.0 38.6
Restructuring provision for impairment      11.8 – 12.2 24.0
Disposals     – – (0.7) (0.7)
Exchange movements     1.2 – 16.2 17.4
At end of period     72.8 7.3 479.9 560.0
Carrying amount:
At end of period     104.7 25.6 171.3 301.6
At start of period     112.9 26.2 180.9 320.0
At the period end, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £2.5m (2007/08: £2.0m).
The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes an amount of £nil (2007/08: £nil) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases.
Impairment charges of £24.0m were incurred during the period, of which £18.1m related to the mothballing of the Fenland site and 
£5.9m related to the Hull site, all within the Chilled division. The Group impaired these asset values on a fair value less costs to sell basis, 
using past experience and external sources of information such as open market valuations.
The Group performs impairment reviews where there is an indicator of impairment. The Fenland site was impaired following the 
announcement to mothball the site. The Hull site was impaired following a poor trading performance during 2008/09.
The impairment charges have been recognised within restructuring items in the consolidated income statement.
The recoverable amounts of other items of property, plant and equipment were determined from value in use calculations. No 
impairments were identified on these assets. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount 
rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount rates 
using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management for the next five years 
and extrapolates these cash flows in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector. The growth rate used is 
not more than 3.0% (2007/08: not more than 3.0%) and is not considered to be higher than the average long term industry growth rate.
The rates used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs are based on the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 
of 11.1% (2007/08: 11.1%).
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 79 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
16 Inventories
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Raw materials        16.2 15.5
Work in progress       3.4 4.3
Finished goods       28.9 27.4
        48.5 47.2
The directors consider that the replacement cost of inventories is not materially different to the value shown above.
17 Trading investments 
Trading investments, stated at fair value, represent investments in listed equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for 
return through dividend income and trading gains. They have no fixed maturity or coupon rate. The fair values of these securities are 
based on quoted market prices.
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Trading investments at fair value        0.1 0.1
18 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant subsidiary investments, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given 
in note 43 to the Company’s separate financial statements.
19 Trade and other receivables
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Trade receivables        108.0 97.2
Other receivables       8.1 10.7
Other prepayments       3.9 3.4
        120.0 111.3
Trade receivables of £108.0m (2007/08: £97.2m) are net of amounts that are individually determined to be impaired of £3.3m 
(2007/08: £1.9m).
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 38 days (2007/08: 31 days). Trade receivables are provided for based on estimated 
irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods, determined by reference to past default experience and sales documentation. 80 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
19 Trade and other receivables continued
An ageing profile of trade receivables past due but not impaired is shown below:
       Past due by Past due by
       1–31 days 32–90 days Total
       £m £m £m
2009      6.4 – 6.4
2008      9.0 0.5 9.5
Included within trade receivables are balances which are neither past due nor impaired of £101.6m (2007/08: £87.7m). In determining the 
recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was 
initially granted up to the reporting date. The directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance 
for doubtful debts. Management believe that these balances have low credit risk because the Group’s top five customers, all leading UK 
retailers, represent 77% of the Group’s revenue. This results in a high concentration of credit risk, however, these customers have good 
credit ratings and consequently the credit risk for the Group’s overall trade receivables is considered low.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit scoring system and trade references to assess potential 
customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer.
Included in the trade receivables balance are receivables with a carrying amount of £6.4m (2007/08 £9.5m) which are past due at 
the period end for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts 
are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. The average age of these receivables 
which are past due but not impaired is 11 days past due (2007/08: 17 days). The table below shows the movement in the allowance 
for doubtful debt:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
At start of period       1.9 1.5
Impairment losses recognised       2.2 1.0
Amounts written off as uncollectible       (0.7) (0.3)
Impairment losses reversed       (0.1) (0.3)
At end of period       3.3 1.9
The ageing profile of impaired trade receivables is shown below:
     Past due by Past due by Past due by
    Current 1–31 days 32–90 days over 90 days Total
    £m £m £m £m £m
2009    2.2 0.1 0.4 0.6 3.3
2008    – 0.3 1.0 0.6 1.9
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value due to their short term 
nature. The directors consider the maximum credit risk at the balance sheet date is equivalent to the carrying value of trade and 
other receivables.
20 Cash and cash equivalents
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents       60.8 72.9
        60.8 72.9
Cash comprises cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The directors 
consider that the carrying amount of these assets to be approximately their fair value due to their short term nature.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 81 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
21 Trade and other payables
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Trade payables        112.0 100.7
Accruals and deferred income       56.8 63.5
Other payables including social security      14.0 20.2
        182.8 184.4
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade payables is 52 days (2007/08: 49 days). The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are 
paid within the internal credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value due to their short term nature.
22 Provisions
        £m
At start of period        2.3
Restructuring provisions – charge for period        9.6
Utilised in period         (8.3)
At end of period        3.6
All of the provisions are included within current liabilities and relate to restructuring items. The provisions are expected to be utilised 
in full within the next 52 week period.
The restructuring provisions made during the period of £9.6m comprised: £5.1m in respect of the Fenland mothballing and 
£4.5m relating to rationalisation charges that will help drive future profitability improvement through cost saving initiatives.
23 Financial liabilities – borrowings
       2009 2008
Current       £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand     9.9 0.3
        9.9 0.3
       2009 2008
Non-current       £m £m
Revolving credit facility 2010       115.0 130.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017       162.0 131.6
        277.0 261.6
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Within one year or on demand       9.9 0.3
In the second year       115.0 –
In the third to fifth years inclusive       52.7 175.9
After five years       109.3 85.7
        286.9 261.9 82 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
23 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Bank loans and overdrafts are analysed by currency as follows:
      Sterling US Dollars Total
2009      £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand    9.9 – 9.9
Revolving credit facility 2010      115.0 – 115.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      54.3 107.7 162.0
       179.2 107.7 286.9
   
2008
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand    0.3 – 0.3
Revolving credit facility 2010      130.0 – 130.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      54.3 77.3 131.6
       184.6 77.3 261.9
The average interest rates paid on bank loans and overdrafts were as follows:
       2009 2008
       % %
Bank overdrafts       5.30 6.54
Bank loans       4.39 6.17
Senior loan notes 2012–2017       5.50 5.50
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying period end exchange rates.
The fair value of the Senior loan notes 2012–2017 is disclosed below:
     2009 2009 2008 2008
     Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value
     £m £m £m £m
Senior loan notes 2012–2017     162.0 168.3 131.6 139.0
At the period end the Group had available £345.0m (2007/08: £330.0m) of undrawn committed facilities on the Revolving credit facility 
2010 and £8.8m bank overdrafts (2007/08: £4.7m), in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. 
24 Financing
Bank overdrafts
All bank loans and overdrafts are unsecured and repayable on demand, and are arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group 
to cash flow interest rate risk. The interest rate on bank overdrafts is 1.5% (2007/08: 1.0%) above the Bank of England base rate. 
Revolving credit facility 2010
The Group holds a five year unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility of £460.0m. At the period end, the amount due under 
the facility was £115.0m (2007/08: £130.0m). The amount drawn down is repayable in periods of up to one year but is capable of being 
immediately refinanced as part of the committed Revolving credit facility 2010. The rate of interest fluctuates in line with market rates, 
thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
In March 2009 the Group established a Forward Start banking facility of £250.0m to July 2012 which will replace the existing £460.0m 
Revolving credit facility on expiry in July 2010. In April 2009, the existing facility was reduced from £460.0m to £305.0m. The current facility 
banking covenants are calculated under Frozen UK GAAP. The new facility covenants will be calculated under IFRS from July 2010. The 
new financing costs agreed as part of the Forward Start facility were effective from 25 March 2009.
The maturity profile of the Revolving credit facility 2010 is shown below. This assumes that the interest paid during future years is paid at 
the expected future interest rate (5.83%) and the level of debt drawn down remains consistent with borrowings at the balance sheet date.
      Interest payable 
      over remaining Repayment of Total
      life of facility principal payable
      £m £m £m
Revolving credit facility 2010      8.4 115.0 123.4
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 83 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
24 Financing continued
Senior loan notes 2012–2017
The Company has approximately £142.7m of senior guaranteed loan notes in the US Private Placement debt market. Notes are in both 
US Dollars ($155.0m) and pounds Sterling (£54.3m). The notes are fixed rate and unsecured. 
The maturity profile below shows the annual cash flows paid in both the current and prior year. The cash flow hedge is currently 
effective. In consequence, the interest payments are fixed and are accounted for in the Consolidated income statement on an accruals 
basis. The charge to the Consolidated income statement corresponds to the annual interest paid. The repayment of the principal 
amount will not enter into the determination of profit or loss unless the hedge becomes ineffective. The effectiveness of the cash flow 
hedge is assessed at each balance sheet date. 
     Annual swap Annual swap  
     cash flow cash flow Annual Annual
     paid received interest interest
  Amount Amount Interest to banks from banks paid paid
Tranche Maturity (m) £m rate £m $m $m £m
Series A Dec 2012 $35.0 20.0 5.63% 1.1 2.0 2.0 1.1
Series B Dec 2015 $82.5 47.1 5.77% 2.5 4.8 4.8 2.5
Series C Dec 2017 $37.5 21.3 5.87% 1.2 2.2 2.2 1.2
Series D Dec 2012 £28.5 28.5 5.47% – – – 1.6
Series E Dec 2015 £25.8 25.8 5.47% – – – 1.4
    142.7     7.8
All US Dollar cash flows are hedged using cross currency swaps. Northern Foods will receive each 20 December and 20 June 
(the bond interest payment dates) fixed US Dollar sufficient to fully cover interest due to holders of the US Dollar denominated bonds, 
in exchange for payment of fixed pounds Sterling on the same date. The weighted average interest rate payable in pounds Sterling by 
the Company is approximately 5.5%. Additionally, the swap contracts provide for an exchange of the principal amounts at maturity at the 
same rate of exchange as the initial principal was translated (£1 = $1.752).
At the period end, the carrying value of the Senior loan notes 2012–2017 was £162.0m (2007/08: £131.6m) and the derivative financial 
instrument on the cross currency interest rate swaps was an asset of £26.6m (2007/08: liability £4.1m). The currency element of fair value 
of the swaps was an asset of £19.8m (2007/08: liability £10.5m) and the interest rate element of fair value of the swaps was an asset of 
£6.8m (2007/08: £6.4m).
25 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns whilst maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, 
as disclosed in note 26, and equity shareholders’ funds, as disclosed in notes 28 and 29. 
Board policy is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range of 20% to 50% of total net debt over the medium term, although 
the Group may operate outside of this range in the short term. At the year end 78% of the Group’s debt was fixed (2007/08: 71%). 
The proportion of fixed rate borrowings increased after the business disposals made during 2006/07. The Group’s net debt position 
is maintained daily and reviewed by management on a weekly basis. 
During the period, the Company repurchased 17,490,115 shares at a cost of £11.0m (2007/08: 6,056,846 shares at a cost of £5.3m).  84 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
25 Financial instruments continued
Categories of financial instruments
    Carrying value Fair value
     2009 2008  2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Held for trading:
 Trading investments     0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value:
 Derivative financial instruments (cross currency interest rate swaps)  26.6 – 26.6 –
 Derivative financial instruments (currency rate swaps)   1.1 – 1.1 –
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
 Trade receivables      108.0 97.2 108.0 97.2
 Cash and cash equivalents     60.8 72.9 60.8 72.9
      196.6 170.2 196.6 170.2
Financial liabilities
Financial liability held at amortised cost in a cash flow hedging relationship:
 Senior loan notes 2012–2017     (162.0) (131.6) (168.3) (139.0)
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value:
 Derivative financial instruments (cross currency interest rate swaps)  – (4.1) – (4.1)
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost:
 Trade payables     (112.0) (100.7) (112.0) (100.7)
 Bank loans and overdrafts     (9.9) (0.3) (9.9) (0.3)
 Revolving credit facility 2010     (115.0) (130.0) (115.0) (130.0)
 Finance leases     (0.5) (0.8) (0.5) (0.8) 
      (399.4) (367.5) (405.7) (374.9) 
The fair value of the trade receivables approximates to their carrying value due to the short term nature of the receivables. The fair value 
of the trading investments and cash and cash equivalents are based on their market value.
The fair values of the financial assets that are designated and effective as hedging instruments, have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying period end exchange rates. 
The directors use their judgement in selecting an appropriate valuation technique for derivatives that are designated and effective as 
hedging instruments carried at fair value, but that are not quoted in an active market. Valuation techniques commonly used by market 
practitioners are applied and assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
The fair value of the other financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates to their carrying value. The trade and other payables 
approximate to their fair value due to the short term nature of the payables. The bank loans and overdrafts and the Revolving credit 
facility 2010 approximate to their fair value based on their variable market rate. The finance lease fair value approximates to the carrying 
value based on discounted future cash flows.
Financial risk management objectives 
The Group collates information from across the business and reports to the Board of directors on key financial risks on a monthly basis. 
These risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk.
The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to these risks by using derivative financial instruments where applicable. The use of derivative 
financial instruments is governed by Group policies which have been approved by the Board of directors. The Group only enters into 
trade financial instruments for specific purposes. Speculative purchases are not made. See page 87 for further details.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk of financial loss to the Group if a counterparty defaults on its contractual obligations of the loans and 
receivables at amortised cost held in the balance sheet. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The Group’s top five customers, all leading UK retailers, continue 
to represent 77% of the Group’s revenue. These customers have favourable credit ratings and consequently reduce the credit risk 
for the Group’s overall trade receivables. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the 
counterparties are banks with good credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. Processes are in place to manage 
receivables and overdue debt and to ensure that appropriate action is taken to resolve issues on a timely basis. Credit control operating 
procedures are in place to review all new customers. Existing customers are reviewed as management become aware of changes 
of circumstances for specific customers. During the period, the amount written off in respect of credit risk was £0.7m (2007/08: £0.3m).
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 85 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
25 Financial instruments continued
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of appropriate allowance for doubtful trade receivables, specific customer risk 
and assessment of the current economic environment. The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, 
which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may not be able to fund the day to day running of the Group. Liquidity risk is reviewed 
by the Board on a monthly basis. The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring actual and forecast cash flows and matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. The Group also monitors the drawdown of debt against the available banking facilities 
and reviews the level of reserves. Liquidity risk management ensures sufficient debt funding is available for the Group’s day to day 
needs. Board policy is to maintain reasonable headroom of unused committed bank facilities in a range of maturities at least 12 months 
beyond the period end.
The Group has two principal debt facilities (notes 23 and 24):
> Revolving credit facility 2010 (extended to 2012 through the Forward Start facility)
> Senior loan notes 2012–2017
The Board also monitors the Group’s banking covenants which are calculated under Frozen UK GAAP. When the Forward Start 
Revolving credit facility begins in July 2010 the covenants will be calculated under IFRS. No breaches have been made during the 
year or prior period.
The following table details the Group’s maturity profile of its financial liabilities (excluding derivative financial instruments):
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2009   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Senior loan notes 2012–2017   – 4.6 4.5 84.1 118.9 212.1
Trade payables   77.2 34.8 – – – 112.0
Bank loans and overdrafts   9.9 – – – – 9.9
Revolving credit facility 2010   0.6 1.1 5.0 116.7 – 123.4
Finance leases   – – 0.2 0.3 – 0.5
    87.7 40.5 9.7 201.1 118.9 457.9
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2008   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Senior loan notes 2012–2017   – 3.8 3.7 73.6 98.2 179.3
Trade payables   69.4 31.3 – – – 100.7
Bank loans and overdrafts   0.3 – – – – 0.3
Revolving credit facility 2010   0.6 1.3 5.7 139.8 – 147.4
Finance leases   – – 0.2 0.6 – 0.8
    70.3 36.4 9.6 214.0 98.2 428.5
The above maturity profiles have not been discounted.
The liquidity profile of the trade payables has been assumed consistent with the Group’s payment terms of 45 days (2007/08: 45 days).
The repayment of the interest and principal on the US Dollar denominated Senior loan notes 2012–2017 has been calculated at the 
period end rate of £1 = $1.432 (2007/08: £1 = $1.989).
The repayment of interest on the Revolving credit facility 2010 has been calculated on the principal at the period end date and the 
expected future interest rate. 86 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
25 Financial instruments continued
The maturity profiles of the derivative financial instruments are shown below. The US Dollar exchange rate used is that at the balance 
sheet date of £1 = $1.432 (2007/08: £1 = $1.989).
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2009   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Swap cash flow paid to banks   – (2.4) (2.4) (33.3) (78.3) (116.4)
Swap cash flow received from banks   – 3.1 3.1 41.9 96.6  144.7
    – 0.7 0.7 8.6 18.3 28.3
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2008   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Swap cash flow paid to banks   – (2.4) (2.4) (38.1) (78.3) (121.2)
Swap cash flow received from banks   – 2.3 2.3 34.7 69.6 108.9
    – (0.1) (0.1) (3.4) (8.7) (12.3)
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings drawn down on the Revolving credit facility 2010. The risk is managed by 
maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings. Interest risk management balances debt financing as a 
tool to improve the returns through leverage in the capital structure with the potential for an increase in interest rates to impact profits 
negatively. Board policy is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range of 20% to 50% of total net borrowings over the medium 
term (although the Group may operate outside this range in the short term). At the year end 78% of the Group’s net debt is fixed 
(2007/08: 71%). Board approval is required for the use of any interest rate derivative.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has been performed on the financial assets and liabilities to illustrate the impact on Group profits and 
equity if interest rates increased/decreased. This analysis assumes the liabilities outstanding at the period end were outstanding for the 
whole period. A 100 bps increase or decrease has been used, comprising management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes 
in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 100 bps higher/lower, then profit before taxation for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 would have 
decreased/increased by £1.2m (2007/08: £1.3m) and equity at the balance sheet date would have decreased/increased by £1.2m 
(2007/08: £1.3m). It has been assumed that all other variables remained the same when preparing the interest rate sensitivity analysis.
Foreign currency risk management
Foreign currency risk management occurs at a transactional level on revenues and purchases in foreign currencies and at a 
translational level in relation to the translation of overseas operations. Board policy is for UK businesses to hedge transactional 
exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts wherever material. Transactional exposure in our Irish business has been 
partly hedged during the year. The remaining transactional exposure is partially offset by a translation exposure. The Senior loan 
notes 2012–2017 have been hedged using cross currency interest rate swaps of equivalent maturity (subject to a one off right for 
the counterparty bank to break the swap after seven years at the market value of the swap at that date). The Group monitors foreign 
exchange rates to assess the potential impact on Group profits if exchange rates move significantly and a summary of hedges in 
place is reported monthly to the Board. 
The Group’s main foreign exchange risk is to the Euro. During the 52 week period to 28 March 2009, the Euro strengthened against 
GBP by 14.7%, mainly in the second half of the year, with the closing rate at a1.0765 compared to a1.2621 at the prior period end. The 
average rate for the 52 week period to 28 March 2009 was a1.2058, a reduction of 15.1% versus prior year. The net impact of the stronger 
Euro on our Euro manufacturing base reduced overall profitability by £5.0m.
The overseas subsidiary, whose functional currency is the Euro, has pounds Sterling assets and liabilities at both balance sheet dates. 
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on these pounds Sterling financial assets and liabilities to sensitivity of a 10% increase/
decrease in pounds Sterling to Euro exchange rate. A 10% increase/decrease has been used, comprising management’s assessment 
of reasonably possible changes in Euro exchange rates. The impact on profit for the period is an increase/decrease of £0.4m (2007/08: 
increase/decrease of £0.3m) and the impact on equity is an increase/decrease of £0.4m (2007/08: increase/decrease of £0.3m). 
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the financial assets and liabilities to sensitivity of a 10% increase/decrease in the pounds 
Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate. A 10% increase/decrease has been used, comprising management’s assessment of reasonably 
possible changes in US Dollar exchange rates. The impact on profit for the period is an increase/decrease of £nil (2007/08: £nil) and 
on equity is an increase/decrease of £2.3m (2007/08: £1.1m).
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 87 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
25 Financial instruments continued
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Group policy is to hedge individual capital expenditure foreign currency transactions of more than £0.3m. During 2008/09 the Group 
also entered into foreign exchange contracts to hedge an element of Sterling sales in the Irish business. The contracts are fair valued 
at the period end and the Group tests the effectiveness of the hedge using the hypothetical derivative method. The cumulative change 
in the fair value of the hypothetical derivative is compared to the cumulative fair value changes of the hedge instrument. All outstanding 
contracts at the period end will vest within one year. 
An analysis of outstanding contracts is shown below:
 Average exchange rate Foreign currency Contract value Fair value
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Outstanding contracts:   m m £m £m £m £m
Buy US Dollars:
In less than 3 months – 1.984 – 0.6 – 0.3 – 0.3
In 3–6 months – 1.980 – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Buy Euros:
In less than 3 months 1.142 1.264 10.1 1.3 8.9 1.0 0.5 1.0
In 3–6 months 1.141 – 10.8 – 9.5 – 0.6 –
Changes in the fair value of non-hedging currency derivatives amounting to £nil have been charged to the income statement in the year 
(2007/08: £nil). 
Cross currency interest rate swaps
The Company has cross currency interest rate swaps to provide a cash flow hedge against currency and interest rate movements 
on the US$155.0m Senior loan notes 2012–2017. Swap contracts with a nominal value of US$155.0m (£88.5m) have fixed Sterling interest 
payments at an average rate of 5.5% for periods up to 2017 and have fixed US Dollar interest receipts at an average rate of 5.76%. 
At the period end, swap contracts had a fair value of £26.6m (2007/08: negative £4.1m).
The cash flow hedge forms part of the Group’s risk management strategy which is reviewed and authorised by the Board. The fixed 
cash flows will be achieved through the use of cross currency interest rate swaps. The actual risk being hedged is the foreign 
exchange risk. 
The Group uses the Dollar offset hypothetical derivative method to test the effectiveness of the hedge. The cumulative change in the 
fair value of the hypothetical derivative is compared to the cumulative fair value changes of the hedge instrument. The fair values of 
foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward foreign exchange rates and yield curves from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts. The maturity profile is shown on page 83.
26 Analysis of net debt 
References to net debt refer to the total borrowings of the Group, including both short term and long term bank loans, bonds, loan 
notes and finance leases, after offsetting the cash and cash equivalents of the business and short term investments. Net debt 
will also include the proportion of the fair value of the currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the Group’s US Dollar 
denominated loan notes.
The table below reconciles net debt:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents       60.8 72.9
Trading investments        0.1 0.1
Bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes due within one year      (9.9) (0.3)
Finance leases       (0.5) (0.8)
Revolving credit facility 2010        (115.0) (130.0)
Senior loan notes 2012–2017       (162.0) (131.6)
Currency element of fair value of swaps hedging the Group’s US Dollar  denominated loan notes  19.8 (10.5) 
Net debt        (206.7) (200.2)
Net debt
Net debt is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with other similarly titled non-IFRS debt measures 
reported by other companies. The Group adopts this measure because it is used in calculating the banking covenants. It is also the 
measure used for internal debt analysis. In addition, the net debt balance provides an indication of the net borrowings on which the 
Company is required to pay interest. 88 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
27 Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
       2009 2008
       £m £m
UK deferred tax asset       17.1 –
UK deferred tax liability       – (12.4) 
Overseas deferred tax liability       (2.0) (2.3)
Net deferred tax asset/(liability)       15.1 (14.7)
IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ permits the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction. All of the deferred tax assets which have been 
offset are available for offset against deferred tax liabilities in their respective tax jurisdictions.
A reconciliation of the net asset/(liability) is shown below:
   Retirement Other  Accelerated  
   benefit employee  tax Revaluation 
   obligation benefits  depreciation of buildings Other Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
At start of prior period   6.5 1.9 2.1 (1.1) – 9.4
(Charged)/credited to income statement in prior period (7.8) (0.3) (3.1) – 0.3 (10.9)
Restructuring items   (1.8) – 2.4 – – 0.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses  – – (0.8) – – (0.8)
(Charged)/credited to equity   (12.8) (0.1) – 0.1 – (12.8)
Exchange differences   0.1 – (0.3) – – (0.2)
At start of period   (15.8) 1.5 0.3 (1.0) 0.3 (14.7)
(Charged)/credited to income statement  (3.1) 0.3 – – – (2.8)
Restructuring items   (1.6) – 6.7 – – 5.1
Movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation – – (12.5) – – (12.5)
Credited to equity    40.1 0.3 – – – 40.4
Exchange differences   0.1 – (0.5) – – (0.4)
At end of period   19.7 2.1 (6.0) (1.0) 0.3 15.1
UK deferred tax asset/(liability)   18.7 2.1 (3.0) (1.0) 0.3 17.1
Overseas deferred tax asset/(liability)   1.0 – (3.0) – – (2.0)
Net deferred tax asset/(liability)   19.7 2.1 (6.0) (1.0) 0.3 15.1
The movement on deferred tax due to the change in legislation arose from the amendments to the industrial buildings allowance 
regime which were substantively enacted in the Finance Act 2008.
The movement on the retirement benefit obligation of £40.1m (2007/08: (£12.8m)) relates to the actuarial loss on the retirement benefit 
obligation. See note 35 for further details. 
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries for 
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £19.3m (2007/08: £17.4m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these 
differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that 
such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax has been provided on capital losses totalling £151.9m at 28 March 2009 (2007/08: £155.5m) as it is uncertain when 
these losses will be utilised against future taxable gains. The unprovided deferred tax asset on these losses is £42.5m (2007/08: £43.5m).
28 Share capital
     2009 2009 2008 2008
     number (m) £m number (m) £m
Authorised ordinary shares of 25p each    760.0 190.0 760.0 190.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:
At start of period     514.2 128.6 514.2 128.6
At end of period     514.2 128.6 514.2 128.6
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
During both the current and prior period, the Company did not issue any shares.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 89 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
29 Reserves
      Hedging  
  Share Capital Reserve  and  
  premium redemption for own ESOT translation Other Accumulated
  account reserve shares reserve reserve reserves deficit
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At start of prior period  65.1 23.6 (34.2) (4.2) 4.9 4.2 (66.8)
Net profit for period  – – – – – – 34.5
Dividends  – – – – – – (21.0)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension
 schemes net of deferred tax  – – – – – – 22.5
Purchase of shares for ESOT  – – – (4.1) – – –
Purchase of treasury shares  – – (5.3) – – – –
Equity settled incentive schemes net
 of deferred tax  – – – – – 1.0 –
Exchange differences  – – – – 13.0 – –
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 2.4 – –
Transfer to profit or loss on 
 cash flow hedge – – – – 1.1 – –
Other movements  – – – – – – 0.1
At start of period  65.1 23.6 (39.5) (8.3) 21.4 5.2 (30.7)
Net profit for period  – – – – – – 2.5
Dividends  – – – – – – (20.7)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit
 pension schemes net of deferred tax  – – – – – – (103.0)
Purchase of shares for ESOT  – – – (0.5) – – –
Purchase of treasury shares  – – (11.0) – – – –
Equity settled incentive schemes net 
 of deferred tax  – – – – – 3.0 –
Exchange differences  – – – – 16.9 – –
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 34.0 – –
Transfer to profit or loss on 
 cash flow hedge  – – – – (32.5) – –
Other movements  – – – – – (0.2) 0.2
At end of period  65.1 23.6 (50.5) (8.8) 39.8 8.0 (151.7)
Share premium account
The share premium account represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve arose on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary shares.
Reserve for own shares
The reserve for own shares held by the Group represents the shares in the Company held in treasury. The number of shares held 
in treasury at the balance sheet date was 45,461,961 (2007/08: 27,971,846).
ESOT reserve
The ESOT holds shares which are primarily used to satisfy awards made under long term incentive plans. The number of shares held 
in the ESOT at the balance sheet date was 7,682,843 (2007/08: 6,697,363).
Hedging and translation reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation element of the reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserves
Other reserves primarily represent the equity component of share based payment arrangements and the remaining revaluation reserve 
from when the Group accounted under UK GAAP.
Accumulated deficit
The accumulated deficit comprises the Group’s annual profits and losses, actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit pension 
schemes and dividend payments. 90 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
30 Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
 
Profit from operations – continuing operations     5 17.3 43.7
Adjustments for:     
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of other intangible assets  14, 15 39.3 41.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment     15 24.0 1.5
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment      0.1 0.3
Increase/(decrease) in provisions      22 1.3 (5.4)
Change in retirement benefit obligation excluding special pension contributions    (2.5) 2.0
Equity settled incentive scheme       2.7 1.1
Grants and other non-cash movements      (1.5) (0.9)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital and special pension contributions   80.7 84.0
Special pension contributions       – (22.0)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital     80.7 62.0
Movement in inventories       1.3 1.5
Movement in trade and other receivables      (2.8) 3.7
Movement in trade and other payables       (8.5) (16.8)
Cash from operations       70.7 50.4
Interest paid       (15.6) (14.9)
Net taxation paid       (1.0) (3.0)
Net cash from operating activities       54.1 32.5
31 Contingent liabilities
A number of subsidiary companies and Northern Foods plc are guarantors in respect of the Senior loan notes 2012–2017, whereby they 
absolutely and unconditionally guarantee the principal and interest on the Senior loan notes 2012–2017. Additionally, the same subsidiary 
companies are cross guarantors in respect of the five year syndicated Revolving credit facility 2010. 
A subsidiary undertaking is party to a letter of credit issued by Barclays Bank plc for £nil (2007/08: £4.5m) secured against the assets 
of the subsidiary undertaking. 
Northern Foods plc is the guarantor in respect of the obligations of several subsidiary undertakings with Allied Irish Bank. As at 
28 March 2009 Northern Foods plc guaranteed £0.7m (2007/08: £nil).
32 Operating lease commitments
The Group recognised the following lease payments under operating leases as an expense in the year:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Plant and machinery       2.2 2.7
Land and buildings       0.8 2.2
        3.0 4.9
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases fall due as follows:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Within one year       4.2 4.8
In the second to fifth years inclusive       12.0 9.4
After five years       3.2 10.5
        19.4 24.7
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, 
escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases plant and machinery and vehicles under non-cancellable operating 
lease agreements.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 91 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
33 Finance leases
The Group’s finance lease obligations are shown below:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Within one year       0.2 0.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive       0.3 0.6
        0.5 0.8
The fair value of the Group’s finance lease obligations approximates to their carrying value.
34 Equity settled share based payments 
Equity settled share option plan
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 
has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Group operates long term incentive schemes for executive directors and senior management within the Group in addition to 
issuing an HM Revenue & Customs Savings-related share option scheme for all employees. Options are granted with a fixed exercise 
price. Options lapse when an employee leaves the Group subject to certain ‘good leaver’ provisions.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
  Grant of share  Grant of share  Grant of share  Grant of share
Executive share options  options  options  options  options
Date of grant  19 Dec 2003  17 Dec 2004  14 Dec 2005  4 July 2006
Number of instruments granted  3,375,195  2,313,123  2,059,231  4,218,455
Exercise price (pence)  137.0  169.7  153.3  79.7
Share price at date of grant (pence)  135.0  166.5  153.5  84.0
Contractual life (years)  10  10  10  10
Performance conditions  Note A  Note B  Note B  Note B
Settlement  Equity  Equity  Equity  Equity
Expected volatility  37%  33%  30%  30%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 5  5  5  5
Risk free interest rate  4.78%  4.44%  4.30%  4.70%
Expected dividend (dividend yield)  6.79%  5.25%  6.00%  5.40%
Fair value per granted instrument
 determined at the grant date (pence)  27.5  36.0  26.4  15.3
Valuation model  Black-Scholes  Black-Scholes  Black-Scholes  Black-Scholes 92 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
34 Equity settled share based payments continued
     Long term Long term Share bonus Share bonus Deferred share
Other arrangements    incentive plan incentive plan plan plan bonus plan
Date of grant    12 Dec 2005 4 July 2006 4 July 2006 13 June 2007 13 July 2006
Number of instruments granted    474,442 1,013,523 408,809 357,028 4,928,287
Exercise price (pence)    nil nil nil nil nil
Share price at date of grant (pence)    153.7 84.0 84.0 123.5 81.8
Contractual life (years)    5 5 3 3 3
Performance conditions    Note C Note C Note D Note D Note E
Settlement    Equity Equity Equity Equity Equity
Expected volatility    30.0% 30.0% 30.0% 25.0% 30.0%
Expected life at grant date (years)    3 3 3 3 3
Risk free interest rate    4.30% 4.70% 4.70% 5.77% 4.70%
Expected dividend (dividend yield)    6.00% 5.40% 5.40% 4.78% 5.40%
Fair value per granted instrument 
 determined at the grant date (pence)    128.1 61.1 61.0 88.9 40.9
Valuation model    Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
      Matching Performance Performance Deferred share
Other arrangements     share award share plan share plan bonus plan
Date of grant     4 June 2007  29 Aug 2007 5 Dec 2007 26 Sept 2007
Number of instruments granted     1,040,460 2,441,010 3,350,000 194,586
Exercise price (pence)     nil nil nil nil
Share price at date of grant (pence)     129.7 98.8 87.0 101.7
Contractual life (years)     3 and 4 3 3 2
Performance conditions     Note G  Note F  Note F Note E
Settlement     Equity  Equity  Equity  Equity
Expected volatility     25.2% 27.2% 30.9% 30.0%
Expected life at grant date (years)     3 and 4 3 3 2
Risk free interest rate     5.77% 5.26% 4.41% 5.11%
Expected dividend (dividend yield)     0 0 0 0
Fair value per granted instrument 
  determined at the grant date (pence)     89.14 58.90 49.17 101.70
Valuation model     Monte Carlo  Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Black-Scholes
      Save as you Save as you  Performance Performance
Other arrangements     earn earn share plan share plan
Date of grant     20 Dec 2007 20 Dec 2007 4 July 2008 9 Dec 2008
Number of instruments granted     4,607,258 5,390,539 4,238,949 310,625
Exercise price (pence)     76.0 76.0 nil nil
Share price at date of grant (pence)     90.0 90.0 57.0 55.8
Contractual life (years)     3.5 5.5 3 3
Performance conditions     Note H Note H Note I Note I
Settlement     Equity Equity Equity Equity
Expected volatility     27.5% 27.4% 32.6% 40.5%
Expected life at grant date (years)     3.25  5.25 3 3
Risk free interest rate     4.45% 4.56% 4.97% 2.26%
Expected dividend (dividend yield)     4.78% 4.78% 0 0
Fair value per granted instrument 
  determined at the grant date (pence)     20.11 21.53 37.64 37.47
Valuation model     Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over a period commensurate with the 
expected term of the relevant award. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 93 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
34 Equity settled share based payments continued
Performance conditions – notes
A  Performance condition measured by reference to earnings per share. The target requires that the real growth in earnings per share 
over the three year performance period is greater than 3% per annum compound. The performance condition allowed for retesting 
after years four and five against the full period from the grant.
B  Performance condition measured by reference to earnings per share. The target requires that the real growth in earnings per share 
over the three year performance period is greater than 3% per annum compound. The performance condition does not allow 
for retesting.
C  The LTIP has two performance conditions:
  TSR: The total number of shares that will vest will be up to 50% dependent on how the TSR in relation to an ordinary share of 
Northern Foods over the relevant performance period compares with TSR in relation to the ordinary shares of the companies 
in the comparator group in the same period. Where the TSR of Northern Foods over the performance period places it between 
the median and the upper quartile the number of shares will be calculated on a straight line basis with 20% of the shares being 
received when Northern Foods is placed above median, and 50% being received where Northern Foods is placed in the upper 
quartile. Where Northern Foods growth in TSR places it below median, no shares will vest in relation to this element of the award.
  Return on invested capital (ROIC): 50% of the total award vests on achievement of a minimum growth in ROIC over the performance 
period. Growth in ROIC over the period has to be 100 or more basis points. The number of shares that each participant receives is 
calculated on a straight line basis with 7.5% of the shares being received if Northern Foods achieves growth of 100 basis points and 
maximum of 50% being received if the Company achieves growth of 200 basis points.
D  Under the Share bonus plan, 80% of annual bonus opportunity is linked to specific financial targets, including targets for profit 
from operations and profit before tax, both measured before restructuring items. The other 20% is directly related to individual 
performance against personal performance contracts set at the start of the financial year, which contain six individual and business 
performance targets which are considered appropriately stretching.
E  The Deferred share bonus plan (DSBP) was introduced in June 2006 so as to incentivise and retain the key talent necessary to drive 
the specific performance improvements required. Performance was assessed against key milestones over the 12 month period 
to 31 March 2007. These four key milestones related to improving free cash flow and reducing net debt as at 1 April 2006 by £125m, 
reducing the run rate for central costs by £12m per annum compared to 2005/06 and the successful resolution of the pension 
deficit. This DSBP provided a smaller number of key senior executives with an award of shares with a value up to 100% of base 
salary, at the prevailing market price of 81.75 pence per share on 13 July 2006. These shares will be satisfied by the transfer of 
existing shares held in trust after the vesting date in July 2009.
F  The Performance share plan was introduced to incentivise the Group’s senior executives. There are two performance conditions 
which will align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders.
  TSR: The total number of shares that will vest will be up to 50% dependent on TSR growth over the performance period. TSR is 
required to grow by 30% from the effective base of £1.24 for 7.5% of the shares to vest up to a maximum of 50% being received 
if the TSR grows by 80% or more.
  ROIC: 50% of the total award vests on achievement of a minimum growth in ROIC over the performance period. The number of 
shares that each participant receives is calculated on a straight line basis with 7.5% of the shares being received if the Group 
achieves growth of 100 basis points and maximum of 50% being received if the Group achieves growth of 200 basis points or more.
G  The award of matching shares to S Barden was made as part of his recruitment as chief executive. The performance conditions 
attached to the matching share award are the same as those for the Performance share plan (see F) save that threshold vesting 
of the TSR element will not occur unless the Group achieves growth in TSR of 35% over the relevant period. Half the matching award 
will vest on the third anniversary of the grant with the other half vesting on the fourth anniversary of the grant to the extent that the 
performance conditions are met and providing he retains the purchased shares and remains employed by the Group.
H  The Group introduced a HM Revenue & Customs approved savings-related share option plan for all employees. There are no 
performance conditions attached to these options.
I  This relates to the second year of awards under the Performance share plan. The two performance conditions which will align the 
interests of senior executives with those of shareholders are:
  TSR: The total number of shares that will vest will be up to 50% dependent on TSR growth over the performance period. TSR is 
required to grow by 30% from the effective base of £0.659 for 7.5% of the shares to vest up to a maximum of 50% being received 
if the TSR grows by 80% or more.
  ROIC: 50% of the total award vests on achievement of a minimum growth in ROIC over the performance period. The number 
of shares that each participant receives is calculated on a straight line basis with 7.5% of the shares being received if the Group 
achieves growth of 100 basis points and maximum of 50% being received if the Group achieves growth of 200 basis points or more.
For further information on share incentive schemes see the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 52. 94 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
34 Equity settled share based payments continued
Details of movements in share options during the period are as follows:
      Weighted   Weighted 
      average   average 
     Options exercise price Options exercise price
     2009 2009 2008 2008
     number £ number £
Outstanding at start of period     1,920,865 0.80 8,533,451 1.23
Forfeited during period     (517,762) 0.80 (5,410,637) 1.34
Expired during period     – – (1,201,949) 1.46
Outstanding at end of period     1,403,103 0.80 1,920,865 0.80
Exercisable at end of period     1,403,103 0.80 1,920,865 0.80
Forfeiture arises when the employee leaves within the vesting period. Expiration of shares occurs when the last date for exercise has 
passed and the option has not been exercised.
There were no share options exercised during the period (2007/08: nil). The options outstanding had a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 7.27 years (2007/08: 8.27 years). The weighted average fair value of the share options outstanding is £0.15 (2007/08: £0.15) 
per share. The exercise price of options outstanding at the period end was £0.80 (2007/08: £0.80). 
The Group recognised total expenses of £2.7m (2007/08: £1.1m) in the period relating to equity settled share based payment transactions.
35 Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees, principally the Northern Foods Pension Scheme 
(‘the Scheme’) and Northern Foods Pension Builder (‘Pension Builder’) in the United Kingdom and the Green Isle Foods Group 
Retirement and Death Benefit Plan (‘the Plan’) in the Republic of Ireland. Under the Scheme, Pension Builder and the Plan, employees 
are entitled to retirement benefits based on pay and service. The Scheme, Pension Builder and the Plan are funded schemes whilst 
the Group’s Post retirement medical benefit scheme is unfunded. The Scheme and the Plan are final salary schemes. The assets of 
the Scheme, Pension Builder and the Plan are held in trustee administered funds separate from the finances of the Group. 
On 22 March 2005 the Company announced the closure of the Scheme to new entrants and withdrew its agreement to allow 
early retirement on an enhanced basis. Pension Builder was introduced on 1 May 2005 and is available to all UK based employees. 
Pension Builder is a defined benefit scheme based on the career average principle. 
Northern Foods has reviewed the future cost of delivering benefits against a challenging background of social and economic changes in 
order to maintain competitiveness and long term success. This has resulted in approximately 300 of the senior management population 
moving from the Scheme and Pension Builder to a defined contribution scheme from 29 March 2009.
The most recent valuation of the Scheme for the purpose of the financial statements and the present value of defined benefit obligations 
was carried out at 28 March 2009 by an independent qualified actuary, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation/asset, the related current service cost and past service cost was measured using the projected unit credit method. 
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuation of the Scheme and Pension Builder are detailed below.
     Valuation date
       2009 2008
Rate of increase in salaries       3.0% 3.9%
Rate of increase to pensions in payment      2.7% 3.1%
Rate of increase to deferred pensions       3.0% 3.4%
Discount rate       6.8% 6.4%
Inflation assumption       2.8% 3.4%
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 95 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
35 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Sensitivities 
The mortality assumptions used are based on mortality experience of the Scheme and anticipated mortality experience. The 
assumptions are below the national average reflecting the socio-economic make up of the Scheme membership. For the valuation 
at 28 March 2009, the Company has adopted the medium cohort principle for the Scheme and Pension Builder (2007/08: medium 
cohort). If life expectancy is increased or decreased by one year, liabilities are estimated to increase or decrease by £15.0m respectively. 
The impact of a 0.1% increase or decrease in the discount rate would decrease or increase liabilities by £11.0m respectively. The impact 
of a 0.1% increase or decrease in the rate of increase to pensions would increase or decrease liabilities by £5.2m respectively. The impact 
of a 0.1% increase or decrease in the inflation assumption would increase or decrease liabilities by £1.5m respectively.
The life expectancy in years for a member aged 65 is as follows:
     Valuation date
       2009 2008
Current pensioner  – male       18.7 18.7
 – female       21.0 21.0
Future pensioner  – male      20.0 20.0
 – female       22.2 22.2
Post retirement medical benefit scheme
Until 31 March 1999, the Group operated a post retirement medical benefit scheme. The method of accounting, assumptions and 
the frequency of valuations are similar to those used for defined benefit pension schemes detailed on page 94. The main actuarial 
assumptions are the underlying medical cost inflation of 4.8% per annum (2007/08: 5.4%) and the discount rate of 6.8% per annum 
(2007/08: 6.4%). 
If the assumed rate of underlying medical cost inflation increased or decreased by 1.0% per annum then the valuation of the liabilities 
is estimated to increase or decrease by approximately £0.5m (2007/08: £0.4m) respectively. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes and post employment medical 
benefit scheme are as follows: 
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
Current service cost   6.2 9.7 – – 6.2 9.7
Interest on obligation   45.0 42.3 0.3 0.2 45.3 42.5
Expected return on scheme assets   (53.8) (58.2) – – (53.8) (58.2)
Curtailment gain   (1.2) – – – (1.2) –
    (3.8) (6.2) 0.3 0.2 (3.5) (6.0)
The service cost for the period has been included within cost of sales £5.4m (2007/08: £8.4m), distribution costs £0.3m (2007/08: £0.5m) 
and administrative expenses £0.5m (2007/08: £0.8m). The interest on obligation and expected return on scheme assets is included 
within financing. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The curtailment gain of £1.2m consists of a £0.4m gain following the mothballing of the Fenland site, and a £0.8m gain on moving 
300 members of the leadership population out of the defined benefit schemes to a defined contribution scheme effective 1 April 2009. 96 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
35 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes and post retirement 
medical benefit scheme are as follows:
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
Present value of obligations    (705.1) (718.2) (3.6) (4.4) (708.7) (722.6)
Fair value of scheme assets    637.2 784.2 – – 637.2 784.2 
    (67.9) 66.0 (3.6) (4.4) (71.5) 61.6
The following table shows the split of the Group’s defined benefit schemes and post retirement medical benefit scheme between 
retirement benefit assets and retirement benefit obligations:
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
Retirement benefit assets   – 71.5 – – – 71.5
Retirement benefit obligations   (67.9) (5.5) (3.6) (4.4) (71.5) (9.9) 
    (67.9) 66.0 (3.6) (4.4) (71.5) 61.6
The table above does not include the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Movements in the present value of obligations are as follows:
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
At start of period   718.2 805.4 4.4 4.7 722.6 810.1
Current service cost   6.2 9.7 – – 6.2 9.7
Interest on obligation   45.0 42.3 0.3 0.2 45.3 42.5
Actuarial gains   (36.1) (109.2) (0.8) (0.3) (36.9) (109.5)
Curtailment gain   (1.2) – – – (1.2) –
Contributions from scheme members   4.8 5.1 – – 4.8 5.1
Benefits paid   (34.9) (37.5) (0.3) (0.2) (35.2) (37.7)
Exchange differences   3.1 2.4 – – 3.1 2.4 
At end of period   705.1 718.2 3.6 4.4 708.7 722.6
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
     Defined benefit schemes
       2009 2008
       £m £m
At start of period       784.2 801.5
Expected return on scheme assets       53.8 58.2
Actuarial losses       (180.0) (74.2)
Contributions from sponsoring companies       7.1 29.5
Contributions from scheme members       4.8 5.1
Benefits paid       (34.9) (37.5)
Exchange differences       2.2 1.6
At end of period       637.2 784.2
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 97 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
35 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date and the expected rate of return are analysed as follows:
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m % %
Defined benefit schemes
Equity     338.9 498.0 8.1 7.9
Bonds     284.5 284.0 6.8 6.4
Other     13.8 2.2 0.5 5.3 
      637.2 784.2
The expected return on individual classes of pension scheme assets are determined by reference to external indices and after taking 
advice from external advisers. The overall expected rate of return is the weighted average of the returns above, allowing for anticipated 
balances held in each asset class according to the Scheme’s investment strategy. The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of 
£126.2m (2007/08: £16.0m).
Work has continued to reduce future funding volatility of the Scheme as the revised investment strategy, agreed in 2008/09 is 
implemented. Paragraph 106 of IAS 19 requires the expected return on plan assets to be based on market expectations of returns 
over the entire life of the related obligation and as such the revised expected returns have been reflected. The weighted average 
expected return of the revised investment strategy is 7.1% and this will be used to calculate the expected return on assets for 2009/10. 
 
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
    2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
    £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit schemes
Present value of obligations     (705.1) (718.2) (805.4) (813.0) (729.3)
Fair value of scheme assets     637.2 784.2 801.5 727.8 562.9
Deficit in the scheme    (67.9) 66.0 (3.9) (85.2) (166.4)
Experience adjustments on scheme obligations:
Amount loss/(gain)    56.0 – – 30.2 (0.7)
Percentage of scheme obligations    7.9% – – 3.7% 0.1%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets:
Amount (loss)/gain    (180.0) (74.2) (15.5) 99.6 14.2
Percentage of scheme obligations    25.5% 9.5% 1.9% 13.7% 2.5%
The cumulative effect of the experience adjustments on scheme liabilities as included in the Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense is a loss of £26.5m (2007/08: gain of £29.5m).
The cumulative effect of the experience adjustments on scheme assets as included in the Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense is a loss of £170.2m (2007/08: gain of £9.8m).
The Group expects to make contributions of approximately £5m to its defined benefit schemes in 2009/10. 98 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
36 Events after the balance sheet date 
On 27 May 2008 the Group announced that following the conclusion of negotiations to seek mutually acceptable and commercially 
viable terms for business supplied from Northern Foods’ Hull ready meals facility, Northern Foods and its main customer served by 
the site have agreed to terminate the existing supply contracts.  
As a result, we will be commencing consultation with employees on a proposal to cease production and close the site, in accordance 
with our strategy to continue with business only where terms generate an adequate return. The proposal includes consultation to move 
a proportion of production to other facilities. The net profit impact in 2009/10 will be minimal and the Company will incur a one off cash 
restructuring cost in the 2009/10 financial year which is expected to be less than £5m. Our 2008/09 accounts include a non-cash 
impairment of £5.9m.  
The Group has also proposed a final dividend outlined in note 11 which is a non-adjusting post balance sheet event.
There have been no other post balance sheet events.
37 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Board of directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for 
each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors 
is provided in the audited section of the Directors’ remuneration report.
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Salaries and other short term employee benefits       1.3 1.8
Post employment benefits        0.1 –
Compensation for loss of office       – 0.2
Share based payments       0.6 0.4
        2.0 2.4
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 99 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Northern Foods plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 
which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company 
cash flow statement, the Company statement of recognised 
income and expense, and the related notes 38 to 57. 
These parent company financial statements have been prepared 
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements 
of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 
and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that 
is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report 
and the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company 
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether 
the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in 
the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent company 
financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited parent company financial statements. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 
the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do 
not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent 
company financial statements. It also includes an assessment of 
the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the parent company financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent 
company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
>  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 28 March 2009;
>  the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
>  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with 
the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Leeds
27 May 2009
  100 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Company balance sheet
as at 28 March 2009
       28 March 29 March
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment      42 72.6 88.2
Investments in subsidiaries      43 1,028.0 1,080.3
Retirement benefit assets      56 – 71.5
Derivative financial instruments      49 26.6 –
Deferred tax assets      50 13.8 –
        1,141.0 1,240.0
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables      44 417.1 349.2
Derivative financial instruments      49 0.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents      45 48.5 58.3
        465.7 407.5
Total assets        1,606.7 1,647.5
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables      46 (224.5) (109.7)
Provisions      47 (1.4) (2.0)
Current taxation liabilities       (12.6) (18.4)
Bank loans and overdrafts      48 (9.9) (0.3)
        (248.4) (130.4)
Non-current liabilities   
Revolving credit facility 2010      48 (115.0) (130.0)
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      48 (162.0) (131.6)
Derivative financial instruments      49 – (4.1)
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings      (490.2) (499.1)
Retirement benefit obligations      56 (63.1) (4.4)
Deferred taxation liabilities       50 – (16.2)
Accruals and deferred income        (2.6) –
        (832.9) (785.4)
Total liabilities        (1,081.3) (915.8) 
Net assets        525.4 731.7
Equity       
Share capital       51 128.6 128.6
Share premium account      52 65.1 65.1
Capital redemption reserve      52 23.6 23.6
Reserve for own shares      52 (50.5) (39.5)
Employee share ownership trust reserve     52 (8.8) (8.3)
Hedging and translation reserve      52 6.9 6.4
Other reserves      52 7.2 4.3
Retained earnings      52 353.3 551.5
Total equity        525.4 731.7
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 27 May 2009. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
S Barden A M Booker
Director Director
27 May 2009 27 May 2009 101 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
Company cash flow statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Net cash from operating activities      53 28.7 12.7
Investing activities:      
Interest received       0.2 0.6
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (1.1) (0.1)
Proceeds of sale of property, plant and equipment      – 4.1
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities       (0.9) 4.6
Financing activities:
Dividends paid      11 (20.7) (21.0)
(Decrease)/increase in amounts drawn on Revolving credit facility 2010   23 (15.0) 45.0
Purchase of treasury shares      52 (11.0) (5.3)
Purchase of shares for Employee share ownership trust    52 (0.5) (4.1)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities      (47.2) 14.6
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (19.4) 31.9
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period      58.0 26.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period      38.6 58.0
Cash and cash equivalents comprise: 
Cash and cash equivalents       48.5 58.3
Bank overdrafts       (9.9) (0.3)
        38.6 58.0
Company statement of recognised income and expense
for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009
       2009 2008
      Notes £m £m
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes    52, 56 (141.3) 35.5
Taxation on actuarial (losses)/gains taken directly to equity    50, 52 39.9 (12.8)
Fair value movement on cash flow hedge     52 30.8 2.4
Transfer to profit or loss on cash flow hedge     52 (30.3) 1.1
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity      (100.9) 26.2
(Loss)/profit for the period        (76.1) 99.6
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity      (177.0) 125.8
Total recognised income and expense for the period is all attributable to equity holders of the parent. 102 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
38 Significant accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by that act, 
the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same 
as those detailed in note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements, except as set out below:
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
39 Loss for the period
Of the Group profit for the period, a loss of £76.1m (2007/08: profit of £99.6m) has been dealt with in the accounts of the parent company. 
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company has not presented 
its own income statement.
40 (Loss)/profit from operations 
A detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
       2009 2008
       Deloitte LLP Deloitte LLP 
       £’000 £’000
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Group’s Annual report    85 80
        85 80
Other services  
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation – Half year review    38 37
Other services – Accounting advice       – 30
Other       – 20
        38 87
Tax services  
Advisory services       142 119
Compliance       139 143
        281 262
Total       404 429
Deloitte LLP were appointed sole Group auditors for both the current and prior period.
41 Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
       2009 2008
       number number
Administration       260 284
Aggregate remuneration comprised:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Wages and salaries       8.9 9.0
Social security costs       1.1 1.1
Other pension costs        0.8 0.8
        10.8 10.9
 Notes to the Company financial statements 103 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
42 Property, plant and equipment 
       Plant, 
     Freehold  Leasehold fixtures and
     property property vehicles Total
     £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation: 
At start of prior period     113.1 16.1 24.6 153.8
Additions     – – 0.1 0.1
Disposals     (5.1) – – (5.1)
Reclassifications     0.1 – (0.1) –
Group transfers     – – 0.1 0.1 
At start of period     108.1 16.1 24.7 148.9
Additions     – – 1.2 1.2
At end of period     108.1 16.1 25.9 150.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses:
At start of prior period     37.1 3.7 14.9 55.7
Charge for period     2.1 0.3 2.0 4.4
Restructuring provision for impairment     – – 1.3 1.3
Disposals     (0.7) – – (0.7)
At start of period     38.5 4.0 18.2 60.7
Charge for period     1.7 0.3 1.7 3.7
Restructuring provision for impairment     13.1 – – 13.1
At end of period     53.3 4.3 19.9 77.5
Carrying amount:        
At end of period     54.8 11.8 6.0 72.6
At start of period     69.6 12.1 6.5 88.2
At the period end, the Company had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to £nil (2007/08: £nil).
Impairment charges of £13.1m were incurred during the period, relating to properties that are used within the Chilled segment. 
The Company impaired these asset values on a fair value less costs to sell basis, using past experience and external sources of 
information such as open market valuations. The Company performs impairment reviews where there is an indicator of impairment. 
The recoverable amounts of other items of property, plant and equipment were determined from value in use calculations. No 
impairments were identified on these assets. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount 
rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount rates 
using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The Company prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management for the next five 
years and extrapolates these cash flows in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector. The growth rate does 
not exceed 3.0% (2007/08: does not exceed 3.0%) and is not considered to be higher than the average long term industry growth rate.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs are based on the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 
11.1% (2007/08: 11.1%). 104 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
43 Investments in subsidiaries
The Company’s principal subsidiaries at the period end are as follows:
Directly owned:
Convenience Foods Limited
Northern Foods Grocery Group Limited
Indirectly owned:
F W Farnsworth Limited
Green Isle Foods Limited
Cavaghan & Gray Group Limited
Cavaghan & Gray Limited
Solway Foods Limited
Ethnic Cuisine Limited
The above companies are all wholly owned (ordinary shares), and their principal activities are food manufacture. All are incorporated in 
the UK except for Green Isle Foods Limited, which is incorporated in the Republic of Ireland.
       2009 2008
Subsidiary undertakings:       £m £m
At start of period       872.5 889.5
Impairment of investments       – (17.0)
At end of period       872.5 872.5
Long term loans due from subsidiary undertakings      155.5 207.8
        1,028.0 1,080.3
The directors consider the value of investments to be supported by their underlying assets.
44 Trade and other receivables
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings      414.3 344.0
Other receivables       1.6 4.2
Other prepayments       1.2 1.0
        417.1 349.2
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. The directors consider 
that the maximum credit risk at the balance sheet date is equivalent to the carrying value of trade and other receivables. None of the 
above are considered past due or impaired at the period end.
45 Cash and cash equivalents 
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents       48.5 58.3
        48.5 58.3
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash held by the Company and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The directors consider that the carrying amount of these assets to be approximately their fair value.
 Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 105 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
46 Trade and other payables
       2009 2008
       £m £m
 
Trade payables       4.2 3.0
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings      205.8 86.8
Accruals and deferred income       3.8 3.3
Other payables including social security      10.7 16.6 
        224.5 109.7
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade payables is 33 days (2007/08: 33 days). The Company has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables 
are paid within the internal credit timeframe. The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their 
fair value.
47 Provisions
        £m
At start of period        2.0
Restructuring provisions – charge for period        0.6
Utilised in period         (1.2)
At end of period        1.4
All of the £1.4m provisions are included within current liabilities and relate to restructuring items. The provision is expected to be utilised 
in full within the next 52 week period. 
The restructuring provisions made during the period of £0.6m are in respect of central cost reduction initiatives.
48 Financial liabilities – borrowings
       2009 2008
Current       £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand     9.9 0.3
        9.9 0.3
       2009 2008
Non-current       £m £m
Revolving credit facility 2010       115.0 130.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017       162.0 131.6
        277.0 261.6
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
       2009 2008
       £m £m
Within one year or on demand       9.9 0.3
In the second year       115.0 –
In the third to fifth years inclusive       52.7 175.9
After five years       109.3 85.7
        286.9 261.9 106 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
48 Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
Bank loans and overdrafts are analysed by currency as follows:
      Sterling US Dollars Total
2009      £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand    9.9 – 9.9
Revolving credit facility 2010      115.0 – 115.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      54.3 107.7 162.0
       179.2 107.7 286.9
2008
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand    0.3 – 0.3
Revolving credit facility 2010      130.0 – 130.0
Senior loan notes 2012–2017      54.3 77.3 131.6
       184.6 77.3 261.9
For further detail regarding the bank loans see notes 23 and 24 within the Group disclosure notes.
49 Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
    Carrying value Fair value
     2009 2008  2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value:
 Derivative financial instruments (cross currency interest rate swaps)  26.6 – 26.6 –
 Derivative financial instruments (currency rate swaps)   0.1 – 0.1 –
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
 Long term loans due from subsidiary undertakings   155.5 207.8 155.5 207.8
 Receivables from subsidiary undertakings    414.3 344.0 414.3 344.0
 Cash and cash equivalents     48.5 58.3 48.5 58.3
      645.0 610.1 645.0 610.1
Financial liabilities
Financial liability held at amortised cost in a cash flow hedging relationship:
 Senior loan notes 2012–2017     (162.0) (131.6) (168.3) (139.0)
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value:
 Derivative financial instruments (cross currency interest rate swaps)  – (4.1) – (4.1)
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost:
 Trade payables     (4.2) (3.0) (4.2) (3.0)
 Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings    (490.2) (499.1) (490.2) (499.1)
 Payables due to subsidiary undertakings    (205.8) (86.8) (205.8) (86.8)
 Bank loans and overdrafts     (9.9) (0.3) (9.9) (0.3)
 Revolving credit facility 2010     (115.0) (130.0) (115.0) (130.0) 
      (987.1) (854.9) (993.4) (862.3)
The intercompany receivable balance has been reviewed for recoverability at the balance sheet date. The fair value of the receivables 
from subsidiary undertakings approximate to their carrying value due to their short term nature. The fair value of the cash and cash 
equivalents are based on their market value.
The fair values of the financial assets that are designated and effective as hedging instruments have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying period end exchange rates. 
The directors use their judgement in selecting an appropriate valuation technique for derivatives that are designated and effective as 
hedging instruments carried at fair value, but that are not quoted in an active market. Valuation techniques commonly used by market 
practitioners are applied and assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
The fair value of the other financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates to their carrying value. The trade and other payables 
approximate to their fair value due to the short term nature of the payables. The fair value of the bank loans and overdrafts and the 
revolving credit facility 2010 approximate to their fair value based on their variable market rate.
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings are interest free and have no fixed date of redemption.
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings carry a fixed interest rate linked to market rates.
 Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 107 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
49 Financial instruments continued
The following table details the Company’s maturity profile of its financial liabilities (excluding derivative financial instruments):
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2009   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Senior loan notes 2012–2017   – 4.6 4.5 84.1 118.9 212.1 
Trade payables   3.9 0.3 – – – 4.2
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings  – – – – 490.2 490.2
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings  205.8 – – – – 205.8
Bank loans and overdrafts   9.9 – – – – 9.9
Revolving credit facility 2010   0.6 1.1 5.0 117.0 – 123.7
    220.2 6.0 9.5 201.1 609.1 1,045.9
      
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2008   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Senior loan notes 2012–2017   – 3.8 3.7 73.6 98.2 179.3
Trade payables   2.8 0.2 – – – 3.0
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings  – – – – 499.1 499.1
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings  86.8 – – – – 86.8
Bank loans and overdrafts   0.3 – – – – 0.3
Revolving credit facility 2010   0.6 1.3 5.7 139.8 – 147.4
    90.5 5.3 9.4 213.4 597.3 915.9
The liquidity profile of the trade payables has been assumed consistent with the Company’s average credit period taken for trade 
payables of 33 days (2007/08: 33 days).
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings can be repayable on demand, and as such have been classified as less than one month.
The repayment of the interest and principal on the US Dollar denominated Senior loan notes 2012–2017 has been calculated at the 
period end rate of £1 = $1.432 (2007/08: £1 = $1.989).
The repayment of interest on the Revolving credit facility 2010 has been calculated on the principal at the period end date and the 
interest rate at that date.
The maturity profiles of the derivative financial instruments are shown below. The US Dollar exchange rate used is that at the balance 
sheet date of £1 = $1.432 (2007/08: £1 = $1.989).
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2009   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Swap cash flow paid to banks   – (2.4) (2.4) (33.3) (78.3) (116.4)
Swap cash flow received from banks   – 3.1 3.1 41.9 96.6 144.7
     – 0.7 0.7 8.6 18.3 28.3
   Less than  3 months to
   1 month 1–3 months 1 year 1–5 years 5+ years Total
2008   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Swap cash flow paid to banks   – (2.4) (2.4) (38.1) (78.3) (121.2)
Swap cash flow received from banks   – 2.3 2.3 34.7 69.6 108.9
    – (0.1) (0.1) (3.4) (8.7) (12.3)
For further detail regarding the financial instruments see note 25 within the Group disclosure notes. 108 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
50 Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
   Retirement  Other Accelerated  
   benefit  employee tax Revaluation 
   obligation benefits depreciation of buildings Other Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
At start of prior period   6.0 0.4 0.3 (1.1) – 5.6
(Charged)/credited to income statement  (7.8) – 0.2 – 0.3 (7.3)
Restructuring items   (1.8) – 0.1 – – (1.7)
Charged to equity    (12.8) (0.1) – 0.1 – (12.8)
At start of period   (16.4) 0.3 0.6 (1.0) 0.3 (16.2)
(Charged)/credited to income statement  (3.0) 0.9 (2.5) – – (4.6)
Restructuring items   (1.6) – 3.2 – – 1.6
Movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation – – (7.3) – – (7.3)
Charged to equity    39.9 0.3 – 0.1 – 40.3
At end of period   18.9 1.5 (6.0) (0.9) 0.3 13.8
IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ permits the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdictions. All of the deferred tax assets were available for 
offset against deferred tax liabilities.
The movement on deferred tax due to the change in legislation arose from the amendments to the industrial buildings allowance 
regime which were substantively enacted in the Finance Act 2008.
No deferred tax has been provided on capital losses totalling £56.0m at 28 March 2009 (2007/08: £56.0m) as it is uncertain when 
these losses will be utilised against future taxable gains. The unprovided deferred tax asset on these losses is £15.7m (2007/08: £15.7m).
51 Share capital
For further detail regarding the share capital see note 28 within the Group disclosure notes.
52 Reserves 
  Share Capital Reserve    
  premium redemption for own ESOT Hedging Other Retained
  account reserve shares reserve reserve reserves earnings
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At start of period  65.1 23.6 (34.2) (4.2) 2.9 3.3 450.1
Net profit for period  – – – – – – 99.6
Dividends  – – – – – – (21.0)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
 pension schemes net of deferred tax – – – – – – 22.7
Purchase of equity share capital  – – (5.3) – – – –
Equity settled incentive schemes 
 net of deferred tax  – – – – – 1.0 –
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 2.4 – –
Transfer to profit or loss on cash flow hedge – – – – 1.1 – –
Purchase of shares for ESOT  – – – (4.1) – – –
Other movements  – – – – – – 0.1
At start of period  65.1 23.6 (39.5) (8.3) 6.4 4.3 551.5
Net profit for period  – – – – – – (76.1)
Dividends  – – – – – – (20.7)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
 pension schemes net of deferred tax – – – – – – (101.4)
Purchase of equity share capital  – – (11.0) – – – –
Equity settled incentive schemes 
 net of deferred tax  – – – – – 3.0 –
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 30.8 – –
Transfer to profit or loss on 
 cash flow hedge  – – – – (30.3) – –
Purchase of shares for ESOT  – – – (0.5) – – –
Other movements  – – – – – (0.1)  –
At end of period  65.1 23.6 (50.5) (8.8) 6.9 7.2 353.3
For further detail regarding reserves see note 29 within the Group disclosure notes. Retained earnings include £192.4m (2007/08: £192.4m) 
of undistributable reserves. 
 Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 109 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
53 Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 
       2009  2008 
      Notes £m £m
(Loss)/profit from operations       (80.9) 12.1
Adjustments for:      
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     42 3.7 4.4
Impairment of property, plant and equipment     42 13.1 1.3
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment      – 0.2
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries      – 17.0
Decrease in provisions       (0.6) (2.0)
Change in retirement benefit obligation excluding special contributions    (2.6) 1.8
Equity settled incentive schemes       2.7 1.1
Other non-cash movements       0.2 –
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital and special pension contributions   (64.4) 35.9
Special pension contributions       – (22.0)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital     (64.4) 13.9
Movement in trade and other receivables (including movement on intercompany balances)   33.8 260.8
Movement in trade and other payables (including movement on intercompany balances)   73.9 (247.2) 
Cash from operations       43.3 27.5
Interest paid       (13.8) (14.9)
Taxation recovered       (0.8) 0.1 
Net cash from operating activities       28.7 12.7
54 Operating lease commitments
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows:
       2009  2008 
       £m £m
Within one year       1.3 1.3
In the second to fifth years inclusive       5.5 4.4
After five years       2.7 5.3
        9.5 11.0
The Company leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Company also leases plant and machinery and vehicles under non-cancellable 
operating lease agreements.
55 Equity settled share based payments
For further detail regarding share based payments see note 34 within the Group disclosure notes. 110 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
56 Retirement benefit obligations
The amounts recognised in the Company balance sheet in respect of the Company’s defined benefit schemes and post employment 
medical benefit scheme are as follows:
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
Present value of obligations    (686.5) (701.1) (3.6) (4.4) (690.1) (705.5)
Fair value of scheme assets    627.0 772.6 – – 627.0 772.6
    (59.5) 71.5 (3.6) (4.4) 63.1 67.1
The table above does not include the related deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
Movements in the present value of obligations are as follows:
  Defined benefit Post retirement Total retirement
  schemes medical benefit scheme  benefit schemes
   2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m  £m £m
At start of period   701.1 790.7 4.4 4.7 705.5 795.4
Current service cost   5.3 8.8 – – 5.3 8.8
Interest on obligation   44.1 41.5 0.3 0.2 44.4 41.7
Curtailment gain   (1.2) – – – (1.2) –
Actuarial gains   (32.7) (106.5) (0.8) (0.3) (33.5) (106.8)
Contributions from scheme members   4.4 3.8 – – 4.4 3.8
Benefits paid   (34.5) (37.2) (0.3) (0.2) (34.8) (37.4)
At end of period   686.5 701.1 3.6 4.4 690.1 705.5
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
     Defined benefit schemes
       2009 2008
       £m £m
At start of period       772.6 790.9
Expected return on scheme assets       52.9 57.4
Actuarial losses       (174.8) (71.3)
Contributions from the sponsoring company      6.4 29.0
Contributions from scheme members       4.4 3.8
Benefits paid       (34.5) (37.2)
At end of period       627.0 772.6
For further detail on the retirement benefit obligations see note 35 within the Group disclosure notes. The Group disclosure includes 
information on the Scheme, Pension Builder, the Plan and the Post retirement medical benefit scheme. The Scheme, Pension Builder 
and the Post retirement medical benefit scheme are included within the Company financial statements.
 Notes to the Company financial statements
continued 111 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
57 Related party transactions
Transactions with subsidiaries
Details of transactions, which comprise Group recharges and net interest receivable on intercompany balances between the Company 
and its subsidiary undertakings, are set out below:
       2009  2008 
       £m £m
Group recharges       40.3 57.9
Net interest receivable       19.1 22.5
        59.4 80.4
The Group recharges include special pension contributions of £nil (2007/08: £22.0m).
A summary of the balances outstanding at the period end is shown below:
       2009  2008 
       £m £m
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings due in less than one year    414.3 344.0
Long term loans due from subsidiary undertakings      155.5 207.8
        569.8 551.8
Payables due to subsidiary undertakings in less than one year     (205.8) (86.8)
Long term loans due to subsidiary undertakings      (490.2) (499.1)
        (696.0) (585.9)
Total       (126.2) (34.1)
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out within note 37. 112 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Five year record
    2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 
Continuing operations:
Consolidated income statement
Revenue   £m 878.9 862.0 888.5 931.9 975.2
Profit from operations*††   £m 69.6 55.4 45.7 48.4 52.7
Operating margin*††   % 7.9 6.4 5.1 5.2 5.4
Net finance (expense)/income*††   £m (26.8) (22.4) (5.7) 1.7 (5.2)
Profit before taxation*   £m 42.8 33.0 40.0 50.1 47.5
Profit after taxation*†   £m 34.7 27.7 31.9 38.4 28.4
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share   pence 7.08 5.68 6.52 7.88 7.76
Return on operating assets
Average net operating assets   £m  407.3 375.6 353.1 357.4
Return on net assets   %  13.6 12.2 13.7 14.7
Return on invested capital††‡
Profit from operations*   £m   45.7 48.4 52.7
Average invested capital   £m   448.2 442.0 450.4
Return on continuing average invested capital  %   10.2 11.0 11.7
Discontinued operations:
Consolidated income statement
Revenue   £m 569.9 576.2 317.4 – –
Profit from operations*    £m 19.4 12.1 1.3 – –
Continuing and discontinued operations (as reported):
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share   pence 10.27 7.77 6.72 7.88 7.76
Earnings per share   pence 4.66 (1.03) (4.60) 7.08 0.54
Dividend per share   pence 9.05 4.25 4.25 4.50 4.50
Dividend cover*   times 1.1 1.8 1.6 1.8 1.7
EBITDA: Debt*   times 2.0 2.5 1.8 2.0 2.1
Capital expenditure   £m 62.2 55.3 28.1 19.3 30.4
Invested capital 
Net equity    £m 155.6 152.1 121.2 165.4 54.1
Add back deficit/(less surplus) on retirement benefit schemes  £m 171.2 90.2 8.6 (61.6) 71.5
(Less deferred tax asset)/add back deferred tax 
 liability on retirement benefit schemes   £m (50.4) (26.4) (6.5) 15.8 (19.7)
Adjusted net equity    £m 276.4 215.9 123.3 119.6 105.9
Net debt   £m 326.3 363.1 174.2 200.2 206.7
Trading capital employed    £m 602.7 579.0 297.5 319.8 312.6
Accumulated goodwill written off   £m 211.0 211.0 116.6 116.6 116.6
Total invested capital    £m 813.7 790.0 414.1 436.4 429.2
Total invested capital excluding net debt   £m 487.4 426.9 239.9 236.2 222.5
Return on invested capital      
Profit from operations*††   £m 89.0 67.5 47.0 48.4 52.7
Average invested capital   £m 840.1 801.9 602.1 425.3 432.8
Return on average invested capital   % 10.6 8.4 7.8 11.4 12.2
* Stated before restructuring items.
† The effective taxation rate for continuing operations for each period has been assumed to be the same as that for the Group.
‡   Continuing return on invested capital is calculated using continuing profit from operations divided by continuing average invested capital. Continuing average invested 
capital has been calculated using a 13 month average (used for Performance share plan). This includes the benefit of asset impairments.
†† Restated for the change in presentation of the pensions finance (charge)/credit from within profit from operations to net finance costs. 113 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
113 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder analysis
at 20 May 2009
    Holders Shares held
     number % number %
By classification
Individuals     32,824 95.6967 45,466,570 8.8435
Bank or Nominees     1,282 3.7375 408,669,560 79.4884
Investment Trust     15 0.0437 188,389 0.0366
Pension Trust     4 0.0116 8,041 0.0016
Other Corporate Body*     175 0.5101 59,791,911 11.6298
Total     34,300 100.00 514,124,471 100.00
By size of holding
1–100     5,958 17.3703 271,628 0.0528
101–500     12,029 35.0700 3,144,745 0.6116
501–1,000     5,553 16.1895 4,187,324 0.8141
1,001–2,000     4,679 13.6414 6,930,754 1.3481
2,001–5,000     3,875 11.2974 12,497,644 2.4322
5,001–50,000     1,883 5.4898 22,524,827 4.3383
50,001–100,000     100 0.2915 7,317,712 1.4329
100,001 and over     223 0.6501 457,249,837 88.9700
Total     34,300 100.00 514,124,471 100.00
* This includes 45.46m shares held in treasury
Percentage of shares held
01 Individuals – 8.84%
02 Other – 91.16%
02
01
01 Individuals – 95.70%
02 Other – 4.30%
01 02
Percentage of shareholders 114 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Financial calendar
         2009
Full year results announcement        27 May
Annual report issued        12 June
Half yearly interest payment on Senior loan notes 2012–2017      20 June
Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy        13 July
Annual general meeting        15 July
First Interim management statement        15 July
Shares quoted ex-dividend        29 July
Record date for final dividend        31 July
Final dividend payment on ordinary shares       28 Aug
Half year results announcement        10 Nov
Half yearly interest payment on Senior loan notes 2012–2017      20 Dec
         2010
Second Interim management statement       14 Jan
Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares       Jan
Financial year end        27 March
Company information
Registered office
2180 Century Way
Thorpe Park 
Leeds LS15 8ZB
Telephone: 0113 390 0110
Facsimile: 0113 390 0211
Website: www.northernfoods.com
Registered in England and Wales
No 471864
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Merchant bankers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Stockbrokers
UBS Investment Bank 
Registrar to the ordinary shareholders
Capita Registrars Limited
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA
Telephone: 0871 664 0444 (calls cost 10p per minute, including VAT, 
plus network extras)
Email: northernfoods@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders 115 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
115 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder services and helpline
Shareholders who change address, or who want to have 
their dividends paid directly into their bank account may do so 
on the following website www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders, 
or can write to the Registrar, Capita Registrars, Northern House, 
Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA. If they 
require other information about their holding shareholders 
can contact the Registrar on the dedicated Northern Foods 
shareholder information telephone line: 0871 664 0444 (calls cost 
10p per minute, including VAT plus network extras) or email their 
enquiry, indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, 
to northernfoods@capitaregistrars.com.
Shareholder information on the internet
The Northern Foods website www.northernfoods.com provides 
access to shareholder information, including our annual and 
half year reports, share price and recent share price trends, 
financial highlights and results presentations to analysts as well 
as a link to our Registrar www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders.
The link to our Registrar allows shareholders to access their 
individual shareholder details. Shareholders will be required 
to pass an identity check to access their personal information. 
This link also allows shareholders to download stock transfer, 
dividend mandate and change of address forms.
E-communications
Shareholders may also now receive reports electronically 
by logging onto the Registrar’s website at www.capitaregistrars.
com/shareholders and follow the instructions by clicking on 
Manage my eComms or simply follow the link from the Northern 
Foods website. If you have any problems registering or would 
like further information, please contact the Registrar’s helpdesk 
on 0871 664 0444 (calls cost 10p per minute, including VAT, plus 
network extras).
Electronic proxy voting 
Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy electronically via the 
internet should refer to the instructions contained in the circular 
sent to shareholders with this report.
Dividend mandates
Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically 
into their United Kingdom bank or building society account, 
using the BACS system. This process ensures that the amount 
of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared 
funds, on the date the payment is due. Confirmation of payment 
is contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to 
shareholders’ registered addresses at the time of payment. 
This voucher should be kept safely for future reference. 
Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment 
should complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found 
attached to the last dividend warrant. Alternatively, a form can 
be downloaded from the Registrar’s website or requested by 
calling the telephone helpline on 0870 664 0444 (calls cost 
10p per minute, including VAT, plus network extras).
The following share dealing services are available through 
our Registrar.
Online and telephone Share Dealing
This service is provided by Capita Share Dealing Services 
and offers shareholders a quick and easy way to buy or sell 
Northern Foods plc ordinary shares at the latest price available 
on the London Stock Exchange. You can buy or sell shares 
by phone or online. The commission to deal online is just 1%, 
subject to a minimum charge of £20, and 1.5% to deal by phone 
with a minimum charge of £25. In addition stamp duty, currently 
0.5%, is payable on purchases. There is no need to open an 
account in order to deal and you will be able to buy and sell at 
live prices during market hours. In addition there is a convenient 
facility to place your order outside of market hours. Up to 90 day 
limit orders are available for sales. To find out more or to use the 
service simply log on at www.capitadeal.com or call 0870 458 4577. 
Please have your share certificate to hand when you log-in or 
call, together with a bank debit card if you wish to purchase 
additional shares.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and 
terms and conditions will apply.  This is not a recommendation 
to buy, sell or hold shares in Northern Foods plc. Shareholders 
who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent 
financial advice. Share values may go down as well as up 
which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he/she 
originally invested.
Capital gains tax
The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 
1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence. This figure 
is the adjusted price to reflect the effect of the rights issue 
in January 1992, the one-for-one capitalisation issue in August 
of the same year, and the demerger of Express Dairies plc 
(now Arla Foods UK) on 30 March 1998.
Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted 
to take account of indexation allowances and, since these 
adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders 
are recommended to consult their financial advisers.
Boiler rooms
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports. These are typically from overseas based 
“brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in 
US or UK investments. These operations are commonly known 
as “boiler rooms”.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
>  Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation;
>  Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before 
getting involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/register;
>  Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 
or visiting www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk;
>  If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to 
receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online 
form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/
overseas.shtml.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will only be included in company mailings.
More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: 
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Shareholder information 116 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Principal operations
Central functions
Northern Foods plc
2180 Century Way, Thorpe Park, Leeds LS15 8ZB
Telephone: 0113 390 0110
Northern Foods Support Services
Trinity Park House, Trinity Business Park, Fox Way
Wakefield, West Yorkshire WF2 8EE
Telephone: 01924 831300
Northern Foods Technical Services
BioCity Nottingham, Pennyfoot Street, Nottingham NG1 1GF
Telephone: 0115 912 4424
Chilled division
Cavaghan & Gray
Brunel House, Brunel Way, Carlisle, Cumbria CA1 3NQ
Telephone: 01228 518200
Operations at Carlisle and Hull
Convenience Foods Grimsby
Unit 1, Pegasus Way, Europarc, Grimsby
North East Lincolnshire DN37 9TS
Telephone: 01472 243600
Ethnic Cuisine
Viking Way, Winch Wen Industrial Estate, Winch Wen
Swansea SA1 7DE
Telephone: 01792 772064
Fenland Foods
Turnpike Close, Swingbridge Road, Earlesfield Industrial Estate
Grantham, Lincolnshire NG31 7XU
Telephone: 01476 567733
Gunstones Bakery
Stubley Lane, Dronfield, South Yorkshire S18 1PF
Telephone: 01246 414651
Pennine Foods
Drakehouse Crescent, Waterthorpe, Sheffield
South Yorkshire S20 7JG
Telephone: 0114 247 6864
Solway Foods
3 Godwin Road, Earlstrees Industrial Estate, Corby
Northants NN17 4DS
Telephone: 01536 464400
Operations at Corby and Manton Wood, Worksop 
The Pizza Factory
Gateside Road, Nottingham NG2 1LT
Telephone: 0115 986 8204
Frozen division 
Dalepak Foods
Dale House, Leeming Bar, Northallerton, North Yorkshire DL7 9UL
Telephone: 01677 424111
Green Isle Foods
I.D.A. Industrial Estate, Monread Road, Naas, Co Kildare, Ireland
Telephone: 00 353 45 848000
Operations at Gurteen, Longford, Naas and Portumna 
Walter Holland & Sons
Baxenden, Accrington, Lancashire BB5 2SA
Telephone: 01706 213591
Bakery division
Fox’s Biscuits
Wellington Street, Batley, West Yorkshire WF17 5JE
Telephone: 01924 444333
Operations at Batley, Kirkham and Uttoxeter 
Matthew Walker
Heanor Gate Road, Heanor, Derbyshire DE75 7RJ
Telephone: 01773 760121  Designed and produced by 35 Communications
Food photography: Rob White
People and location photography: Simon Kreitem and Philip Gatward
We would like to thank our employees at the following sites for their 
assistance in the photography featured within this report: Gunstones Bakery, 
Northern Foods Grimsby, Thorpe Park, Northern Foods Swansea, 
Fox’s Biscuits (Kirkham), Cavaghan & Gray (Carlisle), Matthew Walker, 
The Pizza Factory, Solway Foods (Worksop).
Printed at The Colourhouse, ISO14001 and CarbonNeutral
®
This report is printed on Hello Silk, which is produced using wood ﬁ bre from fully 
sustainable forests in Europe, Canada, the USA and Chile, with FSC certiﬁ cation. 
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and manufactured at a mill 
that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certiﬁ cates for environmental 
management. The use of the FSC logo identiﬁ es products, which contain wood 
from well-managed forests certiﬁ ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council.
Financial highlights
>  Good sales growth, increasing total revenue by 4.6% to £975.2m (2007/08: £931.9m)
>  Proﬁ t from operations* up 8.9% at £52.7m (2007/08: £48.4m), after £4.2m of incremental 
investment in the business
>  Proﬁ t before tax* (PBT) at £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m) reﬂ ecting a reduced pension credit
>  Proﬁ t for the period
1
 of £2.5m (2007/08: £34.5m), after restructuring costs of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) 
and tax allowance changes
>  Underlying EPS
2
 of 6.45 pence per share (2007/08: 5.62p)
>  Proposed dividend maintained at 4.50 pence per share (2007/08: 4.50p)
>  Robust balance sheet with new Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) in place through to 2012; 
net debt
3
 £206.7m (2007/08: £200.2m)
 Highlights
IFC Financial and operating highlights
 Directors’ report
02  Chairman’s review
04  Chief executive’s review
08  Performance review
10 Operational review
26  Corporate social responsibility review
32  Board of directors and company secretary
33  Corporate governance
41  Remuneration report
53  Other statutory and regulatory information
56   Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 Financial statements
57  Independent auditors’ report – Group
58  Consolidated income statement
59  Consolidated balance sheet
60  Consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement
61    Reconciliation of net cash ﬂ ow to 
movements in net debt 
  Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
62 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial
 statements
99 Independent auditors’ report – Company
100 Company balance sheet
101  Company cash ﬂ ow statement
  Company statement of recognised 
income and expense
102  Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial statements
112 Five year record
 Shareholder information
113 Shareholder analysis
114  Financial calendar
 Company information
115 Shareholder information
116 Principal operations
Footnote deﬁ nitions throughout this report:
*  Items which relate to signiﬁ cant restructuring events are presented as a separate column within their relevant Consolidated income statement category. Presentation of these items in a 
separate column helps to provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Restructuring items includes costs or income associated with the restructuring of 
businesses and gains or losses on the disposal or closure of businesses
1  Proﬁ t for the period includes restructuring costs of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) – including £22.9m for Fenland mothballing – and an exceptional tax charge of £12.5m following the withdrawal 
of Industrial Buildings Allowances
2  Underlying earnings per share (EPS) is before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation, one-off release of prior year tax liability, and the net pension 
ﬁ nancing. This is reconciled to earnings per share in the ﬁ nancial statements
3  Net debt is deﬁ ned as total borrowings (including both short and long term bank loans, bonds, loan notes and ﬁ nance leases) less cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. 
Net debt will also include the proportion of the fair value of the currency swaps, hedging the balance sheet value of the Group’s US Dollar denominated loan notes
4  Underlying proﬁ t before taxation reﬂ ects Group proﬁ t before tax before restructuring items and net pension ﬁ nancing. This is reconciled to PBT in the ﬁ nancial statements 
5  ROIC is proﬁ t from operations before restructuring items for continuing operations divided by a 13 month average invested capital (net equity adjusted to exclude retirement beneﬁ t 
obligations net of deferred tax, and net debt, together with accumulated goodwill previously written off)
6  Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) is basic EPS before restructuring items, movement on deferred tax due to change in legislation and one-off release of prior year tax liability. This is 
reconciled to earnings per share in the ﬁ nancial statements
Go online…
www.northernfoods.com
 2008/09 2007/08
 £m £m
Revenue 975.2 931.9
Proﬁ t from operations* 52.7 48.4
Proﬁ t before taxation* 47.5 50.1
Underlying PBT
4
 39.0 34.4
Proﬁ t for the period
1
  2.5 34.5
Operating margin* 5.4% 5.2%
Return on invested capital* (ROIC
5
) 11.7% 11.0%
Underlying earnings per share (EPS
2
) 6.45p 5.62p
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS
6
) 7.76p 7.88p
Dividend per share (proposed) 4.50p 4.50p Northern Foods plc
2180 Century Way
Thorpe Park
Leeds
LS15 8ZB
Tel: 0113 390 0110
Fax: 0113 390 0211
www.northernfoods.com
 Northern Foods plc Annual report 2008/09
Annual Report 2008/09
Making great tasting food
