 Key
Search the entire document by keyword
Print a single page or whole sections
Return to contents
Previous page
Next page
Northumbrian 
Water Group plc 
Annual Report and 
Accounts 201 1
This interactive pdf allows you to easily access the 
information that you want, whether printing, searching 
for a specific item or going directly to another page, 
section or website. Use the document controls located 
at the bottom of each page to navigate through this 
report. Use the contents to jump straight to the section 
you require.
Links
Throughout this report there are links to pages and other sections  
for additional information. 
Examples: This is an example of how the links appear within this  
document. They are recognisable by the blue underline: simply  
click to go to the relevant page. Annual report 
and financial 
statements 
Northumbrian Water Group plc
2011 Cautionary statement
This annual report contains certain statements with respect to the future operations, performance  
and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since  
future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those 
forecast. Such statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of 
this annual report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update such statements. Nothing  
in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast. Certain regulatory performance data 
contained in this annual report is subject to regulatory audit.
Northumbrian Water Group plc 
is an independent company 
quoted on the FTSE 250 Index 
of the London Stock Exchange. 
The Group principally works in 
the provision of water and 
waste water services.
Our vision
T o be the national leader in the 
provision of sustainable water  
and waste water services.
Directors’ report – business review
01 Highlights
02 NWG at a glance 
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief executive officer’s review
10 Our corporate responsibility
12 Our performance measures
14 Our market
16 Our financial performance
22 Our operating performance
50 Our risks and uncertainties
52 Appendix to the directors’ report – business review
Directors’ report – governance
54 Board directors’ biographies
56 Statutory disclosures
58 Corporate governance statement
Remuneration
71 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial statements
85 Statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Group financial statements
86 Report of the auditors on the Group financial 
statements
88 Consolidated income statement
89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
90 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
91 Consolidated balance sheet
92 Consolidated cash flow statement
93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
132 Statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the parent Company financial statements 
133 Report of the auditors on the Company financial 
statements
135 Company balance sheet
136 Notes to the Company financial statements
140 Shareholder information
All corporate responsibility related sections 
throughout the report are highlighted with  
a green shaded box.
Contents Revenue £m
 633.5
 670.4
 694.1
 704.7
 738.1
 07 08 09 10 2011
Dividend per share pence
 11.27
 12.07
 12.79
 13.24
 14.29
 07 08 09 10 2011
Proﬁt before tax £m
 147.8
 170.3
 152.7
 170.2
 181.0
 07 08 09 10 2011
01 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Financial highlights
– Strong financial performance with  
a 6.3% increase in profit before tax
– Regulated business operating 
costs are better than target 
reflecting good progress on our 
efficiency programme and fixing 
of power prices to March 2015
– Net interest charges increased by £17 .4 
million, largely reflecting RPI increases 
on index linked bonds; net cash interest 
charges increased by £2.6 million
– Capital investment in the period 
of £219.9 million for the Group; 
capital investment for the regulated 
business of £221.5 million
– New loan facilities in place; £100.0 
million US private placement 
completed for the Company in April 
2011 and £150.0 million approved 
by the European Investment Bank 
(EIB) for the regulated business
– Funding and approved facilities in 
place to meet the requirements 
of the business to March 2014; 
cash and short term deposits at 
31 March 201 1 £141.7 million
– Proposed final dividend of 9.57 
pence (2010: 8.85 pence) per share 
to be paid on 9 September 2011, 
giving a full year ordinary dividend 
of 14.29 pence (2010: 13.24 pence) 
per share, an increase of 7 .9%
Operational highlights
– Continued high levels of  
customer satisfaction
– Excellent levels of drinking water quality
– Water resource situation is good with 
no plans for restrictions; expansion 
of Abberton reservoir to secure 
supplies for the Essex region for 
25 years is progressing well
– Industry-leading waste water compliance
– Construction commenced on advanced 
anaerobic digestion plant at Howdon, 
on Tyneside, a further step towards our 
target of generating 20% of our energy 
from renewable sources by 2015
– Achievement of Government’s 
Skills Pledge with 90% of the 
workforce trained to at least National 
Qualification Framework Level 2
Highlights
Revenue 201 1
£ 7 38.1 m
2010: £704.7m
Profit before interest 2011
£304.2m
2010: £275.8m
Profit before tax 2011
£ 1 81.0m
2010: £170.2m
Profit for the year 2011
£ 178.4m
2010: £122.9m
The directors of Northumbrian Water 
Group (NWG or the Company) are 
pleased to present their report on 
the affairs of the Company, along 
with the audited financial statements 
and the auditors’ report for the year 
ended 31 March 201 1. Revenue £m
NWL 
Water and waste 
water contracts 
Other
689.4
40.0
8.7
02 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
NWG at a glance
Northumbrian Water Group plc
NWG owns a number of companies which, together 
with NWG, form the Group. The largest of these 
companies, Northumbrian Water Limited (NWL), is one 
of the ten regulated water and sewerage businesses  
in England and Wales. The emphasis given to NWL 
throughout this report, reflects its importance to the 
overall performance of the Group. 
Northumbrian Water Limited
NWL operates in the north east of England, where it 
trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east  
of England, where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water. 
Northumbrian Water currently provides water and 
sewerage services to 2.7 million people and Essex  
& Suffolk Water provides water services to 1.8 million 
people in a combined area of over 12,260 square 
kilometres.
Key facts
47 impounding reservoirs
57 water treatment works
346 water pumping stations
338 water service reservoirs
25,624km  water mains
414 sewage treatment works
731 sewage pumping stations
16,181km  sewers
NWL is licensed to provide these services and currently 
supplies over 1,250 megalitres of water per day. This 
water is drawn from reservoirs, where it is collected and 
stored, rivers and groundwater sources. It is treated at 
our works before it is delivered by a network of pipes to 
homes and businesses. 
In the north east of England, where NWL also provides 
sewerage services, waste water is then collected from 
these properties via the sewerage network and treated 
at our works before it is returned to the environment as 
either clean water or sludge which can be recycled as 
fertiliser or used to generate energy.
Our water and sewerage services in the north east cost 
an average householder 92 pence per day and in Essex 
and Suffolk area, 66 pence for a water only service.
The Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat), as the 
economic regulator, sets price limits for companies in 
England and Wales every five years. 2010/11 was the 
first year in the current five year investment plan. This 
regulation is performance based and companies are 
measured in terms of efficiencies related to operating 
costs, capital programmes and financing as well as  
their general operations. The regulated revenue of the 
company is set by reference to the rate of inflation, 
measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI), as well as an 
adjustment factor referred to as ‘k’. The profile of ‘k’  
for the current five year period is shown below:
2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
k (%) 5.0 3.8 0.9 0.0 (1.0)
NWL has a long term agreement with RWE npower  
for it to operate and sell the energy from NWL ’s 
hydroelectric power station at Kielder Water, which  
is the largest in England.
Water and waste water contracts
NWG controls a number of special purpose companies 
which have water and waste water contracts in 
Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Other
SA Agrer NV (Agrer) carries out project work in 
developing countries through a number of overseas 
aid-funded agencies. Newcastle
Morpeth
Gateshead
Darlington
Hartlepool
Hexham
Kielder
Cow Green
Berwick
Derwent
Head Ofce
Alnwick
River Tyne
River Wear
River Tees
Middlesbrough
Durham
Sunderland
Barsham
Norwich
Aldeburgh
Ipswich
Colchester
Abberton
Clacton
Brentwood
Barking
Basildon
Chelmsford
ESSEX AREA
SUFFOLK AREA
Southend
Tilbury
Romford
Langford
Hanningeld
Walpole
Lowestoft
Southwold
Great Yarmouth
Barsham
Norwich
Aldeburgh
Ipswich
Colchester
Abberton
Clacton
Brentwood
Barking
Basildon
Chelmsford
ESSEX AREA
SUFFOLK AREA
Southend
Tilbury
Romford
Langford
Hanningeld
Walpole
Lowestoft
Southwold
Great Yarmouth
03 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
North east England
Northumbrian Water provides water and 
sewerage services to 2.7 million people  
in the north east of England. The major 
population centres of Tyneside, Wearside 
and Teesside are in our area but we also 
serve large rural areas in Northumberland 
and County Durham (provision of waste 
water services only in Hartlepool).
South east England
Essex & Suffolk Water provides water 
services to two separate supply areas.
Our Essex area, which has a population 
of 1.5 million, is part rural and part urban 
with the main areas of population being 
in Chelmsford, Southend and the London 
Boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, 
Havering and Redbridge.
We serve a population of 0.3 million in 
our Suffolk area, which is mainly rural 
with the biggest towns being Great 
Yarmouth and Lowestoft.  04 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Chairman’s 
statement
This was the first year of the five year regulatory 
cycle 2010-2015. We have made a good start, 
delivering value for shareholders and customers. 
Equally important, we have established plans 
and taken actions to ensure we can deliver over 
the whole period and beyond. 05 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The new regulatory cycle introduces new performance 
standards for the period and, in this report, we indicate 
the substantial progress we are already making.  
Profit has improved, as is needed to ensure we can 
attract the funding required to deliver our ambitious 
investment programme. 
This was also the first year with Heidi Mottram as our 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Heidi’s review of the year 
is in pages 6 to 9 of this report. It gives a sense of the 
energy and determination she has brought to the 
Group. Our strategy has been reviewed and our values 
reset. All our employees have been engaged in the 
work. The result is not a change in our direction. Rather, 
it is a change in the pace and scale of improvements 
sought and in our ambition against benchmarks.
We are building on strengths developed over many 
years but we recognise that the future will pose new 
challenges and uncertainties, often outside our control. 
An example is the weather and its impact on our 
environment. Another is possible reform to the 
regulatory regime although, in that case, we are seeking 
to influence change to ensure the company can deliver 
its, and the Government’s, objectives efficiently and 
effectively. The Board reviews all identified strategic 
risks regularly; they are detailed on pages 50 and 51 of 
this report. We seek to judge and to manage the impact  
of risk on the business, financially and operationally.
The strong financial performance, delivered in difficult 
and uncertain economic conditions, has enabled the 
Board to recommend a dividend for the year in line  
with the objective we established in 2005. Annual real 
increases of 3.0% have consistently been provided 
since then. The economic climate remains uncertain 
although we were pleased to note the agreement by 
Sahaviriya Steel Industries (SSI) to take over the Corus 
plant on Teesside and Hitachi’s decision to build its  
high speed train assembly plant in Durham. These,  
and other developments, should help us to stabilise  
our demand in the future.
Yet again, the weather had a huge impact on our 
operations during the year. The worst winter in over  
100 years posed many challenges for us. Due to the 
extraordinary work of teams across the company, 
supplies to our customers were not affected. I must  
pay tribute to those who worked in exceptionally hard 
conditions to guarantee supplies and to deal with the 
inevitably increased leakage quickly, although, in these 
circumstances, it was not possible to achieve our 
leakage target in the north.
A number of reviews of our regulators are under 
consideration. We also expect a White Paper for Water. 
This does create uncertainty for the industry. We believe 
that, overall, the model for the industry has worked well. 
Much of the necessary change can be made by the 
industry in association with Government and regulators 
without potentially disruptive change. Regulatory 
change must not undermine the confidence of  
our investors.
 
Our focus remains on our customers and the trust they 
put in us to deliver for them each and every day and  
for the long term. Ofwat has introduced the Service 
Incentive Mechanism (SIM) in this five year period and  
in the two year trial period we have improved our score 
significantly. Our aim is to improve much further. We 
monitor the company’s performance closely and, in  
this report, show the balanced scorecard we have 
introduced to do that. It is also the base against which the 
remuneration of all senior management will be assessed.
Our long term commitment to service to customers, 
and to achieving efficiency and environmental targets, 
requires long term investment. The extension of 
Abberton reservoir is a perfect example and there is a 
case study of the project on page 43. It will help secure 
the long term supply of water to our customers in 
Essex. Also worthy of note is the commencement of 
work on our second advanced anaerobic digestion 
plant, at Howdon, on north Tyneside. This follows the 
successful operation of the plant at Bran Sands, on 
Teesside. Together they will significantly increase our 
use of renewable energy.
The work of our people during the winter was 
exceptional. Their unstinting efforts throughout the year 
are always evident and are the basis of our successes. 
We thank them for all they do and we seek to ensure 
they have the right environment and personal 
development opportunities. We were listed as a 
‘company to watch’ in the Sunday Times ‘Best 
Companies to work for’ survey. This was a significant 
result as it was the first time we had taken part. 
However, this was not a surprise as our employee 
survey showed that levels of satisfaction are high.
Our employees are active in our ‘Just an hour’ 
volunteering scheme, working in the communities we 
serve. These communities are important to us and we 
have developed significant partnerships to ensure that 
we support and help to sustain them. That work is part 
of a corporate responsibility programme covering all 
aspects of our business and seeking to embed 
sustainability at all levels. 
I must thank my fellow directors for their support  
during the year. I would particularly like to thank Claude 
Lamoureux, who leaves the Board after this year’s 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), for his five years on  
the Board. He has provided us with wisdom and an 
international dimension. Anita Frew and Alastair Balls 
both left the NWL board after nine years of dedicated 
service. We wish them all well. We have welcomed  
Paul Rew to the Board since last year’s AGM as well  
as Simon Lyster, who has been a member of the NWL 
board for five years. The board has considerable 
strength, drawn in part from the diverse backgrounds 
and experience of the directors.
Sir Derek Wanless
Chairman
31 May 2011 06 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Chief executive 
officer’s review
This review highlights our business activity during 
my first year as CEO of NWG.
It has been a hugely enjoyable year, and also a 
very interesting one, as I took time to understand 
the business, listen to its stakeholders and 
employees and work with them to develop  
a way forward.  07 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
I joined a company which already had a good 
reputation and I was impressed immediately by the 
loyalty and commitment of the workforce. It was the 
start of a new five year investment period for NWL and  
I have taken the opportunity to couple that plan with  
a review of our strategy, vision and values.
NWL had previously stated its vision to ‘be the national 
leader in the provision of sustainable water and waste 
water services’, and our commitment to this is 
reaffirmed. We want to continue to deliver value to 
customers and other stakeholders by focusing on  
our core competencies of water and waste water 
management. We underpin our drive to be the best  
with five strategic themes containing goals and targets 
that, when reached, will see our vision and our values 
delivered. In the autumn, ‘Our Vision Our Values Our 
Way’ was introduced to all our employees during a 
series of interactive roadshows and, as a result, there  
is clarity and energy throughout the company which  
is driving the business forward.
The five themes described below are mutually 
supportive and achieving the right balance between 
them is essential to our success and reputation.
Customer focuses on delivering industry-leading 
customer service. Our relationship with customers is 
core to the success of our business and it is essential 
that they trust our service. Customer service is at the 
heart of the company and all employees have a clear 
focus on getting things ‘right first time every time’. 
Although we are required to meet regulated standards 
for customer service, this should not define our 
aspiration as the quality of our service must go  
beyond that.
Competitiveness will drive us to greater efficiency 
and, indeed, to be the most efficient water company.  
It is not just about driving cost down but using 
innovation to support our activity.
People are our greatest asset and we want to be 
recognised as a great company to work for with high 
levels of satisfaction from our employees. We will 
provide support and training and promote excellent 
employee relations.
Environment is critical to us and our stakeholders  
and we acknowledge our responsibilities to protect  
and enhance the natural environment. Our carbon 
management plan will help reduce our carbon footprint 
and we will adopt good environmental practice in all 
aspects of our activity.
Communities are important to us and we want to 
build strong relationships with the communities we 
serve. We will ensure that corporate responsibility is 
embedded in performance management and that we 
benchmark ourselves against the best companies.
We have agreed specific goals to help us achieve  
our vision against these themes, and have clear 
accountability for their achievement throughout  
the company. These are measured in a balanced 
scorecard which assesses our performance against  
key performance indicators (KPIs). This is reviewed  
by the Board, management team and all employees  
on a monthly basis.
I believe that clear direction and goals are key to 
success, but just as important is a clear sense of 
values, and how we do things ‘around here’. So at  
the same time as reviewing our vision, we have  
made a clear commitment to five core values.
One team – we work together consistently, promoting 
co-operation, to achieve our corporate objectives.
Customer focused – we aim to exceed the 
expectations of our external and internal customers.
Results driven – we take personal responsibility for 
achieving excellent business results.
Creative – we continuously strive for innovative and 
better ways to deliver our business.
Ethical – we are open and honest in meeting our 
commitments, with a responsible approach to the 
environment and our communities.
 
Values
Reputation
Customer
Competitiveness
People
Environment
Communities
Vision 08 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
2010/11
The company was successful in meeting many of the 
targets in its balanced scorecard during the year. Out  
of 26 targets we improved in 18, which is a very good 
start. Most notable were the improvements in sewer 
flooding, our SIM score for customer service as well as 
the reduction in the number of interruptions to supply. 
We were also very proud to retain our industry-leading 
position in sewage treatment. Our independent 
customer satisfaction scores still show that customers 
are satisfied with the service we provide as well as value 
for money although we were disappointed that this  
was not reflected at the same level in the research 
undertaken by the Consumer Council for Water 
(CCWater) this year.
The report will also focus on many highlights throughout 
the year but the development of our work to extend 
Abberton reservoir and commence our second 
advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Howdon, after 
the successful operation at Bran Sands, are particularly 
notable. The worst winter for over 100 years challenged 
our employees but they responded magnificently 
ensuring that no supplies were interrupted. This was a 
fantastic achievement and I am very proud and grateful 
for the commitment and hard work of so many of our 
employees in truly dreadful weather conditions.
The company also continued to receive external 
recognition for its activity. This year, Ethisphere listed 
NWG in its top 110 most ethical companies in the world, 
one of only five companies chosen in the UK. This 
recognises the impact we have on underpinning the 
communities in which we operate and also recognises 
our longstanding relationships with key industrial and 
commercial customers.
We continue to be actively involved in the business 
community in all operating areas through direct 
membership and involvement in the councils/boards  
of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), Chambers 
of Commerce and other similar organisations. For  
my part, I have been getting involved in a number of 
organisations which I believe can influence the future  
of the company and locally I am a member of the  
CBI Council and have been asked to join their  
national Infrastructure Group. I have also joined the 
Government’s Green Economy Council as the water 
industry representative and I hope that the Council  
can bring a real influence to the development of  
policy relating to a low carbon economy. 
This year, industrial demand has stabilised and we were 
particularly pleased with the signing of the agreement 
by SSI from Thailand to secure the future of the Corus 
plant on Teesside. There is evidence of some industrial 
growth particularly with the confirmation that Hitachi will 
develop a site in Durham to assemble its high speed 
trains. Metering of our domestic customers continues  
to increase, although at a different pace in our various 
areas of supply, and domestic demand is also steady. 
The collection of income remains a key focus for us, 
particularly in a difficult economic climate.
Private drains and sewers
One of the major challenges we face in 2011/12 is the 
transfer of private drains and sewers to the industry in 
October. This will almost double our sewerage network 
overnight and much work is already in hand to assess 
what is needed in terms of staffing, building effective 
data, information sharing and communications to 
customers. We don’t fully know the impact of the 
transfer yet, but it will lead to higher costs, in the order 
of £20 million a year initially, which we will need to 
recover in this five year investment period. The industry 
has worked well in partnership, via Water UK, to come 
up with the most practical cost effective way forward  
for customers.
Chief executive officer’s review 
continued 09 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Legislative changes 
We look forward to publication of the Government’s 
White Papers on Water and the Natural Environment later 
this year. The former should bring greater clarity in areas 
such as water resource planning, metering, social tariffs 
and broader market reform. We have worked with the 
industry, through Water UK, to set out a vision of how the 
Government can achieve many of its objectives without 
legislation or with only minor legislative changes. NWL 
has held frequent meetings with Defra and contributed 
ideas on water trading and abstraction reform including  
a joint project (‘Trading theory for Practice’) with Anglian 
Water, Cambridge Water and Veolia. We remain 
committed to any moves that can deliver clear and 
demonstrable improvements for customers, other 
stakeholders and the wider environment.
The Water White Paper will be an opportunity to end 
unhelpful speculation around the future regulatory 
regime and provide a clear vision for the future of the 
water industry that retains the confidence of customers 
and investors alike.
In addition, we await the publication for consultation  
of draft Regulations from Defra to introduce a duty  
on landlords to provide water companies with relevant 
details so that accurate bills can be issued to tenants. 
This should assist in collecting income from the  
private rented sector where bad debts have been 
relatively high.
 
Regulatory reform
We welcome the conclusions of the Defra review of 
Ofwat and CCWater conducted by David Gray. We  
also welcome the view that the overall regulatory 
framework, including the continued role for a separate 
customer body, is generally fit for purpose. We support 
the call for regulatory simplification and a reduced 
reporting burden which is already being championed 
enthusiastically by Ofwat. We also support further 
clarification of the respective roles of Government  
and regulators and a call for more transparency  
in consultation processes.
We strongly support the move by Ofwat to significantly 
reduce the burden of regulatory reporting and move 
towards risk-based regulation. A useful start was  
made in the simplified 2011 June Return reporting 
requirements but we support the proposal for more 
radical change in 2012. We have been working in 
partnership with Ofwat to pilot a set of high level KPIs  
to be reported by companies in place of the current 
detailed and prescriptive reporting requirements.
Ofwat has published a series of consultation and 
discussion papers on the subject of ‘Future price limits’. 
We have responded to these papers and also engaged 
in a range of workshops, meetings and informal 
discussions with Ofwat. We believe the more focused 
approach to regulation should be reflected in the 
approach to future price reviews as well as the annual 
reporting cycle. We welcome Ofwat’s intention to adopt 
a more outcome-focused approach to price setting and 
have made suggestions as to how the price setting 
methodology could be simplified and made more 
transparent. We look forward to responding to Ofwat’s 
formal consultation paper outlining its proposals for 
future price reviews later in the year. 
The Office of Fair Trading has announced a market 
study looking at whether the market for treatment of 
organic waste is working effectively to deliver the best 
outcomes for customers. NWL was an early investor  
in advanced anaerobic digestion technology and we 
welcome this review as it should provide the clarity 
required to inform investment decisions.
Summary
This has been a very good year for the Group. We are 
reporting a strong set of results, we have a clear vision 
and goals to deliver and have made good progress in 
performance in many areas. There is a strong sense of 
energy, commitment and accountability in the business 
and I am confident of further success in 2011/12. 
Heidi Mottram
Chief Executive Officer
31 May 2011 10 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
In previous years, in line with many other companies, 
we have reported on corporate responsibility 
separately within this report. During the year, a review 
of our vision, values and strategy has given us the 
opportunity to truly embed sustainability throughout 
our business. Reflecting the importance of 
sustainability to our business we believe that we 
should report sustainability issues alongside our core 
business activities and we have decided to highlight 
sustainability areas throughout our annual report in 
green. We recognise that this is an innovative 
approach and would welcome any feedback. This 
activity is extensive and it is not possible to include 
everything here. As a result, key sustainability issues 
appear in green boxes and are linked to our 
Sustainability Highlights document, a partner 
document to this annual report, which contains more 
detailed information on our responsible business 
practice policies, plans, KPIs and case studies.
 
NWL is expected to provide a secure supply of water, 
a basic necessity for health, and to protect or enhance 
the environment when we return waste to it. Our 
stakeholders also expect us to:
behave fairly and responsibly; −
use resources wisely; −
improve quality of life; and −
contribute to economic development. −
We believe that sustainability helps to improve the 
performance of the company and to achieve our 
business strategy and objectives. This is reflected  
in our business plan where our sustainability 
objectives are woven into our core business strategy. 
Our credentials for our work have been recognised 
and these are outlined on page 44. Business in  
the Community (BITC) has highlighted that those 
companies participating in their Corporate 
Responsibility Index outperform other FTSE 250 
companies and Ethisphere highlights similar 
outperformance for ethical companies. NWG’s share 
price has outperformed against the FTSE 250 over  
the last five years as highlighted on page 78. 
Our customer research also highlights that customers 
value the work of NWL in the community and for  
the environment and it helps to build their trust in  
our work. Each aspect of the highlighted work in  
this report has a direct benefit to the company, its 
community and its environment, such as cost saving, 
carbon reduction, environmental impact, skills 
development or leverage. Case studies throughout  
our annual report, for example on advanced anaerobic 
digestion or use of reed beds in water treatment, 
demonstrate the tangible business benefits such  
as reduced costs and power consumption.
To ensure that sustainability runs throughout the 
business, all parts of the Company are involved from 
the Board through to all employees. Governance of 
our sustainability activity is led by our Corporate 
Responsibility Committee (CRC), a subcommittee of 
the NWL board. The CRC comprises non-executive 
directors, executive directors, the CEO (who is directly 
accountable to the NWL and NWG boards for both the 
environment and sustainable development policies) 
and senior managers from across the business. In 
addition, a CR Advisory Group (CRAG) acts as a 
critical friend, helping to validate, guide and challenge 
NWL ’s sustainability strategy and activities. The CRAG 
is made up of senior representatives from partner 
organisations to reflect the key areas of our 
communities strategy.
“ Northumbrian Water Group’s driving commitment  
to sustainability demonstrates that strong leadership 
and ambition can make a tangible difference to 
communities and the environment.” 
 Simon Lyster, Chair, CRC.
“ Northumbrian Water Group has an open and 
inclusive approach to working with a wide array of 
external partners to develop extremely impressive 
social and environmental initiatives.” 
 Norma Hope, Chair, CRAG.
Our corporate 
responsibility  11 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Kielder Water & Forest Park 12 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our performance 
measures
The Group monitors performance using a range of financial and non-financial KPIs. Performance against these 
indicators is reported within the ‘our financial performance’ and ‘our operating performance’ sections later in  
this report.
Looking forward, the financial KPIs remain unchanged for 2011/12. However, in order to measure delivery of the 
Company business plan and goals, a balanced scorecard of KPIs has been introduced, which replaces the 
existing non-financial KPIs. These indicators are spread across the themes of customer, competitiveness, people, 
environment and communities and targets have been set on a trajectory to deliver the company vision of being 
‘the national leader in water and waste water services’.
In order to ensure alignment of the management team, this balanced scorecard now represents 80% of the criteria 
contributing to their annual bonus, with a further 20% available for the achievement of bespoke personal targets.
The table below details those KPIs and the targets that have been set for 2011/12. A full explanation of each  
target follows.
Strategic theme Scorecard measure Target 2011/12
% Contribution to 
available bonus
Customer Customer satisfaction
– SIM quantitative score 1 74 2
– SIM qualitative score 4.4 2
Unplanned interruptions >6 hours
– north 900
4
– south 600
Coliform incidents (no.) 15 4
Competitiveness Profit before tax Set by Board 36
Capital efficiency Set by Board 4
People Engagement and satisfaction index (%) 81 4
Lost time reportable accidents (no.) 11 4
Environment Leakage (Mld)
– north 147
4
– south 66
Sewage treatment works compliance (%) 100 4
Pollution incidents (categories 1 & 2) 3 4
Communities FTSE4Good accreditation Retain 4
BITC Platinum Plus accreditation Retain 4
Personal targets Bespoke Bespoke 20 13 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Measure Definition of measure
Customer
Customer satisfaction – 
SIM quantitative score
SIM quantitative measure, based on customer contacts. Contacts are normalised per thousand 
connected properties and multiplied by a weighting factor for each ‘unwanted’ category. 
Categories include unwanted customer calls, abandoned calls, first stage written complaints, 
second stage written complaints and CCWater investigations. The lower the score the higher  
the customer satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction – 
SIM qualitative score
SIM qualitative measure, assessing satisfaction of consumers across their experience from first 
correspondence to final resolution, through independent surveys. Surveys are carried out four 
times a year for water, waste water and billing contacts and the average score taken. A score of  
5 indicates maximum satisfaction.
Unplanned interruptions  
>6 hours
A weighted scoring of the number of properties affected by interruptions to supply of more than  
six hours’ duration which are unplanned, unwarned (excluding overruns of planned and warned 
interruptions) except for those caused directly by third parties. It includes interruptions for which 
customers are notified less than 48 hours in advance. The scoring weights interruptions which 
exceed 12 hours, and heavily weights those which exceed 24 hours.
Coliform incidents Total number of coliform failures in regulatory samples at water treatment works and service 
reservoirs. One coliform or more is a failing sample.
Competition
Profit before tax Actual profit before tax compared to the budget approved by the Board, adjusted for the impact  
of variances related to indexation on index linked bonds, which depends on the July RPI in the year. 
Profit before tax has been chosen because it is a primary financial measure for the Group for which 
the executive directors are accountable.
Capital efficiency An annual assessment of the efficiency of the NWL capital investment programme is undertaken 
by the Board.
People
Engagement and 
satisfaction index (%)
The Engagement and Satisfaction Index is calculated from scores for 13 items selected from the 
annual employee survey. These items align to the Sunday Times Best Companies survey and give 
a measure of employee satisfaction.
Lost time reportable 
accidents (no.)
Accidents reportable to the Health and Safety Executive resulting in more than three days lost  
from work.
Environment
Leakage (Mld) Water network leakage for the financial year, as reported to Ofwat. 
Sewage treatment works 
compliance (%)
Percentage of population equivalent served by sewage treatment works compliant with 
Environment Agency (EA) look-up table consents.
Pollution incidents 
(categories 1 & 2)
Number of category 1 and 2 pollution incidents in the calendar year, as defined by the EA. Category 
1 is a major water pollution incident and category 2 is a significant water pollution incident.
Communities
FTSE4Good accreditation Accreditation by FTSE4Good index series, which has been designed to objectively measure the 
performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
BITC Platinum Plus 
accreditation
Accreditation by BITC at Platinum Plus level, the highest level in their corporate responsibility index. 
BITC is a national business-led charity which advises, challenges and supports its members to 
create a sustainable future for people and the planet and to improve business performance. 14 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our market
The largest of NWG’s businesses, 
NWL, operates in the north east and 
south east of England. The two 
areas have very different economic, 
demographic and water resource 
characteristics.
Our external environment 
In the north east, there has been a gradual fall in 
overall water demand in recent decades as a 
consequence of a reduction in industrial demand  
for water. This trend is expected to continue but the 
pace of decline has now stabilised after some 
industrial closures during the economic recession. 
The north east compares well to the rest of the 
country as far as water resources are concerned  
and our major regional rivers can all be supported  
by Kielder Water. This provides very high security  
of supply for our customers. We also provide the 
highest levels of compliance for waste water across 
this area ensuring that we can return the water  
and sewage sludge to the environment satisfactorily 
whilst meeting the demands of all customers.  
Bran Sands is particularly important in this respect 
as it supports the heavily industrialised area within 
Teesside by treating its waste. The advanced 
anaerobic digestion plant there is now operating 
effectively and helping us to build our use of 
renewable energy.
NWL ’s southern operating area is in a water scarce 
region that is forecast to experience further 
economic and population growth in the medium 
term. While this area has also seen a reduction in 
demand from heavy industry, and the recession  
is likely to dampen housing growth in the near future, 
we have a current deficit, meaning supplies are  
not secure in a severe drought. Future growth will 
intensify the pressure on the balance between  
supply and demand. NWL is implementing long  
term plans to ensure the availability of water supplies 
to meet both current and future demand in the 
region. After approval from the EA, the project  
to increase the capacity of Abberton reservoir,  
near Colchester, coupled with ongoing demand 
management measures, will secure supplies to  
the Essex area for the foreseeable future. 15 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The current pressures within financial markets have 
been well documented and the credit crunch has 
resulted in reduced availability of certain types of 
finance. It is highly unlikely there will be a return to the 
exceptionally low cost of debt experienced from late 
2005 to early 2007. Although market conditions have 
improved in recent months, some uncertainty remains. 
With the financing we have already put in place, we are 
sheltered from this uncertainty in the short term as we 
will not need to raise any new debt before March 2014.
Regulatory and legislative framework 
As a monopoly supplier of an essential public service, 
the UK water industry operates within a demanding 
regulatory environment.
Ofwat regulates prices and levels of customer service, 
while the Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI) monitors 
drinking water quality and the EA covers environmental 
protection. Customers’ interests are represented  
by CCWater.
NWL aims to maintain good working relationships with 
its regulators and with regional organisations, such as 
local authorities, which have an interest in the services  
it provides and can influence the company’s business. 
This is particularly important following Government 
reviews of the regulators, changes in regulatory 
reporting and proposals to legislate in the sector 
following the publication of a White Paper later in  
the year.
Abberton reservoir Gearing to RCV %
 66
 65
 67
 66
 63
 59 59
 61 61
 56
 07 08 09 10 2011
NWG
NWL
smaller data adjusted so ﬁgures ﬁt
Cash interest cover %
 3.6
 3.9
 3.8
 3.9
 4.0
 2.9
 3.1 3.1
 3.3
 3.2
 07 08 09 10 2011
NWG
NWL
Cash ﬂow to net debt %
 16
 17
 18 18
 20
 15
 16
 15 15
 16
 07 08 09 10 2011
NWG
NWL
smaller data adjusted so ﬁgures ﬁt
16 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our financial 
performance
NWG and NWL use a range of financial KPIs to monitor 
the financial standing of the businesses and to ensure 
that strong credit ratings are maintained. The definition, 
purpose and source of each KPI are shown on page 52.
Performance against the financial KPIs is set out below:
Performance
Target Current year Previous year
KPI NWG NWL NWG NWL NWG NWL
Gearing to RCV (%) <75 <70
1
63
2
56
3
66 61
Cash interest cover (times) >2.5 >3.0 3.2 4.0 3.3 3.9
Cash flow to net debt (%) >13 >13 16 20 15 18
Notes:
1. Less than 65% for the regulated business of NWL.
2. NWG’s pro forma Regulatory Capital Value (RCV) at 31 March 2011 was £3,643.1 million (2010: £3,420.5 million) (see below).
3. NWL ’s RCV, as advised by Ofwat, at 31 March 2011 was £3,318.4 million (2010: £3,095.0 million). 17 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The pro forma Group RCV includes £219.1 million (2010: 
£218.8 million) and £105.6 million (2010: £106.7 million) 
for the Kielder securitisation and private finance initiative 
(PFI) contracts, respectively. Adding these to NWL ’s 
RCV of £3,318.4 million (2010: £3,095.0 million), results 
in a pro forma Group RCV of £3,643.1 million (2010: 
£3,420.5 million).
The Group’s gearing on this pro forma basis has 
decreased from 66% to 63%, with net debt increasing 
by £41.1 million (1.8%) to £2,303.5 million over the year, 
while pro forma Group RCV has increased by 6.5%  
due principally to the increase in RPI.
Gearing at NWL, and for the regulated business, has 
reduced to 56% from 61% and 60% respectively. This  
is due to the impact of the high RPI increase on the 
RCV and a reduction in net debt reduced over the 
period of £28.5 million to £1,868.3 million, due to the 
timing of intra-Group dividends which were paid after 
the balance sheet date.
The Group also prepares detailed medium term 
business plans and annual budgets, which are reviewed 
and submitted to the Board for approval. Targets are 
set to measure performance and regular financial 
forecasts are made. Business plans and budgets 
include an assessment of the key risks and success 
factors facing each business unit. On a monthly basis, 
management compares the actual operational and 
financial performance of each business with plan and 
budget and this is reported to the Board.
Financial results and dividends
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Profit for the year 178.4
Interim dividend paid (ordinary – 4.72 pence 
per share) 24.5
Final dividend proposed (ordinary – 9.57 
pence per share) 49.6
NWG
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011  
increased by 4.7% to £738.1 million (2010: £704.7 
million). Water and sewerage charges at the Group’s 
principal subsidiary NWL, increased in line with the 
price review (final determination) allowance of 5.0%  
plus the November 2009 RPI of 0.3%. Income from  
the Group’s water and waste water contracts  
increased by 4.4%.
Operating costs increased by £5.0 million (1.2%) to 
£433.9 million, principally reflecting movements at NWL, 
which are detailed below, and the one-off recovery of 
claim costs by Caledonian Environmental Services 
(CES) in the prior year. Profit on ordinary activities 
before interest for the year was £304.2 million (2010: 
£275.8 million), an increase of 10.3%.
Net interest charges increased by £17.4 million within 
which net cash interest charges increased by £2.6 
million. The non-cash element of the increase principally 
reflects inflation of the principal on the index linked 
bonds (£28.5 million) and an increase in the interest 
cost of pension plan obligations (£7.2 million). These 
were partially offset by better than expected returns  
on pension assets (£13.9 million) and one-off credits  
in respect of the acquisition of the remaining 25.0% 
subordinated loan stock in CES not already held by  
the Group (£4.6 million) and a termination discount on 
the transfer of a finance lease to a new counterparty 
(£2.9 million).
Profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year  
was £181.0 million, 6.3% higher than the previous year 
(2010: £170.2 million). The current tax charge reduced 
to £33.1 million (2010: £37.8 million) principally reflecting 
increased profitability more than offset by adjustments 
in respect of prior periods.
The deferred tax credit of £30.5 million (2010: charge of 
£9.5 million) reflects a decrease in the Group’s deferred 
tax liability of £46.3 million following the enactment of a 
reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28.0% to 
26.0% with effect from 1 April 2011.
The effective tax rate for the period was 1.4% (2010: 
27.8%) reflecting the impact of the deferred tax rate 
change. In the absence of the rate change, and  
other prior year items, the effective rate would  
have been 28.5%.
Capital investment for the Group was £219.9 million 
(2010: £236.3 million restated), including recognition  
of £13.9 million for assets adopted at £nil cash 
consideration, as required under IFRIC 18 Transfers  
of Assets from Customers (2010: £14.0 million).  18 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
NWL
Revenue was £689.4 million for the year ended 31 
March 2011 (2010: £657.8 million). The increase is 
mainly due to the application of the final determination 
increase of 5.0%, and 0.3% in respect of RPI, on water 
and sewerage charges. Demand from both domestic 
and industrial customers has remained steady.
Operating costs increased by £2.9 million (0.7%) to 
£391.8 million, principally reflecting increases in 
depreciation, pension charges and water efficiency 
costs, partially offset by savings on power (£6.1 million), 
other efficiencies and one-off charges in the prior  
year both for restructuring costs (£5.4 million) and for 
bad debt relating to the closure of a major customer 
(£1.7 million).
Profit on ordinary activities before interest for the year 
was £297.6 million (2010: £268.9 million).
Capital investment in the regulated business for the 
period was £221.5 million, under regulatory accounting 
guidelines (2010: £218.3 million). This is slightly lower 
than the final determination profile, deflated by the 
Construction Industry Price Index (COPI), due to some 
delays in maintenance investment as a result of the 
severe winter weather, but this should be recovered  
in future years. It is difficult to assess any potential 
outperformance over the AMP5 period at this early 
stage given the volatile nature of COPI but we remain 
focused on delivering our regulatory programme.
We have recently tendered our major procurement 
arrangements covering water treatment, waste water 
treatment and waste water networks and have 
appointed 19 contractors and consultants to framework 
agreements covering an estimated £1.5 billion of 
investment over the next ten years, commencing 1 April 
2011. In addition, we are currently undertaking a tender 
process to appoint additional contractors in readiness 
for the transfer of responsibility for private drains and 
sewers on 1 October 2011.
Our financial performance 
continued
Early in the year, we instigated an efficiency programme 
focused on identifying and implementing sustainable 
operating cost efficiencies in order to achieve our 
medium term goal of being in the top efficiency band for 
both water and sewerage, as measured by Ofwat, by 
2013/14. This programme has progressed well and, as 
a result, we are ahead of our final determination profile. 
Further information on this programme is provided on 
page 28.
Water and waste water contracts
Our water and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland 
and Gibraltar are all performing well and are in line with 
expectations. Revenue for the contracts increased to 
£40.0 million for the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: 
£38.3 million), principally as a result of the settlement of 
outstanding claims and indexation on revenue tariffs, 
both at CES. Profit on ordinary activities before interest 
was £9.5 million (2010: £10.2 million), reducing as a result 
of a one-off recovery of claim costs in the prior year, 
partially offset by the increased revenues.
The Group is involved in two projects to deliver long 
term PFI contracts with Scottish Water for waste water 
treatment. In April 2010, the Group acquired the 
remaining 25% non-controlling equity interest in CES  
for a nominal sum resulting in an increase of £0.6 million 
in equity shareholders’ funds. It also purchased the 
remaining 25% subordinated loan stock for a 
consideration of £0.4 million which, when compared to 
the book value of the loan stock of £5.0 million, resulted 
in a £4.6 million gain that has been recognised in net 
finance costs in the period.
At CES, the Group now has a 100% shareholding in 
both project and operating companies and the benefit 
of a 40 year contract. Funding was provided through  
a 37 year fixed interest rate corporate bond with the 
principal amortising from 2008.
In Ayrshire, the Group has a 75% shareholding in the 
project company and a 100% shareholding in the 
company that operates the three effluent treatment 
plants that comprise this 30 year contract. Finance was 
provided through a 27 year loan on a fixed interest basis 
with the principal amortising from 2003. 19 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
In Ireland, the Group is part of a contractual consortium 
that designed and built a waste water treatment plant 
for Cork City Council. Under the consortium agreement, 
the Group has responsibility for a 20 year contract for 
the operation and maintenance of the plant. During the 
year, the Group added to its Irish project portfolio by 
signing a 20 year operation and maintenance contract 
for the Fermoy and Mallow waste water treatment 
works, with Cork County Council, commencing in 
May 2011.
AquaGib Limited, which is two thirds owned by the 
Group in a joint venture with the Government of 
Gibraltar, operates Gibraltar’s dual drinking water  
and sea water distribution systems under its 30 year 
contract with the Government of Gibraltar.
Other
Agrer
Revenue for the year to 31 March 2011 was £8.3 million 
(2010: £8.5 million). During the year, Agrer has signed 
new contracts and extensions with a total gross margin 
of €1.7 million. At 31 March 2011, the gross margin of 
the order book is in excess of €2.1 million.
The most significant new contracts signed during the 
year include: provision of technical assistance to a local 
development and management of natural resources 
programme in Chad (€1.3 million – 54 months); 
improvement of the agricultural products value chains  
in Mali (€0.5 million – 20 months); a country evaluation 
of Nepal, Nicaragua and Tanzania (€0.5 million –  
six months) and a new Framework contract for the 
European Commission Lot 1: Studies and technical 
assistance in all sectors (four years). In the technical 
assistance to the Good Governance programme in 
Burundi, a significant extension has been signed 
(€0.9 million – 28 months).
Earnings per share and dividends
Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the year 
were 34.44 pence and 34.38 pence respectively (2010: 
23.67 pence and 23.62 pence respectively).
The directors consider that EPS adjusted for the 
volatility inherent in some deferred tax items gives a 
better indication of the Group’s underlying performance. 
In previous years, an adjustment has been made  
for total deferred tax. However, the directors have 
concluded that the ongoing deferred tax charge  
forms part of underlying performance and it is more 
appropriate to only adjust for significant non-recurring 
deferred tax items. For the current period, EPS from 
continuing operations, adjusted for the deferred tax 
credit relating to the corporation tax rate reduction, 
were 25.50 pence (2010 restated: 23.67 pence). 
A final dividend of 9.57 pence per share for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 will be recommended by the 
Board to shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2011  
and, if approved, will be paid on 9 September 2011 to 
shareholders on the Company’s Register of Members at 
the close of business on 12 August 2011. Together with 
the ordinary interim dividend of 4.72 pence per share, 
the ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year 
will be 14.29 pence per share (2010: 13.24 pence per 
share). This represents an increase of 7.9%, based on 
average inflation over the year of 4.9%, on the ordinary 
dividends for the previous year and is consistent with 
the Board’s decision to maintain a progressive dividend 
policy with real increases of 3.0% per annum. The 
dividend cover for the year, excluding significant, 
non-recurring deferred tax, was 1.9 times (2010: 
1.8 times).
The board of our main subsidiary, NWL, has proposed 
a dividend policy consistent with the underlying growth 
assumptions adopted by Ofwat at the price review  
in 2009.
Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, 
which at the date of this report held 765,962 shares to 
be used in the future to satisfy the vesting and exercise 
of awards under the Company’s Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP), has waived the right to all dividends on the 
shares it holds. Further details of the LTIP can be found 
in the directors’ remuneration report. NWG’s interest structure %
Index Linked
Fixed
Floating
74
20
6
NWG’s funding source %
EIB
Bonds
Bank
Lease
73
14
8
5
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
NWG’s gross debt 
maturity proﬁle
£m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
2055
NWL 
appointed
Group
Yearly Five year periods
20 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union as it applies to the financial statements 
of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Capital structure and liquidity
As at 31 March 2011 the Group and NWL ’s regulated 
business debt structure remain largely unchanged from 
the previous year end date.
In February 2011, the Group agreed a new £100.0 million 
US private placement with a ten year maturity at a 
coupon of 5.82%, the proceeds of which were received 
on 14 April 2011. On the same date, this and existing 
cash reserves were used to refinance £125.0 million of 
holding company debt maturing in May 2011. NWL has 
also received approval for a new £150.0 million facility 
from the EIB which will be drawn in three £50.0 million 
tranches, in the calendar years 2011 to 2013, at interest 
rates to be determined at the time of drawdown.
The Group and NWL ’s regulated business debt 
structure remain largely unchanged with 74% (NWL: 
70%) fixed at an average rate of 5.80% (NWL: 5.96%), 
20% (NWL: 23%) index linked at an average real rate of 
1.85% (all NWL) and 6% (NWL: 7%) on a variable rate 
basis. The blended average rate for the Group and 
NWL ’s regulated business for the year ended 31 March 
2011 was 5.80% and 5.93% (2010: 4.62%, 4.45%), 
respectively, reflecting increased RPI.
Cash interest cover has remained stable for the year as 
have the credit ratings for NWL at BBB+ stable (Fitch 
and Standard & Poors) and Baa1 stable (Moody’s).
Our financial performance 
continued 21 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Total cash, cash equivalents and short term cash 
deposits available at 31 March 2011 amounted to 
£141.7 million. This, and the new EIB facility, is sufficient 
to meet the requirements of the business through to the 
end of March 2014. 
 
Treasury policy
The main purposes of the Group’s treasury function  
are to assess the Group’s ongoing capital requirement, 
to maintain short term liquidity, ensuring access to 
medium term committed back up facilities, and to  
raise funding, taking advantage of any favourable 
market opportunities.
It also invests any surplus funds the Group may have, 
based on its forecast requirements and in accordance 
with the Group’s treasury policy. On occasions, 
derivatives are used as part of this process, but the 
Group’s policies prohibit their use for speculation.  
Full details are provided in note 20 to the financial 
statements. The Group is operating in compliance  
with its policies.
Pensions
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension 
scheme, which is closed to new entrants, and an 
occupational defined contribution arrangement.
The deficit (under International Accounting Standard 
(IAS) 19 Retirement Benefits) of the defined benefit 
scheme has decreased from £133.1 million, at 31 March 
2010, to £46.0 million at 31 March 2011. This is due to  
a reduction in the liabilities of the scheme (£37.2 million) 
and an increase in the value of scheme assets (£49.9 
million). The valuation of the scheme liabilities has taken 
account of legislative changes which mean that future 
statutory deferred revaluations and statutory pension 
increases will be linked to the Consumer Price Index 
(CPI). As a consequence, CPI increases have been 
applied for deferred pensions in all sections of the 
scheme and to those sections where the scheme rules 
link increases to the Government’s pension increase 
orders. This has given rise to a reduction in the scheme 
liabilities of around £36.0 million.
Following the 2004 actuarial valuation the Group 
prepaid contributions for the period to 31 December 
2010. In place of recommencing regular contributions 
from 1 January 2011, the Group agreed to pay  
further advance contributions to the scheme totalling 
£70.0 million for the period to 31 March 2015. Amounts 
totalling £22.9 million were paid in the period to 
31 March 2011 and a further £47.1 million was paid  
in April 2011. These payments comprise employers’ 
contributions and the deficit recovery funding  
assumed in the final determination.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 
31 December 2010 is underway. 22 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our operating
performance
We use a range of KPIs to measure non-financial 
performance in the business and these indicators are 
reviewed by the management team each month.  
Performance for the year is reported in this section.  
The definition, purpose and source of each KPI are 
shown on pages 52 to 53.
These measures have been reviewed in the year, as 
outlined in ‘our performance measures’ on page 12, 
and a new balanced scorecard of KPIs has been 
introduced for 201 1/12.
Mains cleaning programme – valve installation 23 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Customer
Target 
2010/11
Performance 
2010/11
Overall service (%)
1
 91 89
Value for money (%)
1
 87 85
Note:
1. Satisfaction measured on a net basis (see appendix to the directors’ report – business review).
Customer service
The performance against standards of service is shown below.
North (N) 
South (S)
Target 
2010/11
Performance 
2010/11
Properties at risk of low pressure N 256 230
S 55 41
Properties subject to unplanned interruption of six hours or more N 1,700 1,573
S 1,100 700
Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N/S 0 0
Properties subject to sewer flooding (other causes) N 150 253
Properties at risk of sewer flooding (once in ten years or twice in ten years) N 688 487
Billing contacts responded to (within five working days) (%) N 99.3 99.3
S 99.3 99.7
Written complaints responded to (within ten working days) (%)
1
N n/a 99.9
S n/a 99.8
Bills based on meter readings (%) N 99.9 99.87
S 99.9 99.83
Note:
1. New SIM measures were introduced in 2010/11, which incorporate this KPI, therefore no separate target set.
Putting customers first
Customer service is at the heart of the company  
and the culture of getting things ‘right first time  
every time’ is embedded in the business. We keep 
customers informed about our activities through  
leaflets with bills and our websites at www.nwl.co.uk 
and www.eswater.co.uk. The sites include information 
about our services and now allow customers to ask 
questions and investigate work being carried out in  
their area. If customers are directly affected by any 
work, we give advance warning and explain the need 
for the timing of such work. We also communicate  
more broadly with local communities through public 
meetings and customer information events.
Customer satisfaction
We measure the views of our customers with quarterly 
tracking research alongside qualitative work in focus 
groups. This helps us to understand their views on 
service, value for money and other issues as well  
as their general perception of the company. NWL 
measures its performance for domestic customers in 
two key ways, customer research and performance 
against standards.
Customer research is carried out each quarter in the 
regions served and the table below shows the key 
results for overall satisfaction with service and value  
for money. 24 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Affordability
We aim to provide accurate, clear and timely bills 
which encourage prompt payment. Customers  
who deliberately avoid paying charges are actively 
pursued. In the current economic climate, we  
know that affordability continues to be a genuine 
concern for many customers and we continue to  
be considerate of their circumstances, ensuring they 
can choose suitable payment options and that our 
recovery techniques are appropriate and effective. 
However, customers who deliberately avoid paying 
charges are actively pursued and we are working 
closely with Ofwat and Defra to seek changes to 
legislation which will assist the industry to identify 
those responsible for charges more easily. 
The Flood and Water Management Act 2010  
outlines how sewerage service providers may 
operate concessions for surface water drainage 
charges, to protect certain community groups  
and premises from unaffordable charges. We have 
decided to introduce an interim concessionary 
charge for the charging year 1 April 2011 to 31  
March 2012 and will carry out consultation with 
CCWater to determine the longer term future of  
any concessions in the coming months.
Business customers
The economic situation has had a significant impact 
on some business sectors which are important in our 
operating regions and NWL has been working closely 
with major customers in those sectors to mitigate the 
impact where possible. NWL has always tried to 
In addition, Ofwat introduced the SIM in the year,  
which monitors both quantitative and qualitative 
aspects of customer service. This new mechanism 
financially incentivises the best performing companies 
and penalises the worst, endeavouring to simulate 
competition and encourage excellent service 
throughout the industry. Our aim is to be the  
leading company for SIM.
The quantitative aspect of SIM includes metrics for all 
lines busy and abandoned calls, unwanted calls, written 
complaints and CCWater investigations, each of which 
are worth a number of penalty points depending upon 
the severity. Results across all metrics improved during 
the year, customer complaints continue to reduce and 
our quantitative SIM score for 2010/11 was 211, a 
significant improvement compared to 2009/10 when 
our score equated to 331.
The qualitative aspect of SIM takes the form of a survey, 
which is conducted each quarter across every water 
company and asks customers who have made contact 
with us about their experience. Our cumulative score  
for the four quarterly surveys was 4.14 out of 5, an 
improvement on the previous year’s score of 4.10.
The way we handle customer complaints is reviewed 
annually by CCWater who assess cases against a range 
of criteria. During 2010/11, 96% of all cases reviewed 
were assessed as good. We value the feedback 
CCWater provide us and actively use their suggestions 
to further improve the customer experience.
Our operating performance 
Customer continued 25 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
work with its major customers in partnership and  
the case study on page 27 highlights such work  
at KP Foods. While economic conditions remain 
challenging, industrial demand has stabilised this 
year following, for example, the development of the 
former Artenius site by Lotte Chemical UK Limited. 
The agreement for the takeover of the Corus site  
by SSI should help stabilise industrial demand  
going forward.
 
NWL is active in the business communities where it 
operates as a member of the CBI and Chambers of 
Commerce. By supporting these and smaller groups 
NWL can help business growth and development in 
the areas it serves as well as retaining contact with 
organisations which represent customers. Business 
customer satisfaction is also tracked on a regular 
basis and levels of satisfaction are high. 
Leisure customers
NWL continues to develop its leisure facilities at all 
strategic sites including investment in fishing facilities, 
holiday accommodation and supporting ‘access  
for all’. Occupancy of the log cabins at Kielder was 
85% and we have 5,814 fishing members registered. 
The combined activity of our reservoirs rates this 
business the largest of its kind in the UK, with a high 
customer satisfaction at all sites. NWL is also an 
active member of the Kielder Water & Forest Park 
Development Trust.
Kielder Water & Forest Park, Lakeside Way 26 www.nwg.co.uk Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 201 1 Directors’ report – business review
Strategy in action – Customer 27 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
We always aim to exceed the expectations of our customers by 
taking personal responsibility for delivering and communicating  
a good service and keeping promises. We have many examples  
of ‘right first time every time’, two of these are outlined below.
Many of our domestic customers have meters and pay bills based upon how much 
water they use. Having a meter can help save money, however, for those who have 
larger families, big gardens or use lots of water, this can be more difficult.
This was exactly the case for the Young family from Stockton-on-Tees. Father of two 
Stephen Young contacted us to discuss his metered bill and seek advice about ways 
to reduce his charges. Stephen already used water butts to store rainwater, however, 
following our advice, Stephen and his family made some simple changes including 
turning off the tap while brushing their teeth, taking shorter showers and using NWL ’s 
water efficiency pack containing a variety of water saving devices.
Commenting on the help and advice he received, Stephen said: “Getting in touch 
with NWL is easy. I know my call will be answered straight away, which is amazing 
these days that I will be able to speak to someone who cares and relates to my 
concerns.” Vikki Anstey, our customer advisor who talked to Stephen, said: “It’s all 
about listening to each customer’s concerns and then making sure you meet their 
needs and go the extra mile to help them.”
We aim to work in partnership with our major business customers as we know that  
a key factor for them in their business is reliability and security of our services.
Tees Valley crisp manufacturer KP Foods (KP) is a major customer of NWL ’s 
Billingham sewage treatment works. To improve KP’s economic performance and 
enhance the sustainability of its operations, KP proposed to construct a membrane 
bioreactor to enable water to be treated and re-circulated at its plant. NWL ’s account 
manager worked with KP to ensure that the proposed development did not 
detrimentally impact on NWL ’s sewage treatment works compliance while providing 
advice and support. Both parties have benefited from the close, honest working 
relationship which has resulted in a great deal of trust and respect:
water consumption has been reduced meaning less abstraction, treatment and  −
pumping for NWL and lower water bills for KP; and 
the trade effluent discharge is cleaner and requires less treatment, reducing the  −
cost of power and de-sludging for NWL, resulting in lower trade effluent discharge 
costs for KP. 
NWL and KP have each increased their competitiveness by improving their efficiency.
Working in 
partnership 28 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Competitiveness
Our operating performance
Early in the year we instigated an 
efficiency programme focused 
on identifying and implementing 
sustainable operating cost 
efficiencies in order to achieve 
our medium term goal of being 
in the top efficiency band for 
both water and sewerage, 
as measured by Ofwat. 
Efficiency programme
The efficiency programme has identified around 100 
projects and initiatives from across the whole business, 
ranging from large scale strategic reviews to smaller 
improvements at a local level. Examples of some of the 
changes underway include consolidating all chemical 
analysis for our northern operating region at one 
laboratory; the implementation of site-specific energy 
management plans to reduce energy usage; increasing 
the capability of our website to enable improved 
customer self-service; investigating opportunities for  
co-digestion of external waste streams at our advanced 
anaerobic digestion plant at Bran Sands and insourcing 
activities where it is more efficient and effective to  
do so.
These efficiencies are additional to the benefits already 
secured through procuring our full energy requirements 
to March 2015 and the headcount reductions resulting 
from severances and early retirements, for which 
provision was made last year.
Delivery of the programme is on schedule and, as a 
result, we are ahead of the final determination profile. 
However, these benefits are partially offset by the 
impact of the changes to the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme announced by 
the Government in its Comprehensive Spending Review 
in October 2010, which is expected to increase energy 
costs by around £3.0 million next year with further 
increases of up to £1.5 million by 2014/15, and which 
was not funded in the final determination.
Other aspects of performance in relation to our 
competitiveness theme are included in ‘our financial 
performance’ on pages 16 to 21. 29 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Research and development
As part of its competitiveness theme, NWL runs a 
programme of research and development linked to 
its operations, which includes the development of 
technical solutions for water and waste water 
management, collaborative research within the 
sector and partnerships with academic and research 
organisations and actively encourages innovation. 
This has supported the invention, development, trial 
and/or implementation of:
advanced automatic control systems for waste  −
water treatment process;
a device for reducing flooding and pollution; −
microbial fuel cells and electrochemical cells,  −
which, respectively, generate electricity or 
hydrogen from waste water;
novel instruments for monitoring the quality of  −
waste water effluent;
beneficial re-uses for water treatment sludge; −
low power de-watering and thickening of water  −
treatment sludge;
internal inspection of water distribution pipes   −
while in service;
lining systems for extending the life expectancy   −
of water distribution pipes;
water efficient and rapid disinfection of water mains; −
novel processes for drinking water production and  −
waste water treatment;
renewable energy production using biogas; −
regeneration of brownfield land using water  −
treatment by-products;
early warning system for leaks and bursts; and −
remote pipeline condition assessment. −
During the year, the Group invested £2.3 million 
(2010: £2.1 million) in research and development.
Research carried out by London Economics for 
Professor Martin Cave’s ‘Independent Review of 
Competition and Innovation in Water Markets’ found 
that, in terms of innovation infrastructure, NWL was one 
of the companies best equipped to promote innovation 
in terms of the resources it dedicates.
Bran Sands advanced anaerobic digestion 30 www.nwg.co.uk Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 Directors’ report – business review
Strategy in action – Competitiveness 31 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
An initial stage of water treatment involves removing silts and algae 
from raw reservoir water, a process which creates around two 
million litres of a ferric (iron) based liquid sludge every day. Around 
99.8% of this is water which, once separated, can be recycled 
back to the reservoir for re-use. In this case, innovation is clearly 
linked to our competitiveness.
Traditionally, sludge was discharged into lagoons storing the solids whilst allowing 
clear water to overflow back into the reservoir. At Hanningfield, our largest water 
treatment works, the last lagoon was near the end of its life and although it would 
have been quicker and easier to have specified traditional mechanical treatment,  
a considerable amount of work over three years was undertaken to prove that reed 
beds could provide a sustainable and effective alternative for water sludge treatment 
– a world first for a project of this scale.
Natural England strongly supports the reed bed project at Hanningfield reservoir 
because it will provide a sustainable, energy and carbon-efficient solution to the 
long-term disposal of water treatment sludge. It will also create a significant reed bed 
within a few hundred metres of Hanningfield reservoir which will be designated as a 
site of special scientific interest that will be of use in its own right for a variety of 
wildlife, including reed bed invertebrates, birds and foraging bats. It will also provide  
a regular water supply for a disused sludge lagoon within the site of special scientific 
interest which the company has recently restored very successfully as a wildlife-rich 
mosaic of reed bed, open water, wet scrub and woodland.
World  
first at 
Hanningfield 32 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
People
Our operating performance
Employee policy
Each company within the Group has developed its 
own employee policies, reflecting the framework  
set out in NWG’s ‘Our Code of Conduct’. These 
policies are tailored to specific business objectives 
and operating environments. Each company aims  
to recruit and retain the best people, with a diverse 
range of skills, experience and backgrounds, who are 
committed to making the company successful. In 
return, each company aims to provide opportunities 
and training for employees to develop their skills and 
capabilities to equip them to meet the challenges of 
their roles, while rewarding the contributions of both 
teams and individuals. The CEO has responsibility at 
Board level for human resources issues. The Human 
Resources Director, Sarah Salter, reports directly to 
the CEO.
Employees
Throughout the Group we employ 3,031 people, as 
set out below:
Group business unit
Average 
number of 
employees %
NWL 2,875 95
Water and waste water contracts 132 4
Other 24 1
Total employees 3,031 100
NWG ensures its terms and conditions both attract 
and retain the best people in the areas it serves. NWL 
employee turnover is relatively low at 5.8%, below the 
UK water industry average of 9.4%.
NWL ’s current level of sickness absence is 3.1%, 
which is well below the norm for the sector.
Target 
2010/11
Performance 
2010/11
Employee turnover (%) 9.4
1
5.8
Lost time reportable accidents 
(per 1,000 employees) 4.3 4.1
Sickness absence (%) 2.9 3.1
Notes:
1. No target set, industry average provided for information.
The active involvement and engagement of everyone 
across the business is an important part of delivering 
performance and NWL continues to seek the views of 
employees through an annual employee engagement 
survey. This year’s survey had the largest response rate 
ever, at 75%, and the feedback covered working life, 
training, communications, managers and the company. 
All employees were invited to workshops to consider 
the results and identify areas for improvement in their 
working practices and environment, the outputs 
contributing to the development of departmental action 
plans. In addition, 80% of respondents told us they  
are proud to work for the company, 81% would 
recommend working for the company and 77% believe 
that NWL is a great organisation to work for.
For the first time NWL took part in the Sunday Times 
Best Companies survey and achieved ‘one to watch’ 
status, an excellent achievement on first time entry. 
NWL employees also have access to a scheme which 
provides a wide range of benefits including tax efficient 
benefits such as childcare vouchers, water services, 
cars for personal use and discounted store vouchers. 
Currently 73% of employees participate in the scheme, 
up from 72% last year. 33 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Equality and diversity
The Group operates an equal opportunity policy 
designed to ensure that no job applicant or employee 
receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of 
age, gender, marital status, disability, race, ethnic or 
national origin, religion or sexual orientation. NWL 
monitors its workforce profile against census and 
sector data and aims to be recognised as an employer 
of choice within the diverse communities it serves, 
ensuring it takes full advantage of the rich backgrounds 
and abilities of current and potential employees.
NWL welcomes employment applications from  
people with disabilities and, where existing employees 
develop disabilities, they are supported to remain  
in employment, wherever practicable, by providing 
appropriate adjustments to their roles and/or effective 
redeployments. Occupational health physicians assist 
this process with professional medical advice.
Consultation and engagement
Each Group company engages with its employees 
through a variety of means appropriate to its working 
environment. The importance of an inclusive and 
engaging management style is fully recognised. 
In 2010, NWL continued to build on its award-winning 
approach by engaging with all employees over some 
120 departmental workshops facilitated by senior 
managers and 51 interactive roadshows facilitated  
by the directors. These were all structured to outline 
our vision and values, encourage a dialogue on 
improvements to working practices and environment 
and to seek views on its people strategy. This has 
been further developed to include leadership events 
held bi-annually engaging the most senior managers  
in the continuous development of plans to enable the 
achievement of the vision. 
Training and development
All Group companies train and develop their 
employees to benefit both the company and the 
individual. Annual appraisals are given high priority,  
as is the identification of training needs, in recognition 
of the importance of training and development in 
achieving the Group’s goals and policies. In NWL,  
a 360° feedback mechanism, which evaluates 
performance against the company values, has been 
introduced for all senior managers. The results of the 
feedback are discussed at annual appraisal meetings. 34 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our people are the key to our business success.  
Our aim is to build and maintain a culture which 
values, encourages and recognises outstanding 
performance, where we share a commitment to our 
objectives and to delivering our personal best. From 
corporate induction days and induction planning, to 
individual coaching, accreditation of skills through 
national vocational qualifications, and management 
and leadership programmes, we provide the resources 
needed to help employees reach their full potential.
We signed the Government’s Skills Pledge at the end 
of 2007, publicly committing to develop 90% of the 
workforce, around 2,600 employees, to at least 
National Qualification Framework (NQF) Level 2 – the 
equivalent of five GCSEs at grades A to C – by the end 
of 2010. This was achieved by July 2010 with 90.2% 
qualified to NQF Level 2 or above. National Vocational 
Qualifications continue to be delivered in customer 
and operational areas. In addition, we currently have 
seven graduates on our Graduate Development 
Programme and 29 apprentices.
NWL continues to implement its Management 
Development Framework which is structured (see 
diagram on page 33) to cover the training needs of 
those who show the potential for management right 
through to development at director level. As part of 
this framework we are working in partnership with 
Newcastle Business School to provide qualifications, 
from a Diploma to a Masters degree, in leadership  
and management. In 2010, we introduced our  
LEADer programme, which is the next step in our 
Management Development Framework, to some of 
our operational departments. This development 
programme for supervisors, team leaders and works 
managers includes assessment against NQF Levels 2, 
3 and 5 management standards, as appropriate, 
supported by formal development and coaching.
Recognising our employees’ academic achievements, 
the fifth annual skills awards were celebrated this  
year. Attended by senior managers from around the 
business, and with guest speaker Kriss Akabusi, the 
events were again motivational and memorable.
Communication
The Group uses a wide range of communication 
methods including magazines, brochures, leaflets, 
newsletters, intranet, notice boards and regular team 
meetings. NWL issues all employees with a series of 
information booklets clearly explaining areas such as 
the company’s vision and values, terms, conditions 
and benefits of employment, and occupational health 
and wellbeing programmes.
Disclosure (Whistleblowing)
The Group encourages open feedback and is 
committed to protecting employees who wish to voice 
concerns about behaviour or decisions that they 
believe to be illegal or unethical. The Audit Committee 
regularly reviews the disclosure policy.
Health and safety
NWG places great emphasis on health and safety and  
a safe working environment. Employees are actively 
encouraged to be involved in identifying and eliminating 
hazards in the workplace. This has resulted in a 
significant reduction in accidents over recent years.
A health and safety policy is maintained and 
implemented at each subsidiary. 
Our emphasis on the importance of health and safety 
within NWL has resulted in major improvements  
to our safety record in recent years. This year we 
experienced nine reportable accidents and incidents 
per 1,000 employees, which continues the improving 
trend achieved over the last seven years. 
We have established a medium term plan for taking 
health and safety forward in the company to 2015. We 
aim to further reduce the number of accidents by 10% 
each year and to maintain and improve the safety 
culture in the company. 
Our operating performance 
People continued 35 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Employee Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The directors believe that employee investment 
strengthens the ties between the Group and its 
employees. More than a third of employees participate 
in the SIP, and together have an interest in 0.6% of the 
issued share capital. The scheme provides one free 
matching share for every three shares bought by an 
employee. Shares for the SIP are purchased at market 
price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash 
directly to participants. There are no performance 
conditions attached to the SIP, but free shares not held 
in trust for at least 12 months are forfeited. Employees 
participating in the SIP are given the opportunity to 
exercise their voting rights through the Trustee.
NWL proactively supports and encourages 
employees to strive for high standards of health  
and wellbeing by providing a wide range of services, 
support and resources relating to occupational 
health, with the Group’s medical advisor providing 
comprehensive occupational health services, general 
health promotion and stress management. NWL 
employees also have on and off-site access to 
specialist advice and treatment to support recovery 
from musculoskeletal disorders (MSD). We have 
reduced sickness absence due to MSD by 39% over 
the year. In 2010, we introduced NWL Support. Part 
of this service is an Employee Wellbeing Programme 
which gives employees and their immediate family 
access to face to face or telephone counselling on  
a range of subjects regardless of whether or not the 
issues are work related. In addition, it also provides  
a telephone based case management service for 
employees who have either a stress related or mental 
health condition. We have reduced stress related 
sickness absence by 16% in the first year. 
We continue to promote healthy eating, hydration 
and to discourage smoking in our workforce  
and offer excellent health screening and medical 
insurance schemes. Around 2,200 employees have 
been through our health screening and fitness 
standards programmes, both of which now include 
lifestyle advice elements.
Quality
The company has successfully extended its scope of 
certification to the international occupational health 
and safety management standard OHSAS 8001:2007 
to include Scientific Services, thus now ensuring 
company-wide coverage.
Chris Loftus received the Essex Young Achiever of the Year Award 36 www.nwg.co.uk Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 201 1 Directors’ report – business review
Strategy in action – People 37 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
As a company we are committed to investing in training and 
development to ensure that our people are competent and safe  
in their current roles, to support them to develop skills and 
knowledge to help take the business forward and, where people 
are career orientated, to help them develop for future roles. We 
have many examples of our people in the business who have 
developed their career within NWL.
Tony Erskine, our customer manager, joined us aged 17 on the young person’s 
development programme, a youth training scheme, and began studying for a higher 
national certificate qualification. He is now in his final year of NWL ’s bespoke BA 
(Hons) in Leadership and Management and will graduate in July.
Tony said: “The BA course is the best thing that I have ever done. It has been a real 
eye opener and enabled me to learn new skills, get different perspectives and learn 
from others. It’s been a massive benefit to me as a manager and I believe makes me 
a more effective leader. It’s been a lot of hard work but I have gained a lot from it and 
so will the company”.
Chris Loftus, leakage assistant, was unemployed and not sure of what he wanted to 
do with his life when he saw the poster advertising The Prince’s Trust Get into Water 
programme in the window of his local Jobcentre. He found his age and lack of 
experience a real hindrance until he joined us on a three week course designed to 
provide unemployed 16-25 year olds with the opportunity to learn about the water 
industry and get some valuable hands-on work experience, before hopefully moving 
into employment. He has now been with NWL for three years and has become a 
young ambassador for the Princes Trust while receiving the Essex Young Achiever  
of the Year Award.
Kathryn Waugh, distribution operations controller, joined the accelerated graduate 
development programme in 2001 following her degree in physical geography. She 
undertook a series of strategic projects and business support placements to develop 
her knowledge of business processes and gain a broad overview of the company 
and its operations. After further development roles in water and waste water works 
management, she has now taken a senior role in operations. Kathryn said: “I find 
working with people to make positive improvements to the operations and maintenance 
side of the business very rewarding. I really enjoy my job and working for NWL.”
Growing  
in water – 
investing in 
our people 38 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Environment
Our operating performance
Water quality
The quality of water is critical to our customers and 
samples are taken on a daily basis for analysis under 
regulations monitored by the DWI. The quality in all 
areas served remained high.
North (N) 
South (S)
Target  
2010/11
Performance 
2010/11
DWI Mean Zonal 
Compliance (%)
N 99.85 99.95
S 99.95 99.94
DWI Operational 
Performance Index (%)
N 99.65 99.84
S 99.98 99.97
Distribution 
Maintenance Index (%)
N 99.70 99.70
S 99.85 99.93
Compliance at water treatment works has improved 
significantly in 2010 with fewer microbiological failures 
than any previous year. This reflects the work being 
undertaken to achieve internal medium term targets for 
performance. In addition, service reservoir maintenance 
has been enhanced, with inspection rates now three 
times higher than historical frequencies. The aim of this 
work is to sustain a higher level of microbiological 
compliance while ensuring the integrity of the asset 
base for the long term. 
Work using new cleaning techniques to refurbish more 
than 150 kilometres of the large diameter pipe network 
is well advanced. The network supplies drinking  
water to over half a million customers in south east 
Northumberland and parts of Tyneside. The majority  
of the cleaning works have now been delivered and 
the programme is due to be completed in June 2011, 
achieving a significant reduction in customer 
complaints of discoloured water. Progress has been 
maintained despite the unusually harsh winter.
Water resources
Water resource availability is a key issue in our Essex 
and Suffolk areas. Work continued throughout 2010 
on increasing the capacity of Abberton reservoir, near 
Colchester, by 58%. Good progress was made and 
the project remains on programme.
In early 2011, construction of two new pipelines to 
bring water from Norfolk commenced. The one 
remaining part of the overall Abberton Scheme that 
requires permissions is the variation of abstraction 
licences at Denver and Blackdyke, in Norfolk, and we 
are working closely with the EA on progressing this. 
Once this scheme is operating, in 2014, we do not 
expect to have to develop further major resources  
in Essex for the next 25 years.
In addition to improving the supply of water, we believe 
it is important to manage the demand for water so that 
it does not exceed levels that can be supplied in a 
sustainable way. Metering has an important role to 
play in this regard. For several years we have been 
installing water meters upon change of occupier in 
properties in the Essex area. This is in addition to the 
optional metering scheme available to all customers. 
Around 48% of domestic households in Essex and 
60% in Suffolk are now metered. In the north east, 
where supplies are more plentiful, 24% of households 
are metered.
New water efficiency targets were introduced in 
2010/11 to reduce per capita consumption across  
the company’s domestic customers by one litre per 
property per day. These targets apply in all areas 
served and the award-winning work previously carried 
out in Essex was extended to the rest of the company. 
New initiatives have been developed, including an 
innovative theatre production called ‘Little Green 
Riding Hood’ with Fame Factory Spotlight, which  
took the water efficiency message to 36,500 school 
children over the last year. NWL met its water 
efficiency targets early, before the end of the year. 39 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
We continue to monitor the weather patterns and  
the early part of 2011 has proved to be dry with little 
rainfall. The resource situation is still good with 
adequate resources in storage to meet demand. There 
are no plans for restrictions although the company will 
continue to use awareness campaigns to encourage 
customers to control demand in dry periods.
Our assets, once again, proved very resilient during 
the most severe December weather for more than  
100 years in the north east of England. It proved very 
challenging but we were able to maintain supplies to 
customers largely due to the exemplary efforts of our 
employees who worked tirelessly in difficult conditions. 
The severe freeze and subsequent thaw, inevitably 
resulted in a significant increase in burst pipes and 
leakage both on our own network and customer 
premises. As a result, in our northern operating region, 
the water lost over the winter period meant we, along 
with other companies, did not meet our annual 
leakage target. In our southern region, conditions were 
not quite so severe and we achieved our target. We 
have recovered from the effects of the winter through 
implementing an action plan which will position us well 
to meet the target in the following year.
Waste water
NWL ’s exceptional performance for sewage treatment 
works continued with all numerically consented works 
again remaining compliant for the year.
(Northern operating area only)
Target 
2010/11
Performance 
2010/11
Sewage treatment works (%) 100 100
Bathing waters Mandatory 
Standard (%) 100 97
Pollution incidents (category 1, 
2 and 3) 102 101
The advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Bran 
Sands is now fully operational and generating the 
expected volumes of biogas and electricity. The 
re-organisation, to operate the plant at much lower 
manning levels than previously, has been successfully 
implemented. Construction is now underway on a 
similar plant at Howdon, on Tyneside, to process the 
remainder of NWL ’s sludge.
A total of 33 of the 34 bathing waters in the north  
east passed the required mandatory standard and  
28 met the more demanding guideline standard. The 
single mandatory failure was Saltburn and NWL is 
carrying out a detailed investigation on whether any of 
our assets could be contributing to this and is working 
with other agencies to determine how they may be 
impacting on this bathing water.
The number of properties experiencing internal 
flooding due to hydraulic overloading reduced 
significantly in 2010/11. This can be attributed to a 
combination of less frequent and intense summer 
storms in 2010 and the cumulative effect of our sewer 
flooding investment programme. Enhanced resolution 
rain radar has now been in place in the north east 
since 2009 allowing us to identify severe weather 
across the region.
During 2010/11 we completed 43 schemes at a cost 
of £17.5 million that resulted in the removal of 178 
properties from flooding registers. Planning to identify 
schemes for coming years forms a key part of our 
investment programme and is well advanced, with  
a further 270 properties to be addressed in 2011/12. 
Additionally, in line with our serviceability action  
plan for sewer flooding, we have embarked on a 
programme of increased mitigation. This covers not 
only properties where a scheme is not cost beneficial 
but also properties where a solution may not be 
implemented quickly. 40 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The number of properties flooded due to other causes 
also reduced significantly in 2010/11. This reduction 
has been influenced by increased sewer cleansing 
activity as well as better weather.
 
Carbon management plan 
The water industry is one of the largest users of 
energy in the UK and we aim to play a full part in 
support of Government’s plans to reduce emissions. 
We have been working hard over recent years to 
reduce our carbon footprint while preparing ourselves 
for the future challenges of a change in climate and 
the weather events we may face as a consequence. 
NWL has published its carbon management plan to 
meet its target of a 35% reduction in operational 
emissions by 2020, from a 2008 base.
The carbon management plan includes energy 
efficiency, renewable energy generation and water 
efficiency and supports our activities to help us adapt 
to a changing climate. It represents a sustainable  
and responsible way forward for the business, our 
customers and the environment. The projects which 
will help us to achieve our carbon reduction target  
are outlined below:
our £33.0 million investment in thermal hydrolysis  −
advanced anaerobic digestion at Bran Sands, 
which provides 50% (c.4.7 MW) of the energy 
requirements of the site. This enables waste water 
sludge to generate methane to fuel gas engines  
and produce green electricity. A similar plant will  
be constructed at Howdon, which is planned for 
completion in 2013/14. Together these plants will 
help meet our target of generating 20% of our 
energy needs from renewable energy, as well  
as reduce our overall energy demand;
hydroelectric installations at five reservoirs including  −
the UK’s largest man-made reservoir, Kielder Water. 
A recently commissioned £2.5 million hydroelectric 
project at our Selset reservoir that will generate up 
to 750 kilowatts of electricity – 4,000 megawatt 
hours a year. Renewable energy is also being 
generated with hydroelectric plants at Derwent, 
Lartington and Wear Valley reservoirs in addition  
to biogas combined heat and power plants at 
Stressholme, Hexham and Aycliffe;
limiting tertiary ultraviolet disinfection outside the  −
bathing water season at five major works reduces 
energy consumption and carbon emissions with no 
detrimental effect on the marine environment; and
encouraging customers, through our ‘using water  −
wisely’ campaign, to recognise that if they waste 
water, they also waste energy (information and tools 
are available for customers on our websites).
Through these projects, and by reviewing the efficiency 
of our pumps across the business, we have reduced 
the amount of energy used by almost 9% over the  
last five years.
NWL has successfully achieved the Carbon Trust 
Standard for its efforts in reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions. The standard provides an objective 
benchmark against which our commitment and 
success in addressing our climate change impact  
was assessed and is significant as it demonstrates 
progress against our ambitious carbon  
management plan.
Our operating performance 
Environment continued
Selset hydroelectric plant 41 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Changing weather patterns 
The water cycle and the changing weather have a 
direct influence on the provision of water and waste 
water services. NWL ’s employees are experienced in 
managing the effects of too much or too little rainfall, 
but changing weather patterns will present a growing 
challenge for the business.
In past years, we have carried out research into the 
likely impact of climate change on all our assets and 
water resources and this has been incorporated in  
our climate change policy as part of our corporate 
responsibility work. This work is continuing, based on 
the latest UKCP09 projections published in 2009 by 
the UK Climate Impacts Programme.
Over the course of the past year we have incorporated 
this work into our response to the new adaptation 
reporting power granted to the Government by the 
2008 Climate Change Act. This work has highlighted 
that increasing rainfall intensity is the most significant 
short term threat that we will face as a result of the 
changing climate. This represents a serious challenge 
if we are to manage successfully the higher level of risk 
of sewer flooding that will result. We have already 
begun to take actions that will better prepare us for 
this challenge, including investment in weather radar, 
remote monitoring of the sewer network and joint 
working with other drainage agencies. These will  
all contribute to our better understanding and 
management of the threat. 
More positively we have found that the anticipated  
drier summers of the future are less of a concern for 
NWL than for many other companies in our industry. 
The ongoing investment to increase the capacity of 
Abberton reservoir plays a big part in this for our  
Essex operating area. Work is now underway on this 
project that has been in development for over 15  
years, a reflection of the long lead times for such 
environmentally sensitive schemes. The presence  
of Kielder Water helps protect the north east region  
to an even greater extent. Despite this, we anticipate 
that we will need to monitor and formally update our 
understanding of the threat from the changing  
weather at regular intervals.
Quality
NWL has maintained its certification to the international 
quality standard ISO 9001:2008 and to the international 
environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 across all 
areas of the business, including operational sites and 
office based teams. Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk 42 Directors’ report – business review
Strategy in action – Environment 43 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Essex is the driest county in the UK. In a dry year demand already 
outstrips supply and due to population rise this situation is 
expected to get worse. 
After 17 years in the planning the £150 million Abberton construction scheme to  
help secure water supply to 1.5 million customers in Essex made good progress  
in its first year. 
The reservoir, near Colchester, will be enlarged by 58% with its footprint extended  
by 40%, and the increased capacity will be in service in 2014. Over the last year, 
significant progress has been made and two important milestones have now been 
reached. Water is now flowing into the reservoir via the newly completed reservoir 
inlet structure at Broadmeadows and work has begun on the construction of two 
major raw water pipeline routes. These 1.2 metre diameter, 16 kilometre long, steel 
pipelines will transfer water from the River Stour at Wormingford to Abberton. 
Abberton is a site of international environmental significance, designated under the 
Ramsar convention on wetlands. In designing our proposals, working closely with 
Natural England, the RSPB and Essex Wildlife Trust, we have gone beyond what is 
required to not only maintain the environmental significance of the site but to enhance 
it. The new reservoir will have existing concrete edging removed, will include more 
marginal shallow waters, as well as a new re-sited visitor centre and an extensive 
wetland area at the western end of the reservoir. The new proposals will improve 
biodiversity as well as enhance the amenities for visitors. 
Good 
progress  
for the 
Abberton 
Scheme 44 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Communities
Our operating performance
NWL supports the communities we serve in a number 
of different ways. We have been widely recognised as 
leaders in our support for projects that make the areas 
we serve better places in which to live, work or invest. 
This year the company has been re-accredited by 
FTSE4Good and is awaiting re-accreditation as a 
Platinum Plus company by Business in the Community. 
The Queens Award for Industry is still in place as it is 
awarded for a five year period. This year, the company 
was also recognised by Ethisphere, an American-
based international think-tank, as one of the 110 most 
ethical companies in the world and was one of only 
five UK-based companies. 
The support we give to our communities focuses on 
five broad areas.
Investment in our communities
This year the Group made charitable donations 
totalling £152,000. In addition, and in line with previous 
years, we have contributed resources with a value 
equivalent to at least 1% of our annual pre-tax profits 
(through cash, employee time and expertise, or use of 
our facilities) to projects which benefit the communities 
we serve. Our employees fundraised £69,000 for 
charities this year.
The ‘Care for safety’ scheme, which encourages 
employees to reduce accidents and associated lost 
time, has triggered payments over £16,000 for our 
charities nominated by employees (Great North Air 
Ambulance Service, Royal National Lifeboat Institution 
(RNLI), Myelin Project, Zoe’s Place, Macmillan Cancer 
Support, St Cuthbert’s Hospice and East Anglian 
Children’s Hospice). Since it began in 2004 over 
£326,000 has been raised for charity.
Community Foundations covering our areas of supply 
hold endowment funds totalling nearly £1.0 million 
contributed by NWL over the last 19 years. These  
are long term investments with the income from the 
funds used to support community and environmental 
initiatives. Community groups are chosen by 
committees of our own employees (44 recipients  
this year).
In addition to cash donations, NWL seeks to support 
many projects through in-kind giving and support. 
Through ‘Good Moves’ we aim to put NWL estates 
into productive community use. Working in partnership 
with artist groups CoExist and Metal, we have 
developed a temporary art project at our empty 
Southend complex to provide space for a temporary 
gallery, studio and small creative business complex. 
We have focused on developing affordable rural 
housing to contribute to the sustainability and vitality  
of those communities, including support of the Prince 
of Wales’ Affordable Rural Housing Initiative since it 
was launched in 2003. As part of this commitment  
we are working with Hastoe Housing on a project  
for 12 houses on land close to Hanningfield water 
treatment works in Essex and these are due for 
completion in 2011.  45 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The Kielder Partnership was created in 1994 and 
consisted of private, public and voluntary sector 
partners committed to the development of Kielder 
Water & Forest Park as a tourism, leisure and 
recreation destination. Activity has focused on 
delivering the Partnership’s vision –‘Kielder Big Picture’ 
– including the use of the fabulous tracks and trails 
developed in 2008/09. 
The 26 mile Lakeside Way, a multi-user track, is now 
used by 45% of all visitors. This trail was used for the 
first Kielder Marathon in October 2010, dubbed the 
most beautiful in Britain, organised by Olympic athlete 
Steve Cram. This, combined with other activities 
including the development of mountain bike trails and 
the increasingly popular Kielder Observatory, has 
helped to increase visitor numbers between 2008 and 
2010 by 9.4% to 306,250, creating an additional 66 
direct and indirect jobs and boosting the spend in the 
local economy by 20% to £15.5 million. 
In December 2010, the structure of the Partnership 
was formalised by forming a registered charity  
called the Kielder Water & Forest Park Development 
Trust which will continue to deliver the vision and  
25 year investment plan for the area. The website 
www.visitkielder.com provides further details of  
all facilities.
Participation in our communities
As part of NWL ’s in-kind giving, we encourage 
employees to volunteer their time, skills and expertise 
through our ‘Just an hour’ volunteering scheme.  
We support our people to actively participate in  
their local communities by giving them work time to 
volunteer in projects of their choice. During the year 
our people have helped hundreds of community 
projects, completing tasks as varied as beach clean 
ups, organising charity balls and taking on ambitious 
gardening and decorating challenges.
For example, a group of employees volunteered their 
time to support people with disabilities to participate  
in an activity weekend organised by the charity 
Leonard Cheshire Disability. Together, volunteers and 
service users enjoyed outdoor activities including 
abseiling and taking a zip wire across a river. Further 
highlights came from the Essex based employees  
who collected over 1,000 boxes of food supplies as 
part of the Harvest for the Hungry campaign 2010. 
This important contribution helped the humanitarian 
campaign to provide an essential lifeline to villages  
and communities scattered across Eastern Europe.
Currently 27% of employees participate in the ‘Just  
an hour’ volunteering scheme and last year gave over 
7,600 hours to the community. Over 870 different 
organisations were given financial and in-kind support 
during the year. 
Heidi Mottram, CEO, hands over cheque 46 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Educating our communities about their 
environment
Key partnerships have been developed by NWL to 
help the conservation of biodiversity on our sites, to 
facilitate public access and to develop conservation 
education. Our contribution includes funding project 
officers and providing expertise to the organisations. 
Our current partnerships include:
Northumberland Wildlife Trust (Kielder and Bakethin); −
Durham Wildlife Trust; −
Essex Wildlife Trust (Hanningfield); −
Broads Authority (Lound and Trinity Broads); and −
Davy Down Trust (North Stifford, Essex). −
A wide range of targeted educational materials are 
available on our websites for children and teachers. 
We promote the use of these materials and celebrate 
innovative approaches to environment and health 
education via our support of the Northumbrian Water 
Schools Awards in the north east and Cash for 
Schools Awards in Essex.
We also lead on specific environmental education 
initiatives such as the innovative ‘Northumbrian Water 
GLOBE’ project. This year the project, in collaboration 
with The Climate Change Schools Project, ClimateNE, 
EA and GLOBE UK, is supporting five schools to take 
control of capturing and analysing local weather data, 
patterns and extreme events (using weather stations 
and training provided by NWL). Ultimately, children 
involved will become ‘community scientists’ to drive 
behavioural change at local levels.
Supporting healthy communities
NWL continues to promote the health benefits of 
drinking tap water and our ‘Water for health’ campaign 
aims to encourage people to lead a healthy lifestyle.  
To date, over £341,000 has been provided to fund free 
mains-fed water coolers in schools and around 740 
have been supplied in nearly 410 schools. We also 
continue to promote bottle-free water coolers as a 
sustainable alternative to bottle-fed coolers. Similarly, 
we use our ‘tap into’ initiative to donate bottled tap 
water to community sporting events in order to 
promote the importance of rehydration during 
exercise. This year we donated 82,300 bottles  
of tap water to events. 
Working with a wide and diverse range of sporting 
partners is a natural extension of our ‘Water for  
health’ campaign and we work with them to support 
grassroots sporting activities to get people active  
as well as educating them on healthy eating and  
good hydration.
Through our partnerships we have reached over 
96,000 children and adults. We provide:
links and networks to enable sporting partners   −
to get together to share ideas and resources;
financial support of approximately £50,000 per  −
annum which then levered over £600,000 from 
other sources; 
advice and marketing support on programme  −
development;
bottled tap water, sports bottles, water jugs or  −
mains-fed bottle-free coolers to reinforce the 
importance of drinking tap water to rehydrate  
during sporting activities; and 
help with fundraising and raising the profile of the  −
partnerships to attract additional investment.
Our operating performance 
Communities continued 47 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
We have linked our ‘Good moves’ initiative and our 
‘Water for health’ campaign to develop Healthworks. 
This is a unique project utilising one of our redundant 
buildings to help tackle the poor long term health of 
the residents in Easington, County Durham, by 
granting a 99 year lease to County Durham Primary 
Care Trust and working in partnership to develop 
services for the local community in an area where 
census records show one of the worst health  
records in the country.
We are represented on the steering group for 
Healthworks and provide research, marketing and 
communications support. The centre has received 
almost 20,000 visits to date and now provides over 
58 health and community support services including  
a GP led walk-in health centre open 8am to 8pm 365 
days a year. It acts as a community focal point where 
service providers and community groups can come 
together to address issues that affect the quality  
of life in their local community. 
Supporting developing communities through 
WaterAid
NWL has continued to raise funds and awareness for 
the work of WaterAid which brings sustainable water 
and sanitation solutions, as well as hygiene education, 
to the poorest parts of Africa and Asia, as it has since 
the charity was formed by the water industry in 1981. 
The employee fundraising committee has raised  
more than £4 million, since 1997, with the help of the 
company and last year focused its fundraising support 
on specific projects in Ethiopia. We support our 
employees to become ambassadors for the charity 
and encourage annual supporter trips to see WaterAid 
projects. This year, Asset Manager Craig Holliday 
visited Bangladesh and saw first hand how our 
adopted international charity saves lives.
Craig Holliday visits WaterAid project in Bangladesh 48 www.nwg.co.uk Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 201 1 Directors’ report – business review
Strategy in action – Communities 49 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Castle View Enterprise Academy, in Sunderland, completed its  
first year of operations during the year. 
NWL is the lead sponsor and wanted to create a centre of excellence with a clear 
focus on raising standards of academic performance to enable every student to 
achieve their personal best in all areas of academy life within a safe, secure and 
stable environment. NWL formed a new trust board to govern the school, recruited 
an inspirational head teacher and helped her to form a new leadership team, design 
an engaging curriculum and implement a set of new policies which would 
fundamentally change and improve school life for the students. 
During the first year, Castle View Enterprise Academy students achieved 43% A*–Cs 
in GCSEs English and Maths (up from 26% in the old Castle View School) and 86% 
five or more GCSEs A*–Cs (up from 63%). Persistent absences decreased from 10%, 
in the old Castle View school, to 6.3% in the new academy’s first year of operation.  
In March 2011, the new academy undertook Ofsted assessment and from being a 
failing school previously is now a school making good progress. 
Indeed, sixteen students at Castle View Enterprise Academy have gained amongst 
the highest grades possible in the January 2011 GCSE Mathematics examinations – 
six months ahead of schedule. Eight of the sixteen gained grade A* and the other 
eight gained grade A. 
In addition to the excellent teaching in the academy and after school tutorials,  
these more able students were also coached by one of our graduate trainees,  
David Bullin, who has a maths degree. David has given his time under our employee 
volunteering scheme, Just an hour, on Wednesdays after school and more recently 
on Saturday mornings.
A* 
performance 
at Castle 
View 50 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Our risks and
uncertainties
The NWG Board requires all 
subsidiaries within the Group to 
identify and assess the impact 
of risks to their business using 
a standard risk model. For each 
risk identified, the model records 
the uncontrolled magnitude and 
likelihood of the risks occurring 
as well as the controls in place 
to mitigate those risks before 
assessing the controlled magnitude. 
The Board’s view of acceptable 
risk is based on a balanced view 
of all of the risks in the operating 
environment. It aims to ensure 
an appropriate balance between 
risk aversion and opportunities.
The Board sets the tone for risk management within the 
Group and determines the appropriate risk appetite. 
The Board monitors the management of fundamental 
risks and approves major decisions affecting the 
Group’s risk profile. Senior management implements 
policies on risk management and internal control.
For NWL, the management team reviews the approach 
to risk management in detail every year and the Audit 
Committee considers the outcome. The management 
team reviews the significant risks every month and a  
full review of the model for emerging significant risks is 
carried out quarterly. Any issues that arise from these 
management team reviews are reported by the CEO  
to the board.
Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries has risks 
considered to be significant to the Group’s short and 
long term value.
The system of internal control incorporates risk 
management. It encompasses a number of elements 
that together facilitate an effective and efficient 
operation, enabling the company to respond to  
a variety of risks. These elements include:
Policies and procedures
Attached to fundamental risks are a series of policies 
that underpin the internal control process. Written 
procedures support the policies where appropriate.
Business planning and budgeting
The business planning and budgeting process is used 
to set objectives, agree action plans and allocate 
resources. Progress against meeting business plan  
and budget objectives is monitored regularly.
Risk register
The risk register identifies key risks, each with a risk 
owner who is responsible for evaluating the risk on  
a regular basis. As a way of ensuring that risk 
management is embedded into the business, the risk 
owners have the management of these risks as a 
personal KPI.
Strategic risk model
Risks that are known but not yet well defined enough 
for the likelihood and consequence to be reasonably 
foreseen are included in a strategic risk model. 51 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on internal 
controls and alerts the Board to any emerging issues.  
In addition, the Audit Committee oversees internal audit, 
external audit and management, as required, in its 
review of internal controls.
Last year, the Audit Committee commissioned an 
additional risk and assurance mapping report from 
Ernst & Young, the objective of which was to provide 
NWL management and the Audit Committee with  
a view of the different assurance functions within  
the company and the extent to which they provide 
assurance that the control activities are operating.  
An assurance map now forms a permanent part of  
the process and, for each risk, highlights who provides 
assurance that the control activities are in place and 
operating effectively.
Risk description Mitigation measures
Funding and liquidity risk The financial ratios, financial results, liquidity position and credit ratings are described in the 
financial performance section on pages 16 to 21. In addition, note 20 to the financial statements, 
on pages 1 18 to 123, includes details on the Group’s strategy and treasury operations for 
managing its capital; its exposures to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and 
counterparty risk; and details of its financial instruments. The Board reviews the treasury strategy 
periodically and approves specific proposals.
Unfavourable changes to  
the regulatory structure,  
as a result of the Water 
White Paper
We play a leading role in the policy debate, through Water UK, direct lobbying and forging positive 
relationships with relevant parties. We respond positively to consultation papers.
Unfavourable changes to the 
regulatory structure or price 
setting mechanism by Ofwat
We play a leading role in consultation groups with Ofwat and other stakeholders. We respond 
positively to consultation papers.
Impact of the transfer of 
private drains and sewers is 
greater than anticipated
An internal project team has been established to understand and prepare the business for the 
transfer. We maintain sound financial documentation to support a future claim for tariff increases in 
order to recover additional costs borne. We maintain close liaison with the rest of the industry and 
have had constructive dialogue with Ofwat regarding the process. 
Unexpected shift in climate 
change impact
We have processes in place to anticipate and plan for the impact of climate change. While these 
have long time horizons, they are reviewed regularly to ensure that any changes are identified early.
Loss of supply due to failure 
of strategic water main.  
This covers catastrophic 
failure that is greater than 
the response capability  
of the company
In most cases, duplicate mains and diversion of supplies would limit supply consequences. 
Comprehensive plans exist to provide a minimum emergency service to customers until repairs are 
completed, including mutual aid arrangements with other water companies. A proactive inspection 
regime is in place along with longer term reviews of network resilience.
Sewer flooding failures A sewer flooding group, comprising stakeholders from various teams, is responsible for managing 
the process, flood reporting, network capacity studies and prioritisation of investment to reduce 
risk. Significant additional capital expenditure has been invested to address affected properties. 
The recently constructed rain radar station for the region is now operational and provides improved 
data. However, controls are not yet sophisticated enough to predict or prevent consequences of 
severe rainfall.
Pesticides lead to prescribed 
concentration or value 
failure and possible 
enforcement action
Undertakings have been agreed with the DWI to carry out certain actions to mitigate pesticide 
issues (metaldehyde and clopyralid). While specific treatment processes, such as carbon dosing, 
are undertaken at treatment works, proactive catchment management is also being carried out. 
This involves working with farmers, regulators and other stakeholders to advise on improved 
storage and application techniques for such pesticides. This is a more sustainable solution than 
the alternative of constructing major new treatment processes.
Loss of income through 
closure of large customers 
or lower industrial volumes
It is not possible to directly influence industrial volumes, however, our account managers liaise 
closely with significant customers to provide support where possible.
Incident at Bran  
Sands waste water 
treatment works causes 
business interruption
We have a number of contracts to treat industrial waste streams at our Bran Sands works. The 
liability under each contract is capped except, in certain cases, where NWL is in willful breach.  
A site-specific management regime is in place incorporating additional monitoring and a greater 
amount of standby assets.
Risk of increasing pension 
contributions resulting  
from increasing longevity 
and the impact of  
economic conditions  
on investment returns
The defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants, benefits restructured and employee 
contributions increased in 2008. Advance contributions have been made to the scheme, including 
deficit funding allowed in the final determination. The scheme Trustee determines investment policy 
and monitors performance of investment managers. Triennial actuarial valuations of the scheme 
are carried out, with the latest currently underway.
Health and safety 
prosecution 
Our health and safety policy and safety management system define clear arrangements and 
responsibilities for implementation and management throughout the Company. This is audited as 
part of our quality and environmental management system. Visible high level support for health and 
safety is provided by the Board and management team. Long term plans and targets are set to 
promote continuous improvement. 52 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Appendix to the 
directors’ report – 
business review
Financial KPIs
Gearing to RCV (NWG)
Definition and calculation: The ratio of Group net 
debt to a pro forma RCV, calculated as NWL ’s RCV 
plus the level of debt associated with the Kielder 
securitisation and the PFI contracts. The NWL RCV 
represents the total capital value of the appointed water 
and sewerage business on which Ofwat allows a rate  
of return at price reviews.
Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue 
stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an 
important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWL ’s RCV is calculated 
by Ofwat and published each year. Ofwat also 
publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, 
based on its last price determination. Group net debt  
is disclosed in the audited financial statements.
Gearing to RCV (NWL)
Definition and calculation: The ratio of NWL net  
debt to NWL ’s RCV. The NWL RCV represents the total 
capital value of the appointed water and sewerage 
business on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at  
price reviews.
Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue 
stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an 
important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWL ’s RCV is calculated 
by Ofwat and published each year. Ofwat also 
publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, 
based on its last price determination. NWL ’s net debt  
is disclosed in the audited regulatory accounts.
Cash interest cover (NWG and NWL)
Definition and calculation: Cash generated from 
operations less tax divided by net interest paid.
Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group or 
company to service its debt.
Source of underlying data: Audited  
financial statements.
Cash flow to net debt (NWG and NWL)
Definition and calculation: Cash generated from 
operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
Purpose: Indicates the Group’s, or company’s, ability 
to reduce debt in the absence of need for additional 
investment, without resorting to asset disposal.
Source of underlying data: Audited  
financial statements.
NWL non-financial KPIs
Customer satisfaction
Definition and calculation: Domestic customers’ 
satisfaction with overall service and overall value for 
money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the 
surveys carried out during the year. Average satisfaction 
is based on a scale of 1 to 10 using the score of 6 and 
above as satisfied. Net scores are used to show true 
satisfaction by taking into consideration those who  
are dissatisfied who score between 1 and 3. 
Purpose: To enable tracking of perception of 
reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data: Independent surveys  
of 500 customers (300 north, 200 south) chosen at 
random, but representative of the customer base, 
carried out each quarter – a total of 2,000 customers.
Customer – levels of service
Definition and calculation: Customer service 
standards are established by Ofwat and calculated 
using source data in the company.
Purpose: To monitor customer service performance 
of NWL.
Source of underlying data: Information collected  
by the company and submitted to Ofwat. It is 
independently certified.
Employee turnover
Definition and calculation: Number of leavers within 
the year as a percentage of average headcount.
Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the 
business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees’ 
details are held within the human resources 
management system – reports show leavers  
against headcount.
Lost time reportable accidents
Definition and calculation: Injury accidents that are 
reported to the Health & Safety Executive as required 
by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations 1995. Calculated as the 
number of accidents reported in financial year per  
1,000 employees.
Purpose: To monitor the safety performance of NWL 
over time.
Source of underlying data: Completed NWL 
accident/incident report forms. Employee numbers  
are provided by the human resources department. 53 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Sickness absence
Definition and calculation: Sickness absence days 
as a percentage of total working days multiplied by the 
end of month headcount.
Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels 
across the organisation.
Source of underlying data: Statement of Fitness for 
Work (fit note), return to work interviews and weekly 
returns by managers.
Water quality
Definition and calculation: Compliance with drinking 
water regulations as monitored by the DWI.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data: Samples recorded by 
NWL and audited by the DWI.
Sewage treatment works
Definition and calculation: Percentage of population 
equivalent served by non-compliant works failing 
look-up table consents, as defined by the EA.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWL ’s 
sewage treatment works and their impact on  
the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded by 
NWL and the EA and reported on by the latter.
Bathing waters Mandatory Standard
Definition and calculation: Percentage of bathing 
waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
Purpose: To monitor the impact of NWL ’s coastal 
treatment works on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and 
reported by the EA.
Pollution incidents
Definition and calculation: Number of category 1, 2 
and 3 pollution incidents in the calendar year as defined 
by the EA.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWL ’s 
sewerage system and its impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and 
reported to Ofwat by the EA. 54 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – governance
Board directors’ 
biographies
1. Claude Lamoureux
Non-executive Director
Claude Lamoureux was appointed 
to the boards of NWG and NWL 
on 1 December 2006. Claude 
was, until 1 December 2007, 
President and CEO of the Ontario 
Teachers’ Pension Plan Board 
(OTPP). Previously, he spent 25 
years as a financial executive with 
Metropolitan Life in Canada and 
the US. He is a Director of Xstrata 
plc, Industrial Alliance Insurance 
and Financial Services Inc., Maple 
Leaf Foods Inc., Atrium Innovations 
Inc., The Learning Partnership and 
the York University Foundation. 
OTPP holds 27% of the issued 
share capital of NWG and Claude 
is, therefore, not regarded as an 
independent Director. Claude will 
retire from the boards of NWG 
and NWL on 28 July 2011.
2. Paul Rew (from 
1 October 2010)
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Paul Rew was appointed to 
the boards of NWG and NWL 
on 1 October 2010. Paul is 
a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees and of 
NWL ’s Corporate Responsibility 
Committee. Paul, a chartered 
accountant, was a partner in 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC) from 1987 until March 
2010 and was lead partner 
for a diverse range of FTSE 
100 clients and for PwC’s UK 
energy, utilities and mining sector 
practice. Most recently, he was 
PwC’s sustainability and climate 
change assurance leader and 
renewables leader. He is a Non-
executive Director of both the 
Met Office and the Sustainable 
Development Commission and 
chairs their Audit Committees.
3. Martin Nègre
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Martin Nègre was appointed to 
the Board in May 2003 and to the 
board of NWL in January 2006
and is a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. He was, between 
April 2000 and April 2001, the 
CEO of the former Northumbrian 
Water Group plc and the chief 
corporate representative of its 
parent company, Suez, in the UK. 
He currently chairs Ecofin Global 
Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, 
Ecofin Special Situations Utilities 
Fund, Ecofin North American 
Hedge Fund and Ecofin China 
Power & Infrastructure Fund. His 
other directorships include Ecofin 
Water & Power Opportunities 
plc, Hansen Transmissions 
International NV, Bolux Utilities 
(Sicav Luxembourg), Mercurius 
Utilities (Liechtenstein), EFMI 
Funds plc and Ecofin Global 
Long/Short Fund. All the above 
funds are focused on utilities. In 
2005, he became a Director of 
Promethean plc, an AIM-listed 
investment company and sits on 
the supervisory board of Banque 
Jean-Philippe Hottinguer & C
ie
.
4. Simon Lyster (from 
1 April 2011)
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Simon Lyster was appointed to 
the Board of NWG on 1 April 2011, 
having joined the board of NWL 
in September 2006, is a member 
of the Nomination Committee 
and chairs NWL ’s Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. Simon 
is a lawyer by training, qualified 
in both the UK and the USA and 
has been Chief Executive of LEAD 
International since 2005. Before 
joining LEAD (which he will leave 
during July 2011), Simon was 
Director General of The Wildlife 
Trusts, one of the largest nature 
conservation organisations in 
the UK, for seven years. Before 
that, Simon worked for World 
Wildlife Fund (WWF) for nine 
years, where he was responsible 
for WWF’s global policy work on 
international conventions. Simon 
is a Trustee of Conservation 
International – UK, the World 
Land Trust and the Kilverstone 
Wildlife Conservation Trust.
5. Margaret Fay CBE 
(from 1 June 2010)
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Margaret Fay was appointed to 
the boards of NWG and NWL on 
1 June 2010 and is a member of 
the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. She is also a member 
of NWL ’s Corporate Responsibility 
Committee. Margaret was formerly 
Managing Director of Tyne Tees 
Television until she took early 
retirement in December 2003 
to become Chairman of One 
North East, a position she held 
until August 2010. She is Deputy 
Chairman of The Sage Gateshead, 
a Governor of the University of 
Sunderland, Patron of Tees Valley 
Community Foundation and the 
Prince of Wales’ Ambassador 
for the north east of England. 
Margaret was awarded an OBE 
for services to broadcasting in 
2004 and, in 2010, a CBE for 
services to regional development.
1 2 3 4 5 55 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – governance
6. Heidi Mottram OBE
Chief Executive Officer
Heidi Mottram was appointed to 
the boards of NWG and NWL on 
1 March 2010 and became CEO 
on 1 April 2010. Heidi is a member 
of the Nomination Committee and 
NWL ’s Corporate Responsibility 
Committee. Heidi was Commercial 
Director for Arriva Trains Northern 
from January 2004, before joining 
Serco-NedRailways in November 
2004 as Managing Director, 
Northern Rail Limited. She was 
named Rail Business Manager 
of the Year in 2009 and was 
awarded an OBE for services 
to the rail industry in 2010.
7. Sir Derek Wanless
Chairman 
Sir Derek Wanless was appointed 
to the Board as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in 
December 2003. He joined the 
board of NWL in January 2006 
and, in July 2006, became 
Chairman of NWG and NWL. 
Sir Derek chairs the Nomination 
Committee and is a member of 
the Remuneration Committee. 
He became a director of National 
Westminster Bank in 1991 and its 
Group Chief Executive in 1992. 
He retired from that position 
in 1999. Sir Derek is currently 
Chairman of Legal and General 
plc’s Longevity Science Advisory 
Panel and a member of the Board 
for Actuarial Standards at the 
Financial Reporting Council.
8. Chris Green
Finance Director 
Chris Green was appointed 
to the boards of NWL in April 
2000 and NWG in May 2003. 
Chris qualified as a chartered 
accountant and after ten years 
in the accounting profession he 
joined the former Northumbrian 
Water Group plc in January 
1990. He was initially involved in 
the Group’s diversified business 
activities before being appointed 
as Group Finance Director in 
1997. Chris is Chair of Trustees 
for the Northumbria Calvert Trust, 
a charity devoted to providing 
outdoor activities for the disabled, 
and is Deputy Chair of Governors 
at the University of Sunderland.
9. Alex Scott-Barrett 
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Alex Scott-Barrett was appointed 
to the Board of NWG in September 
2006, having joined the board 
of NWL in November 2005. 
He chairs the Remuneration 
Committee and is a member 
of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. Alex qualified as 
a chartered accountant in 1981 
and joined Cazenove, a city 
corporate stockbroker, in 1982. 
He worked initially as an analyst 
and transferred to the corporate 
finance department in 1986, 
becoming a partner in 1988. 
In 1996, he became a director 
of the firm’s fund management 
division and, from 2000 to 
2003, was the Chief Operating 
Officer of that division. Alex left 
Cazenove in 2003. He is a Non-
executive Director of Lighthouse 
Group plc and is a Trustee of 
L ’Arche and Help for Heroes.
10. Sir Patrick Brown
Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director 
Sir Patrick Brown was appointed 
to the Board in May 2003 and 
to the board of NWL in January 
2006. Sir Patrick chairs the Audit 
Committee and is a member of 
the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. He held various 
positions in the Department of 
Transport and the Department 
of the Environment, becoming 
Second Permanent Secretary and 
Chief Executive of the Property 
Services Agency in 1990. He  
was Permanent Secretary for  
the Department of Transport from 
1991 to 1997. Sir Patrick became 
a Non-executive Director of the 
Go-Ahead Group plc in 1999 
and its Chairman in 2002. He is 
also Chairman of the Advisory 
Committee of Alexander Proudfoot 
UK and a Non-executive Director 
of Camelot UK Lotteries Limited.
11. Martin Parker (not pictured)
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary 
Martin Parker was appointed 
as Company Secretary of NWG 
in May 2003. Martin joined the 
former Northumbrian Water Group 
plc in 1990, concentrating on 
acquisitions, overseas projects 
and contracts with industrial 
customers, before being appointed 
Head of Group Legal Services 
in 1998 and General Counsel 
and Company Secretary of NWL 
in 2000. Martin is Secretary of 
all the Board committees.
6 7 8 9 10 Directors’ report – governance 56 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Directors’ report – business review and governance
In accordance with s417 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors’ report – business review, on pages 1 to 53, 
contains a review of the performance of the Group’s business during the year and the position at the end of the 
year with analysis using KPIs. A description of the Group’s future prospects, research and development, the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of the Group’s use of financial instruments are also 
contained within the business review.
Pages 54 to 70 of this section of the directors’ report contain the Board of directors’ biographies, together with 
such other statutory disclosures, as required by s416 and s418 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 7 to the 
Large and Medium sized Companies and Group’s (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, as are not already 
referred to in the business review section of the report. The corporate governance statement explains how the 
Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year and also complies with the 
requirements of Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2. 
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group during the year were the provision of water and waste water services.
Political
During the year, the Group has worked with politicians of all major parties, officials and opinion formers. This work 
has included making representations on issues which NWL feels are important to our customers and communities 
such as competition, the review of regulators, the Water White Paper, adoption of private sewers, ‘Water for health’, 
climate change, the Water Framework Directive and other legislative issues which could affect our customers.
We do not support any political party and we do not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly 
regarded as donations to any political party or other political organisation. However, the wide definition of 
donations in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 covers activities which form part of the 
necessary relationship between the Group and political parties and political organisations. These activities include 
attending party conferences, as these provide the best opportunity to meet a range of stakeholders, both national 
and local, to explain our activities, as well as local meetings with MPs, MEPs and their agents. The costs 
associated with these activities during 2010/11 were as follows:
Name of political party £
Conservative 6,845 
Labour 8,208 
Liberal Democrats 3,312 
Total 18,365
Shareholder authority to permit the Company to continue with these activities until the 2012 AGM will be sought at 
this year’s AGM.
Statutory disclosures Directors’ report – governance 57 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Creditors
The Company’s policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed 
terms. The Company’s policy is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice, except as 
otherwise agreed. The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced by its suppliers during the year and 
the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2011, was 30 days (2010: 21 days).
Directors’ remuneration and interests
Information about directors’ remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company is contained in the 
directors’ remuneration report.
Indemnification of directors 
The Company has in place directors’ and officers’ insurance and, on 28 November 2005, entered into a deed of 
indemnity to grant the directors further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out 
in the Companies Act. Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving 
the directors’ report. 
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing its re-appointment 
as auditors will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Directors’ declaration
As required under s418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he  
or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern
The Group has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet its requirements to March 2014. The directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and, accordingly, they continue  
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements. Directors’ report – governance 58 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
The Board believes best practice in corporate governance is an important tool in helping it meet its responsibilities. 
The Board considers that, during the year and up to the date of this report, it has complied with the main principles 
and provisions of the Combined Code 2008 (the Code). The Code is available to download from the Financial 
Reporting Council’s (FRC) website at www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm or, alternatively, printed copies can 
be obtained free of charge from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, email: customer.services@cch.co.uk and 
online at www.frcpublications.com.
This statement, together with the directors’ remuneration report, describes how the Company has applied the 
principles of the Code during the year. The board of NWL also maintains high standards of corporate governance 
and endeavours to comply with the Code, wherever practicable.
In June 2010, the FRC introduced a new UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to the Company’s 
financial year ending 31 March 2012. The Board has considered the requirements of the new code and believes 
that the Company is well positioned to achieve compliance. Some of the main principles, such as the annual 
re-election of all directors, have already been implemented.
 
The Board has a code of ethics, ‘Our Code of Conduct’ which is available on the Company’s website, covering  
its relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, shareholders, other investors  
and regulators. 
Board composition
As at 31 March 2011, the directors of the Company were Sir Derek Wanless, Sir Patrick Brown, Heidi Mottram, 
Chris Green, Claude Lamoureux, Martin Nègre, Alex Scott-Barrett, Margaret Fay and Paul Rew, who all served 
throughout the year, except for Margaret Fay and Paul Rew who were appointed on 1 June and 1 October  
2010, respectively.
Simon Lyster, who has been a Non-executive Director of NWL since 26 September 2006, was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director of NWG on 1 April 2011. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), Paul Rew and Simon Lyster, having been 
appointed as directors by the Board since the last AGM, will be eligible for election at this year’s AGM. All other 
directors holding office on the day of the notice convening the AGM will retire from office and offer themselves  
for re-election, with the exception of Claude Lamoureux who will retire from office at the end of this year’s AGM. 
NWL ’s Instrument of Appointment (usually called its ‘Licence’) requires NWL to have at least three independent 
directors with an understanding of the interests of customers and a connection with the areas in which the company 
operates. Until 31 March 2011, these roles were held by Anita Frew, Alastair Balls and Simon Lyster, none of whom 
were directors of NWG. Prior to the retirement of Anita Frew and Alastair Balls from the NWL board on 31 March 
2011, NWL and Ofwat agreed that the independent directors of NWL, for the purposes of the Licence, may also  
be non-executive directors of NWG. Ofwat considered that, given NWG’s focus on the core business, such cross-
directorships would not create a conflict of interest. Ofwat will review its position on this if the nature of NWG’s 
business changes significantly. The directors in question must still, of course, demonstrate the necessary experience 
and understanding. Ofwat agreed that Margaret Fay and Alex Scott-Barrett would be suitable for these roles, in 
addition to Simon Lyster. Anita Frew and Alastair Balls have, therefore, not been replaced on the NWL board.  
Apart from streamlining the work of the two main boards, which now have common non-executive membership,  
this reduction in the number of non-executive directors brings a significant saving in fees and expenses.
Corporate governance 
statement Directors’ report – governance 59 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Board responsibilities and processes
The Board sets and implements the Company’s strategy and ensures compliance with Group policies and legal 
and regulatory obligations. The Group’s vision, values and strategy are set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s 
review. Board agendas are proposed by the CEO and Company Secretary, with input from NWL ’s management 
team, for approval by the Chairman.
The Company has adopted terms of reference which set out the matters reserved to the Board for approval and 
matters which are, or can be, delegated to the committees and management. The Company has also adopted 
financial approval rules which set out the authorisation processes and financial limits to be applied to financial 
transactions within the Company. NWL has adopted its own version of these guidelines. Standing or Executive 
Committees can take decisions not delegated to specific committees between Board meetings. All directors 
receive notice of Standing Committee meetings and may participate if they wish. Decisions taken by the  
Standing or Executive Committees are reported at the next Board meeting.
The following table sets out the attendance of directors at Board and committee meetings during 2010/11:
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit
Number of meetings 6 4 3 3 
Sir Derek Wanless 6 4 3 3
1
 
Sir Patrick Brown 5 4 2 3 
Margaret Fay
2
 5 3 2 –
Chris Green 6 – – 3
1
 
Claude Lamoureux 4 1
1
 – –
Heidi Mottram 6 4 3
1
 3
1
 
Martin Nègre 6 4 3 1 
Paul Rew
3
 4 2 – 2 
Alex Scott-Barrett 6 4 3 3 
Jenny Williams
4
 1 1 – 1 
Notes:
1. Not a member, but attended at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
2. Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
3. Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010.
4. Retired from the Board on 29 July 2010.
The NWG Board meets at least every two months, usually immediately following meetings of the NWL board.  
As NWL is so significant within the Group, it may be helpful to provide an insight as to how the NWL board works. 
Typically, the CEO provides an overview of performance since her last report, highlighting issues to which the 
board needs to pay particular attention. She also reports on regulatory and other developments affecting the 
sector. NWL ’s performance is captured by means of a balanced scorecard which shows performance against a 
series of KPIs. Achievement against this scorecard will also be a key element of NWG and NWL directors’ bonuses 
in 2011/12 and future years. The CEO’s overview also contains detailed reports on finance, regulation, operations 
and human resources. Reports are provided from chairmen of committees which have met since the last board 
meeting. Health and safety performance is addressed at each meeting. The NWL board considers papers seeking 
approval of contracts worth over £2.0 million and capital projects (which may in time require a series of contracts) 
over £5.0 million. Papers seeking investment approval are required to contain sections on sustainability and risk.  
For example, a paper seeking investment approval for a scheme to alleviate sewer flooding would need to 
demonstrate that the solution proposed is sustainable. Directors’ report – governance 60 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
As well as the reports described above, the NWL board receives risk reports and approves budgets, financial 
plans, reports to Ofwat, accounts, dividends payable and a range of other matters. The NWL board also sets time 
aside during its meetings to consider forward-looking strategy, and meets on separate strategy days to develop 
that work. The papers submitted to the board are used as the basis for discussion, rather than as an end in 
themselves. The Chairman ensures that, wherever possible, the board avoids becoming too immersed in detail 
and that the meetings are used to generate ideas and to constructively challenge the management. Non-executive 
directors readily question the assumptions of the management team and bring new perspectives from their 
experience elsewhere.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet employees in order to gain a closer understanding of the  
issues they face. On 30 March 2011, six of NWG’s non-executive directors (and the CEO) held an open forum  
with employees at NWL ’s offices at Hanningfield, in Essex. This event was successful and will be repeated  
at other venues.
The NWG Board works in a very similar way. The members of the NWG Board all sit on the NWL board, and 
therefore the NWG Board does not need to become too involved in NWL ’s operational issues. The NWG Board’s 
focus is strategic. It sets the future direction of all Group companies, with a particular emphasis on the medium 
and long term, including funding. 
The NWG Board also oversees the non-NWL businesses, and particularly the PFI contracts in Scotland, the 
operating contracts in Ireland, AquaGib and Agrer.
During the year, the non-executive directors met formally once without the executive directors and are in regular 
contact with each other throughout the year. The non-executive directors also met once without the Chairman  
but did not consider additional formal meetings to be necessary.
Authorisation of directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty, under s175 of the Companies Act 2006, to avoid a situation in which they have, or 
could have, a conflict of interest with the Company’s interests. However, there is no breach of this duty if the Board 
has authorised the matter in question. The Articles permit directors (other than the director having the interest in 
question) to authorise any situation giving rise to a known or potential conflict. A register of the interests which have 
been authorised is maintained by the Company Secretary and is available at every Board meeting. The Company 
will follow emerging best practice in line with the General Counsel 100’s guidance paper.
Board balance and independence
Ten directors served during the year – the Chairman, two executive directors, the Senior Independent Non-
executive Director and six other non-executive directors. Sir Derek Wanless is the non-executive Chairman. The 
executive directors are Heidi Mottram (CEO) and Chris Green (Finance Director). Sir Patrick Brown is the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director and the other independent non-executive directors who served during the 
year were Margaret Fay, Martin Nègre, Paul Rew, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams. Claude Lamoureux is also 
a Non-executive Director but is not independent as he was, until 1 December 2007, President and CEO of OTPP, 
which holds 27% of the issued share capital of the Company. Jenny Williams retired from the boards of NWG and 
NWL on 29 July 2010. 
The Company complies with the Code’s requirement that half of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are 
independent non-executive directors. The Chairman was independent on appointment. Biographical details of the 
directors appear on pages 54 and 55 and details of their service contracts are in the directors’ remuneration report. 
The Chairman and CEO have clearly defined written responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.  
The Chairman leads the Board and creates the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, 
both inside and outside the boardroom. The CEO is responsible for running the Company’s business on a day  
to day basis.
Corporate governance statement
continued Directors’ report – governance 61 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Sir Patrick Brown, as Senior Independent Non-executive Director, is available to shareholders who wish to raise 
any concerns and leads the non-executive directors in their evaluation of the Chairman’s performance.
The non-executive directors bring to the Board many years of business experience as well as financial expertise 
and the ability and willingness to challenge and support the executive directors.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary, Martin Parker, assists the Board to ensure that good corporate 
governance compliance is achieved. He is also Company Secretary of NWL and is secretary to all Board committees.
The NWG Board supports the findings of Lord Davies’ recent review, ‘Women on Boards’. Over the coming 
months the Board will review its procedure for the appointment of directors (including the impact of the approach 
taken to management development at a less senior level) and consider which of the Davies recommendations 
should be adopted, whether or not they become formally binding on companies. Following this year’s AGM,  
if Heidi Mottram and Margaret Fay are re-elected, two (22%) of the nine directors will be female.
Information and professional development
All directors have access to independent professional advice to assist them in the performance of their duties,  
at the Company’s expense, and to the Company Secretary for advice and assistance. The Chairman, with the 
assistance of the Company Secretary, monitors the induction and training requirements of directors. All new 
directors receive an induction information pack and are encouraged to make site visits and to arrange meetings 
with managers. Since joining the Company in June 2010, Margaret Fay has visited Birtley sewage treatment works 
(STW), Lumley water treatment works (WTW) and Bran Sands STW. Since joining in October 2010, Paul Rew has 
visited Bran Sands STW, Lumley WTW, Kielder, Hanningfield and Abberton reservoirs and the Pity Me customer 
contact centre.
Managers from within the Group submit papers or give presentations at Board meetings. Water industry 
representatives meet the NWL board to discuss current issues.
The Company Secretary ensures that directors are kept informed and that information flows effectively within the 
Group by:
keeping in regular contact with directors; −
sending Board papers to directors before each Board meeting; −
sending briefing packs to directors in the months when Board meetings are not held; and −
providing a directors’ team room intranet site containing Board and committee papers, minutes, analysts’  −
reports and reference and regulatory documents, to which all directors have access.
Directors attend conferences and seminars where this will help them in the performance of their duties.
Performance evaluation
A full evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees was conducted during the year by an external 
consultant, who observed board meetings of NWG and NWL, and a meeting of the Audit Committee. Each 
director completed a detailed questionnaire prior to a one-to-one meeting with the consultant. The questionnaire 
was designed to address strategic issues and succession planning, as well as the approach of the Board to 
operational and financial matters, the role of the non-executive directors and the quality of information received by 
the Board. The performance of NWL ’s board and its committees was evaluated at the same time. The Chairman 
used the evaluation to assist with his evaluation of each director.
The results of the external evaluation were generally very positive and a number of actions were agreed, with a 
view to further improving the performance of the boards. Although the Board discussions are already lively and 
vigorous, the consultant encouraged directors to be even more challenging in their approach. Directors’ report – governance 62 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
In relation to Board papers, it was agreed that some could be a little more incisive and state their main points  
more clearly.
As well as commenting on the contributions from the directors and the processes adopted at Board and 
committee meetings, the consultant made certain practical observations. The consultant felt, for example, that  
a meeting of the Audit Committee was hampered by the fact that some people (who were not members of the 
Committee) participated by video conference. It was agreed that this was not helpful and the schedule of  
meetings was immediately adjusted to avoid the need for this in future.
It was agreed that the Board’s time would be more tightly focused on strategic issues, so that maximum value  
is added.
The Board has also considered the FRC’s ‘Guidance on Board Effectiveness’, published in March 2011. The 
directors consider that the work of both the NWG and NWL boards and the roles played by the Chairman, the 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other directors are consistent with both the practical content 
and underlying philosophy of the Guidance.
The Chairman’s comments on the evaluation of the directors seeking election and annual re-election at the AGM 
are provided in the Notice of Meeting. The comments of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director on the 
evaluation of the Chairman are also provided in the Notice.
External appointments
Executive directors have generally only accepted non-executive positions outside the Group where this would 
benefit either the Group or the local community. These positions have tended to be with educational institutions, 
economic regeneration groups or similar bodies. The Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company 
who are appointed to non-executive directorships of a more commercial nature may retain the fees, subject to 
obtaining the Chairman’s consent before an appointment is accepted. Only one such external appointment per 
director will generally be permitted. 
Board committees
The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to assist it in the performance of its duties.  
The Board sets the terms of reference of the committees and receives regular reports from their chairmen at  
Board meetings. The terms of reference of committees are available on the Company’s website or from the 
Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee
The work of the Remuneration Committee, and details of the directors’ remuneration, are set out in the directors’ 
remuneration report.
Nomination Committee
The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for 
approval by the Board. The Committee also reviews succession planning for the Board, NWL board and senior 
appointments and will make recommendations to the Board when appropriate. The Committee’s usual policy  
is to use external recruitment consultants or to advertise in order to identify suitable candidates.
Corporate governance statement
continued Directors’ report – governance 63 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
During the year, the Committee recommended to the NWG and NWL boards the appointments of Margaret Fay 
and Paul Rew, as additional independent non-executive directors. The Committee felt that an additional non-
executive with strong business and political contacts, especially in the north east, would be a valuable addition  
to the boards. Margaret Fay was regarded by the Committee as an ideal candidate for this role and she was, 
therefore, approached by the Company to discuss the opportunity. Paul Rew was appointed for his first class 
finance skills and experience and particular expertise in sustainability. The Committee considered that these 
attributes and Paul Rew’s all-round understanding of business made him an excellent addition to the two principal 
boards. Leading executive search consultants assisted the Committee with Paul Rew’s appointment. Simon Lyster, 
a Non-executive Director of NWL since 26 September 2006, was appointed to the NWG Board on 1 April 2011. 
Simon Lyster brings very significant experience of sustainability issues, as well as excellent analytical skills and a 
first-hand understanding of NWL ’s Essex operating area.
The Committee also considered extensions to the appointments of non-executive directors on the NWG and NWL 
boards whose contracts for services expired during the year. Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of 
one year and all directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The members of the Nomination Committee are now Sir Derek Wanless (Chairman), Sir Patrick Brown, Margaret 
Fay, Heidi Mottram, Martin Nègre, Paul Rew, Alex Scott-Barrett and Simon Lyster, and the membership is 
compliant with the Code.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee members during the year were Sir Patrick Brown (Chairman), Martin Nègre, Alex Scott-
Barrett, Paul Rew (from 1 October 2010) and Jenny Williams (until 29 July 2010). Paul Rew and Alex Scott-Barrett 
are chartered accountants and the Board is satisfied that they both have recent and relevant financial experience. 
It is proposed that Paul Rew will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 28 July 2011, following the 
AGM. Paul Rew was a senior partner with PwC until March 2010. The Committee’s membership complies with  
the Code. The Chairman and executive directors are invited to Audit Committee meetings, with the permission  
of its Chairman, but have no right of attendance. Managers from within the Group are invited to Audit Committee 
meetings to discuss issues relating to their areas of the business. During the year, the Committee met with both 
the external Audit Partner and Internal Audit Manager to discuss audit business, without the executive directors 
being present. The Committee remains satisfied that the internal audit function is able to operate with 
independence and is not under any pressure from the executive management of the Company to produce 
particular results.
The Committee members receive regular briefings from the external auditors to enable them to keep up to date  
on financial reporting standards.
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist both executive and non-executive directors of NWG to discharge 
their individual and collective responsibilities in relation to:
ensuring the financial and accounting systems of NWG and its subsidiaries are providing accurate and up to  −
date information on their current position;
ensuring NWG’s published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position; and −
assessing the scope and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems and the integrity of its internal  −
financial controls. Directors’ report – governance 64 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
During the year its work included:
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company; −
reviewing the Company’s internal controls (both financial and information systems) by considering reports of  −
both the internal and external auditors, directing questions to management and reviewing the financial risks and 
controls information provided to them on an annual basis;
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function by reviewing the scope of the annual  −
audit plan, the results of those audits and monitoring the completion of actions identified during the audits;
monitoring and reviewing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors, in particular, by reviewing  −
the scope and costs of the audit process;
reviewing the external auditors’ independence by monitoring the extent of the provision of non-audit services  −
and receiving reports from the external auditors;
monitoring the potential impact and management of significant risks to the business using a risk methodology  −
(meeting the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance) which sets out and rates all 
identified risks, including operational, external, financial, environmental, social and governance risks;
reviewing the Committee’s terms of reference; −
reviewing the Group’s financial approval rules; −
reviewing the Group’s tax strategy; −
reviewing NWL ’s contract terms; −
reviewing the Group’s accounting and treasury policies; and −
reviewing the Company’s interim management statements, half-yearly and preliminary results announcements  −
and final published annual report and financial statements.
The Committee has now assumed responsibility for the practical work being done to ensure that the Group’s 
procedures designed to prevent bribery are adequate (having regard to the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 and 
the official guidance published in relation to that Act). This builds on significant work done by the NWG Board, with 
advice from the Company Secretary and Internal Audit Manager, to assess the bribery risk faced by the Group, 
clarify policies and map the procedures to be put in place.
Given the importance of NWL to the Group’s business, the Committee works closely with the Audit Committee of 
NWL. In particular, both committees review significant regulatory reports for Ofwat and regularly review NWL ’s debt 
recovery strategy and performance. In addition, meetings were held with the Ofwat Reporter during the year to 
discuss the June Return process.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports to the Board following each meeting of the Committee and Committee 
minutes are circulated to the Board.
External auditors
Ernst & Young LLP have been the Group’s auditors since 2003. The audit engagement partner is subject to 
change every five years and was last changed in 2008.
Non-audit services
The Committee has approved a procedure for the approval of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditors, which complies with the requirements of the Auditing Practices Board’s 
revised Ethical Standard No. 5. The external auditors are not permitted to provide bookkeeping, financial information 
systems design and implementation, or internal audit outsourcing services. Permitted services require prior approval, 
either from the Audit Committee Chairman, if under £50,000, or from the Audit Committee, if over £50,000. The 
Company requires the auditors to report annually details of all non-audit services provided. A breakdown of the  
cost of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditors is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement
continued Directors’ report – governance 65 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
On 25 May 2011, Ernst & Young LLP confirmed to the Audit Committee, in accordance with ISA 260 (Communication 
of audit matters to those charged with governance), that they have considered their relationship with the Company 
and that, in their professional judgement, the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is  
not impaired.
Review of internal control
The Board believes that, as explained below, there are effective systems in place to identify and manage significant 
risks and that it receives sufficient information to enable it to assess these risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the internal control system are carried out in accordance with 
the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance. The actions necessary to address weaknesses and otherwise improve 
the system of internal control are communicated to management. Internal audit monitors implementation of these 
actions and reports back to the Audit Committee. This process has been in place throughout the year and up to 
the date of approval of the 2010/11 annual report and financial statements. There are inherent limitations in any 
system of internal control and even the most effective system can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The use of our standard accounting manual by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions and 
balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is 
appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard reporting pack by all 
entities in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the 
production of the consolidated financial statements.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control, as follows, during the year.  
The internal audit team manages a process whereby all of the financial controls within the Group are identified  
and certified by the relevant manager as having operated for the full year. As part of a programme of work, which 
is agreed with the Audit Committee, these controls are tested throughout the year. A report detailing any areas of 
concern is produced after each audit. As part of the same process all of the key business risks are identified. Each 
risk is assessed on an unmanaged basis, the controls in place to mitigate the risks are detailed and the risk is then 
re-assessed after these controls. 
Internal audit’s findings and recommendations are presented to the Audit Committee along with agreed actions. 
Internal audit updates progress against any agreed actions until the control weakness is resolved.
Organisational structure
The trading subsidiaries have their own boards of directors (the Subsidiary Boards) which are responsible for the 
operational and financial control of their own businesses. The Subsidiary Boards report to the executive directors 
and to the Company’s Board on matters including major strategic, financial, organisational, compliance and 
regulatory issues.
The NWL management team manages the major business of the Group and consists of Heidi Mottram (CEO), 
Chris Green (Finance Director), Graham Neave (Operations Director and on NWL board), Ceri Jones (Regulation  
& Scientific Services Director and on NWL board), John Devall (Water Director), Ian Donald (Customer Services 
Director), Sarah Salter (HR Director from 4 January 2011), Colin Price (Technical Director) and Henry Wilson 
(Wastewater Director). NWL ’s former HR Director, Diane Morton, resigned on 30 September 2010. The NWL 
management team meets monthly to consider and discuss progress against annual and monthly financial and 
operational targets. It prepares an annual budget and business plan for consideration and approval by the NWL 
board. NWL operates a balanced scorecard which monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas  
of operation of the business. Directors’ report – governance 66 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
The Board is able to monitor the impact of environmental, social and governance matters on the Group’s business, 
to assess the impact of significant risks on the business and to evaluate methods of managing these risks through 
reports it receives from the Subsidiary Boards and the Audit Committee. The environmental risks considered to be 
significant by the Board are described on page 51, together with a summary of how NWL is managing these risks.
For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have performed a full annual business risk analysis to meet the 
recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance. This methodology is described above in relation 
to the work of the Audit Committee. The results of the risk reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee 
and a summary is reported to the Company’s directors. Accompanying the risk model is a detailed review of each 
company’s internal financial controls along with either confirmation that the controls have operated throughout the 
year or details of any exceptions. Action points arising from these reviews are followed up as part of the internal 
audit process.
Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more frequently. The executive directors consider significant  
risks in a structured way on a monthly basis, assessing the likelihood and potential impact of the relevant risks  
both before and after risk management measures have been put in place. Further details about how risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are assessed and managed are included in the directors’ report – business  
review on pages 50 and 51.
On a monthly basis, the executive directors compare the actual operational and financial performance of each 
business with its plan and budget. Targets are set to measure performance and regular forecasts are made.
Information and reporting system
Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Company’s financial approval rules and terms of reference, which 
contain full details of the procedures for distribution of information and financial reporting. Each Subsidiary Board 
has developed financial control systems appropriate to its activities.
Budgets and business planning
The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans and annual budgets which are reviewed by the 
executive directors and submitted to the Board for approval. Business plans and budgets include an assessment 
of the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
The approval of the Board is required for major investments, including those in new markets, and large capital 
expenditure programmes. The treasury strategy, which is approved by the Board, requires that investments are 
limited to certain money market and treasury instruments, and that the Group’s exposure to any single bank, 
building society or market is controlled, with maximum deposits allowed with any single counterparty. The Group’s 
investment strategy aims to fix interest rates for part of the Group’s borrowings and investments for periods 
determined by the forecast cash flow of the individual businesses. This manages the exposure to the risk of 
changes in short term interest rates. Foreign currency exposure is also managed as part of the treasury strategy 
approved by the Board.
Corporate governance statement
continued Directors’ report – governance 67 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Investor relations
The Company welcomes constructive communication with all its shareholders. Our main communication with 
shareholders is through the publication of the annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report, 
interim management statements and through information on the Company’s website. In addition, the executive 
directors have regular contact with the Company’s large institutional investors, as well as giving presentations to 
analysts and stockbrokers. During the year, the executive directors held 36 meetings with a range of institutional 
investors. Investor feedback reports from investor meetings, prepared by the Company’s advisers, are considered 
at Board meetings and analysts’ notes on the Company are made available to all directors on the Board’s intranet 
team room. The Board believes that these methods of investor feedback provide the Senior Independent Non-
executive Director and the other non-executive directors with a balanced understanding of the issues and 
concerns of major shareholders. The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is available to shareholders  
who wish to raise any matters of concern and the Chairman welcomes contact with any shareholders who have 
matters they wish to discuss. The Company has not received any requests from institutional shareholders to  
meet with non-executive directors.
All shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company with queries or suggestions. A welcome letter is sent  
to all new non-corporate shareholders, which includes information on services available to shareholders.
AGM
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM at which they can meet and question the directors. 
The Company will make a presentation at the AGM to highlight the key business developments and events during 
the year. The full Board is expected to be available at the AGM to answer shareholders’ questions. Voting at the 
AGM will be on a show of hands but the proxy votes cast on each resolution will be displayed after each resolution 
has been voted on. If the voting on a show of hands produces a different result from that which would have been 
achieved on a poll, the Chairman will call a poll so that the result of the voting on that resolution reflects the wishes 
of the majority of shareholders. The proxy votes cast at each AGM are disclosed on our website. The notice 
convening the AGM, to be held on 28 July 2011, has been sent to shareholders together with an explanation  
of the business to be conducted at the meeting and a form of proxy.
Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive
Structure of the Company’s share capital
As at 31 March 2011, the Company had 518,623,845 ordinary 10 pence shares admitted to trading. 
Rights and obligations attaching to the shares
The rights attaching to the shares in the Company are set out in the Articles and may be changed with the 
approval of the shareholders. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, shares may be issued with or have 
attached thereto such preferred, deferred, qualified or other rights or such restrictions, whether in regard to 
dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if there 
has not been any such determination, as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to requisition a general meeting of the Company and to attend, vote and speak at 
general meetings, in accordance with the Companies Acts and the Articles. Shareholders have the right to  
appoint proxies. Directors’ report – governance 68 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Restrictions on the transfer of shares
Any shareholder may transfer a certificated share, as defined in the Articles, by an instrument of transfer in the 
usual form or in such other form as the Board may approve. However, the transfer of an uncertificated share, as 
defined in the Articles, need not be in writing and shall comply with any rules adopted by the Board under Article 
13.7. The Board may, however, in its absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, decline to register any 
transfer of any share that is not a fully paid up share or on which the Company has a lien, provided that such 
discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open 
and proper basis. The Board may also decline to register any transfer unless:
in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer, duly stamped, is lodged with the Company  −
accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may 
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer;
in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share; and −
in the case of a transfer to joint holders of a certificated or uncertificated share, the number of joint holders to  −
whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
If the share to be transferred is an uncertificated share, the Board may refuse to register a transfer if the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 allow it to do so.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice has been served (pursuant to s793  
of the Companies Act 2006) and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information 
required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction declining to register any transfer of shares, 
other than a sale to a bona fide unconnected third party.
Significant shareholdings 
Details of shareholders with significant holdings in the Company’s issued share capital are set out below:
Number of  
shares at  
31.3.2011
% share 
capital
Number of  
shares at  
31 .5.2011
% share 
capital
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board 138,776,864 26.76 138,776,864 26.76
Pictet Asset Management Ltd 38,770,495 7.48 40,787,412 7.86
Artemis Investment Management LLP Below 3% – 15,654,522 3.02
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. (UK) 16,319,467 3.15 15,573,103 3.00
The holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients’ interests within the 
respective asset management companies and may have since changed without triggering a further notification.
Restrictions on voting rights
In accordance with the Articles, no member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to be 
present or to vote, either personally or by proxy, unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect 
of shares in the Company have been paid.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice (pursuant to s793 of the Companies 
Act 2006) has been served and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information 
required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction preventing the member from attending and 
voting at any general meeting.
Corporate governance statement
continued Directors’ report – governance 69 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Shares required to fulfil vested awards made under the Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust are 
acquired through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited. In line with Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Guidelines, dividends and voting rights are waived on these shares. At 31 March 2011, the Employee Trust 
held a total of 765,962 shares.
The deadline for delivering either written or electronic proxy voting forms is 48 hours before the appointed time of 
the meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint any person to be a director. The Board may also appoint 
directors, either to fill casual vacancies or as an addition to the Board, but any director so appointed shall hold 
office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election. Paul Rew and Simon Lyster, who were 
appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will be eligible for election at this year’s AGM. Additionally, the Articles 
provide for the annual re-election of all directors. Details of all the directors seeking re-election at this year’s AGM 
are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for 
approval by the Board. The work of the Nomination Committee is described above.
The Company may, by special resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, remove any director before the expiration of his period  
of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his place. Any person so appointed shall be 
subject to retirement at the same time as if he had become a director on the day on which the director in whose 
place he is appointed was last appointed a director.
Amendments to the Company’s Articles
The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution of its members. 
Powers of the Board
The Articles provide that the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all 
such powers of the Company as are not required (by the Companies Acts or the Articles) to be exercised by the 
Company in general meeting. Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles and any directions given by special 
resolution, the Board may, inter alia:
establish local or divisional boards or agencies to manage any of the Company’s affairs and appoint any  −
persons to be members of such local or divisional boards, or agents, and fix their remuneration;
appoint attorney(s) for such purposes and with such powers, authorities and discretions, and for such period  −
and subject to such terms and conditions, as it may think fit;
delegate its powers to any director; −
sign, draw, accept, endorse or otherwise execute all cheques, promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and  −
other instruments and all receipts for moneys paid to the Company in such manner as the Board shall from time 
to time determine; and
exercise all of the powers of the Company to grant and pay pensions, annuities, gratuities, superannuation or  −
other allowances and benefits in favour of any person.
Allotment of shares
Subject to the provision of the Companies Acts, the Articles and any authorising resolutions passed in general 
meeting, the shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, grant options  
over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times, for such consideration and upon such terms 
and conditions as the Board may determine. The directors will again be seeking authority from shareholders at  
this year’s AGM for the directors to allot shares during the ensuing year although, at present, the Company has  
no intention of doing so. Directors’ report – governance 70 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Purchase of own shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles and to any confirmation or consent required by 
law, the Company may from time to time purchase its own shares. The Company will again be seeking authority 
from shareholders at this year’s AGM to purchase its own shares during the ensuing year although, at present,  
the Company has no intention of doing so.
Significant agreements
As at 31 March 2011, NWL had £344.7 million of loans provided by the EIB and the applicable terms include 
change of control clauses. If, after consultation with NWL, the EIB is of the opinion that a change of control has 
had, or is likely to have, a material adverse effect, then the EIB could give 30 days notice of requesting early 
repayment of the loans plus, in certain circumstances, a premium depending on prevailing market interest rates.
By order of the Board
Martin Parker
General Counsel and Company Secretary
31 May 2011
Northumbrian Water Group plc
Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ
Registered in England and Wales No. 4760441
Corporate governance statement
continued Remuneration 71 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
In this report, which will be submitted for approval at the AGM on 28 July 2011, we describe how the Chairman, 
executive and non-executive directors are remunerated. Those parts of the remuneration report which are subject 
to audit by Ernst & Young LLP are marked ‘audited’.
The Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee of the Board (the Committee) determines the remuneration and terms of 
employment of the Chairman of the Company, executive directors of NWG and NWL and a further six senior 
managers, in accordance with a remuneration policy approved by the Board. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are published on our website at www.nwg.co.uk (in the ‘about us: corporate governance’ section)  
or a copy can be requested from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is always available to engage with major shareholders and their representatives to discuss 
remuneration matters. 
Remuneration Committee members
The Committee members are Alex Scott-Barrett (Committee Chairman), Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Nègre  
and Margaret Fay, who are all considered by the Company to be independent, and Sir Derek Wanless. The 
membership of the Committee was, therefore, compliant with the Code throughout the year. Martin Parker,  
the Company Secretary, is secretary to the Committee.
External advice
The Committee continued to receive advice during the year from its appointed advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street 
(HNBS), and also from the CEO (although never about her own remuneration). The Human Resources Director, 
Sarah Salter, who joined the Group on 4 January 2011, also attends Committee meetings to provide expert advice. 
HNBS was paid £33,399 for these services in 2010/11 and continues to assist the Committee in maintaining best 
practice in relation to remuneration. HNBS did not provide any other services to the Company during the year.
The Committee’s work over the past year
The Committee met three times during the year with 100% attendance by all members, except for Sir Patrick 
Brown who was not present at the March 2011 meeting and Margaret Fay who did not join the Committee until 
June 2010, to: 
agree bonus payments for 2009/10; −
set performance targets for executive directors and senior managers; −
agree salaries for 2011/12; −
determine the vesting percentage to be applied to the LTIP awards made on 13 December 2007 which   −
vested on 13 December 2010;
grant LTIP awards on 8 December 2010 (to vest, subject to performance and continued service, on   −
8 December 2013);
consider the impact of changes to the tax treatment of pensions; and −
review the pension contributions payable in respect of executive members of the Company’s defined  −
contribution pension scheme.
Following the year end, the Committee wrote to its largest shareholders and the major representative bodies to 
consult on a number of changes to executive remuneration arrangements for 2011/12. In summary, these changes 
were to introduce an executive tier to the defined contribution pension scheme, expand the range of annual bonus 
metrics to include a balanced scorecard, increase maximum bonus potential for executive directors from 70% to 
100% of base salary and introduce bonus deferral and clawback. Further details of the changes are set out below. 
No changes were made to long term incentive provisions.
As the Committee works closely with NWL ’s remuneration committee, Committee papers and minutes are 
circulated to all NWG and NWL non-executive directors, who can give their views direct to the Committee 
Chairman and can attend meetings if they wish.
Directors’ remuneration 
report Maximum
0% 50%
Fixed pay Variable pay
100% 150% 200% 250% 350% 300%
Total
Basic salary Pension & beneﬁts Annual bonus LTIP
Remuneration 72 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Remuneration policy
The Committee considers the principles and provisions of the Code when setting its policy and believes it is fully 
compliant. The policy of the Company is to provide remuneration that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate 
directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, while paying fairly. Although HNBS provides  
the Committee with detailed comparative data on other companies in the utilities sector and more widely, the 
Committee uses this data with caution given the lack of direct comparators and to avoid remuneration being 
ratcheted up as a result of benchmarking exercises.
Consistent with its fair pay policy, when considering the remuneration packages of senior executives and directors, 
the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group. However, 
it does not consider that a formulaic approach to the pay differentials between directors and other employees 
would, of itself, be helpful. It recognises, however, that excessive pay differentials would be divisive and would 
undermine the Group’s core value of working as ‘one team’. The Committee is determined to ensure that 
executive’s remuneration continues to be set at a level which is reasonable and appropriate. The directors  
have been awarded the same 3.71% increase in their basic pay as nearly all other employees for 2011/12.
The Committee also considers environmental, social, risk management and governance issues when setting 
remuneration terms.
The remuneration policy of the Committee is that:
the setting of base salaries is largely influenced by individual contributions and internal relativities rather   −
than external comparators (although for 2010/11 and 2011/12 the Committee was influenced by general 
economic conditions);
the annual bonus plan recognises the interests of all of the Company’s stakeholders (including shareholders,  −
customers and employees) rather than being focused solely on profit; and
management shares in the longer term value created for the Company’s investors and the serviceability   −
of the Company’s regulated assets.
Elements of remuneration 
The remuneration of the executive directors comprises:
basic salary; −
benefits (including pension and participation in the Company’s SIP); −
a performance related annual bonus; and −
annual LTIP awards. −
In addition to reviewing each constituent element, the Committee reviews the remuneration packages as a whole to 
ensure that they remain appropriate in terms of structure and quantum. The chart below shows the composition of 
the CEO’s remuneration (as a percentage of basic salary) both at ‘target’ and ‘maximum’ levels of performance. 
Maximum performance assumes the achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of LTIP awards.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Shareholders – proﬁt before tax 40%
20%
5%
5%
Customers – Ofwat’s overall
performance assessment rating
Employees – percentage lost 
time through
Bespoke personal
Remuneration 73 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Basic salary and benefits
Basic salary is reviewed annually based on individual contributions and internal relativities. The Committee also has 
regard to market practice in other quoted water companies and similar sized companies more generally.
Current basic salaries, together with the previous year’s salaries, are set out below:
 
As at 
1.4.2011
As at 
1.4.2010
As at 
1.4.2009
Heidi Mottram £331,872 £320,000 n/a
Chris Green £236,459 £228,000 £225,000
For 2011/12, salaries for senior executives have been increased by 3.71%. This is the same as for nearly all  
other employees.
Benefits provided to the executive directors comprise membership of pension schemes (as detailed below),  
car allowance and healthcare.
Pensions
The main features of the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme are set out in note 24 to the financial statements. 
Basic salary is the only pensionable element of the executive directors’ remuneration packages.
The executive directors’ pensions were modified with effect from 1 January 2008, in line with the changes 
proposed for the pension scheme as a whole, and the executive pension arrangements were closed to new 
entrants on that date. In 2010/11, Heidi Mottram received an employer’s contribution of 8% of salary to the defined 
contribution section of the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme and made an employee contribution of 5%. The 
employer’s contribution of 8% was the same as was available to any other employee making a 5% contribution 
during 2010/11. Following consultation with the Company’s largest shareholders and major representative bodies, 
the employer contributions on behalf of executive members of the defined contribution scheme have been 
increased from 8% to 15% of salary, with employee contributions increased from 5% to 8%, from 1 April 2011.  
This was thought necessary in order to make the remuneration packages available for senior recruits market 
competitive. Heidi Mottram is the only executive director of the Company in the defined contribution scheme.
Annual bonus 
The annual bonus plan has been designed to reflect the interests of all of the Company’s stakeholders.  
The maximum annual bonus potential for the executive directors for 2010/11 was 70% of salary: Remuneration 74 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Actual performance against the 2010/11 targets was as follows:
 
Bonus metric
Maximum
bonus
(% of salary)
Chris Green
actual bonus
(% of salary)
Heidi 
Mottram
actual bonus
(% of salary)
Profit before tax (PBT)
1
 40  39 39
Overall performance assessment (OPA) rating
2
 5 2 2 
Percentage time lost through sickness
3
 5 – – 
Bespoke personal targets
4
 20 20 20
Total 70 61 61 
Notes:
1. The PBT bonus is based on actual PBT performance compared to the budget PBT set by the Board at the beginning of the year. PBT has been chosen because it is a 
primary financial measure for the Company, for which the executive directors are accountable. The calculation of PBT performance is adjusted to exclude the impact of 
any variance between the actual and budget interest charge on index linked bonds issued by Northumbrian Water Finance plc, which depends entirely on RPI in July of 
each year and is, therefore, outside of management control.
2. The directors’ remuneration report for 2009/10 stated that the bonus metrics to be used in 2010/11 would be the same as in the previous year. Therefore, although 
Ofwat no longer publishes an OPA rating, the Committee has estimated NWL ’s OPA score for 2010/11, on the same basis as before, as 362. This has been placed in a 
range for bonus purposes of 351 to 426, being the published range of performance across the 10 water and sewerage companies in 2009/10. 
3. The year end percentage of time lost through sickness was 3.1%, against a range for bonus purposes of 2.7% to 2.99%.
4. In 2010/11, Heidi Mottram’s personal targets related principally to maintaining key financial ratios and measures, ensuring that good relationships were maintained with 
major investors and analysts, increasing operating and capital maintenance efficiencies, identifying business development opportunities, ensuring that investment needs 
were properly quantified, refreshing the risk model and preparing a high level strategic risk matrix. Chris Green’s personal targets were focused mainly on maintaining 
key financial ratios and measures, maintaining good relationships with major investors and analysts, ensuring treasury management achieved an appropriate balance 
between risk and reward, reviewing and developing strategy in relation to market reform and competition, identifying business development opportunities, ensuring that 
investment needs were properly quantified, refreshing the risk model, preparing a high level strategic risk matrix and identifying further opportunities to impact the cost 
base and investment programme of NWL.
Following consultation with the Company’s largest shareholders, the range of annual bonus metrics has been 
expanded to include a balanced scorecard to align annual incentive pay more closely with stakeholders’ wider 
interests for 2011/12. In addition to the introduction of the balanced scorecard, the maximum annual bonus 
potential for the executive directors in 2011/12 will be increased from 70% to 100% of salary and will be 
apportioned as follows:
Bonus metric (% of salary)
PBT 36 
Balanced scorecard measures 44
Bespoke personal targets 20 
Total 100
The new metrics are firmly linked to the Company’s strategic goals (customer, competitiveness, people, environment 
and communities). The PBT performance metric reflects ‘competitiveness’, along with an assessment of capital 
efficiency, while the other elements of the balanced scorecard are linked to the other strategic goals. The ‘customer’ 
goal underpins targets based on customer satisfaction, unplanned interruptions and water quality. The ‘people’ goal 
is reflected in targets for employee engagement and lost time reportable accidents. The ‘environment’ goal targets 
comprise leakage, sewage treatment performance and pollution incidents, while ‘communities’ targets are based on 
external recognition of the Group’s corporate social responsibility achievement. Definitions of these measures are 
outlined on pages 12 and 13.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Remuneration 75 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
The PBT element of the bonus will be scored on a sliding scale around the target figure. A simple pass/fail 
measure will apply to the other targets and most of the targets have been set at levels which would require 
significant improvements over the 2010/11 actual results. The Remuneration Committee considers the overall 
bonus metrics to be appreciably more stretching than before, and that they reflect operational performance and 
delivery to customers in a more structured way. A similar approach has been adopted in relation to executives 
below board level and senior managers, albeit at varying levels of bonus opportunity.
Bespoke personal targets have been set for Heidi Mottram and Chris Green for 2011/12. For Heidi Mottram these 
include maintaining key financial ratios in line with the NWG and NWL approved budgets, maintaining good 
relationships with investors and analysts, delivering the operating efficiency plans for 2011/12 (and keeping the 
remainder of the plans for 2014/15 on track) and progressing the Group’s strategy on advanced anaerobic 
digestion, co-digestion and renewable energy. Chris Green’s targets include maintaining key financial ratios, 
maintaining good relationships with investors and analysts, refreshing the risk model and preparing a high level 
strategic risk matrix and work on current cost depreciation and its impact on return on capital employed. 
Bonus deferral
Following the increase in bonus potential, the Company has introduced bonus deferral for executive directors. Of 
the total bonus awarded, 70% will be payable in cash and 30% will be payable in shares, deferred for three years.
Bonus and LTIP clawback
As part of the changes introduced for 2011/12, the Committee has introduced a clawback provision which will 
apply in the event that results on which bonuses are paid, or LTIPs are awarded, are subsequently found to be 
inaccurate or there has been relevant misconduct on the part of the employee.
LTIP
Under the LTIP, executive directors and senior managers may receive, at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, annual conditional awards of shares in the Company worth up to 100% of annual salary at grant, 
although only the executive directors of NWG participate at the 100% level. All awards have three year pre-vesting 
performance conditions.
Conditional awards made on 8 December 2010 to Heidi Mottram and Chris Green were:
Number of 
conditional 
awards 
granted
Value of 
awards 
granted as a
% of salary
1
Heidi Mottram 96,212 99%
Chris Green 68,551 99%
Note:
1. Based on a closing share price on 7 December 2010 of 328.5 pence. Remuneration 76 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Details of the pre-vesting performance conditions for awards made during 2010 are:
Performance metric Weighting Description Calibration
Total 
shareholder 
return (TSR)
50% Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 
excluding investment trusts and companies 
in the following sectors: banks, financial 
services, life insurance, non-life insurance, 
real estate investment and services and 
real estate investment trusts, oil and gas 
producers and oil equipment and services. 
In addition, awards will only vest if the 
Committee is satisfied that the Company’s 
TSR performance is consistent with the 
underlying business performance of  
the Company. 
30% of this part of an award (i.e. 15% of the 
total award) will vest for median performance 
increasing on a straight line so that 100% 
(i.e. 50% of the total award) vests for upper 
quartile performance.
Return 
on capital 
employed 
(ROCE)
20% Average absolute ROCE for NWL over the 
three financial years starting from 1 April 
immediately preceding grant date.
30% of this part of an award (i.e. 6% of the 
total award) will vest for average three-year 
ROCE of 6.3%, increasing on a straight line 
so that 50% (i.e. 10% of the total award) will 
vest for average three year ROCE of 6.45% 
and on a straight line so that 100% (i.e. 20% 
of the total award) will vest for an average 
ROCE of 6.75%.
Serviceability 20% Ofwat serviceability targets for the four 
asset classes (i.e. water non-infrastructure, 
water infrastructure, sewerage non-
infrastructure and sewerage infrastructure) 
in the final year of the relevant three year 
performance period. Serviceability is 
measured by Ofwat based on a number  
of indicators which include asset 
performance indicators, water quality 
compliance, environmental compliance  
and consumer service.
50% of this part of an award (i.e. 10% of the 
total award) will vest for ‘stable’ assessments 
in three out of the four asset classes. 100% 
of this part of an award (i.e. 20% of the total 
award) will vest for ‘stable’ assessments in 
all four asset classes. No awards would vest 
under this part of an award for less than three 
‘stable’ assessments.
Customer 10% Results of NWL ’s independently run 
customer satisfaction index, measured  
as the average score for the surveys 
carried out during the relevant three  
year performance period.
30% of this part of an award (i.e. 3% of 
the total award) will vest for a customer 
satisfaction index of 83%, increasing on a 
straight line so that 100% of this part of an 
award (i.e. 10% of the total award) vests for a 
customer satisfaction index of 93% or above.
The Committee is satisfied that the above metrics and targets remain appropriate for the following reasons:
a significant part of the award based on TSR ensures alignment with investors; −
the use of an absolute ROCE target for part of the awards ensures that reward is directly linked to the  −
management’s delivery of the business plan;
the serviceability targets recognise that the maintenance of NWL ’s regulated assets is critical to the longer term  −
returns for shareholders; and
customer satisfaction is a key objective for NWL and customers are important stakeholders. −
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Remuneration 77 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
In the event of a change of control, the Committee would determine the extent to which the performance 
conditions had been met and the proportion of the performance period that had elapsed in deciding whether  
or not any vesting of awards would take place.
The LTIP award granted on 13 December 2007 became available to vest on 13 December 2010. The Committee 
instructed HNBS to assess the level of vesting of this award. HNBS reported that 48.84% of the award was 
available to vest (being 97.68% of the award relating to the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE 250 
Index and 0% of the award relating to the Company’s ROCE performance against the other water companies). 
Prior to vesting, the Committee satisfied itself that the recorded TSR performance was a genuine reflection of  
the Company’s underlying performance. Details of the number of awards which lapsed and those which were 
exercised by the directors of the Company are shown in table 3.
Full details of past award levels and performance conditions are shown in table 2.
Share ownership guidelines
The NWG Board has introduced a guideline requesting NWG directors to build up (over a maximum of five years) 
shares in the Company with a value equal to one year’s basic salary (in the case of the executive directors) or one 
year’s fees (in the case of non-executive directors).
Responsible investment
The Committee is aware of Guideline 3.2 of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and is 
satisfied that neither the executive directors’ annual bonus targets nor the LTIP performance conditions are likely, 
inadvertently, to motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Non-executive directors’ fees
The Company’s remuneration policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should receive a fixed 
fee for their normal duties. Reflecting the added responsibilities and time commitment, chairing the Remuneration 
and Audit Committees attracts an additional fee over the non-executive directors’ standard base fee.
Fees payable during 2010/11 and the Company’s policy from 1 April 2011 (in line with the approach taken in 
respect of the salaries of NWG executives) are:
 
2011/12
£
2010/11
£
Chairman 165,434 159,516 
Non-executive director base fee 38,601 37,220 
Audit Committee chairing fee 11,029 10,634 
Remuneration Committee chairing fee 5,514 5,317 
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind and do not participate in bonus, 
pension or share schemes operated by the Company. Further details of non-executive directors’ remuneration  
are set out in table 1.
Directors’ interests in LTIP awards
The directors’ conditional interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, awarded in accordance with 
the terms of the LTIP as at 31 March 2011, are set out in table 3. 0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
1-Apr-06
135
126
93
53
92
108
158
103
141
172
31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08
NWG FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
31-Mar-09 31-Mar-10 31-Mar-11
Remuneration 78 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Ordinary 10 pence shares required to fulfil LTIP awards which have vested may be provided by the Northumbrian 
Water Group plc Employee Trust, through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited. The Trustees are 
Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Nègre and Kate Alsop. Anita Frew and Alastair Balls stood down as Trustees when they 
retired as non-executive directors of NWL on 31 March 2011. At that date, the Trust held a total of 765,962 ordinary 
10 pence shares. This represents 0.1% of the Company’s total issued share capital, so is substantially less than the 
5% limit on shares that can be held in trust. In line with the ABI Guidelines, dividends are waived on these shares 
and the voting rights attached to these shares will not be exercised at the AGM.
Share dilution
The Company’s share plans contain dilution limits that comply with the ABI Guidelines. Shares for both the LTIP 
and SIP schemes are provided by purchase on the market. There has, therefore, been no dilution to date and  
there is no commitment to issue new shares in relation to either scheme.
Performance graph
The graph below shows a comparison between the TSR for the Company’s shares for the five year period to 
31 March 2011, and the TSR for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts)  
over the same period. This index has been selected as the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250.
Note:
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2011, of £100 invested in NWG on 1 April 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts) over the same period.
Source: Thomson DataStream
Service contracts
All non-executive directors are appointed for a term of 12 months with a six month notice period for the Company 
and the director. The executive directors have service contracts with 12 months notice periods and which expire 
when the directors reach normal retirement age. No special arrangements apply if there is a change of control. The 
contracts do not contain any liquidated damages clauses or provide explicitly for termination payments. If a contract 
is to be terminated, the Committee will determine the compensation to be paid. There is no automatic entitlement to 
bonus payments and LTIP vesting is at the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will apply such mitigation to 
any contractual obligations as it considers fair and reasonable, taking into account the best practice provisions of the 
Code. Details of the contracts of the executive and non-executive directors who served during the year are shown in 
table 4.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Remuneration 79 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM. The terms of appointment set out the expected 
time commitment for each non-executive director.
External appointments of executive directors
The Board’s position on external appointments is described in full in the corporate governance statement but,  
in summary, the Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company who are appointed to non-executive 
directorships which pay a fee may retain the fees, subject to obtaining the Chairman’s consent before an 
appointment is accepted. Only one such external appointment per director will generally be permitted. Heidi 
Mottram is a Board member of Yorkshire Forward for which she is paid and retains an annual fee of £8,666.
Directors’ interests in shares
The directors’ beneficial interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, as at 31 March 2011, are set 
out in table 6. 
Directors’ interests in shares under the SIP
The Company SIP is open to UK employees with more than three months service. Further details of the SIP are  
set out in the directors’ report – business review. During the year, the executive directors had the opportunity to 
participate in the SIP and their interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, purchased and held in 
accordance with the terms of the SIP, are set out in table 7.
This directors’ remuneration report has been produced in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.  
It was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. It will  
be put to the shareholders for approval at the Company’s AGM.
Alex Scott-Barrett
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
31 May 2011 Remuneration 80 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
These tables form the part of the directors’ remuneration report which are audited (except for tables 2 and 4 which 
do not require auditing).
Table 1
Directors’ emoluments (audited) 
The emoluments of the directors of the Company for their services as directors of the Company and (where 
relevant) its subsidiaries, are set out below, rounded to the nearest thousand pounds:
 
 
 
 
Fees
£000
 
Basic salary
£000
 
Benefits
1
£000
 
Bonus
2
£000
Total for the 
year ended
31.3.2011
£000
Total for the 
year ended
31.3.2010
£000
Executive directors       
John Cuthbert  –  –  –  –  –  429 
Heidi Mottram  –  320  11  195  526  38 
Chris Green  –  228  12  139  379  323 
Non-executive directors       
Sir Derek Wanless  160  –  –  –  160  158 
Sir Patrick Brown
3
  48  –  –  –  48  47 
Margaret Fay  31  – – – 31  – 
Claude Lamoureux  37  –  –  –  37  37 
Martin Nègre  37  –  –  –  37  42 
Alex Scott-Barrett
4
  43  –  –  –  43  37 
Paul Rew  19  – – – 19  – 
Jenny Williams  12  –  –  –  12  37 
Total remuneration  387  548  23  334  1,292  1,148 
Notes:
1. The remuneration of each executive director includes non-cash benefits comprising the provision of car allowances and healthcare.
2. The annual bonus is payable in June 2011, for performance during the year ended 31 March 2011.
3. Includes additional fee paid as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4. Includes additional fee paid as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Remuneration 81 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Table 2
Summary of LTIP performance conditions (unaudited)
LTIP award made 13 December 2007 and 15 December 2008
Maximum award 100% of salary permitted and actual grants to executive directors 
related to shares worth 100% of salary.
Performance conditions (1)  50% of award depends on NWL ’s return on capital employed relative to 
that of the other water and sewerage companies of England and Wales.
(2)  50% of award depends on the Company’s TSR performance against 
the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts.
Vesting schedules (1)  30% vests at median performance. At upper quartile or above, all 
of this element of the award will vest. Between median and upper 
quartile, straight line pro-rating will apply. Where the return on capital 
employed performance is below the median, none of this element of 
the award will vest.
(2)  30% vests at median performance with straight line pro-rating of TSR 
performance against the members of the FTSE 250 Index, excluding 
investment trusts, to 100% for upper quartile performance. Where 
the Company’s TSR performance is below the median, none of this 
element of the award will vest.
LTIP award made 4 January 2010 and 8 December 2010
Maximum award 100% of salary permitted and actual grants to executive directors 
related to shares worth 100% of salary.
Performance conditions and  
vesting schedules
Please refer back to the remuneration report for performance conditions.
  Remuneration 82 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Table 3
Directors’ interests in LTIP awards (audited)
As at 31 March 2011, the directors had the following conditional interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the 
Company, awarded in accordance with the terms of the LTIP:
 
 
 
Award date
Awards  
held at the 
start of  
the year
Awarded 
during
the year
Awards 
lapsed 
during
the year
Awards 
vested  
during
the year
Awards 
held as at 
31.3.2011
Heidi Mottram 8.12.2010
5
  – 96,212 – – 96,212 
Totals  –  96,212  –  –  96,212 
Chris Green 13.12.2007
1
 61,620  –  31,525  30,095
2
  – 
 15.12.2008
3
 78,650  –  –  –  78,650 
 4.1.2010
4
 83,240  –  –  –  83,240 
 8.12.2010
5
 –  68,551  –  –  68,551 
Totals  223,510  68,551  31,525  30,095  230,441 
Notes:
1. The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 334.0 pence per share. The three year performance period ran from 1 October 2007 to  
30 September 2010.
2. Shares vested on 13 December 2010 and the closing price on that date was 332.0 pence per share.
3. The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 251.5 pence per share. The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2008 to  
30 September 2011.
4. The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 272.5 pence per share. The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2009 to  
30 September 2012.
5. The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 328.7 pence per share. The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2010 to  
30 September 2013.
6. The cost of conditional awards is charged to the income statement over the three year performance period to which they relate after taking account  
of the probability of performance criteria being met. In the year, £0.1 million was charged to the income statement (2010: £0.4 million).
7. Details of the performance conditions are shown at table 2.
8. The market price of the shares on 31 March 2011 was 332.2 pence per share. During the year, the highest market price was 364.0 pence per share  
and the lowest market price was 245.1 pence per share.
9. Aggregate gross gains made by directors on exercise of awards at date of vesting was £99,915 (2010: £103,955).
Table 4
Directors’ service contracts (unaudited)
Details, as at 31 May 2011, of the contracts of the directors who served during the year are shown below:
 
Initial 
appointment
Contract  
start date
Unexpired 
term
1
Notice period 
by either party Current contract end date
Executive directors
2
      
Heidi Mottram 1.3.2010 1.3.2010 Not fixed term 12 months Normal retirement age (65)
Chris Green 23.5.2003 23.5.2003 Not fixed term 12 months Normal retirement age (65)
Non-executive directors
3
      
Sir Derek Wanless 1.12.2003 1.12.2010 6 months 6 months 30.11.2011
Sir Patrick Brown 12.5.2003 12.5.2011 11 months 6 months 11.5.2012
Margaret Fay 1.6.2010 1.6.2010 – 6 months 31.5.2011
Claude Lamoureux 1.12.2006 1.12.2010 2 months 6 months 28.7.201 1
Martin Nègre 12.5.2003 12.5.2011 11 months 6 months 11.5.2012
Alex Scott-Barrett 26.9.2006 26.9.2010 4 months 6 months 25.9.2011
Paul Rew 1.10.2010 1.10.2010 4 months 6 months 30.9.2011
Notes:
1. Calculated as at 31 May 2011 and rounded to nearest whole month.
2. The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain provisions relating to compensation for termination. In the event of termination by the Company, the 
Remuneration Committee would make recommendations to the Board on what payments, if any, should be made to the director, depending on the circumstances of the 
termination, taking into account the Code which discourages payment for failure. The Company would also expect directors to seek to mitigate their loss.
3. Contracts do not provide for compensation for loss of office in excess of fees accrued.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Remuneration 83 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Table 5
Directors’ pensions and pension benefits (audited)
The accrued defined benefit pensions and corresponding transfer values for the executive directors are set  
out below:
Defined contribution scheme
Employee 
contributions 
during the 
year 
£000
Employer 
contributions 
during the 
year 
£000
Heidi Mottram –
1
43.6
Defined benefit scheme
Accrued 
pension at 
31.3.2010
£000
Accrued 
pension at 
31.3.2011
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension net 
of inflation
£000
Transfer 
value of net 
increase 
in accrued 
pension less 
directors’ 
contributions 
£000
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
1.4.2010
£000
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.3.2011
£000
Total change 
in transfer 
value less 
directors’ 
contributions 
£000
Chris Green 104.3  110.7  6.4  0.9  18.9  2,111.4  2,281.3  169.9 
Notes: 
1. The directors participate in a salary sacrifice arrangement and, therefore, paid no contributions to the schemes during the year.
2. Accrued pensions shown are the amounts that would be paid annually at the normal retirement age based on service to the end of the year.
3. Voluntary contributions paid by the directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
4. The change in transfer value reflects fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as changes in stock  
market conditions.
5. The transfer values have been calculated in line with the relevant legislation and using actuarial assumptions agreed by the Trustee.
 
Table 6
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The directors had the following beneficial or family interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company as at 
31 March 2011:
Number  
of shares 
held at the 
start of  
the year
Number 
of shares 
held as at 
31.3.2011
Number 
of shares 
held as at 
31 .5.2011
Sir Derek Wanless 65,000 65,000 65,000 
Chris Green 169,339
1
 199,434
2
 199,434 
Sir Patrick Brown 43,000 43,000
3
 43,000 
Claude Lamoureux 25,000 25,000 25,000 
Martin Nègre 70,000 20,000 20,000 
Alex Scott-Barrett 20,000 20,000 20,000 
Jenny Williams
4
 6,000 – –
Notes:
1. At 1 April 2010, 139,339 of these shares were beneficially owned by Mrs G Green, and 10,000 were beneficially owned by each of Miss P J Green, Mr M F Green and  
Mr J M Green.
2. At 31 March 2011, 139,434 of these shares were beneficially owned by Mrs G Green, and 20,000 were beneficially owned by each of Miss P J Green, Mr M F Green and 
Mr J M Green.
3. At 31 March 2011, the 43,000 shares were beneficially owned by Lady Brown.
4. Jenny Williams retired from the Board on 29 July 2010. Remuneration 84 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Table 7
Directors’ interests in shares under the SIP (audited)
The directors who held office as at 31 March 2011 had the following interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of 
the Company, purchased and held in accordance with the terms of the SIP:
 
Number of 
SIP shares 
held at the 
start of 
the year
1
Number of 
SIP shares 
held as at 
31.3.2011
1
Number of 
SIP shares 
held as at 
31 .5.2011
1
Heidi Mottram – 606  606 
Chris Green 5,653  6,372  6,936 
Notes:
1. These figures include the shares paid for by the participant and the free shares granted by the Company.
2. A summary of the SIP can be found in the directors’ report – business review.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Financial statements 85 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year. Under Company Law, the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial 
position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those 
Group financial statements the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting  −
Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and  −
understandable information;
provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users  −
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial 
position and financial performance;
state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the  −
financial statements; and
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent. −
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and 
enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and, hence, for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Responsibility statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and  −
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and
the directors’ report and business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the  −
business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Sir Derek Wanless
Chairman
Heidi Mottram
Chief Executive Officer
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Group financial statements Financial statements 86 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Report of the auditors on the  
Group financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Northumbrian Water Group plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended 31 March 
2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow and the related 
notes 1 to 28. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest  
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 85, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true  
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year   −
then ended;
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and −
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the   −
IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  −
is consistent with the Group financial statements; and
the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on  − pages 58 to 70 with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements. Financial statements 87 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; −
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or −
a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company. −
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on  − page 57, in relation to going concern; and
the part of the corporate governance statement on  − pages 58 to 70 relating to the Company’s compliance with 
the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the 
year ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as 
having been audited.
Debbie O’Hanlon (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Statutory Auditor
Newcastle upon Tyne
31 May 2011 Financial statements 88 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 201 1
Notes
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 738.1 704.7
Operating costs 3 (433.9) (428.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 2 304.2 275.8
Finance costs payable 6 (178.8) (143.7)
Finance income receivable 6 54.9 37.2
Share of profit after tax of jointly controlled entities 0.7 0.9
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2 181.0 170.2
– current taxation 7 (33.1) (37.8)
– deferred taxation 7 30.5 (9.5)
Profit for the year 178.4 122.9
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent Company 178.3 122.5
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.4
178.4 122.9
Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent Company 8 34.44p 23.67p
Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent Company 8 34.38p 23.62p
Adjusted earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent Company 8 25.50p 23.67p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders 
of the parent Company 8 25.45p 23.62p
Ordinary final dividend proposed per share 9 9.57p 8.85p
Dividend paid per share 9 13.57p 12.89p Financial statements 89 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 March 201 1
Notes
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Profit for the year 178.4 122.9
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial gains 24 74.0 1.1
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges taken to equity 2.6 (0.8)
Translation differences 0.2 (0.3)
Tax on items charged or credited to equity (23.1) (0.1)
Total other comprehensive gain/(loss) 53.7 (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year 232.1 122.8
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent Company 232.0 122.4
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.4
232.1 122.8 Financial statements 90 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 201 1
Equity share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
reserve 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve 
£m
Treasury 
shares 
£m
Currency 
translation 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
equity  
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 April 2009 51.9 446.5 (7.6) (2.3) 1.0 (234.5) 255.0 2.4 257.4
Profit for the year – – – – – 122.5 122.5 0.4 122.9
Other comprehensive 
income – – (0.6) – (0.3) 0.8 (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive 
income and expense for 
the year – – (0.6) – (0.3) 123.3 122.4 0.4 122.8
Share-based payment – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Exercise of LTIP awards – – – 0.3 – (0.3) – – –
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (66.7) (66.7) – (66.7)
At 1 April 2010 51.9 446.5 (8.2) (2.0) 0.7 (177.8) 311.1 2.8 313.9
Profit for the year – – – – – 178.3 178.3 0.1 178.4
Other comprehensive 
income – – 1.6 – 0.2 51.9 53.7 – 53.7
Total comprehensive 
income and expense for 
the year – – 1.6 – 0.2 230.2 232.0 0.1 232.1
Share-based payment – – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Exercise of LTIP awards – – – 0.3 – (0.3) – – –
Deferred tax related to 
share-based payment – – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Acquisition of non-
controlling interest in 
subsidiaries – – – – – 0.6 0.6 (0.6) –
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (70.3) (70.3) – (70.3)
At 31 March 2011 51.9 446.5 (6.6) (1.7) 0.9 (17.4) 473.6 2.3 475.9 Financial statements 91 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 201 1
Notes
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010
restated
1
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 3.6 3.6
Other intangible assets 10 64.2 64.2
Property, plant and equipment 11 3,626.8 3,518.9
Investments in jointly controlled entities 12 4.0 4.1
Financial assets 12.0 12.9
Amounts receivable relating to consortium relief 1.7 1.7
3,712.3 3,605.4
Current assets
Inventories 13 3.3 3.3
Trade and other receivables 14 153.9 136.4
Short term cash deposits 15 1.4 15.8
Cash and cash equivalents 15 141.7 174.8
300.3 330.3
Total assets 4,012.6 3,935.7
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 2,295.8 2,433.9
Provisions 19 2.4 2.2
Deferred income tax liabilities 7 598.7 606.1
Pension liability 24 46.0 133.1
Other payables 6.8 7.8
Grants and deferred income 255.1 233.5
3,204.8 3,416.6
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 163.7 33.1
Provisions 19 0.2 0.2
Trade and other payables 16 155.6 151.2
Interest rate swaps 20 9.8 12.5
Income tax payable 2.6 8.2
331.9 205.2
Total liabilities 3,536.7 3,621.8
Net assets 475.9 313.9
Capital and reserves
Issued capital 21 51.9 51.9
Share premium reserve 446.5 446.5
Cash flow hedge reserve (6.6) (8.2)
Treasury shares (1.7) (2.0)
Currency translation 0.9 0.7
Retained earnings (17.4) (177.8)
Equity shareholders’ funds 473.6 311.1
Non-controlling interests 2.3 2.8
Total capital and reserves 475.9 313.9
Note:
1. The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reflect the impact of IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
Approved by the Board on 31 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Derek Wanless   Heidi Mottram
Chairman    Chief Executive Officer Financial statements 92 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 201 1
Notes
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Operating activities
Reconciliation of profit before interest to net cash flows from  
operating activities
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 304.2 275.8
Depreciation 111.6 105.5
Other non-cash charges and credits (8.9) (5.7)
Net credit for provisions, less payments 0.2 (0.3)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the 
income statement 11.5 10.3
Increase in inventories – (0.1)
Increase in trade and other receivables (14.7) (5.0)
Increase in trade and other payables 5.2 0.4
Cash generated from operations 409.1 380.9
Advanced contributions in respect of retirement benefits (22.4) –
Interest paid (116.1) (114.8)
Income taxes paid (38.7) (35.7)
Net cash flows from operating activities 231.9 230.4
Investing activities
Interest received 4.7 8.8
Capital grants received 13.2 10.1
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.3
Dividends received from jointly controlled entities 0.8 0.6
Short term cash deposits 14.4 144.8
Maturity of investments 1.1 1.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (202.9) (220.6)
Net cash flows from investing activities (167.4) (54.6)
Financing activities
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (70.3) (66.7)
Repayment of borrowings (19.5) (20.9)
Payment of principal under hire purchase contracts and finance leases (7.3) (7.2)
Acquisition of externally held loan stock issued by a subsidiary (0.4) –
Net cash flows from financing activities (97.5) (94.8)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (33.0) 81.0
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 15 173.3 92.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 140.3 173.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 140.3 173.3
Short term cash deposits 15 1.4 15.8
Total cash, cash equivalents and short term cash deposits 141.7 189.1 Financial statements 93 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. Accounting policies
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 and in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Group will have 
adequate funding to meet its liabilities as they fall due in the foreseeable future. As at 31 March 2011 the Group 
had net current liabilities of £31.6 million (2010: net current assets of £125.1 million). The directors have reviewed 
cash flow requirements and are confident that they will be able to meet these from funds available and new 
financing facilities. Accordingly, the directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going 
concern basis.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Group’s financial 
statements. The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 were authorised for issue  
by the Board of directors on 31 May 2011 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by Sir Derek 
Wanless (Chairman) and Heidi Mottram (Chief Executive Officer).
The Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations during the year:
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) −
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Amendment) −
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Classification of Rights Issues (Amendment) −
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible hedged items (Amendment) −
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners −
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers −
Improvements to IFRS 2009 −
The adoption of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Amendment) has required the 
reclassification of minority interests as non-controlling interests. Also, any transactions with non-controlling 
interests that do not result in gaining or losing control will be accounted for as equity transactions.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers was adopted in the period. IFRIC 18 is effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 31 October 2009, applicable to transactions effected on or after 1 July 2009. This 
has required the prior year balance sheet to be restated resulting in the balances of property, plant and equipment, 
and grants and deferred income, each increasing by £14.0 million at 31 March 2010. The impact on profit for both 
the current period and prior periods is £nil.
The adoption of the other standards and interpretations listed above do not have a material impact on the Group.
The guidance provided in the Urgent Issues Task Force Draft Abstract: Accounting Implications of the 
Replacement of the Retail Prices Index with the Consumer Prices Index for Retirement Benefits has also been 
applied in the period.
Northumbrian Water Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.  
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred 
thousand pounds (£0.1 million) except where otherwise indicated. Financial statements 94 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies continued
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. The results of 
subsidiaries acquired during the period are included from the date of their acquisition. The results of subsidiaries 
disposed of during the period are included to the date of their disposal. Inter-segment sales and profits are 
eliminated fully on consolidation. Where, for commercial reasons, the accounting reference date of a subsidiary  
is a date other than that of the Company, management accounts made up to the Company’s accounting reference 
date have been used. In accordance with SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’, the financial 
statements of two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities, with effect from 12 May 2004,  
the date of the transaction which utilised these entities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the 
individual financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities into line with those used 
by the Group under IFRS.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held  
by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent 
shareholders’ equity.
(c) Associates and jointly controlled entities
Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities in the Group financial statements are accounted for using 
the equity method of accounting where the Group exercises significant influence over the associate. Significant 
influence is generally presumed to exist where the Group’s effective ownership is 20% or more. The Group’s share 
of the post tax profits less losses of associates and jointly controlled entities is included in the consolidated income 
statement and the carrying value in the balance sheet comprises the Group’s share of their net assets/liabilities 
less distributions received and any impairment losses. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and jointly 
controlled entities, representing the excess of the cost of investment compared to the Group’s share of net fair 
value of the associate’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of 
the associate and is not amortised. Financial statements of jointly controlled entities and associates are prepared 
for the same reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those of the Group to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition 
and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate. Adjustments are also made to the Group’s financial statements 
to eliminate the Group’s share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly 
controlled entities and associates.
(d) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses represents the excess of the fair 
value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Following initial 
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill 
was amortised over its estimated useful life; such amortisation ceased on 31 March 2004. Goodwill relating to 
acquisitions since 1 April 2004 is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently  
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. For the purposes of 
impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management.  
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill,  
an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-
generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation 
within it. Financial statements 95 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
1. Accounting policies continued
(e) Intangible assets other than goodwill
Other intangible fixed assets represent the right to receive income under the operating agreement with the 
Environment Agency in respect of the Kielder Water transfer scheme. The value of this intangible asset has been 
assessed with reference to the net monies raised in accordance with the Kielder securitisation on 12 May 2004. 
The term of the operating agreement is in perpetuity and, accordingly, no amortisation is provided. The value of 
this intangible is assessed for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income 
statement in the year in which it is incurred. Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried 
initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if  
the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial 
viability can be demonstrated, the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to 
complete the project have been confirmed and the correlation between development costs and future revenues 
has been established.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Property, plant and equipment, including assets in the course of construction, comprise infrastructure assets 
(being mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge pipelines and  
sea outfalls) and other assets (including properties, overground plant and equipment).
Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for 
impairment. Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to 
acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other assets are depreciated evenly over their estimated economic lives, which 
are principally as follows: freehold buildings, 30-60 years; operational structures, plant and machinery, 4-92 years; 
infrastructure assets 13-200 years (see below); and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment, 4-10 years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their 
recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and, where adjustments are required, 
these are made prospectively.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Infrastructure assets
In the regulated water services business, infrastructure assets comprise a network of systems being mains and 
sewers, reservoirs, dams and sea outfalls.
Infrastructure assets were measured at a date prior to transition to IFRS (23 May 2003) at their fair value, which 
was adopted as deemed historical cost on transition to IFRS. The assets and liabilities were measured at fair value 
as a result of the acquisition on 23 May 2003.
Expenditure on infrastructure assets which enhances the asset base is treated as fixed asset additions while 
maintenance expenditure which does not enhance the asset base is charged as an operating cost. Financial statements 96 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Infrastructure assets are depreciated evenly to their estimated residual values over their estimated economic lives, 
which are principally as follows:
Dams and impounding reservoirs 150 years
Water mains 100 years
Sea outfalls 60 years
Sewers 200 years
Dedicated pipelines 4-20 years
(g) Financial assets
Financial assets comprise loans to third parties recoverable in more than one year and include cash held on  
long term deposit as a guaranteed investment contract relating to the Kielder securitisation. These assets are 
recognised at cost and are measured annually based on the ability of the borrower to repay. Any impairment is 
taken to the income statement in the period in which it arises. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial 
asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
(h) Foreign currencies and foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
re-translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The functional and 
presentational currency of Northumbrian Water Group plc is United Kingdom sterling (£). Assets and liabilities  
of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange 
ruling at the end of the financial period and the results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rate  
of exchange for the period. Differences on exchange arising from the re-translation of the opening net investment 
in subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities, and from the translation of the results of those companies  
at average rate, are taken to equity. All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the income statement in  
the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not cash flows. However, 
the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held or due in a foreign currency is reported  
in the cash flow statement in order to reconcile cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the 
period. This amount is presented separately from cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, 
where material, and includes the differences, if any, had those cash flows been reported at end of period  
exchange rates.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where 
applicable, direct labour costs, as well as an element of overheads that have been incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present locations and condition.
(j) Revenues
Provision of services
Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the fair value of the income receivable in the ordinary course 
of business for services provided. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Financial statements 97 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
1. Accounting policies continued
Revenue is not recognised until the services have been provided to the customer. Revenue for services relates  
to the year, excluding any amounts paid in advance. Revenue for measured water and waste water charges 
includes amounts billed plus an estimation of the amounts unbilled at the year end. The accrual is estimated using 
a defined methodology based upon daily average water consumption, which is calculated based upon historical 
billing information.
Dividends
Revenue is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive the revenue is established.
(k) Grants and contributions
Grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and  
all attaching conditions will be complied with. Revenue grants are credited to the income statement in the period  
to which they relate. Capital grants and contributions relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as 
deferred income and amortised to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives of the related 
assets. Deferred income relating to assets adopted from customers, recognised in accordance with IFRIC 18,  
is amortised to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
(l) Leases
Where assets are financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased at their fair value or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. Rentals or leasing payments are treated as consisting of a capital 
element and finance charges, the capital element reducing the outstanding liability and the finance charges being 
charged to the income statement over the period of the leasing contract at a constant rate on the reducing 
outstanding liability.
Rentals under operating leases (where the lessor retains a significant proportion of the risks and rewards  
of ownership) are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
(m) Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Defined benefit scheme
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit scheme is determined using the projected unit credit 
method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to  
the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on 
actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting 
period or immediately if the benefits have vested. When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already 
accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership 
or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current 
actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which 
the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations 
resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value  
of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year. The expected 
return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns  
on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits 
paid during the year.
The service cost is disclosed in employment costs and the expected interest income and interest cost on 
obligations are disclosed within finance costs payable/(income receivable).
Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised  
in full in the period in which they occur in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Financial statements 98 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Defined contribution scheme
The Group also operates a defined contribution scheme. Obligations for contributions to the scheme are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
(n) Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at 
which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which 
the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined by an external valuer using the 
Monte-Carlo simulation model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, 
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions) or those not related to 
performance or service (non-vesting conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market  
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired, management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of vesting conditions 
and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market  
or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described above. This includes any award where non-vesting 
conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not met. The movement in cumulative expense 
since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled  
or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting 
period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair 
value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of 
the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference 
is negative.
(o) Taxes
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be 
recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amounts are 
those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except:
where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a  −
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests  −
in jointly controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it 
is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Financial statements 99 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
1. Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be 
utilised except:
where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of  −
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects 
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and  −
interests in jointly controlled entities, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that 
the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to 
be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to 
the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted, or substantively 
enacted, at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items accounted for outside profit or loss, in 
which case it is recognised in correlation with the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current  
tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
Value added tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax except:
where the value added tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation  −
authority, in which case the value added tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item as applicable; and
receivables and payables. −
The net amount of value added tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of 
receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
(p) Derivative financial instruments
The Group utilises interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts as derivative 
financial instruments.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an 
underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Interest rate swap agreements 
are used to manage interest rate exposures. Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. Financial statements 100 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Under IAS 39, derivative financial instruments are always measured at fair value, with hedge accounting employed 
in respect of those derivatives fulfilling the stringent requirements for hedge accounting as prescribed under IAS 
39. In summary, these criteria relate to initial designation and documentation of the hedge relationship, prospective 
testing of the relationship to demonstrate the expectation that the hedge will be highly effective throughout its life 
and subsequent retrospective testing of the hedge to verify effectiveness.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for 
contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market 
values for similar instruments.
Hedging transactions undertaken by the Company are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the 
exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash flow hedges where they hedge 
exposure to variability in currency cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges, which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-
measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on the 
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and 
recognised in the income statement. Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest bearing 
financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm currency commitments which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge  
is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability 
then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been 
recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the 
asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to 
the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are 
taken directly to the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
(q) Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration 
received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. Finance costs (including issue costs) are taken to the 
income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount. The carrying 
amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the 
accounting period. The carrying amount of index linked borrowings increases annually in line with the July RPI, 
with the accretion being charged to the income statement as finance costs payable. Other borrowing costs are 
recognised as an expense when incurred. Financial statements 101 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
1. Accounting policies continued
Loans and borrowings acquired at acquisition are restated to fair value. The adjustment arising on acquisition  
is amortised to the income statement on the basis of the maturity profile of each instrument. Realised gains  
and losses that occur from the early termination of loans and borrowings are taken to the income statement  
in that period.
Net debt is the sum of all current and non-current liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, short term cash 
deposits, financial investments and loans receivable.
(r) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial time to prepare for its intended use  
are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use or sale. If active development is 
interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended. When construction occurs piecemeal and use  
of each part ceases upon substantial completion of that part, a weighted average cost of borrowings is used.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all eligible assets when construction commenced on or after  
1 April 2009, and continues to expense borrowing costs relating to construction projects that commenced  
prior to that date.
(s) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through 
profit and loss or available for sale. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are de-
recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
(t) Cash and cash equivalents and short term cash deposits
Cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term 
deposits with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less, which are held for the purpose of meeting short 
term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes. Cash equivalents are readily convertible  
to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short term cash deposits disclosed in the balance sheet comprise cash deposited with a maturity of greater than 
three months on acquisition, a fixed interest rate and which do not constitute cash equivalents under IAS 7 
‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above,  
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
(u) Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable 
amounts. Invoices for unmeasured water and waste water charges are due on fixed dates; other receivables 
generally have 30 day payment terms. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount  
is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified. Trade and other receivables do not carry  
any interest. Financial statements 102 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Accounting policies continued
(v) Investments
Investments are initially recorded at the fair value of the consideration given including the acquisition charges 
associated with the investment. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are valued at original cost less  
any impairment.
(w) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation.
(x) Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any 
such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate  
of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where 
the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income 
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised 
impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists the recoverable amount is 
estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the 
case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the asset is 
carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal the 
depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual 
value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
(y) De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, 
cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms,  
or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a 
de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective 
carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income statement. Financial statements 103 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
1. Accounting policies continued
(z) Accounting standards
During the year, the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretation 
Committee (IFRIC) have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of 
these financial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning  
on or after:
IFRS 1: Amendment to IFRS 1 – Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures 1.7.2010
IFRS 7: Amendment to IFRS 7 – Financial Instrument Disclosures 1.7.2011
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1.1.2013
IFRS10: Consolidated Financial Statements 1.1.2013
IFRS11: Joint Arrangements 1.1.2013
IFRS12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1.1.2013
IFRS13: Fair Value Measurement 1.1.2013
IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures (Revised) 1.1.2011
Improvements to IFRS 2010 1.7.2010, 1.7.2011
IFRIC
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning  
on or after:
IFRIC 14: Amendment: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1.1.2011
IFRIC 19: Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1.7.2010
Given the recent publication of IFRS 10,11,12 and 13, the directors are still evaluating the impact of these standards 
on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application.
(aa) Key assumptions
The directors consider that the key assumptions applied at the balance sheet date, which may have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial  
year are:
those assumptions used in arriving at the pension asset/liability under IAS 19. These key assumptions and their  −
possible impact are disclosed in note 24, ‘Pensions and other post-retirement benefits’;
the bad debt provision which is calculated by applying a range of percentages to debt of different ages. These  −
percentages also vary between different categories of debt. Higher percentages are applied to those categories 
of debt which are considered to be of greater risk and also to debt of greater age. The value of the bad debt 
provision is sensitive to the specific percentages applied; and
the asset lives assigned to property, plant and equipment, details of which can be found in  − note 1(f). Financial statements 104 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2. Segmental analysis
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units according to the nature of its products and 
services and has three reportable operating segments. The trading of the business is principally carried out within 
the UK. Profit is measured at profit on ordinary activities before interest.
Northumbrian Water Limited
NWL is one of the ten regulated water and sewerage businesses in England and Wales. NWL operates in the north 
east of England, where it trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east of England, where it trades as 
Essex & Suffolk Water. NWL also has non-regulated activities closely related to its principal regulated activity.
Water and waste water contracts
NWG owns a number of special purpose companies for specific water and waste water contracts in Scotland, 
Ireland and Gibraltar.
Other
Agrer provides overseas aid funded project work in developing countries through a number of funding agencies. 
Central unallocated costs and provisions are also included in this segment.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions 
with third parties. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment result include transfers between business 
segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue
Northumbrian 
Water 
Limited 
£m
Water and 
waste water 
contracts 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Year ended 31 March 2011
Segment revenue 689.4 40.0 14.1 743.5
Inter-segment revenue – – (5.4) (5.4)
Revenue from external customers 689.4 40.0 8.7 738.1
Year ended 31 March 2010
Segment revenue 657.8 38.3 14.8 710.9
Inter-segment revenue – – (6.2) (6.2)
Revenue from external customers 657.8 38.3 8.6 704.7 Financial statements 105 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
2. Segmental analysis continued
Profit on ordinary activities before interest
Northumbrian 
Water 
Limited  
£m
Water and 
waste water 
contracts 
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
Year ended 31 March 2011
Segment profit on ordinary activities before interest 297.6 9.5 (2.9) 304.2
Net finance costs (123.9)
Share of profit from jointly controlled entities 0.7
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 181.0
Taxation (2.6)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 178.4
Year ended 31 March 2010
Segment profit on ordinary activities before interest 268.9 10.2 (3.3) 275.8
Net finance costs (106.5)
Share of profit from jointly controlled entities 0.9
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 170.2
Taxation (47.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 122.9
Assets and liabilities
Northumbrian Water Limited
Water and waste  
water contracts Other Total
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
restated 
£m
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
restated 
£m
Segment assets 3,709.6 3,517.6 123.6 130.6 179.4 287.5 4,012.6 3,935.7
Segment liabilities 422.3 458.5 18.0 22.9 3,096.4 3,140.4 3,536.7 3,621.8
Other comprises taxation, interest and net debt.
Northumbrian Water Limited
Water and waste  
water contracts Total
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
restated  
£m
31.3.2011  
£m
31.3.2010  
£m
31.3.2011  
£m
31.3.2010 
restated  
£m
Property, plant and equipment additions 219.6 230.9 0.3 5.4 219.9 236.3
Depreciation 105.8 99.5 5.8 6.0 111.6 105.5
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers was adopted in the period. This has required the prior year segment 
assets and property, plant and equipment additions to be restated by £14.0 million for transactions effected on or 
after 1 July 2009.
Geographical information
Revenue from external customers from the UK was £714.8 million (2010: £680.0 million). Revenue from other 
countries was £23.3 million (2010: £24.7 million).
Non-current assets for operations in the UK were £3,700.7 million (2010: £3,592.1 million). Non-current assets for 
operations in other countries were £11.6 million (2010: £13.3 million). Financial statements 106 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
3. Operating costs
Year to 
31.3.2011
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Materials and consumables 25.6 23.7
Manpower costs (see note 5) 110.6 111.4
Own work capitalised (28.7) (27.0)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 111.6 105.5
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.9) (0.2)
Amortisation of capital grants (4.6) (5.0)
Costs of research and development 2.3 2.1
Operating lease payments 1.2 1.2
Bad debt charge 17.8 19.6
Other operating costs 199.0 197.6
Operating costs 433.9 428.9
4. Auditors’ remuneration
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Audit of the financial statements
1
0.3 0.3
Other fees to auditors:
Other services 0.1 –
Note:
1. £97,000 of this relates to the Company (2010: £95,000).
5. Employee information
The total employment costs of all employees (including directors) of the Group were:
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Wages and salaries 87.6 87.1
Restructuring cost – wages and salaries – 0.9
Restructuring cost – defined benefit pension service cost (see note 24) – 4.8
Social security costs 7.3 7.3
Defined benefit pension service cost (see note 24) 13.9 9.7
Other pension costs 1.8 1.6
Total employment costs 110.6 111.4
Total employment costs were charged as follows:
Capital schemes and infrastructure renewals 25.4 23.1
Manpower costs 85.2 88.3
110.6 111.4
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense of share-based payments of £0.4 million (2010: £0.7 million) 
which arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments. Financial statements 107 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
5. Employee information continued
The average monthly number of employees of the Group during the year was:
Year to 
31.3.2011 
Number
Year to 
31.3.2010 
Number
Northumbrian Water Limited 2,875 2,930
Water and waste water contracts 132 151
Other 24 24
3,031 3,105
The information required by Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts  
and Reports) Regulations 2008 is contained in the directors’ remuneration report under directors’ emoluments, 
directors’ pensions and benefits, directors’ interests in shares and debentures, directors’ interests in LTIP awards 
and directors’ interests in shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
6. Finance costs payable/(income receivable)
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Finance costs payable on debentures, bank and other loans and overdrafts 112.9 114.7
Amortisation of discount, fees, loan issue costs and other financing items (4.4) (4.5)
Accretion on index linked bonds 21.9 (6.6)
Interest cost on pension plan obligations 43.3 36.1
Finance costs payable on hire purchase contracts and finance leases 5.1 4.0
Total finance costs payable 178.8 143.7
Expected return on pension plan assets (45.5) (31.6)
Finance income receivable (1.9) (5.6)
Acquisition of CES loan stock (4.6) –
Finance lease termination discount (2.9) –
Net finance costs payable 123.9 106.5
During the period, the Group acquired the subordinated loan stock issued by CES from an external party. This was 
acquired at below book value leading to a gain of £4.6 million. In addition, the Group transferred a finance lease to 
a new counterparty with a termination discount valued at £2.9 million. Financial statements 108 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
7. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Current tax:
Current income tax charge at 28% 42.3 38.9
Income tax recycled from equity on cash flow hedges 0.1 –
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (9.5) (1.3)
UK corporation tax 32.9 37.6
Overseas tax 0.2 0.2
Total current tax 33.1 37.8
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in the year at 26% (2010: 28%) 9.0 9.2
Effect of changes in tax rates and laws:
– Impact of reduction in rate of UK corporation tax (46.3) –
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 6.8 0.3
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (30.5) 9.5
Tax charge in the income statement 2.6 47.3
The rate of UK corporation tax was reduced from 28% to 27% by the Finance (No. 2) Act 2010 with effect from 
1 April 2011. The rate was further reduced to 26%, with effect from the same date, on the passing of a resolution 
under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 on 23 March 2011 at which point the new rate was 
substantively enacted. As a result, deferred tax was re-measured at the rate at which timing differences are 
expected to reverse. Adjustments in respect of prior periods arise from revisions to UK tax returns.
(b) Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Current tax:
Current tax recycled to income statement on cash flow hedges (0.1) –
Deferred tax:
Actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes 19.4 0.3
Interest rate swaps 0.7 (0.2)
Impact of reduction in rate of UK corporation tax 3.1 –
Tax charge in the statement of comprehensive income 23.1 0.1
Deferred tax:
Share based payment (0.1) –
Tax credit in the statement of changes in equity (0.1) – Financial statements 109 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
7. Taxation continued
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Accounting profit before tax 181.0 170.2
Accounting profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax (28%) 50.7 47.7
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 1.8
Depreciation in respect of non-qualifying items 1.1 0.9
Non-taxable income and enhanced tax reliefs – (0.5)
Non-taxable amortisation of financing items (1.4) (1.5)
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior periods (2.7) (1.0)
Other (0.2) (0.1)
49.6 47.3
Effect of changes in tax rates and laws:
– Impact of rate reduction on opening deferred tax (46.3) –
– Impact of rate reduction on movement in deferred tax (0.7) –
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 2.6 47.3
The effective tax rate for the year to 31 March 2011 was 1.4% (2010: 27.8%). The decrease of 26.4% is mainly due 
to the impacts of the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax and prior year items. In the absence of the rate 
change and prior year items, the effective rate would have been 28.5%.
(d) Deferred tax
The movements in deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are as follows:
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£m
Deferred 
income 
£m
Tax losses 
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m
Fair values 
interest rate 
swaps 
£m
Business 
combinations 
£m
Other
 £m
Total 
£m
At 1 April 2009 671.4 (58.9) (5.1) (34.2) (3.3) 11.3 15.3 596.5
Charge/(credit) in the income 
statement 15.5 (1.3) (0.6) (4.2) – (0.4) 0.5 9.5
Charge/(credit) in other 
comprehensive income – – – 0.3 (0.2) – – 0.1
At 1 April 2010 686.9 (60.2) (5.7) (38.1) (3.5) 10.9 15.8 606.1
Charge/(credit) in the income 
statement (43.5) 13.8 0.2 (0.4) – (1.0) 0.4 (30.5)
Charge in other comprehensive 
income – – – 22.1 1.0 – 0.1 23.2
Reported in equity on share-based 
payment – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2011 643.4 (46.4) (5.5) (16.4) (2.5) 9.9 16.2 598.7
The Group has tax losses of £7.0 million (2010: £7.1 million) which have arisen in its Gibraltar subsidiary for which  
a deferred tax asset has not been recognised as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the 
Group and it is not expected that the subsidiary will utilise significant amounts in the foreseeable future. The losses 
are, however, available for offset against future taxable profits arising in the subsidiary without time limit. Financial statements 110 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
7. Taxation continued
(e) Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Government has stated its intention to reduce the UK rate of corporation tax to 23% by 1 April 2014. Had that 
rate applied in 2010/11 the closing deferred tax liability would have been reduced by £69.1 million to £529.6 million 
and the current year’s corporation tax charge would have been reduced by £7.6 million to £34.7 million.
The Group expects to continue to incur high levels of capital expenditure during NWL ’s 2010-15 regulatory period 
and be able to claim tax reliefs in excess of depreciation. However, it is expected that capital allowances will be 
claimed at a slower rate in future because Finance (No.3) Bill 2011 contains clauses to reduce rates from 20% to 
18% (general plant pool) and from 10% to 8% (special rate pool) with effect from 1 April 2012.
8. Earnings per share
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Treasury shares held are excluded from the 
weighted average number of shares for basic EPS.
The weighted average number of shares for diluted EPS is calculated by adding the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued 
on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Profit 
31.3.2011 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
31.3.2011 
million
Earnings 
per share 
31.3.2011 
pence
Profit 
31.3.2010 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
31.3.2010 
million
Earnings 
per share 
31.3.2010 
pence
Basic EPS 178.3 517.8 34.44 122.5 517.6 23.67
Diluted EPS 178.3 518.6 34.38 122.5 518.6 23.62
The directors consider that EPS adjusted for the volatility inherent in some deferred tax items gives a better 
indication of the Group’s underlying performance. In previous years, an adjustment had been made for total 
deferred tax. However, the directors have concluded that the ongoing deferred tax charge forms part of underlying 
performance and it is more appropriate to only adjust for significant non-recurring deferred tax items. For the 
current period, the deferred tax credit relating to the corporation tax rate reduction has been adjusted and the prior 
year adjusted EPS has been restated with no element of deferred tax removed. The deferred tax charge now 
included in adjusted EPS for the current period is £15.8 million (2010: £9.5 million) and has an impact on the 
adjusted EPS of 2.80 pence (2010: 1.84 pence per share).
Profit 
31.3.2011 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
31.3.2011 
million
Earnings 
per share 
31.3.2011 
pence
Profit 
31.3.2010 
restated 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
31.3.2010 
million
Earnings 
per share 
31.3.2010 
restated 
pence
Basic EPS 178.3 517.8 34.44 122.5 517.6 23.67
Deferred tax – effect of changes in tax rates (46.3) (8.94) – –
Adjusted EPS 132.0 517.8 25.50 122.5 517.6 23.67
Diluted adjusted EPS 132.0 518.6 25.45 122.5 518.6 23.62 Financial statements 111 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
9. Dividends paid and proposed
Year to 
31.3.2011 
£m
Year to 
31.3.2010 
£m
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2009/10: 8.85 pence (2008/09: 8.50 pence) 45.8 44.0
Interim dividend for 2010/11: 4.72 pence (2009/10: 4.39 pence) 24.5 22.7
Dividends paid 70.3 66.7
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM:
Final dividend for 2010/11: 9.57 pence (2009/10: 8.85 pence) 49.6 45.8
10. Intangible assets
Goodwill  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2009, 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011 3.8 64.2 68.0
Impairment:
At 1 April 2009, 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011 (0.2) – (0.2)
Net book value at 31 March 2011 3.6 64.2 67.8
Net book value at 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010 3.6 64.2 67.8
As from 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but is now subject to an annual 
impairment review.
Goodwill has been allocated to the water and waste water cash-generating unit and the other intangible asset has 
been allocated to the Northumbrian Water Limited cash-generating unit, which are also the operating segments.
The other intangible asset represents the right in perpetuity to receive income under the operating agreement  
with the Environment Agency in respect of the Kielder Water transfer scheme and, therefore, the directors consider 
the asset has an indefinite life. Accordingly, future cash flows, which increase in line with inflation, have been 
discounted at a rate of 6.44% in perpetuity. This represents a long term nominal gilt yield and an assumed credit 
spread. This calculation satisfied the Group that the carrying value at 31 March 2011 had not been impaired. 
Furthermore, it is improbable that the discount rate would increase to such a level that the carrying value would  
be impaired. Financial statements 112 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
11. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m
Infrastructure 
assets 
£m
Operational 
structures, 
plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings, 
tools and 
equipment 
£m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2009 95.3 1,702.9 2,125.0 180.9 170.5 4,274.6
Additions (restated) – 18.7 1.6 0.3 215.7 236.3
Schemes commissioned 6.9 96.7 132.9 38.3 (274.8) –
Reclassifications 13.4 – (2.0) (11.4) – –
Disposals – (6.6) (3.2) – – (9.8)
At 1 April 2010 (restated) 115.6 1,811.7 2,254.3 208.1 111.4 4,501.1
Additions – 14.5 1.2 0.4 203.8 219.9
Schemes commissioned 3.7 76.3 73.7 13.1 (166.8) –
Reclassifications 2.8 – (2.5) (0.3) – –
Disposals (0.5) (6.8) (2.4) – – (9.7)
At 31 March 2011 121.6 1,895.7 2,324.3 221.3 148.4 4,711.3
Depreciation:
At 1 April 2009 34.0 83.7 640.7 128.0 – 886.4
Charge for the year 1.9 22.8 71.8 9.0 – 105.5
Reclassifications 0.1 – – (0.1) – –
Disposals – (6.6) (3.1) – – (9.7)
At 1 April 2010 36.0 99.9 709.4 136.9 – 982.2
Charge for the year 2.2 25.2 72.8 11.4 – 111.6
Reclassifications – – (0.3) 0.3 – –
Disposals – (6.8) (2.5) – – (9.3)
At 31 March 2011 38.2 118.3 779.4 148.6 – 1,084.5
Net book value at 31 March 2011 83.4 1,777.4 1,544.9 72.7 148.4 3,626.8
Net book value at 31 March 2010 (restated) 79.6 1,711.8 1,544.9 71.2 111.4 3,518.9
Net book value at 1 April 2009 61.3 1,619.2 1,484.3 52.9 170.5 3,388.2
Operational structures, plant and machinery include an element of land and buildings dedicated to those assets. 
The Group has applied IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (Revised) in the year and has capitalised £1.9 million for the year to 
31 March 2011 (2010: £1.2 million). The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible 
for capitalisation was 5.96% (2010: 5.96%). IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers was adopted in the 
period. This has required prior year additions to be restated by £14.0 million for transactions effected on or after 
1 July 2009.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under hire purchase contracts and finance leases was 
as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Infrastructure assets 47.3 47.8
Operational structures, plant and machinery 22.0 23.6
69.3 71.4 Financial statements 113 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
12. Investments
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Investments in jointly controlled entities 4.0 4.1
(a) Investments in jointly controlled entities
The Group, through Northumbrian Services Limited, holds 50% of the nominal value of issued ordinary £1 shares 
in Vehicle Lease and Service Limited (VLS), the Group’s principal jointly controlled entity. VLS was incorporated in 
England and Wales and undertakes the business of hiring, leasing and servicing of vehicles and plant.
The Group, through Agrer, also holds a 50% interest in Agreco, a jointly controlled entity incorporated in Belgium.
VLS 
31.3.2011 
£m
Agreco 
31.3.2011 
£m
VLS 
31.3.2010 
£m
Agreco 
31.3.2010 
£m
Revenue 6.7 3.2 6.9 3.1
Operating costs (5.7) (2.9) (5.9) (2.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 1.0 0.3 1.0 0.6
Finance costs payable (0.5) – (0.6) –
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.6
Current taxation (0.1) – (0.1) –
Profit for the year 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.6
Non-current assets 8.4 – 7.9 –
Current assets 7.7 1.4 7.9 3.6
Share of gross assets 16.1 1.4 15.8 3.6
Current liabilities (4.9) (0.8) (4.6) (2.8)
Non-current liabilities (7.8) – (7.9) –
Share of gross liabilities (12.7) (0.8) (12.5) (2.8)
Share of net assets 3.4 0.6 3.3 0.8 Financial statements 114 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
12. Investments continued
(b) The Group’s interests in principal subsidiaries at 31 March 2011 were as follows:
Name of undertaking
Country of incorporation or 
registration and operation Description of shares held
Proportion 
of nominal 
value of issued 
shares held by 
Group (%) Business activity
Northumbrian Services 
Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Holding of investments and 
loans
Northumbrian Water 
Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Water and sewerage services
Northumbrian Water 
Finance plc
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Holding of finance 
instruments
Caledonian Environmental 
Services plc
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
Caledonian Environmental 
Levenmouth Treatment 
Services Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
Ayr Environmental Services 
Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 75 Waste water services
Ayr Environmental Services 
Operations Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
AquaGib Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares of £1 67 Water and sewerage services
Northumbrian Water 
Projects Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
SA Agrer NV Belgium Ordinary shares of £1 100 Aid funded project work
In 2010/11 the Group increased its shareholding in both Caledonian Environmental Services plc and Caledonian 
Environmental Levenmouth Treatment Services Limited from 75% to 100%.
All subsidiaries listed above are indirectly held. The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary 
and associated undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. The above information relates to those 
subsidiary and associated undertakings or groups of undertakings whose results or financial position, in the 
opinion of the directors, principally affect the figures of the Group. A full list of the Company’s subsidiaries is 
attached to the Company’s latest annual return filed at Companies House.
13. Inventories
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Stores 3.3 3.3 Financial statements 115 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
14. Trade and other receivables
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Trade receivables 78.2 72.2
Amounts owed by jointly controlled entities 0.6 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 60.3 53.4
Financial assets 3.8 1.1
Other receivables 11.0 9.2
153.9 136.4
As at 31 March 2011, trade receivables at nominal value of £44.5 million (2010: £37.1 million) were impaired. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
£m
At 1 April 2009 31.7
Charge for the year 19.6
Utilised (14.2)
At 1 April 2010 37.1
Charge for the year 17.8
Utilised (10.4)
At 31 March 2011 44.5
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables overdue but not impaired is as follows:
0-3  
months  
£m
3-12  
months  
£m
12-24 
months 
£m
24-36 
months 
£m
36-48 
months 
£m
>48  
months  
£m
Total 
£m
2011 0.6 26.8 12.4 6.4 2.5 – 48.7
2010 0.5 24.9 11.8 5.8 2.7 0.6 46.3
15. Cash and cash equivalents and short term deposits
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at  
31 March:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 76.7 66.1
Cash equivalent deposits 65.0 108.7
141.7 174.8
Bank overdrafts (1.4) (1.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 140.3 173.3
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Short term cash deposits >3 months 1.4 1.1
Short term cash deposits <3 months – 14.7
Short term cash deposits 1.4 15.8
Short term cash deposits of £nil (2010: £14.7 million), with a maturity of less than three months, represent amounts 
on deposit at fixed rates with the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme. Financial statements 116 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
16. Trade and other payables
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Trade payables 16.5 11.0
Other payables 17.8 19.4
Interest payable 39.1 39.7
Accruals and deferred income 82.2 81.1
155.6 151.2
17. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Current:
Bank overdrafts 1.4 1.5
Current instalments due on borrowings (principal £150.4 million, 2010: £19.7 million) 155.1 24.6
Current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (see note 18) 7.2 7.0
163.7 33.1
Non-current:
Non-current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (principal  
£103.5 million, 2010: £104.1 million) (see note 18) 103.5 104.1
Non-current instalments on borrowings (principal £2,166.9 million, 2010: £2,300.2 million) 2,192.3 2,329.8
2,295.8 2,433.9
Borrowings comprise the following:
Loans (principal £527.1 million, 2010: £546.6 million) 530.0 550.5
Subordinated loan stock (principal £1.9 million, 2010: £6.8 million) 1.9 6.8
Eurobonds – due 11 October 2017 bearing interest rate of 6.0% (principal £300.0 million,  
2010: £300.0 million) 307.5 308.6
Eurobonds – due 6 February 2023 bearing interest rate of 6.875% (principal £350.0 million, 
2010: £350.0 million) 384.0 386.8
Eurobonds – due 29 April 2033 bearing interest rate of 5.625% (principal £350.0 million,  
2010: £350.0 million) 346.4 346.3
Eurobonds – due 23 January 2034 bearing interest rate of 5.87526% (principal £248.0 million, 
2010: £248.0 million) 241.4 241.1
Eurobonds – due 31 March 2037 bearing interest rate of 6.627% (principal £61.5 million,  
2010: £61.6 million) 58.9 58.9
Index linked Eurobonds – due 15 July 2036 bearing interest rate of 2.033%  
(principal £177.6 million, 2010: £169.5 million) 176.6 168.5
Index linked Eurobonds – due 30 January 2041 bearing interest rate of 1.6274%  
(principal £69.8 million, 2010: £66.6 million) 69.7 66.5
Index linked Eurobonds – due 16 July 2049 bearing interest rate of 1.7118%  
(principal £115.7 million, 2010: £110.4 million) 115.5 110.2
Index linked Eurobonds – due 16 July 2053 bearing interest rate of 1.7484%  
(principal £115.7 million, 2010: £110.4 million) 115.5 110.2
2,347.4 2,354.4
Less current instalments due on bank loans (principal £150.4 million, 2010: £19.7 million) (155.1) (24.6)
2,192.3 2,329.8 Financial statements 117 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
17. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
The difference between the principal value of £2,166.9 million (2010: £2,300.2 million) and the carrying value of 
£2,192.3 million (2010: £2,329.8 million) are unamortised issue costs of £14.1 million (2010: £14.7 million) and a 
credit of £39.5 million (2010: £44.3 million) in excess of the original loan proceeds to reflect the fair value of loans 
owed by subsidiaries acquired in 2003.
The Eurobonds – due 23 January 2034 are secured on the income receivable under the Kielder Water transfer 
scheme for the period to 23 January 2034.
The value of the capital and interest elements of the index linked Eurobonds are linked to movements in the UK RPI 
(see note 1(q)).
18. Obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Amounts due:
Not later than one year 7.2 7.0
After one year but not more than five years 23.5 23.5
Later than five years 151.6 154.6
182.3 185.1
Less finance charges allocated to future periods (71.6) (74.0)
Present value of minimum lease payments 110.7 111.1
Disclosed as due:
Not later than one year 7.2 7.0
After more than one year 103.5 104.1
110.7 111.1
Lease commitments
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating leases in respect of land and buildings, plant, machinery 
and motor vehicles. The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Not later than one year 0.7 0.8
After one year but not more than five years 2.4 2.6
After five years 26.6 26.7
29.7 30.1 Financial statements 118 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
19. Provisions
£m
At 1 April 2010
Current 0.2
Non-current 2.2
At 1 April 2010 2.4
Arising during the year 0.4
Utilised (0.2)
At 31 March 2011 2.6
Analysed as:
Current 0.2
Non-current 2.4
2.6
The provision represents outstanding discretionary pension liabilities. The discretionary pension liabilities have 
been calculated by an independent actuary, using the same actuarial assumptions as applied to the defined 
benefit pension scheme (see note 24), and are expected to be paid over the remaining lives, which is approximately 
11 years.
20. Financial instruments
(a) Group strategy
The level of capital expenditure which the Group is obliged to incur is such that it cannot be wholly financed by 
internally generated sources. As a result, the Group must rely upon raising additional finance on a regular basis,  
to be principally used to fund the long term assets required in its regulated business. The Group’s strategy is to 
finance such investment by raising medium to long term debt, to provide a balance sheet match with long term 
assets and to fix a major proportion of interest rates.
(b) Treasury operations
The main purpose of the Group’s treasury function is to assess the Group’s ongoing capital requirement and to 
raise funding on a timely basis, taking advantage of any favourable market opportunities. It also invests any surplus 
funds the Group may have, based upon its forecast requirements and in accordance with the Group’s treasury 
policy. On occasions, derivatives are used as part of this process but the Group’s policies prohibit their use  
for speculation.
(c) Risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency 
risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.  
All treasury activities are conducted in accordance with these policies.
(d) Liquidity risk
As regards day to day liquidity, the Group’s policy is to have available standby committed bank borrowing facilities 
with a value of no less than £50.0 million and with a bank agreement availability period of no less than three 
months. At 31 March 2011, the Group had £35.0 million of undrawn committed bank facilities (2010: £75.0 million). 
A further £70.0 million of committed bank facilities were entered into on 7 April 2011. Financial statements 119 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
20. Financial instruments continued
(e) Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. It borrows at both 
fixed and floating rates of interest and, accordingly, uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile 
and to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The Group’s policy is to keep a minimum 60% of 
its borrowings at fixed rates of interest. At 31 March 2011, 74% (2010: 75%) of the Group’s borrowings were at fixed 
rates of interest. Index linked borrowings are treated as variable rate debt.
(f) Foreign currency risk
The Group’s policy is that any foreign currency exposure in excess of £100,000 sterling equivalent of a transactional 
nature, or £3.0 million sterling equivalent of a translation nature, should be covered immediately on identification. Any 
exposures are covered through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
(g) Market price risk
The Group’s exposure to market price risk principally comprises interest rate exposures. The Group’s policy is to 
accept a degree of interest rate risk. The following table shows the impact on profit and equity of an increase in the 
variable cost of borrowing. The range is considered reasonable based on the forecast variable rates of borrowing 
and all other elements being consistent for the next 12 months and highlights this is not material to the Group:
Increase in basis points
Effect on 
profit/equity 
£m
2011
+50 1.3
+100 2.5
+150 3.8
2010
+50 0.9
+100 1.9
+150 2.8
(h) Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. Management’s assessment of the maximum 
credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date 
(see (o)). A significant proportion of the trade debtor balances are with domestic customers who are unlikely to 
have a published credit rating.
(i) Counterparty risk
The treasury strategy, which is approved by the Board, requires that investments are limited to certain money 
market and treasury instruments, and that the Group’s exposure to any single bank, building society or market is 
controlled, with maximum deposits allowed with any single counterparty. The investment criteria cover credit rating 
and asset size, including sovereign and political risk. Current market conditions have resulted in closer monitoring 
of counterparties and cancellation or suspension of deposits.
(j) Capital risk
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and 
healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group monitors capital using gearing ratios for the Group and NWL. For NWL, this is net debt divided by  
the RCV as determined and published by Ofwat, and for the Group, RCV plus a pro forma RCV for the Kielder 
securitisation and the PFI contracts (at the level of associated debt included in the Group’s net debt relating  
to those assets). The Group’s policy is to keep the gearing ratio less than 75% and 70% for the Group and  
NWL, respectively. Financial statements 120 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 
20. Financial instruments continued
For the Group, the pro forma RCV at 31 March 2011 was £3,643.1 million. For NWL, the RCV at 31 March 2011 
was £3,318.4 million. On this basis, the gearing ratios were 63% for the Group and 56% for NWL.
(k) Contractual maturity of financial liabilities (principal and future interest payments)
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March based on contractual 
undiscounted payments:
Year ended 31 March 2011
On demand 
£m
Less than 
3 months 
£m
3-12 months  
£m
1-5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1.4 162.4 124.6 704.5 4,381.8 5,374.7
Trade and other payables – 82.3 48.7 – – 131.0
1.4 244.7 173.3 704.5 4,381.8 5,505.7
Year ended 31 March 2010
On demand 
£m
Less than  
3 months 
£m
3-12 months 
£m
1-5 years  
£m
More than  
5 years  
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1.5 40.3 118.0 824.4 4,381.8 5,366.0
Trade and other payables 0.1 31.3 20.0 – – 51.4
1.6 71.6 138.0 824.4 4,381.8 5,417.4
(l) Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities (carrying value)
Year ended 31 March 2011
Within 1 year  
£m
1-2 years 
£m
2-3 years 
£m
3-4 years 
£m
4-5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed rate:
Eurobonds (4.2) (4.1) (4.2) (4.2) (4.3) (1,317.2) (1,338.2)
Subordinated loan stock – – – – – (1.9) (1.9)
Bank loans (24.3) (21.2) (21.1) (21.3) (22.1) (145.9) (255.9)
Obligations under finance leases and hire 
purchase contracts (2.8) (2.0) (1.5) (1.0) (0.5) (0.4) (8.2)
Other loans (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.9) (2.4)
Fixed rate at 31 March 2011 (31.6) (27.6) (27.1) (26.8) (27.2) (1,466.3) (1,606.6)
Variable rate:
Cash and cash equivalents 143.1 – – – – – 143.1
Financial investments 0.9 0.5 0.2 – – 11.3 12.9
Eurobonds – – – – – (477.3) (477.3)
Bank loans (126.3) (55.4) (10.0) (10.0) (10.0) (60.0) (271.7)
Overdrafts (1.4) – – – – – (1.4)
Obligations under finance leases and hire 
purchase contracts (4.4) (4.4) (4.5) (4.5) (4.5) (80.2) (102.5)
Variable rate at 31 March 2011 11.9 (59.3) (14.3) (14.5) (14.5) (606.2) (696.9)
Net borrowings at 31 March 2011 (2,303.5) Financial statements 121 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
20. Financial instruments continued
Year ended 31 March 2010
Within 1 year 
£m
1-2 years 
£m
2-3 years 
£m
3-4 years 
£m
4-5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed rate:
Eurobonds (4.0) (4.1) (4.2) (4.1) (4.3) (1,321.0) (1,341.7)
Subordinated loan stock – – – – – (6.8) (6.8)
Bank loans (17.7) (24.5) (21.1) (21.2) (21.2) (168.0) (273.7)
Obligations under finance leases and hire 
purchase contracts (2.7) (2.3) (1.7) (1.1) (0.5) (0.4) (8.7)
Other loans (0.4) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (1.0) (2.6)
Fixed rate at 31 March 2010 (24.8) (31.2) (27.3) (26.7) (26.3) (1,497.2) (1,633.5)
Variable rate:
Cash and cash equivalents 174.8 – – – – – 174.8
Short term cash deposits 15.8 – – – – – 15.8
Financial investments 1.1 0.9 0.5 0.2 – 11.3 14.0
Eurobonds – – – – – (455.4) (455.4)
Bank loans (2.5) (171.7) (10.0) (10.0) (10.0) (70.0) (274.2)
Overdrafts (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Obligations under finance leases and  
hire purchase contracts (4.3) (4.4) (4.5) (4.5) (4.5) (80.2) (102.4)
Variable rate at 31 March 2010 183.4 (175.2) (14.0) (14.3) (14.5) (594.3) (628.9)
Net borrowings at 31 March 2010 (2,262.4)
The variable rate net borrowings comprise sterling denominated bank borrowings and deposits that bear interest 
at rates based upon up to 12 months LIBOR.
(m) Currency exposures
At 31 March 2011, after taking into account the effects of forward foreign exchange contracts, the Group had no 
currency exposures (2010: £nil).
(n) Borrowing facilities
The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities available at 31 March, in respect of 
which all conditions precedent have been met, are as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Expiring in less than one year 35.0 75.0 Financial statements 122 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
20. Financial instruments continued
(o) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
A comparison by category of book values, which are all recognised at amortised cost, and fair values of the 
Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March is set out below:
Book value Fair value
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 143.1 174.8 143.1 174.8
Short term cash deposits – 15.8 – 15.8
Financial investments 12.9 14.0 12.9 14.0
Trade and other receivables 153.9 136.4 153.9 136.4
Financial liabilities:
Overdraft (1.4) (1.5) (1.4) (1.5)
Bank loans (principal of £527.1 million, 2010: £546.6 million) (530.0) (550.5) (541.3) (559.5)
Subordinated loan stock (principal of £1.9 million, 2010: £6.8 million) (1.9) (6.8) (1.9) (6.8)
Eurobonds (principal of £1,788.3 million, 2010: £1,766.4 million) (1,815.5) (1,797.1) (1,899.2) (1,804.0)
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  
(principal of £110.7 million, 2010: £111.1 million) (110.7) (111.1) (110.7) (111.1)
Interest rate swaps (9.8) (12.5) (9.8) (12.5)
Trade and other payables (155.5) (151.2) (155.5) (151.2)
(2,314.9) (2,289.7) (2,409.9) (2,305.6)
The fair values of the interest rate swaps and sterling denominated long term fixed rate and index linked debt with  
a book value of £1,815.5 million (2010: £1,797.1 million), have been determined by reference to prices available from 
the markets on which the instruments involved are traded. All the other fair values shown above have been 
calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
In the absence of an openly traded market value for the index linked bonds with a book value of £477.3 million 
(2010: £455.4 million), the fair value at the balance sheet date has been calculated by considering the remaining 
debt maturity, the relevant UK index linked gilt rate and an appropriate credit spread by reference to market 
evidence for conventional bonds.
The difference between the principal value of £2,428.0 million (2010: £2,430.9 million) and the carrying value of 
£2,458.1 million (2010: £2,465.5 million) are unamortised issue costs of £14.3 million (2010: £14.7 million) and a 
credit of £44.4 million (2010: £49.3 million) in excess of the original loan proceeds to reflect the fair value of loans 
owed by subsidiaries acquired in 2003.
(p) Hedges
Cash flow hedges – currency forward contracts
At 31 March 2011, the Group held no forward exchange contracts (2010: nil). Financial statements 123 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
20. Financial instruments continued
Cash flow hedges – interest rate swap
At 31 March 2011, the Group held three interest rate swaps, designated as a hedge of future interest cash flows, 
for which the Group has firm commitments. The swaps were used to convert variable rate interest payments to a 
fixed rate basis. The terms of these swaps were as follows:
Notional amount Start date Termination date
Fixed rate 
%
GBP 100.0 million 15.9.2008 15.3.2022 4.79
GBP 62.5 million 29.1.2009 31.5.2011 2.345
GBP 62.5 million 29.1.2009 31.5.2011 2.435
The £100.0 million swap was designated as highly effective. The two £62.5 million swaps were not effective.
At 31 March 2010, the Group held three interest rate swaps, designated as a hedge of future interest cash flows, 
for which the Group had firm commitments. The swaps were used to convert variable rate interest payments to a 
fixed rate basis. The terms of these swaps were as follows:
Notional amount Start date Termination date
Fixed rate  
%
GBP 100.0 million 15.9.2008 15.3.2022 4.79
GBP 62.5 million 29.1.2009 31.5.2011 2.345
GBP 62.5 million 29.1.2009 31.5.2011 2.435
These hedges were designated as highly effective.
(q) Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by 
valuation technique:
level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; −
level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are  −
observable, either directly or indirectly; and
level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based  −
on observable market data.
All other financial assets and liabilities are carried at amortised cost.
Liabilities measured at fair value
Year ended 31 March 2011
31.3.2011 
£m
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Interest rate swap (9.8) – (9.8) –
Year ended 31 March 2010
31.3.2010 
£m
Level 1  
£m
Level 2  
£m
Level 3  
£m
Interest rate swap (12.5) – (12.5) –
During the year to 31 March 2011, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 fair value measurements, 
and no transfers into and out of level 3 fair value measurements. Financial statements 124 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
21. Authorised and issued share capital
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Authorised:
700 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each 70.0 70.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
518.6 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each 51.9 51.9
The Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust, through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, 
currently holds 765,962 (2010: 914,518) ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company for use under the Company’s 
LTIP. All of these shares have been conditionally awarded under the LTIP. Details of the main features of the LTIP  
and the conditions for vesting can be found in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 71 to 84. As at 31 March 
2011, the share price of the ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company was 332.2 pence (2010: 283.1 pence).
22. Additional cash flow information
Analysis of net debt as at 31 March 2011
As at 
1.4.2010  
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Other 
non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31.3.2011 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 173.3 (33.0) – 140.3
Short term cash deposits 15.8 (14.4) – 1.4
Financial investments 14.0 (1.1) – 12.9
Loans (principal of £2,317.3 million, 2010: £2,319.8 million) (2,354.4) 19.9 (12.9) (2,347.4)
Finance leases (principal of £110.7 million, 2010: £111.1 million) (111.1) 7.3 (6.9) (110.7)
(2,262.4) (21.3) (19.8) (2,303.5)
The difference between the principal value of £2,428.0 million (2010: £2,430.9 million) and the carrying value of 
£2,458.1 million (2010: £2,465.5 million) are unamortised issue costs of £14.3 million (2010: £14.7 million) and a 
credit of £44.4 million (2010: £49.3 million) in excess of the original loan proceeds to reflect the fair value of loans 
owed by subsidiaries acquired in 2003.
Non-cash movements on loans relate to the principal uplift on index linked borrowings and amortisation of loan 
issue costs offset by the amortisation of debt fair value for the year. Non-cash movements on finance leases relate 
to the inception of new finance leases on the acquisition of plant and machinery during the year.
Analysis of net debt as at 31 March 2010
As at 
1.4.2009  
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Other 
non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31.3.2010 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 92.3 81.0 – 173.3
Short term cash deposits 160.6 (144.8) – 15.8
Financial investments 15.4 (1.4) – 14.0
Loans (principal of £2,319.8 million, 2009: £2,347.2 million) (2,386.3) 20.9 11.0 (2,354.4)
Finance leases (principal of £111.1 million, 2009: £111.6 million) (111.7) 7.2 (6.6) (111.1)
(2,229.7) (37.1) 4.4 (2,262.4) Financial statements 125 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
22. Additional cash flow information continued
The difference between the principal value of £2,430.9 million (2009: £2,458.8 million) and the carrying value of 
£2,465.5 million (2009: £2,498.0 million) are unamortised issue costs of £14.7 million (2009: £15.4 million) and a 
credit of £49.3 million (2009: £54.6 million) in excess of the original loan proceeds to reflect the fair value of loans 
owed by subsidiaries acquired in 2003.
Non-cash movements on loans relate to the principal uplift on index linked borrowings and amortisation of loan 
issue costs offset by the amortisation of debt fair value for the year. Non-cash movements on finance leases relate 
to the inception of new finance leases on the acquisition of plant and machinery during the year.
23. Financial commitments
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Expenditure contracted for 222.3 85.3
In addition to these commitments, the Group has longer term expenditure plans, which include investment to meet 
shortfalls in performance and condition, and to provide for new demand and growth within the water and 
sewerage business.
24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme (NWPS or the 
scheme), providing benefits based on final pensionable remuneration to 1,908 active members at 31 March 2011 
(2010: 2,033).
The assets of the NWPS are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 31 December 2007. At that date the value of assets 
amounted to £732.3 million and the funding level was 106.1%.
The future service contribution rate jointly payable by members and the employers from 31 December 2007 was 
22.6% of pensionable salaries. Members’ contributions are 7.3% on average with the employers paying 15.3%.
The employer contribution rate was assessed using the projected unit method and the following actuarial assumptions:
%
Pre-retirement 6.1
Post-retirement 5.2
Pay increases 3.7
Pension increases 3.4
Price inflation 3.4
Following the 2004 actuarial valuation the employers had prepaid contributions to the scheme up to 31 December 
2010. The scheme actuary recommended that regular contributions should recommence from 1 January 2011. 
However, the Group made an alternative proposal, which was accepted by the NWPS Trustees, to make new 
capital injections of £70.0 million to cover the period 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2015. These payments comprise 
employers’ contributions and the deficit recovery funding assumed in the final determination. Amounts totalling 
£22.9 million have been paid in the period, of which £0.5 million was paid by a jointly controlled entity. The 
remaining £47.1 million was paid in April 2011 which, along with other payments of an estimated £1.9 million 
relating to early retirements, will bring total contributions to the scheme next year to £49.0 million. A full actuarial 
valuation of the scheme as at 31 December 2010 has commenced. Financial statements 126 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The scheme also has a defined contribution section which had 460 active members at 31 March 2011 (2010: 389). 
Members can choose to contribute either 3%, 4% or 5% of salary, with employers contributing at either 6%, 7% or 
8% depending on the member contribution rate. The contributions paid to the defined contribution section by the 
Group in the year totalled £0.8 million (2010: £0.6 million).
The additional disclosures regarding the Group’s defined benefit scheme as required under IAS 19 Employee 
Benefits, and the relevant impact on the Group’s financial statements are set out below.
A qualified actuary, using revised assumptions that are consistent with the requirements of IAS 19, has updated 
the actuarial valuation described above as at 31 March 2011. Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at 
fair value.
31.3.2011 31.3.2010
Pay increases
1
4.5% 4.7%
RPI inflation 3.5% 3.7%
CPI inflation 2.8% n/a
Pension increases linked to RPI 3.5% 3.7%
Pension increases linked to CPI 2.8% n/a
Discount rate 5.5% 5.5%
Mortality assumptions
2
PCMA/PCFA00 PCMA/PCFA00
– Life expectancy for a member aged 65 – female (years) 23.0 23.0
– Life expectancy for a member aged 65 – male (years) 20.7 20.7
Notes:
1. Including promotional salary scale.
2. 115% of PCMA00/PCFA00 (year of birth with medium cohort improvements).
The fair value of the assets in the NWPS, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the long term 
expected rate of return at 31 March were:
Long term 
expected 
rate of 
return 
31.3.2011  
%
31.3.2011  
£m
Long term 
expected 
rate of  
return 
31.3.2010  
%
31.3.2010 
£m
Equities 7.3 511.8 7.5 499.3
Corporate bonds 5.5 62.1 5.5 70.7
Government bonds 4.3 63.9 4.5 27.2
Property 5.8 71.6 6.0 66.6
Cash 3.8 3.9 3.9 14.3
Loan to scheme from Company – – 0.5 (14.7)
Total fair value of assets 713.3 663.4
Present value of liabilities (759.3) (796.5)
Deficit (46.0) (133.1)
The discount rate at 31 March 2011 has been set by reference to the yield on AA corporate bonds (AA over 15 
years) at that date, extrapolated forward to a duration of 18 years which reflect the duration of the expected benefit 
payments. The expected rate of return on equities represents a 3% premium of the yield on long term Government 
bonds at 31 March 2011. The gross redemption yield on index linked UK Government stocks was 0.7%. The long 
term inflation rate implied by these yields is 3.6% which has been reduced by 0.1% to allow for an inflation risk 
premium. Mortality rates have been based on the PA00 tables, applying medium cohort adjustment of 115% 
loading to mortality rates based on the year of birth of the membership. Financial statements 127 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The valuation of the scheme liabilities has taken account of legislative changes which mean that future statutory 
deferred revaluations and pension increases will be linked to CPI. As a consequence, CPI increases have been 
applied for deferred pensions in all sections of the scheme and to those sections where the scheme rules link 
increases to the Government’s pension increase orders. This has given rise to a reduction in the actuarial valuation 
of the liabilities of around £36.0 million.
The amounts recognised in the income statement and in the statement of comprehensive income for the year are 
analysed as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Recognised in the income statement:
Current service cost 13.5 9.9
Past service cost 0.4 4.6
Recognised in operating costs in arriving at profit on ordinary activities before interest 13.9 14.5
Interest cost on plan obligations 43.3 36.1
Expected return on plan assets (45.5) (31.6)
Recognised in (income receivable)/finance costs payable (2.2) 4.5
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
Actual return on scheme assets 56.2 209.0
Less expected return on scheme assets (45.5) (31.6)
10.7 177.4
Other actuarial gains and losses 63.3 (176.3)
Net actuarial gains 74.0 1.1
Cumulative amounts recognised since adopting the standard (6.5) (80.5)
History of experience gains and losses:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
31.3.2009 
£m
31.3.2008 
£m
31.3.2007 
£m
Fair value of assets 713.3 663.4 478.6 666.7 710.8
Present value of defined benefit obligation (759.3) (796.5) (598.0) (576.2) (668.1)
(Deficit)/surplus (46.0) (133.1) (119.4) 90.5 42.7
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 10.7 177.4 (205.3) (93.4) 0.6
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities – – 18.7 0.6 1.7
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
At 1 April 796.5 598.0
Current service cost 13.5 9.9
Past service cost 0.4 4.6
Interest cost on plan obligations 43.3 36.1
Contributions by plan participants 0.1 0.1
Actuarial (gain)/loss on obligations (63.3) 176.3
Benefits paid (31.2) (28.5)
At 31 March 759.3 796.5
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 759.3 796.5 Financial statements 128 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
At 1 April 663.4 478.6
Expected return on plan assets 45.5 31.6
Actuarial gain on plan assets 10.7 177.4
Contributions by employer 24.8 4.2
Contributions by plan participants 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (31.2) (28.5)
At 31 March 713.3 663.4
The Group through its subsidiary, AquaGib, also operates a non-contributory defined benefit scheme. The deficit 
at 31 March 2011, under local GAAP, was £2.1 million (2010: £2.8 million). The Group made contributions 
amounting to £1.0 million (2010: £0.8 million) to the defined benefit pension scheme.
Sensitivity to key assumptions 
IAS 1 requires disclosure of the sensitivity of the results to the methods and assumptions used.
The costs of a pension arrangement require estimates regarding future experience. The financial assumptions 
used for IAS 19 reporting are the responsibility of the directors of the Company. These assumptions reflect market 
conditions at the balance sheet date. Changes in market conditions which result in changes in the net discount 
rate (essentially the difference between the discount rate and the assumed rates of increases of salaries, deferred 
pension revaluation or pensions in payment), can have a significant effect on the value of the liabilities reported.
A reduction in the net discount rate will increase the assessed value of liabilities, as a higher value is placed on 
benefits paid in the future. A rise in the net discount rate will have an opposite effect of similar magnitude. The 
overall effect of a change in the net discount rate of 0.1% would change the liabilities by around £14.8 million.
There is also uncertainty around life expectancy for the UK population. The value of current and future pension 
benefits will depend on how long they are assumed to be in payment.
The disclosures have been prepared using the mortality assumptions adopted for the 2007 formal valuation – 
namely the PCMA/PCFA00 tables, applying a medium cohort adjustment with a 115% loading to mortality rates 
based on the year of birth of the membership. These assumptions imply an assumed life expectancy for a member 
aged 65 at 31 March 2011 of 20.7 years (2010: 20.7 years) for males and 23.0 years (2010: 23.0 years) for females.
The effect of increasing the assumed life expectancies by one year would be to increase the value of liabilities by 
around 2.8%. Financial statements 129 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
25. Long Term Incentive Plan 
Under the LTIP, executive directors and senior managers may receive, at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, annual conditional awards of shares in the Company. Further details of the LTIP can be found in the 
directors’ remuneration report.
The following table illustrates the movements in conditional share awards during the year.
31.3.2011  
Number
31.3.2010  
Number
Outstanding at 1 April 1,242,293 1,190,034
Granted during the year 378,503 414,679
Forfeited/lapsed during the year (351,299) (238,686)
Exercised (148,556) (123,734)
Outstanding at 31 March 1,120,941 1,242,293
Exercisable at 31 March 4,649 4,724
The weighted average exercise price throughout the year was £nil (2010: £nil). The fair value of conditional share 
awards granted during the year was £nil (2010: £0.1 million).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the conditional share awards is 324.79 pence  
(2010: 268.71 pence).
For the conditional awards outstanding as at 31 March 2011, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 
1.7 years (2010: 1.8 years).
The fair value of conditional share awards granted was estimated using the Monte-Carlo model. The significant 
inputs to the model were as follows:
31.3.2011 31.3.2010
Dividend yield 4.0% 4.7%
Expected share price volatility 28% 29%
Share price at award 328.70p 272.50p
Expected FTSE 250 Index volatility 21% 24%
Risk free interest rate 1.5% 2.1%
Expected life of option (years) 3 3
The expected life of these options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future 
trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. Financial statements 130 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
25. Long Term Incentive Plan continued
Share Incentive Plan
The SIP scheme provides one free matching share for every three shares purchased by an employee. Shares for 
the SIP are purchased at market price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash directly to participants.
The following table illustrates the movements in conditional share awards during the year.
31.3.2011 
Number
31.3.2010 
Number
Outstanding at 1 April 143,201 117,687
Granted during the year 115,519 134,397
Forfeited during the year (3,383) (1,805)
Exercised (95,155) (107,078)
Outstanding at 31 March 160,182 143,201
26. Special purpose entities
As noted under accounting policy 1(b), under SIC 12, two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities. 
The principal special purpose entity is Bakethin Holdings Limited, the shares in which are owned by Bakethin 
Charitable Trust. The other special purpose entity is Bakethin Finance plc, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Bakethin Holdings Limited.
Bakethin Finance plc was established for the purpose of issuing guaranteed secured Eurobonds. On 12 May 2004, 
Bakethin Finance plc issued £248.0 million of guaranteed secured bonds maturing January 2034. Bakethin 
Finance plc used the proceeds of the bond issue to make a loan to Reiver Finance Limited to fund the 
consideration given by that company to Northumbrian Water Limited for the securitisation of the cash flows 
receivable from the EA under the Water Resources Operating Agreement relating to Kielder Water transfer 
scheme. The assignment is for a period of 30 years.
The summarised combined financial statements of the special purpose entities are as follows:
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Income statement:
Finance costs receivable 14.9 14.9
Finance costs payable (14.9) (14.9)
Balance sheet:
Investments 241.4 241.0
Current assets 4.7 4.7
Non-current liabilities (243.2) (242.9)
Current liabilities (2.7) (2.7)
Net assets 0.2 0.1
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Financial statements 131 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
27. Related parties
During the year, the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties. 
Transactions entered into and trading balances outstanding at 31 March between the Group and its associates 
and joint ventures, are as follows:
Trading transactions
Sales to 
related party 
£m
Purchases 
from related 
party 
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
related party 
£m
Amounts 
owed to 
related party 
£m
Related party:
Jointly controlled entities
2011 0.1 9.6 0.6 8.2
2010 0.1 10.2 0.5 8.7
Purchases from jointly controlled entities include £2.5 million (2010: £3.3 million) in respect of capital purchases 
under finance leases, £0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million) in respect of operating leases, £6.3 million (2010: £6.2 million) 
in respect of costs payable under finance leases and £0.7 million (2010: £0.6 million) in respect of other purchases.
At 31 March 2011, the Group had a short term cash deposit with the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme of  
£nil (2010: £14.7 million).
Outstanding balances due from related parties are expected to be settled within 60 days and amounts due to 
related parties are in respect of leasing arrangements, where the amounts owed will relate specifically to the terms 
of the lease.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors is included within the amounts disclosed below. Further information about the 
remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 
80 to 84.
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.4 1.2
Post employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share based payments 0.5 0.2
2.1 1.6
28. Post balance sheet event
On 14 April 2011, the Group borrowed £100.0 million through a US private placement facility with a 10 year 
maturity at a coupon of 5.82%. On the same date, two £62.5 million loans to Northumbrian Services Limited, 
maturing in May 2011, were repaid. Financial statements 132 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the parent Company financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under Company Law, the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing those 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; −
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; −
state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material  −
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the  −
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Financial statements 133 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Report of the auditors on the
Company financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Northumbrian Water Group plc
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended 
31 March 2011 which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 132, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2011; −
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and −
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. −
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the  −
Companies Act 2006; and
the information given in the Directors’ report and business review for the financial year for which the financial  −
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements. Financial statements 134 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit  −
have not been received from branches not visited by us;
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are  −
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns;
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or −
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. −
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2011.
Debbie O’Hanlon (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Statutory Auditor
Newcastle upon Tyne
31 May 2011
Report of the auditors on the
Company financial statements  
continued Financial statements 135 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 201 1
Notes
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 4 1,101.4 1,022.6
1,101.4 1,022.6
Current assets
Debtors: receivable within one year 5 3.5 4.3
Cash at bank 59.1 12.0
62.6 16.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (93.2) (2.8)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (30.6) 13.5
Total assets less current liabilities 1,070.8 1,036.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (490.0) (491.9)
Net assets 580.8 544.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 51.9 51.9
Share premium account 9 446.5 446.5
Treasury shares 9 (1.7) (2.0)
Profit and loss account 9 84.1 47.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 580.8 544.2
Approved by the Board on 31 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Derek Wanless   Heidi Mottram
Chairman    Chief Executive Officer Financial statements 136 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes to the Company financial statements
1. Accounting policies
(a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting 
standards. The accounting policies have been reviewed in accordance with the requirements of FRS 18: Accounting 
Policies. The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Company’s financial 
statements. The Company’s financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of 
Northumbrian Water Group plc. Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from publishing  
a profit and loss account and cash flow statement and from disclosing related party transactions with its wholly-
owned subsidiaries. The Company is also exempt from disclosing the information otherwise required by FRS 29 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures, as the consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, 
provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will 
have adequate funding to meet its liabilities as they fall due in the foreseeable future. As at 31 March 2011 the 
Company had net current liabilities of £30.6 million (2010: net current assets of £13.5 million). The directors have 
reviewed cash flow requirements and are confident that they will be able to meet these from funds available. 
Accordingly, the directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
(b) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at their purchase cost, less any provision for impairment.
(c) Taxation
Corporation tax is based on the profit for the year as adjusted for taxation purposes using the rates of tax enacted 
at the balance sheet date. Provision is made for deferred tax in respect of all timing differences that have originated 
but not reversed at the balance sheet date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in 
future periods. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing 
differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely 
than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences 
can be deducted.
(d) Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration 
received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. Finance costs (including issue costs) are taken to the 
income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount. The carrying 
amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the 
accounting period.
2. Auditors’ remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2011 was £97,000 (2010: £95,000).
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual 
financial statements of the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to 
disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
3. Profit attributable to members of the parent Company
The profit dealt with in the financial statements of the parent Company is £106.9 million (2010: £67.7 million). Financial statements 137 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
4. Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£m
At 1 April 2010 1,022.6
Additions 78.8
At 31 March 2011 1,101.4
Additions in the year represent the acquisition of shares in a subsidiary company, Atlantic Water Ltd., from a 
subsidiary company, Three Rivers Finance Ltd.
During the year, the Company increased its shareholding in both Caledonian Environmental Services plc and 
Caledonian Environmental Levenmouth Treatment Services Limited from 75% to 100% at a nominal cost.
Name of undertaking
Country of incorporation or 
registration and operation Description of shares held
Proportion 
of nominal 
value of issued 
shares held by 
Group (%) Business activity
Northumbrian Services 
Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Holding of investments and 
loans
Northumbrian Water 
Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Water and sewerage services
Northumbrian Water 
Finance plc
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Holding of finance 
instruments
Caledonian Environmental 
Services plc
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
Caledonian Environmental 
Levenmouth Treatment 
Services Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
Ayr Environmental Services 
Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 75 Waste water services
Ayr Environmental Services 
Operations Limited
Scotland Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
AquaGib Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares of £1 67 Water and sewerage services
Northumbrian Water 
Projects Limited
England and Wales Ordinary shares of £1 100 Waste water services
SA Agrer NV Belgium Ordinary shares of £1 100 Aid funded project work
All subsidiaries listed above are indirectly held. The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary 
and associated undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list of the Company’s 
subsidiaries is attached to the Company’s latest annual return filed at Companies House.
5. Debtors
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 3.3 4.0
Other 0.2 0.3
3.5 4.3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings include amounts receivable for the provisional surrender of tax losses 
amounting to £1.6 million (2010: £2.3 million). Financial statements 138 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
6. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Trade creditors 0.1 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 93.0 2.6
Accruals and deferred income 0.1 0.2
93.2 2.8
7. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 490.0 491.9
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Loans are repayable as follows:
Not wholly repayable within five years 490.0 491.9
The loan bears a rate of interest linked to LIBOR. The loan will continue until such time as terminated by  
mutual agreement.
8. Authorised and issued share capital
31.3.2011 
£m
31.3.2010 
£m
Authorised:
700 million ordinary shares of 10 pence 70.0 70.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
518.6 million ordinary shares of 10 pence 51.9 51.9
The Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust, through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, 
currently holds 765,962 (2010: 914,518) ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company for use under the Company’s 
LTIP. All of these shares have been conditionally awarded under the LTIP. Details of the main features of the LTIP  
and the conditions for vesting can be found in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 71 to 84. As at 31 March 
2011, the share price of the ordinary 10 pence shares in the Company was 332.2 pence (2010: 283.1 pence).
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued Financial statements 139 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
9. Reserves
Treasury 
shares 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Profit and 
loss account 
£m
At 1 April 2009 (2.3) 446.5 47.0
Profit for the year – – 67.7
Share-based payment – – 0.1
Exercise of LTIP awards 0.3 – (0.3)
Dividends paid – – (66.7)
At 31 March 2010 (2.0) 446.5 47.8
Profit for the year – – 106.9
Exercise of LTIP awards 0.3 – (0.3)
Dividends paid – – (70.3)
At 31 March 2011 (1.7) 446.5 84.1
10. Commitments
The Company has issued letters of continuing support to subsidiary companies with net liabilities amounting to 
£11.9 million (2010: £8.3 million) and net current liabilities of £nil (2010: £nil). These subsidiary companies are 
expected to meet their working capital requirements from operating cash flows.
The Company is guarantor to the EIB in respect of borrowings by Northumbrian Water Limited. The loan principal 
outstanding at 31 March 2011 amounted to £344.7 million (2010: £362.4 million).
The Company is party to a cross guarantee arrangement with other Group companies in respect of bank  
facilities. Overdrafts outstanding at 31 March 2011 in respect of the arrangement amounted to £27.2 million  
(2010: £0.9 million). The directors do not expect any loss to arise as a result of this arrangement. Financial statements 140 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Share portal (www.capitashareportal.com)
You can manage your shareholding 
online, through the website of our 
registrar, Capita Registrars, by 
registering for the share portal.  
This provides free, secure, online 
access to your shareholding. 
Facilities include:
Electronic communications
This allows you to register your email address to enable 
you to receive shareholder communications such as 
annual reports via the internet rather than by post.
Account enquiry
You can access your personal shareholding, including 
share transaction history, dividend payment history  
and to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation.
Amendment of standing data
This allows you to change your registered postal 
address and add, change or delete dividend  
mandate instructions.
You can also download from this site forms such  
as change of address, stock transfer and dividend 
mandates and buy and sell shares in the Company.
To use any of these facilities, please log on to Capita 
Registrars’ website at www.capitashareportal.com.
If you have any queries about the above facilities,  
please contact the Capita share portal helpline on  
0871 664 0391 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus 
network extras) overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3367, or  
by email at shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
2011
July
28 July AGM
28 July Interim Management Statement
August
10 August Ex-dividend date
12 August Record date
September
09 September Final dividend payment
November
30 November Half-yearly announcement
December
14 December Ex-dividend date
16 December Record date
2012
January
27 January Interim dividend payment Number of shareholders by size of holding
as at 31 March 2011   
Shareholders with 1–1,000 shares
Shareholders with 1,001–5,000 shares
Shareholders with 5,001–10,000 
shares
Shareholders with 10,001–100,000 
shares
Shareholders with 100,001–1,000,000 
shares
Shareholders with over 1,000,000 
shares
Breakdown of shareholdings by type
as at 31 March 2011
Individuals
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board
Nominee accounts
Investment trusts, pensions funds and 
other institutions
Banks and bank nominees
34
49
8
6
2
27
63
2
6
21
Financial statements 141 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Capita share dealing services
Capita Registrars provides a low cost share  
dealing service. Further information is available at  
www.capitadeal.com, or by telephoning 0871 664 0445 
(calls cost up to 10 pence per minute plus network 
extras). This enables you to deal in the shares of the 
Company and other companies for which Capita acts 
as registrar, provided you are already a shareholder in 
the relevant company, and it offers the share deal 
facility to its shareholders.
International payment services
Capita Registrars has partnered with Travelex, the 
world’s largest specialist provider of commercial 
international payment services, to provide a service  
that will convert your sterling dividends into your local 
currency at a competitive rate. They can either arrange 
for these funds to be sent to you by currency draft or 
can pay them direct into your bank account. For further 
information telephone +44 (0)20 8639 3405 (from 
outside the UK) or 0871 664 0385 (from within the UK) 
between 9.00am and 5.30pm in the UK. Calls cost 
10 pence per minute plus network extras.
ShareGift
You may donate your shares to charity free of  
charge through ShareGift. Further details are  
available at www.sharegift.org.uk or by telephoning  
+44 (0)20 7930 3737.
Dividend re-investment plan
The Company receives occasional requests from 
shareholders wishing to receive their dividends in the 
form of shares instead of cash. There are costs involved 
in providing this service, and at present it would not be 
cost effective. This issue is kept under regular review.
Beneficial owners of shares with  
‘information rights’
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have 
been nominated by the registered holder of those 
shares to receive information rights under section 146  
of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all 
communications to the registered holder of their shares 
rather than to the Company’s registrar, Capita 
Registrars, or the Company.
Shareholder analysis
Disability Discrimination Act
If you wish to receive a copy of our report on audio 
tape, in braille or in a large text version, please 
telephone us on +44 (0)191 301 6701, or email us  
at shareholders@nwl.co.uk.
For general queries about your shares, please 
contact Capita Registrars:
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus 
network extras)
From overseas: +44 (0)20 8639 3399
Fax: +44 (0)1484 600 911
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Web: www.capitaregistrars.com Financial statements 142 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
For general shareholder queries please contact 
Secretariat:
Tel: +44 (0)191 301 6701
Fax: +44 (0)191 301 6705
Email: shareholders@nwl.co.uk
To request financial statements and other 
Company literature please contact 
Communications:
Tel: +44 (0)191 301 6734
Email: shareholders@nwl.co.uk
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Meeting, information about the AGM to 
be held on 28 July 2011 and the proxy voting card are 
enclosed with these financial statements. Shareholder 
questions and special needs requests should be 
addressed to Secretariat at our registered office 
address, raised by telephone on +44 (0)191 301 6701, 
or sent by email to shareholders@nwl.co.uk.
Warning to shareholders – boiler room scams
In recent years, many companies have become aware 
that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone 
calls or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. These are typically from overseas based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell 
them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk 
shares in US or UK investments. These operations are 
commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ can 
be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 
2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) 
has reported that the average amount lost by investors 
is around £20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped  
in this way; many of the victims had been successfully 
investing for several years. Shareholders are advised  
to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
make sure you get the correct name of the person  −
and organisation;
check that they are properly authorised by the FSA  −
before getting involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/
register/ and contacting the firm using the details  
on the register;
report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845  −
606 1234 or visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/
consumerinformation; and
if the calls persist, hang up. −
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be 
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by 
completing an online form at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/
Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/form.sthml. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company 
endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity 
can be found on our Consumer Information section  
at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/consumerinformation. 
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Martin Parker
Registered office
Northumbrian Water Group plc
Northumbria House
Abbey Road
Pity Me
Durham, DH1 5FJ
Tel: 0845 604 7468
Group websites
www.nwg.co.uk
www.nwl.co.uk
www.eswater.co.uk
www.nw-ss.co.uk
www.nwpropertysolutions.co.uk
www.visitkielder.com
www.agrer.com
Northumbrian Water main switchboard
Tel: 0845 604 7468
Northumbrian Water customer queries
Customer services: 0845 717 1100
Customer accounts: 0845 733 5566
Essex & Suffolk Water customer queries
Customer services: 0845 782 0999
Customer accounts: 0845 782 0111
Shareholder information
continued Financial statements 143 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes Financial statements 144 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk
Notes This annual report has been printed using vegetable 
based inks on uncoated recycled paper stock. All 
paper stock used for the production of this annual 
report is environmentally-friendly ECF (elemental 
chlorine free) wood free paper and board with a high 
content of selected pre-consumer recycled material 
and post-consumer reclaimed material. This product 
is completely bio-degradable and recyclable. www.nwg.co.uk
Northumbrian Water Group plc
Northumbria House
Abbey Road
Pity Me
Durham DH1 5FJ
Tel: 0845 604 7468
Fax: 0191 301 6202
Registered in England & Wales
Registered number 4760441
