 Delivering managed procurement and business critical services
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Delivering managed procurement and business critical services
office2office      Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Head Office: o2o plc, St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich, NR3 1PD
Telephone: 0845 226 7780 www.office2office.co.uk
office2office plc Registered number 04083206 o2o plc
Contents
Introduction 
Financial Highlights 1
Chairman’s Statement  2
Chief Executive’s Review 4
Business and Financial Review 12
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Statement 14
Board of Directors  17
Directors’ Report  18
Corporate Governance Statement  22
Nomination Committee Report 26
Audit Committee Report 27
Directors’ Remuneration Report  28
Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the members of office2office plc 33
Consolidated Income Statement  34
Consolidated and Parent  
Company Balance Sheets  35
Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Changes in 
Shareholders’ Equity 36
Consolidated and Parent Company 
Cash Flow Statements 38
Significant Accounting Policies  39
Notes to the Financial Statements  47
Five Year Summary  80
Shareholder Information  81
Company Details  82
Delivering managed procurement and  
business critical services
“Over the last 18 months, we have laid the foundations to 
transform office2office plc (o2o) into a leading managed 
services business focused on four brands – Banner Business 
Services, Accord, AccessPlus and Banner Document Services. 
Our aim is to deliver first rate service to our customers through 
managed procurement and business critical services.”
S R Moate 
Chief Executive
25 February 2009
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008
The maintenance and integrity of the 
office2office website is the responsibility 
of the Directors; the work carried 
out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no 
responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially 
presented on the website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Financial Highlights
 2008 2007
 Revenue £ 8 .0m £167 .9m
 Underlying profit before tax* £ 2. m £1 1.6m
 Profit before tax £9.6m £9.0m
 Basic earnings per share  8.5p 17 .4p
 Net (debt)/funds £(29.7)m £6.4m
  Final dividend proposed – 
payable  2 May 2009
 £2.7m
 7.5p per share
 £2.4m
 6.8p per share
*Profit before tax, exceptional and non-recurring costs of £1.8m (2007: £2.3m), nil share option charges (2007: £0.2m) and amortisation of intangibles 
relating to acquisitions in the year of £0.6m (2007: nil). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008
D J Callear Chairman
I am pleased to report improved results for 2008 in line with 
our expectations. Challenging economic conditions, including 
unprecedented product cost pressures, were balanced by 
the positive impacts of our business restructuring and the 
acquisitions of TripleArc plc and Accord Office Supplies Limited 
and, given market conditions, margins have held up well across 
the Group. Following these acquisitions and the more recent 
document services partnership, o2o is now better positioned to 
drive forward its business with a more comprehensive range of 
products and services and a wider customer base.
Chairman’s Statement
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 2 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Results
Group revenue was £181.0m, up from 
£167.9m in 2007. Underlying profit 
before tax at £12.1m was up from £1 1.6m 
in 2007 , before exceptional and non-
recurring costs of £1.8m (2007: £2.3m), nil 
share option charges (2007: £0.2m) and 
amortisation of intangibles relating to 
acquisitions in the year of £0.6m (2007: nil). 
Profit before tax, after all such charges, was 
£9.6m (2007: £9.0m) and profit after tax 
was £6.6m (2007: £6.3m). Basic earnings 
per share were 18.5p (2007: 17.4p).
Cash and net debt
Net cash generated from operating 
activities declined to £2.2m (2007: £5.4m). 
Net cash of £5.3m has been injected into 
the acquired businesses as a consequence 
of anticipated working capital movements 
together with a related interest charge 
of £1.3m (2007: nil). Accordingly, without 
the acquisitions, £8.8m would have been 
generated from operating activities.
Net debt was £29.7m at 31 December 2008 
(2007: £6.4m net cash), reflecting the cost 
of the acquisitions of £34.1m and working 
capital support post acquisition, net of 
repayments made.
Committed borrowing facilities total 
£45.0m. The facilities, which are committed 
until April 2013, comprise a term loan 
(£25.0m) and an invoice discounting 
arrangement (up to £20.0m) on which we 
are charged interest at 1.1% over LIBOR and 
0.9% over bank base rate, respectively.
The first repayment of £2.5m on the term 
loan is not due until April 2010 and will be 
repaid out of operating cashflows. Financial 
covenants are applied to the committed 
facilities with which the Group has complied 
to date with significant headroom.
Dividends
The Board recommends a final dividend 
of 7.5p per share (2007: 6.8p), which, if 
approved at the annual general meeting 
(AGM), will be paid on 12 May 2009 
to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 14 April 2009. 
Combined with the interim dividend paid 
in November 2008, this makes a total 
dividend per share of 11.0p (2007: 10.0p) 
and amounts to a distribution of £3.9m 
(2007: £3.6m). The total dividend, paid 
and payable for the year is covered by 
earnings 1.7 times (2007: 1.7 times).
Review of operations 
In last year’s annual report we stated 
both our intention to continue to 
improve business efficiency and our 
commitment to expand our routes to 
market through acquisition. In the year 
ended 31 December 2008 we achieved 
this by further streamlining activities and 
by the acquisitions of two complementary 
businesses: AccessPlus (through its parent 
company, TripleArc plc) and Accord Office 
Supplies Limited (Accord). In addition 
Banner Document Services Limited (BDS), 
our partnership with Shred Easy Limited 
(Shred Easy), which commenced trading 
subsequent to the end of the financial year, 
will add a further business critical service 
to our product portfolio. We believe that 
these achievements provide a platform 
for a more resilient business and increased 
shareholder value. Other than our option to 
acquire Shred Easy, we have no immediate 
plans for further material acquisitions.
Operationally, we have structured the 
Group around two broad areas of activity 
– managed procurement and business 
critical services. This new structure 
operates under four trading brands: 
Banner Business Services and Accord 
(managed procurement); and AccessPlus 
and Banner Document Services (business 
critical services). All are supported by o2o’s 
integrated supply chain. 
Trading volumes and margins across the 
Group held up well during the year, given 
market conditions. The substantial pressure 
from product cost increases attributable to 
energy, paper pulp and steel price inflation 
and, more recently, a weaker sterling was 
dealt with by determined negotiation with 
suppliers and passing unavoidable increases 
through to customers.
Year on year revenue in Banner Business 
Services (BBS), our core contract 
management business, grew by a modest 
2.6% (excluding the year on year decline 
of £18.1m in MoD revenues) as the 
business focused on contract retention 
and mitigating the impact on 2008 of the 
withdrawal from MoD supply in the latter 
part of 2007 .
A full review of Group operations is included 
in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4–1 1.
Board changes
I welcome Chris Batterham to the Board as 
non-executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. Chris is a Chartered 
Accountant with significant experience as 
a finance director in the business services 
sector. He joined the Board on 27 June 2008, 
following the resignation of Peter Bertram 
on 24 April 2008, as reported last year. 
Employees
Once again, I would like to recognise the 
contribution to the success of o2o made 
by its employees and thank them for 
their commitment.
Outlook
Following the integration of our recent 
acquisitions, we are focused on growing the 
enlarged Group, making it more efficient 
and improving its cash generating ability. 
The various initiatives we have introduced 
and the actions we have taken continue 
to have a positive effect on the business. 
However, at the same time and like 
others, we are faced with more uncertain 
economic circumstances than we have 
seen before. 
Through acquisition and partnership, o2o 
has succeeded in expanding its routes to 
market and this provides a more resilient 
business base from which it can build. 
The Group has a high concentration of 
customers under formal contracts and 
other supply arrangements in both the 
private and public sector. Further, we will 
continue to seek and find ways to improve 
the efficiency of its operations. Accordingly, 
whilst we acknowledge the continuing 
general economic uncertainty, we are 
confident that o2o is now positioned as 
well as it has ever been to drive forward 
its business.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the Company’s 
head office, St Crispins, Duke Street, 
Norwich on 23 April 2009 at 3.00 p.m. 
Notice of the AGM together with the 
proxy forms for use at the AGM, is being 
circulated with these financial statements.
D J Callear 
Chairman
25 February 2009 Simon Moate Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
Over the last 18 months we have laid the foundations to 
transform o2o into a leading managed services business 
focused on four brands – Banner Business Services, Accord, 
AccessPlus and Banner Document Services. Our aim is to 
deliver first rate service to our customers through managed 
procurement and business critical services.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Logistics
Good 
for you, 
good for us,
good for 
everyone
ManagedProcurement
BusinessCommunication
SecureDocumentDestruction
ManagedProcurement
Public sector
55% of turnover
Private sector
45% of turnover
Commitmenttoasustainablefuture
MidMarketSector
o2oIntegratedSupplyChain
BusinessCriticalServices
BusinessCriticalServices
LargeContractMarket
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 5
Strategy
Last year we stated that our key objectives 
for 2008 were to enlarge and diversify our 
customer base, expand our routes to market 
beyond traditional contract office supplies 
and extend our service and product ranges. 
These objectives have been achieved both 
organically and by taking advantage of 
suitable acquisition opportunities as referred 
to in the Chairman’s Statement.
Four trading brands covering the core 
activities of managed procurement and 
business critical services underpin the 
Group’s broadened activities:
“Banner Business Services”, which has 
been at the core of o2o for many years, 
is a market leader for the managed 
procurement of office and business 
products for large private and public 
sector customers;
“Accord” is our new managed 
procurement brand that trades alongside 
BBS but in the mid market sector;
“AccessPlus” is the core of our new 
business critical services activity 
and provides innovative business 
communication and print management 
solutions to organisations seeking to 
l
l
l
reduce costs and streamline business 
process outsourcing; and
“Banner Document Services” is a 
partnership with Shred Easy and 
provides secure document destruction 
services. It is our second business critical 
services trading brand. 
Through these broadened activities we 
are able to address a wider customer 
base and to sell a broader portfolio 
of business products and services to 
both contracted and non-contracted 
customers. Each activity is supported by 
our Group wide integrated supply chain.
A changing market
In 2008 we experienced unprecedented 
cost price inflation, initially fuelled by the rise 
in the cost of oil, paper pulp and steel and, 
more recently, by the impact of a weaker 
sterling. These pressures continue and a key 
focus has been, and remains, to minimise 
the impact of this on our profitability. 
The scale and synergies derived from our 
acquisitions together with the benefits from 
restructuring the existing business have 
enabled greater control over our variable 
overheads and enhanced our ability to 
adapt to changed economic circumstances. 
l
We continue to improve our customer 
focus and, further, we believe that the 
public sector, which forms a large part of 
our customer base, is relatively resilient in 
the current economic climate, at least in 
the short term. 
Moving forward
Delivering customer value is a key focus 
and a number of programmes, which are 
described below, ensure that we continue 
to deliver value and differentiate o2o from 
its competitors.
These programmes underline a 
Group wide trading ethic entitled 
‘Good for you, good for us, good for 
everyone’. By embracing Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR), we can provide 
added value to our customers and, at 
the same time, create tangible benefits 
for our business and the environment. 
This is explained in more detail in the 
CSR Statement on pages 14 to 16.
o2o Group | Managed procurement & business critical services o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 6
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Managed Procurement | Large contract market
BBS is a market leader in the 
provision of long term contract 
management and procurement 
of office and business products 
for large private and public 
sector customers. BBS accounts 
for around 80% of revenues 
from the managed procurement 
segment of our business. It is 
focused on delivering value to 
our customers and increasing 
value to o2o through a number 
of change programmes.
Firstly, BBS has shifted its customer 
services focus from a reactive to a 
proactive tele-account management 
team working with customers to gain an 
understanding of the challenges they 
face and to help them select the best 
products for their requirements. This 
initiative has been a great success in 
developing relationships and enhancing 
the quality of service. The benefits of 
efficient ordering and, consequently, 
reduced distribution costs are mutually 
enjoyed by BBS and its customers. 
Further, BBS has revised its business 
model in response to changing customer 
needs. For example, the renewal of the 
BBS service agreement with Barclays 
Group incorporates a procurement model 
based on an open trading relationship. 
The renewal of this agreement supports 
the o2o strategy to seek long term, 
strategic customer relationships, based on 
managed services and shared interests. 
In addition, waste management and 
environmentally preferred product 
initiatives have been extended and include:
a waste audit programme in association 
with “Waste Watch”, an environmental 
charity with over 20 years of experience. 
Waste Watch works with o2o to identify 
clear and realistic recommendations to 
improve waste management; 
our Green OPTIMISA™ system. 
This measures the environmental impact 
of a customer’s office products contract 
including delivery vehicles (fuel, CO
2
 
emissions), paper (dispatch notes, pick 
lists, driver manifests, labels, etc) and 
packaging. Opportunities to reduce a 
customer’s carbon footprint are identified 
and we work to make them happen; 
l
l
the Globe & Tick™ range of sustainable 
and environmentally friendly products. 
This is important to help customers meet 
their own green targets; and
recycling initiatives, such as waste 
paper, electronic equipment and printer 
cartridges. The partnership with Shred 
Easy (detailed below) demonstrates the 
Group’s commitment in this area and we 
intend to extend this range of services.
Delivering managed services 
In common with the rest of the industry, 
this has been a challenging year for BBS. 
Input cost prices have risen more quickly 
than we have seen for many years. Despite 
this, we have demonstrated resilience as 
contracts have been added and retained 
on re-tender without any significant losses. 
Looking forward
We have re-branded the business 
“Banner Business Services” to more closely 
reflect its market position. The strategy 
is now to build on the opportunities 
presented by managed procurement 
customers who trust the “Banner” brand 
and need complementary business critical 
services activities. 
l
l
Banner’s tele-account management 
teams are working with customers to 
help them select the best products for 
their requirements. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 7
Managed Procurement | Mid market sector
The acquisition of Accord in 
June 2008 has enabled the 
integration of our existing 
mid market activities with it 
to create a single mid market 
managed procurement trading 
brand “Accord”. The acquisition 
broadened our customer 
base in the mid market sector 
with immediate savings and 
improved margins from product 
range consolidation, the 
Group’s purchasing power and 
integrated supply chain.
The acquisition of the Accord business 
provided us with an established and 
respected distributor of office products 
to an excellent customer base. It has a 
strong track record of sustained growth 
and real enthusiasm for realising the 
additional opportunities o2o provides 
through improved purchasing and the 
utilisation of the Group’s supply chain. 
Under a single sales management 
team, the Accord trading brand was 
launched and rolled out to customers in 
mid November. It has already delivered 
efficiencies without impacting on our 
ability to deliver a high quality service, a 
key differentiator in this part of the market.
Looking forward
The mid market represents a growth 
opportunity for the Group. The 
purchasing power, national distribution 
and environmental programmes of 
o2o, combined with Accord’s flexible 
approach, create a winning formula.
Organic growth will be achieved through 
proactively developing our existing 
accounts and attracting new customers 
with the Group’s broader portfolio of 
business products and services.
Accord operates in a fragmented industry 
segment, which is presenting good 
opportunities for consolidation. It has 
a proven track record for making and 
successfully integrating small bolt-on 
acquisitions. Although the Group has 
no immediate plans for further material 
acquisitions the Accord team are able to 
respond to relevant opportunities should 
they arise.
Accord’s end-to-end procurement, 
warehouse, pick & pack and direct 
distribution create a winning formula. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 8
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Critical Services | Business communication
AccessPlus, which was acquired 
in May 2008, is the core of our 
new business critical services 
activity and provides innovative 
business communication and 
print management solutions to 
organisations seeking to reduce 
costs and streamline this element 
of business process outsourcing 
(BPO). Through an extensive 
range of integrated services, it 
delivers ongoing, sustainable 
cost savings right through the 
printed document and marketing 
communications supply chain.
Five core areas of operation cover every 
stage of the communications process:
data solutions; 
document management;
logistics;
campaign delivery; and 
print management.
Since acquiring AccessPlus we have 
integrated o2o’s existing print related 
operations with it and restructured the 
l
l
l
l
l
management team with a focus on 
accountability, growth and efficiency. 
Synergies have included the utilisation 
of the Group’s warehouse infrastructure 
following the closure of the AccessPlus 
warehouses in Leeds and Southampton and 
the transfer of a number of duplicated back 
office functions, notably finance, payroll and 
HR, into the o2o head office. BPO accounts 
for over two thirds of the AccessPlus 
turnover and continues to be a profitable 
and growing sector. AccessPlus has been 
successful in securing and expanding 
relationships with key customers and has 
also achieved some significant business 
wins from new customers. The following 
initiatives have been instrumental to this:
the AccessPlus Skills Academy, where 
our people are trained to provide 
significant added value to our 
customers by adopting a consultative 
account management style and seeking 
to understand and develop the right 
solution for customers’ needs; and
a Customer Service Charter to 
promote AccessPlus’ desire to be 
the best in the industry.
l
l
Looking forward
AccessPlus is a leading brand in the BPO 
and print management arena. Being a 
part of o2o provides more opportunities 
to attract large public and private sector 
accounts and, at the same time, has 
lowered purchasing costs by using 
the Group’s purchasing power in print 
products and paper. 
Customers generally and the public 
sector in particular, are being driven by 
sustainability and environmental directives. 
By stripping out waste and consolidating 
processes, we can help customers achieve 
major cost savings whilst simultaneously 
enhancing their ‘green’ credentials. This 
represents a great opportunity for o2o and 
we ensure that the sales teams elsewhere 
in the Group are fully aware of the benefits 
of AccessPlus’ solutions to their customers. 
AccessPlus’ business communication 
and print management solutions reduce 
costs and streamline business process 
outsourcing (BPO). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 9
Business Critical Services | Secure document destruction
Our newly formed partnership, 
BDS, is the Group’s trading 
brand in the secure document 
destruction market, a growing 
and profitable business services 
market sector. o2o owns 60% of 
the issued share capital of BDS 
with the remainder held by 
Shred Easy, a well established 
private company operating 
in the sector. Under the 
agreement with Shred Easy, 
o2o has the option to acquire 
both Shred Easy and the 
remaining shares of BDS.
BDS, which was incorporated in 
December 2008 and commenced 
trading in January 2009, utilises the 
o2o network across the UK and Ireland 
coupled with the existing plant facilities 
and infrastructure of Shred Easy. Using 
mobile shredding units to ensure both 
control and convenience it collects and 
securely shreds confidential documents 
on customer’s premises. 
In conjunction with Shred Easy, we have 
a fleet of “Urban Shredders”, which are 
amongst the most advanced mobile 
shredding vehicles in the UK. They are 
small, light and quiet in use and are 
designed to deliver cost efficiency, 
reduced CO
2
 emissions and other 
environmental benefits relative to the 
competition. The blend of expertise, 
resource and commercial opportunity 
that each party brings to this new venture 
provides the ingredients necessary for a 
successful business.
Our entry into this market in 2009, 
through BDS, presents a significant 
organic growth opportunity for the 
Group. There is an increasing demand 
from the o2o customer base for secure, 
on-site document destruction, driven 
by new legislation. Despite the current 
economic conditions, this is a fast 
growing and profitable sector.
Banner Document Services’ mobile shredding 
vehicles collect and securely shred confidential 
documents on customer’s premises. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  0
Chief Executive’s Review continued
| The o2o integrated supply chain
The Group’s integrated 
supply chain consolidates 
and leverages the Group’s 
warehousing, distribution and 
purchasing activities to procure, 
pick and pack and nationally 
distribute over 15,000 office and 
other business products.
BBS, Accord and AccessPlus utilise the 
o2o integrated supply chain. It offers 
them supply chain management 
stretching from procurement, 
warehousing, pick and pack of products 
and national next day delivery. 
During 2008 we have made our service 
more efficient by introducing:
digital pen technology which allows 
our customer service and transport 
departments to follow the progress of 
goods in-transit and view an electronic 
copy of the delivery document within 
seconds of the customer signing it; and
sophisticated vehicle route planning 
technology that allows our routes to 
be planned in a flexible, cost effective 
and environmentally friendly manner. 
Based on the success of pilot schemes, 
customers will enjoy a more efficient 
service and, alongside considerable cost 
savings, o2o will significantly reduce 
its carbon footprint by down sizing 
the fleet and reducing the number of 
vehicle-miles travelled.
l
l
Looking forward
Our priorities for 2009 include the 
complete national rollout of the above 
initiatives, further improvements to 
customer service and the reduction of our 
carbon footprint by seeking more effective 
operational methods. Our aim is to shape 
our fleet into one of the most advanced 
and fit for purpose fleets in the industry 
to achieve the best in class supply chain 
e-commerce and business processes.
o2o’s sophisticated vehicle route 
planning technology allows routes to be 
planned in a flexible, cost effective and 
environmentally friendly manner. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Management and employees 
Management
As described above, our new structure 
creates four trading brands: Banner 
Business Services and Accord (managed 
procurement); and AccessPlus and Banner 
Document Services (business critical 
services). Each brand is supported by the 
o2o integrated supply chain.
The manager responsible for each 
brand, the supply chain and the Group 
human resource join Mark Cunningham 
and myself to form the Operations 
Executive team. We are charged with 
the responsibility for the day to day 
management of the Group. This is a strong 
team with clearly defined responsibilities 
to deliver both our operational and 
strategic objectives.
Employees
We recognise that the continued success 
of o2o is a reflection of the success of 
our people and I would like to thank 
management and employees for their 
contribution and continued commitment.
We aim to recruit and retain the best 
people in our business sectors. o2o 
people have a broad range of talents 
and backgrounds. Customers rely on the 
combined efforts of over 900 people to 
manage relationships and to deliver the 
right products and services when and 
where they are needed. 
Future prospects 
During 2009, our strategic objective is to 
improve on our position as a managed 
services business, by leveraging our 
newly acquired business process 
outsourcing capability and document 
destruction services into our existing 
and diverse range of customers.
We are focused on organic growth 
opportunities, the complete integration 
of our recent acquisitions and improving 
both the efficiency and the cash 
generation of the o2o Group.
S R Moate 
Chief Executive
25 February 2009 Business and Financial Review
Revenue and operating profit
Total revenue increased by £13.1m (7.8%) 
to £181.0m (2007: £167.9m). £31.1m of 
the increase came from the businesses 
acquired in 2008 (£25.2m relating to 
AccessPlus and £5.9m relating to Accord), 
partially offset by a decrease in revenue 
from the MoD of £18.1m and a net increase 
of £0.1m in other areas. Operating profit, 
before exceptional and non-recurring 
costs of £1.8m and a part-year charge for 
the amortisation of intangibles relating to 
acquisitions in 2008 of £0.6m, was £13.4m 
(2007: £1 1.7m before exceptional and non-
recurring costs of £2.3m and share option 
charges of £0.2m) to which acquisitions 
made a contribution of £1.7m. Operating 
profit, after such items, was £1 1.0m (2007: 
£9.1m). The operating profit margin, before 
such costs, increased to 7.4% (2007: 7.0%). 
Exceptional and non-recurring costs are 
those significant items that are separately 
disclosed by virtue of their size or 
incidence to enable a full understanding 
of the Group’s operating performance. 
Transactions, which may give rise to 
exceptional and non-recurring costs, are 
principally restructuring related charges 
and costs in respect of key management 
changes. A full analysis of the exceptional 
and non-recurring costs is set out in note 
5 to the financial statements.
Tax
A full analysis of the tax charge for the 
year is set out in note 9 to the financial 
statements. The Group’s effective tax 
rate in 2008 was 31.2% (2007: 30.4%). 
The amount of corporation tax payable 
for the year is £2.6m (2007: £2.5m).
Shareholders’ return
Basic earnings per share were 18.5p 
(2007: 17.4p). The total dividend paid and 
payable for the year of 11.0p per share 
(including the 3.5p interim dividend 
paid on 14 November 2008) is covered 
1.7 times by earnings (2007: 1.7 times). 
Shareholders’ equity at the end of the 
year was £20.2m (2007: £16.9m).
The middle-market quotation of the 
Company’s Ordinary shares at the end of 
the financial year was 65.5p with a market 
capitalisation of £23.8m (including shares 
held by the employee benefit trust).
Cash flow
As set out on page 38, the Group 
generated net cash from operating 
activities of £2.2m (2007: £5.4m). 
At 31 December 2008 net debt, incurred 
as a consequence of the acquisition 
activity referred to in the Chairman’s 
Statement and the Chief Executive’s 
Review, amounted to £29.7m compared 
to £6.4m cash at the start of the year. 
The net debt of £29.7m is supported 
by committed borrowing facilities of 
£45.0m which are in place until April 
2013. The facilities comprise a term loan 
(£25.0m) which is repayable over 5 years 
with the first instalment of £2.5m not 
being due until April 2010, and an invoice 
discounting arrangement (up to £20.0m) 
on which we are charged interest at 1.1% 
over LIBOR and 0.9% over bank base 
rate respectively. Financial covenants are 
applied to the committed facilities with 
which the Group has complied to date 
with significant headroom. 
Key contractual arrangements
The Group has always had a number of large 
customers. With our major customers, the 
o2o approach is to seek long term, strategic 
relationships, based on managed services 
and shared interests. The term for a typical 
supply arrangement is between 3 to 5 years 
and we often service customers for more 
than one contractual term.
A key aim for the Group in 2008 was to 
enlarge and diversify the customer base. 
This has been achieved both organically and 
by taking advantage of suitable acquisition 
opportunities. As a consequence, over 
the year the Group’s reliance on any one 
individual customer has been reduced. 
The Group has a wide range of suppliers 
and it is possible that the challenging 
economic conditions could impact some. 
However, the Group has limited exposure 
to the failure of any single supplier as 
the nature of the majority of products 
purchased is such that other options are 
normally available. The Group maintains 
flexibility with its suppliers by typically not 
making contractual volume commitments.
It is the Group’s policy to negotiate, with 
each of its principal suppliers, terms of trade 
appropriate to the business and to operate 
within those terms once agreed. With a 
wide range of suppliers, the terms of trade 
operated by the Group are diverse, with no 
standard characteristics prevailing.
The Group works in partnership with 
suppliers to ensure, as far as reasonably 
practicable, that its sourcing of products 
meets recognised standards of corporate 
social responsibility. The CSR statement 
on pages 14 to 16 gives a description of 
the approach o2o takes in this regard.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group are set out below:
l 	 Loss of a large customer
The Group has a number of large 
customers and is therefore potentially 
vulnerable to the loss of any one of these. 
Contingency plans are formulated and 
quantified before any large re-tenders are 
submitted so that the business is able to 
respond rapidly, with minimal disruption, 
to a large contract loss. This, coupled with 
a strategy of diversifying the customer 
base and widening the business portfolio 
at the same time as maintaining a high 
level of service, helps mitigate the risk;
l 	 Reduction in gross margins
Gross margins are adversely impacted 
by increases in cost prices, due to raw 
material costs, foreign currency exchange 
movements and customers reducing their 
demand. Last year saw significant rises in 
raw material costs particularly oil, paper 
pulp and steel. The Group has sought to 
mitigate the risk by passing these increases 
onto customers but some resistance and 
lag is inevitable. Widening the businesses 
portfolio of business products and services 
and driving efficiency improvements will 
mitigate the risk and a focus on customer 
profitability allows for the situation to 
be monitored;
l 	 Interruption of operations or 
IT services
The business is built around a proven 
service with reliance on our warehouses 
and IT infrastructure. A severe disruption 
in either of these areas would potentially 
have a high impact on the Group. In 
order to mitigate these risks we maintain 
appropriate insurance cover and disaster 
recovery plans;
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  2 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  l 	 Competitors
BBS operates in a highly competitive 
market. The risk exists therefore, that 
contracts are awarded on the basis of 
lowest price. The Group’s strategy is to 
deliver a first rate, added-value service at 
competitive prices. Recent contract wins 
and retentions underpin our confidence 
that this approach is valued by our 
customers. The services provided by 
AccessPlus and BDS further extends the 
range that can be offered to customers 
helping to further differentiate the Group 
from its competitors;
Accord operates in the less formal mid 
market sector. The Group’s purchasing 
scale, national distribution and 
complementary range of products 
and services, together with the flexible 
approach offered by Accord provides a 
distinct advantage in this sector;
l 	 Economic downturn
The Group is subject to facets of the 
current global economic slowdown such 
as the weakening of sterling leading to 
cost price pressure and the potential 
for lower levels of employment leading 
to reduced demand for some of the 
goods and services provided by the 
Group. The economic downturn could 
impact suppliers. However, the Group 
has limited exposure to the failure of 
any single supplier as the nature of the 
majority of products supplied is such that 
other sourcing or product options are 
normally available;
The Group also has limited exposure to 
the failure of customers. The Group’s 
committed borrowing facilities afford 
some protection against increased 
funding requirements should they arise. 
In addition, the broader base of the 
business following the acquisitions in the 
year, the wide spread of customers and 
the public sector element of our account 
base helps to mitigate the risks in the 
wider economy; and
l 	 Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a 
variety of financial risks, which include 
market risk (comprising currency risk, 
interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk, the details of which 
are described in note 1 to the financial 
statements on pages 46 to 50. 
 2008  2008 2007
 (including  (excluding
 acquisitions)  aquisitions) 
Gross margin %  . %  30.9% 31.9%
Gross margin percentage is calculated as the margin expressed as a  
percentage of Group revenue. It is the measure of profitability of sales less  
their direct purchase cost and is a comparable measure with other companies. 
 
Excluding acquisitions, the gross margin % decreased by 1.0% due to  
unprecedented cost price inflation together with the impact of a  
weaker sterling, mitigated wherever possible by negotiation with  
suppliers and passing unavoidable increases on to customers.  
The gross margin % for the Group (including the acquisitions) is  
higher, at 31.4%, as both of the acquisitions traded at a higher % than BBS.
Distribution costs %  . %  12.3% 12.9%
Distribution costs percentage is calculated as the cost associated with  
distribution (before exceptional and non-recurring costs of which there were  
none in 2008 (2007: £0.4m)) expressed as a percentage of Group revenue.  
 
Excluding acquisitions, the distribution cost % decreased by 0.6% due  
to the cost savings initiatives implemented towards the end of 2007 .  
The % for the Group (including the acquisitions) is lower, at 1 1.1%,  
as both of the acquisitions operate at a lower cost % than BBS,  
with Accord, in particular, using wholesalers much more extensively.
Administration costs %  2.9%  10.7% 12.2%
Administration costs percentage is calculated as the cost associated  
with administration (before £1.8m of exceptional and non-recurring  
costs (2007: £1.9m)) and amortisation £0.6m (2007: nil) expressed as a  
percentage of Group revenue.  
 
Excluding acquisitions, the administration cost % decreased by 1.5%  
due to the cost savings initiatives implemented towards the end of 2007 .  
The % for the Group (including the acquisitions) is higher, at 12.9%, as  
both of the acquisitions operate at a higher cost % than BBS.
Underlying profit % 6.7%  7.9% 6.9%
Underlying profit percentage is calculated as the underlying profit  
(before exceptional and non-recurring costs, share option costs  
and amortisation) expressed as a percentage of Group revenue.
Underlying earnings per share 2 . p  n/a 22.0p
Underlying earnings per share is calculated as the profit on ordinary  
activities (before exceptional and non-recurring costs) after tax  
(excluding tax relief on exceptional and non-recurring costs) divided by  
the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The KPIs presented for 2008 are shown 
for the Group overall and with an 
equivalent stated before the impact 
of acquisitions. The 2008 numbers 
excluding acquisitions are comparable 
to the numbers quoted for 2007.
A health and safety management system 
has been put in place across all sites. 
An independent third party audits the 
operation of the system across all sites and 
rates our performance. The audit covers 1 1 
main areas of review (the most significant 
being health and safety management 
system, control of contractors, fire safety 
and risk assessment) which are then 
scored. In Autumn 2008, our performance 
was rated at 88%, which compares to an 
average for our industry sector of 85%.
M A Cunningham 
Finance Director
25 February 2009
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The KPIs which o2o regard as important 
measures for the Group business 
are gross margin, distribution and 
administration costs as a proportion 
of revenue, underlying net profit as a 
proportion of revenue and underlying 
earnings per share.  Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) applies to all aspects 
of o2o’s business and the Group is committed to maintaining 
responsible business practices. Sustainability is a cornerstone 
of o2o’s commercial strategy and the Group’s approach is 
reflected in its CSR policy which can be viewed on its 
website – www.office2office.co.uk.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008
The Board believes that being a 
responsible business is important to the 
Group’s long-term success. A number 
of innovative CSR programmes have 
been developed as part of a Group wide 
trading ethic entitled ‘Good for you, good 
for us, good for everyone’. By embracing 
CSR, we provide added value to our 
customers and, at the same time, create 
tangible benefits for other stakeholders 
and the environment.
o2o has adopted Business in the 
Community’s reporting model for CSR.  
We are developing KPIs to measure and 
report our impact in the areas of workplace, 
community, environment and marketplace.
o2o offer an extensive range of 
environmentally preferred products under 
its own Globe & Tick™ trademark
 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  5
All sites, other than AccessPlus and 
Accord, have been audited twice. The 
second audit confirmed that each site 
had improved considerably and the 
Group surpassed the industry sector 
average in the prevention of accidents 
and ill health. All senior operations 
managers now hold British Safety Council 
Level 1 certificates and the supervisors 
are responsible for regular health and 
safety checks. Fire, manual handling, 
display screen equipment and workplace 
task-specific risk assessments have been 
conducted at each site. In addition, the 
procedure for reporting accidents has 
been improved with the implementation 
of a new on-line accident form. 
Initial site audits at AccessPlus and Accord 
were carried out in the last quarter of 
2008 and identified the need for up-to-
date training in manual handling, risk 
assessment, fire prevention and first aid. 
The operations managers at these sites will 
also be trained to BSC standards. A second 
audit for these sites is planned for 2009 
with all o2o sites being audited annually.
Community
o2o recognises that how it recruits, 
purchases and invests can impact 
the community.
Our new Group wide trading ethic 
identifies the social issues that are 
relevant to the communities within 
which its trading brands operate and we 
work in partnership with the community 
and voluntary sectors to make a 
positive contribution.
o2o will explore how it can further support 
employees to share time, skills and resources 
in support of their local communities 
and will continue to endeavour to offer 
placements for work experience to school 
children and university students. 
Environment
o2o recognises the business benefits of 
integrating environmental strategy into 
core operations. 
The impact of o2o’s trading activities 
on the environment has been assessed 
and an environmental management 
programme implemented. Objectives 
and targets based on the significant 
Workplace
Our employees are vital to the Group’s 
performance in its competitive 
marketplace. Workplace programmes 
are in place to help the business deliver 
customer value by creating a positive 
internal culture. The Board is confident 
that employees will continue to rise to 
the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Employees
o2o recognises that its achievements are 
a reflection of the combined efforts of 
more than 900 employees and the broad 
range of talents they offer. 
The Group aims to recruit and retain the 
best people in its market sectors, treat 
them fairly and with respect and provide 
them with a challenging yet rewarding 
work environment where their welfare 
and safety is a key priority. 
Employees are encouraged and 
supported in their professional 
development to ensure competence in 
their roles. They are provided with on 
the job training ranging from mentoring 
and coaching through to in-house and 
external specialist courses. For example, 
the AccessPlus Skills Academy adds 
value by training employees to adopt 
a consultative account management 
style to better understand customer 
needs thereby helping to develop more 
appropriate solutions.
All employees are expected to maintain 
high standards of work and behaviour 
and to display integrity in their dealings 
with customers, suppliers and each other. 
Health, safety and welfare
o2o is committed to ensuring the health, 
safety and welfare of its employees and 
others affected by its business activities. 
o2o maintains awareness of the range of 
health and safety legislation relevant to its 
organisation and of the standards of proof 
required to demonstrate compliance.
An independent third party was 
appointed in October 2007 to advise 
on the statutory requirements and the 
implementation of a health and safety 
policy. As a result, a health and safety 
management system, with procedures 
to control and monitor health and safety 
performance, has been implemented. 
aspects have been agreed and progress 
is measured through regular formal 
reviews. Full information on our 
environmental policy can be viewed on 
the website – www.office2office.co.uk.
The significant aspects include waste 
management and recycling, carbon 
emission reduction and the procurement 
of environmentally preferred products. 
Waste management and recycling
The Group’s business activities inevitably 
involve packaging to ensure that 
products supplied to customers are 
protected during storage and transit. 
However, we closely monitor the 
use and re-use of packaging and we 
have programmes in place to reduce 
consumption and to increase the 
recycling of any waste.
Waste cardboard and plastic pallet wraps 
are baled for recycling by approved 
contractors to divert these materials from 
landfill. Research into new environmentally 
beneficial ways of packaging products for 
dispatch is ongoing. 
“Waste Watch” is an environmental 
charity with over 20 years of experience. 
Waste Watch works with o2o and has 
implemented a waste audit programme 
that identifies clear and realistic 
recommendations for better waste 
management.
As part of the BDS secure paper 
collection, destruction and disposal 
service, shredded and declassified 
materials are taken to secure facilities 
where they are recycled for manufacture 
into low grade paper products. This 
“closed loop” recycling service delivers real 
environmental and commercial benefits 
from customer’s confidential waste as well 
as ensuring its secure disposal. 
Further, in conjunction with Shred Easy, 
we have a fleet of “Urban Shredders”, 
which are amongst the most advanced 
mobile shredding vehicles in the UK. 
They are small, light, quiet in use and 
are designed to deliver cost efficiency, 
reduced CO
2
 emissions and other 
environmental benefits. 
Carbon emission reduction
Many companies are now considering 
their “carbon footprint”, a measurement of  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  6
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement continued
Accreditations and Certifications
ISO 14001:2004 – o2o continues to 
improve its environmental standards 
and has set performance objectives and 
targets linking into three key components 
of the ISO 14001:2004 standard: 
prevention of pollution, continual 
improvement and environmental 
legislation compliance. 
During the year, o2o was re-awarded 
the BOSS Federation Environment 
Certificate. The certificate is based on the 
requirements of ISO 14001:2004. 
o2o are members of The May Day 
Network, a joint venture between 
the Carbon Trust and Business in the 
Community, set up to support businesses 
taking action on climate change. The 
network provides a hub for businesses 
to share their experiences in tackling the 
issue and to engage suppliers, customers 
and sector peers to do the same. 
o2o has joined Supplier Ethical Data 
Exchange (SEDEX) and has category B 
membership. SEDEX is a membership 
organisation for businesses committed to 
continuous improvement of the ethical 
performance of their supply chains. 
Marketplace
o2o believe that business success 
comes through treating customers and 
suppliers fairly and with respect. 
The Group works in partnership with 
suppliers to ensure, as far as reasonably 
practicable, that its sourcing of products 
meets recognised standards of CSR. o2o 
is listed on the FTSE4Good Index which 
acknowledges companies that meet 
globally recognised CSR standards. 
Ethical sourcing 
A set of minimum ethical sourcing 
requirements are being developed to 
be applied across the Group. Within 
this, o2o recognises that the issue of 
third world employment policies are 
both sensitive and complex. o2o takes a 
responsible approach to sourcing with 
its buyers visiting supplier’s factories in 
Asia to ensure that acceptable standards 
of employment that are relevant to 
the country and culture, are being 
applied. In addition, an independent 
and accredited third party has recently 
the greenhouse gases produced by their 
operations. o2o has carried out research 
to improve data calculation methods 
and is now developing a programme to 
manage its carbon footprint. 
Initiatives already implemented to help 
reduce carbon emissions include the more 
efficient use of vehicles by the Group:
a new Group company car policy has 
been designed to create a recognised 
energy efficient fleet;
the replacement of our current van fleet 
with vehicles incorporating stop-start 
technology will conserve fuel and 
reduce CO
2
 emissions. In addition, a 
number of hybrid delivery vehicles are 
also being trialled. The Group continues 
to back load delivery vehicles to prevent 
otherwise empty vehicles; and
sophisticated vehicle route planning 
technology has been adopted to allow 
routes to be planned in a flexible, cost 
effective and more environmental 
manner. This will help the Group to 
significantly reduce its carbon footprint 
by decreasing the fleet size and the 
number of vehicle-miles travelled. 
Environmentally preferred products
Globe & Tick™
o2o offer an extensive range of 
environmentally preferred products under 
its own Globe & Tick™ trademark which 
includes products with a high proportion 
of genuinely recycled materials or 
designed with an environmental benefit. 
During the year, the range has undergone 
a comprehensive reassessment by an 
external environmental specialist. As a 
result, a further 190 new products were 
selected to extend the range for 2009. 
We continue to work with suppliers and 
customers to identify innovative products 
to be added to the range.
Green OPTIMISA™
o2o’s Green OPTIMISA™ system is designed 
to measure the environmental impact of a 
customer’s office products consumption 
by analysing the end-to-end procurement 
process associated with it. 
Environmental targets for reducing our 
carbon footprint are defined and we work 
closely with participating customers to 
achieve those targets. 
l
l
l
been engaged to audit overseas factories 
for health and safety, environmental 
and ethical considerations to both 
international and local standards.
All suppliers are required to demonstrate 
a commitment to improve environmental 
performance, offer products made 
of materials from sustainable sources 
and use recycled materials wherever 
feasible. Selected suppliers are asked 
to complete a questionnaire to help us 
assess their environmental credentials. 
Informed purchasing decisions are 
made and suppliers are encouraged to 
minimise the impact of their distribution 
by consolidating their deliveries to our 
stock holding centres. Board of Directors 
David Callear 
Chairman
David, aged 55, is a Chartered Accountant 
and joined o2o as Chairman in 2001. 
His career has been in financial and 
general management mainly with 
publicly quoted companies including 
chief executive positions with 
TIP Europe plc (Europe-wide vehicle 
rental) and Jeyes Group plc (international 
household products manufacture and 
supply). He currently holds a number of 
non-executive chairman roles working 
with the boards of private companies 
including RP Martin Holdings Ltd and 
Swift Technical Group Holdings Ltd.
Simon Moate 
Chief Executive
Simon, aged 46, joined o2o as Chief 
Executive in July 2007. He was previously 
an executive director of Johnson Service 
Group plc, the managed services business, 
where as chief executive of the facilities 
management and specialist supplies 
division, he led and integrated a number of 
acquisitions. Prior to this he held a number 
of senior sales, marketing and operations 
roles with blue chip companies, including 
Well Well Well Ltd, Aramark plc, Provend 
Group plc and Coca Cola.
Mark Cunningham 
Finance Director
Mark, aged 42, is a Chartered Accountant 
and joined Her Majesty’s Stationery Office 
in 1994. He was appointed Finance 
Director of Banner Business Supplies Ltd 
(now Banner Business Services Ltd) in 
1999, having previously worked as Finance 
Controller. Mark became Finance Director 
of o2o plc in December 2000.
Jim Cohen 
Senior non-executive Director
Jim, aged 67 , joined o2o in June 2004. He was 
a main board executive director of Balfour 
Beatty plc until his retirement in February 
2007 . Prior to joining Balfour Beatty plc in 
1993, he held senior management positions 
with GTE and GEC and was a senior civil 
servant at the Department of Energy. In April 
2007 , Jim took on a non-executive role for 
the Swiss construction company, Implenia 
AG. He is also chairman of Empower Advisors 
Ltd, a private company, which is owned by 
Actis and provides interim power generation 
in sub-Saharan Africa.
Chris Batterham 
Non-executive Director 
Chris, aged 53, joined o2o in June 2008 and 
is a Chartered Accountant with significant 
experience in the business services sector. 
He was finance director of Unipalm plc, 
the first internet company to float on the 
London Stock Exchange, and, latterly, chief 
financial officer of Searchspace Group 
until 2005. He currently holds a number of 
non-executive directorships including SDL 
plc, DRS Data and Research Services plc, 
Iomart plc and Betfair plc.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008
Chris Batterham Mark Cunningham
Jim Cohen Simon Moate David Callear
17 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 18
Where the annual report contains forward 
looking statements, these are made by 
the Directors in good faith based on the 
information available to them at the time of 
their approval of this report. Consequently, 
such statements should be treated with 
caution due to the inherent uncertainties, 
including both economic and business risk 
factors, underlying such forward looking 
statements or information.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.5p (2007: 3.2p) 
per Ordinary share, amounting to £1.2m 
(2007: £1.1m), was paid on 14 November 
2008 to shareholders on the register at 
close of business on 10 October 2008.
The Directors recommend a final 
dividend in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2008 of 7.5p (2007: 6.8p) 
per Ordinary share, amounting to £2.7m 
(2007: £2.4m). If authorised at the AGM, 
the dividend will be paid on 12 May 2009 
to shareholders on the share register at 
close of business on 14 April 2009. 
The aggregate dividends recognised as 
appropriations of profit in the year ended 
31 December 2008 amounted to £3.7m 
(2007: £3.5m).
The Directors present their report and 
financial statements for the Group for the 
year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activity and results
The principal activity of the Company is that 
of a holding company. The Group’s principal 
activity is delivering managed procurement 
and business critical services. Net profit 
after tax for the financial year was £6.6m 
(2007: £6.3m).
Business review
The business review has been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements for 
a business review under the Companies 
Act 1985.
The business review’s intent is to provide 
information to shareholders and should 
not be relied on by any other party or for 
any other purpose.
The Group’s strategy, objectives and likely 
future developments in the business are 
reviewed in the Chairman’s Statement on 
pages 2 to 3 and in the Chief Executive’s 
Review on pages 4 to 1 1. The KPIs are 
defined and the principal risks and 
uncertainties (including financial risks) facing 
the business are described in the Business 
and Financial Review on pages 12 to 13.
Acquisitions
On 15 May 2008, the acquisition of 
TripleArc plc at a total cost of £27 .4m (£13.8m 
cash consideration and related acquisition 
costs and £13.6m of debt assumed), was 
declared wholly unconditional. 
On 2 June 2008, the Company completed 
the acquisition of Accord Office Supplies 
Limited for a cost of £6.7m (£5.9m cash 
consideration and related acquisition 
costs and £0.8m of debt assumed).
These acquisitions are explained in more 
detail in the Chairman’s Statement on 
pages 2 to 3, in the Chief Executive’s Review 
on pages 4 to 1 1 and in the notes to the 
financial statements on pages 77 to 78.
Share capital and substantial 
shareholders
The authorised and called-up share capital 
of the Group, together with details of the 
shares allotted during the year, are shown 
in note 25 of the financial statements.
There are no contracts of significance 
in place between the Group and its 
shareholders (2007: none).
The Company has been notified 
in accordance with Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 5.1.2 of the Financial 
Services Authority that, as at 13 February 
2009, the following shareholders owned 
more than 3% of the issued Ordinary 
share capital of the Company:
Directors’ Report
Aberforth Partners 8,570,000 shares 23.60%
Aviva Investors 3,343,934 shares 9.21%
Gartmore Investment 3,050,000 shares 8.40%
Bestinver 2,428,465 shares 6.69%
Baillie Gifford 2,172,705 shares 5.98% 
F & C Asset Management 2,123,352 shares 5.85%
AXA Investment 1,550,460 shares 4.27% 
M & G Investment Management 1,225,000 shares 3.37%
Insight Investment 1,095,022 shares 3.02% o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 19
3
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Member of the Remuneration Committee 
and Nomination Committee.
Biographical details of the Directors are 
shown on page 17.
Chris Batterham will offer himself for 
election being the first opportunity to 
do so since his appointment. No other 
re-elections are required under the three 
year rule of the Company’s Articles of 
Association (the Articles).
Corporate Governance
Details of the Corporate Governance 
arrangements are provided on 
pages 22 to 25.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests are detailed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 28 to 32. 
Directors’ third-party 
indemnity provision
A qualifying third-party indemnity 
provision as defined in section 234 of 
the Companies Act 2006 is in force for 
the benefit of each of the Directors in 
respect of liabilities incurred as a result 
of their office, to the extent permitted 
by law. In respect of those liabilities for 
which Directors may not be indemnified, 
the Company maintained a directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance policy 
throughout the financial year.
Donations
No donations were made to any charitable 
or political organisation in the year (2007: £nil).
Employee involvement
The Group has a policy of providing 
employees with information through 
corporate newsletters and regular 
meetings, which are held between 
management and employees to allow 
a free flow of information and ideas. 
A “Supplier Day” is hosted annually which 
provides an opportunity for relevant 
employees to meet with the Group’s 
key suppliers and for the suppliers to 
showcase the new products included in 
the Group’s catalogues.
The Directors have authority to allot the 
Company’s unissued Ordinary shares (within 
the meaning of Section 80 Companies Act 
1985) up to a maximum nominal amount 
of £121,030 (being one-third of the current 
issued Ordinary share capital) and the power 
to disapply pre-emption rights in respect of 
the allotment of shares (under Section 95 
Companies Act 1985) up to an aggregate 
nominal value of £18,154 (representing 
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital). In 
addition, the Directors have authority, on 
behalf of the Company, to make market 
purchases of up to 3,630,898 Ordinary 
shares of the Company (being 10% of the 
Company’s Ordinary shares in issue).
These authorities were conferred by 
approval of separate resolutions at the 
Company’s last AGM and are due to 
expire at the end of the forthcoming 
AGM. Separate resolutions to renew these 
authorities, details of which will be set out 
in the notice of meeting, will be proposed 
at the AGM on 23 April 2009.
Directors
The following were Directors during 
2008 and, unless where specified, held 
office throughout the period under 
review up to the date of signing these 
financial statements:
D J Callear 
Chairman
1
S R Moate 
Chief Executive 
M A Cunningham 
Finance Director 
J L Cohen 
Non-executive Director
2
C M Batterham 
Non-executive Director
3
 
(appointed 27 June 2008) 
P M Bertram 
Non-executive Director
3
 
(resigned 24 April 2008)
1
Chairman of the Board and of the 
Nomination Committee. Member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
2
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and senior independent 
Director. Member of the Audit Committee 
and Nomination Committee.
The Group operates a long term incentive 
scheme for executive Directors and senior 
managers. Details are included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
28 to 32. 
The Group also has Save As You Earn 
schemes under which employees are 
granted an option to purchase Ordinary 
shares in the Company in either three or 
five years time, dependent upon their 
entering into a contract to make monthly 
contributions to a savings account over 
the relevant period. These savings are 
used to fund the option exercise. The 
initial schemes launched in 2004 and 
2005 have an exercise price above the 
current market price. During the year 
501,164 options, representing 1.38% of 
the issued Ordinary share capital, were 
granted. The exercise price was at a 20% 
discount to the share’s market value at 
the date of invitation. The schemes are 
open to all Group employees including 
the executive Directors. Details of the 
executive Directors’ participation are 
included in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 28 to 32.
During the year a low cost dealing service 
was launched which provides employees 
with a simple way of buying or selling o2o 
shares. Details of this service are available 
on the Company’s website.
Employee benefit trust (EBT)
As at 31 December 2008, the total 
number of Ordinary shares held by the 
EBT was 582,295 (1.60%) (2007: 624,248 
(1.72%)) of the issued Ordinary share 
capital of the Company. Whilst held 
in trust, the shares do not attract any 
payment of dividends nor do they have 
any voting rights attached to them.
Equal opportunities
The Group is fully committed to a policy 
that provides all employees irrespective 
of background or disability with equality 
of opportunity for employment, training, 
career development and selection on 
the basis of ability, qualifications and 
suitability for the job. Executive Directors, 
managers and employees are required 
to promote equality of opportunity and 
to take full account of the policy in their 
day-to-day work. The aim is to recruit the  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 20
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the annual report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and 
Parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. The financial 
statements are required by law to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company and the Group and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent;
state that the financial statements 
comply with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union; and
prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group 
will continue in business, in which case 
there should be supporting assumptions 
or qualifications as necessary. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that disclose, 
with reasonable accuracy at any time, the 
financial position of the Company and 
the Group and to enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
●
●
●
●
best staff in the industry and the Group is 
committed to the principle of maximising 
every employee’s potential. In selecting, 
training and promoting staff, the Group 
has to take account of the physically 
demanding nature of much of its work. 
Employees who become disabled will be 
retained and re-trained, where possible.
Health and safety
o2o is committed to maintaining 
the health, safety and welfare of its 
employees. Details of the Group’s health 
and safety activities are given on 
pages 14 to 16 of the CSR Statement.
Creditor payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to negotiate, with 
each of its principal suppliers, terms of trade 
appropriate to the business and to operate 
within those terms of payment once agreed. 
Trade creditor days based on the year end 
figures are 77 (2007: 69 days) for the enlarged 
Group. The Company has no trade creditors 
(2007: nil), being a holding company.
Environmental policy
The Group ensures that, in satisfying 
its customers’ requirements, both the 
goods and services supplied and its own 
housekeeping comply with legislation 
and best practice. The Group continually 
reviews its environmental performance 
across the business. Further details of the 
Group’s environmental policies are provided 
in the CSR Statement on pages 14 to 16.
Corporate Social Responsibility
A summary report on the Group’s policies 
and objectives in respect of CSR is set out on 
pages 14 to 16.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group’s operations expose it to 
a variety of financial and other risks, 
a review of which is provided in the 
Business and Financial Review on pages 
12 to 13. The Board has delegated the 
responsibility for monitoring financial risk 
management to the Audit Committee.
Directors’ Report continued
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on page 19 of the 
annual report confirm that, to the best of 
their knowledge:
the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Group; and
the Directors’ Report contained in the 
annual report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Statement of disclosure of 
information to auditors
So far as each of the Directors are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Group’s auditors are unaware and 
they have taken all steps that they ought 
to have taken as Directors in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s 
auditors are aware of that information. 
Requirements of the 
Takeover Directive
The following are disclosed in 
accordance with the requirements of the 
Takeover Directive:
the structure of the Company’s share 
capital is disclosed in note 25 of the notes 
to the financial statements on page 71; 
there are no restrictions on the transfers 
of securities in the Company including 
limitations on the holdings of securities 
and requirements to obtain the approval 
of the Company or of other holders prior 
to a transfer of securities;
●
●
●
● o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 21
there are no restrictions on voting rights 
other than for those shares held in the 
EBT, as referred to on page 19;
the Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the 
Company’s securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights;
the Directors’ beneficial interests are 
disclosed on page 31 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. None of the 
Directors’ interests carry special rights 
with regards to control of the Company;
details of the Group employees’ share 
save scheme are given on page 19;
procedures for appointment to the 
Board are included on the Company’s 
website (www.office2office.co.uk) 
under Nomination Committee –  
Terms of reference;
the Directors have authority to allot 
Ordinary shares of the Company, 
disapply pre-emption rights and make 
market purchases of Ordinary shares 
of the Company. Details of these 
authorities and their limitations are 
provided on page 19;
the terms of the Company’s committed 
borrowing facilities contain a change 
of control clause following a takeover 
bid that requires mandatory repayment 
of all outstanding monies and accrued 
interest. The Company does not have 
any other significant arrangements that 
contain change of control clauses; and
there are no provisions for 
compensation for loss of office or 
employment in the agreements with 
Directors and employees.
Independent auditors
The Audit Committee has considered 
and recommends the re-appointment 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) 
as auditors. A resolution proposing 
their re-appointment will be put to the 
forthcoming AGM.
For and on behalf of the Board
D Rodwell 
Company Secretary
25 February 2009 
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
● o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 22
resigned in April 2008 in order to pursue 
his other business commitments. 
Consequently, Chris Batterham was 
appointed as non-executive Director in 
June 2008 and his biography is included 
on page 17. During the two month 
period between the resignation of Peter 
Bertram and the appointment of Chris 
Batterham, the Company only had one 
independent non-executive Director 
and was therefore in breach of provision 
A.3.2 of the Combined Code, which states 
that listed companies below the FTSE350 
should have at least two independent 
non-executive directors. The Board 
considers both non-executive Directors 
to be independent and feels that their 
diverse experiences and backgrounds 
bring a depth of debate and alternative 
viewpoint to the Board. Jim Cohen is 
the senior independent non-executive 
Director. The terms and conditions of the 
non-executive Directors’ appointments 
are available on request from the 
Company’s registered office.
The Board operates formally through 
agenda-driven Board meetings, which 
are normally held on a monthly basis, 
usually at the Company’s head office. 
The monthly agenda covers both 
operational and strategic matters. In the 
first half of the year sub-committees of 
the Board met on seven occasions to 
deal with matters relating specifically 
to the acquisition of TripleArc plc, a 
Class 1 transaction that was completed 
in May 2008. A further meeting of a 
sub-committee of the Board in July 2008 
related to the compulsory acquisition of 
the remaining TripleArc plc shares. See 
page 77 for details.
Frequent informal dialogue between the 
Directors supplements the formal Board 
meetings. On a number of occasions 
during the year, the Chairman met with 
the non-executive Directors without the 
executive Directors present to discuss 
the performance of individual executive 
Directors and other senior managers. The 
non-executive Directors also met without 
the Chairman being present to discuss 
his performance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders 
for the management and control of the 
Group’s activities, its strategic objectives, 
its system of corporate governance 
Statement of compliance with 
the Combined Code 2006 
The Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued in June 2006 (the 
Combined Code) sets out standards 
of good corporate governance. 
The Combined Code is publicly available 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website www.frc.org.uk.
The Directors consider that the Company 
has complied with the principles set 
out in section 1 of the Combined Code 
throughout the period with one exception 
as detailed below. The application of 
the principles of the Combined Code in 
the composition and operation of the 
Board, the remuneration of the Directors, 
shareholder relationships and procedures 
for financial reporting and internal control 
are described below. 
Directors and the Board
The Board comprises the Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, the Finance Director and 
two non-executive Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for leading 
the Board and ensuring there is timely and 
effective communication to and between 
Board members. The Chief Executive, 
supported by the senior management 
team is responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Group and, once 
agreed by the Board as a whole, the 
development and implementation of 
strategy. The normal segregation of 
responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive has been set out 
in writing and approved by the Board. 
The Chairman’s other main commitments 
are disclosed on page 17. A statement of 
Directors’ responsibilities is given on page 
20 of the Directors’ Report. The respective 
responsibilities of directors and auditors 
is given on page 33 of the Independent 
Auditors’ report to the members of 
office2office plc.
The non-executive Directors are free 
from any business or other relationship 
which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their judgement and have 
no involvement with the day-to-day 
management of the Group. Peter Bertram 
had indicated that he would not stand 
for re-election at the 2008 AGM and 
Corporate Governance Statement
and the stewardship of its resources. 
This is achieved by regular review of 
the key activities of the Group through 
the monthly management accounts, 
detailed reports and presentations. 
A Board pack comprising information to 
be reviewed and discussed is forwarded 
to all Board members in advance of the 
monthly meetings to allow the Directors 
to be fully prepared. On a daily basis, the 
Directors receive an email summary of 
the previous day’s sales, with cumulative 
monthly figures and budget comparison. 
Additionally, the Board receives analyst 
and broker reports and is updated on 
any movements in major shareholdings. 
There is also a formal schedule of matters 
reserved for consideration and approval 
by the Board. Specific responsibilities 
have been delegated to Board 
committees as described below. 
The Company Secretary reports to the 
Board and advises individual Directors 
as required on Board procedures 
and corporate governance matters. 
A procedure also exists for Directors to 
take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense. Appropriate 
third party directors’ and officers’ 
insurance is maintained by the Company.
The Board undertakes a critical evaluation 
of itself and its committees on an 
annual basis. The Company Secretary 
prepared an independent assessment 
of the performance of the Board and its 
committees during the year, based on 
Higgs Performance Evaluation Guidance, 
and this was discussed with the Board in 
January 2009. 
The Board concurred with the 
performance evaluation and was satisfied 
with the work and support provided by 
its committees. Following a review of 
the schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board and all of the committee’s terms 
of reference, the Board agreed that no 
changes were necessary.
The main challenge facing the Board 
during 2008 was achieving a balance 
between the various strategic decisions 
made and, in the second part of the year, 
managing the actions taken in the face 
of uncertain economic circumstances. 
These decisions included growing the 
Company with two acquisitions in the  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 23
first half of the year, re-organising the 
management structure to enable growth 
into complementary business areas and 
diversifying further by entering into a 
partnership to provide a secure document 
destruction service. At the same time 
decisions were taken to ensure the business 
remained efficient through a further 
streamlining of resource and a business 
process improvement plan. The challenge 
necessitated formal and informal meetings 
in addition to the monthly scheduled 
meetings and the involvement of the 
Company’s advisers and other external 
consultants where appropriate. 
As in previous years the Board has kept 
abreast of operational matters via formal 
presentations and informal meetings with 
senior management. The Board feels that 
this not only improves communications, 
both in and out of the boardroom, but also 
helps in its understanding of the business. 
In turn, the Board has ensured that all 
employees are informed of the strategic 
and operational developments via the 
Chief Executive’s quarterly newsletter 
and regular email. The Board is also kept 
up-to-date with changes in the regulatory 
environment. In April 2008, Macfarlanes 
LLP , the Company’s lawyers, were invited 
to advise the Board on the impact on the 
Directors of the new Companies Act 2006 
(CA 2006). Additionally, the Company 
Secretary briefs the Board as new 
provisions of the CA 2006 come into force 
and on other regulatory developments.
Under CA 2006, Directors must avoid 
any situations in which they have or 
could have a direct or indirect interest 
that conflicts with Company interests. 
Following shareholder approval at the 
2008 AGM for amendments to the 
Articles, the Board has authority to 
approve any such conflict, as appropriate.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
no more than one third of the Directors 
are required to retire at each AGM and 
all Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at least once 
every three years. Directors appointed by 
the Board during the year are required 
to retire at the first AGM after their 
appointment and offer themselves for 
election. Accordingly, Chris Batterham will 
offer himself for election at the next AGM.
Going concern
The Group has net current liabilities as at 
31 December 2008. The Group has traded 
profitably since the balance sheet date 
with the profits generated contributing to 
the funding of the Group’s working capital 
requirements. In addition, the Group meets 
its day-to-day working capital requirements 
through sufficient and appropriate credit 
facilities that are committed until April 
2013. The Group’s forecasts indicate that 
it is able to operate within the level of 
its current facilities for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, the Directors, having 
made appropriate enquiries, consider it 
reasonable to assume that the Group and 
the Company have adequate resources to 
continue for the foreseeable future and, 
for this reason, have continued to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Committees of the Board
Specific responsibilities are delegated 
to sub-committees of the Board. The 
composition of these sub-committees is 
provided below together with reference to 
reports on their activities. All other decisions 
are taken collectively by the Board.
The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for reviewing the size, 
structure and composition of the Board 
and making recommendations to the 
Board if it considers that any changes are 
required. It keeps succession plans under 
review and has a formal procedure for 
appointments to the Board and senior 
management team. The Nomination 
Committee includes both independent 
non-executive Directors and is chaired by 
David Callear. A report on its activities is 
given on page 26.
The Remuneration Committee reviews 
and makes recommendations on the 
Group’s overall remuneration policy, 
including individual remuneration 
packages for executive Directors, the 
Chairman and senior management. It 
is also responsible for the review of the 
Company’s share schemes and senior 
incentive plans. The Remuneration 
Committee comprises the independent 
non-executive Directors and, where 
appropriate, David Callear and is 
chaired by Jim Cohen. When necessary, 
non-committee members are invited to 
attend by prior arrangement. A report on 
its activities is given on page 28.
The Audit Committee assists the 
Board in discharging its responsibilities 
effectively for financial reporting, risk 
review and internal control. It comprises 
the independent non-executive Directors 
and is chaired by Chris Batterham, who is 
a Chartered Accountant and has relevant 
financial expertise, as described in his 
biography on page 17. Non-committee 
members and the external auditors are 
invited to attend by prior arrangement. A 
report on its activities is given on page 27. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 24
Each shareholder receives the annual 
report and financial statements 
containing the full year results and an 
interim report on the half year results. 
Following the announcement of results, 
presentations are given to the investment 
community in London and Edinburgh. 
The full year and half year reports and 
presentations are made available on the 
Company’s website (www.office2office.
co.uk). Additionally, and in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, interim management statements 
were released via the RNS news service in 
April and October 2008.
The Company’s AGM takes place in 
Norwich and formal notification, together 
with the annual report and financial 
statements, is sent to shareholders at 
least 20 working days in advance of the 
meeting. All Board members are available, 
formally during the AGM and informally 
afterwards, for questions. Each item of 
business is the subject of a separate 
resolution. The collection and analysis of 
the proxy votes is handled independently 
by the Company’s registrars. The 
Chairman announces the results of the 
proxy votes after shareholders have voted 
on a show of hands. These results are 
Sub-committees of the Board met on an 
additional 8 occasions during the year 
relating specifically to the acquisition of 
TripleArc plc.
As Board packs are issued in advance of 
the Board meetings, all Directors are kept 
informed of the matters to be discussed 
and have the opportunity to make their 
views known to the Chairman prior to 
the meeting if they are unable to attend. 
Minutes of meetings are circulated to 
the respective members of the Board 
or Committees.
Directors’ remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 28 to 32 includes details 
of remuneration policies and the 
remuneration of Directors.
Relationship with shareholders
The Board, led by the Chairman, recognises 
the importance of effective communication 
and accountability to all shareholders and 
is kept informed of their views through 
frequent contact with the house-brokers 
and feedback from direct communications 
with, and presentations to, institutional 
investors and fund managers. 
Corporate Governance Statement continued
also made available on the Company’s 
website. Details of the 2009 AGM are set 
out in the notice of the meeting enclosed 
with this report.
In accordance with the FSA regulations 
on Class 1 transactions, a general meeting 
was convened in May 2008, in London, 
to obtain shareholder approval for the 
acquisition of TripleArc plc. Approval was 
unanimous and the results are available 
on the Company’s website.
The Chairman and the senior independent 
Director are available to shareholders on 
all matters relating to governance and 
strategy. All members of the Board may be 
contacted through the Company’s website.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s systems of internal controls 
and delegates the annual review of 
internal control processes and their 
effectiveness to the Audit Committee. 
The internal control systems are designed 
to meet the Group’s needs and address 
the risks to which it is exposed. Such 
systems mitigate, rather than eliminate, 
the risks faced by the business and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute 
Attendance at meetings
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director in 2008 was as follows:
  Remuneration Audit Nomination 
 Full Board Committee Committee Committee
 Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Chairman 
D J Callear 11 11 4 4 4 4* 2 2
Executive Directors
S R Moate  11 11 4 2* 4 3* 2 1*
M A Cunningham 11 11 4 - 4 4* 2 1*
Non–executive Directors
J L Cohen*** 11 11 4 4 4 3 2 2
C M Batterham (appointed 27 June 2008) 6** 5 1** 1 2** 2 -** -
P M Bertram (resigned 24 April 2008) 4** 3 3** 2 2** 2 -** -
*  By invitation 
** Maximum number of meetings that could be attended due to timing of appointment/resignation 
***  Senior independent non-executive Director o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 25
assurance against material mis-statement 
or loss. Necessary actions are taken 
to remedy any significant failings or 
weaknesses as they are identified when 
the Board reviews the effectiveness of 
the system of internal control.
The key elements of the Group’s 
procedures and internal financial control 
framework are:
the close involvement of the executive 
Directors in all aspects of the day-to-day 
operations, including regular meetings 
with senior staff from across the 
Group and a review of the monthly 
operational reports compiled by 
senior management;
clearly defined responsibilities and 
limits of authority. The Board has 
responsibility for strategy and has 
adopted a schedule of matters which 
are required to be brought to it 
for decision;
a comprehensive system of 
financial reporting, forecasting and 
budgeting. Detailed budgets are 
prepared annually for all parts of the 
business. Reviews occur through the 
management structure culminating in 
a Group budget which is considered 
and approved by the Board;
Group management accounts are 
prepared monthly and submitted to 
the Board for review. Variances from 
budget and prior year are closely 
monitored and explanations are 
provided for significant variances. 
Detailed expense reports with 
comparisons against budget are issued 
monthly to cost centre managers to 
assist in cost control; 
a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant 
risks across the Group together with a 
comprehensive annual review of risks 
which covers both financial and non-
financial areas; and
an annual review of insurance cover 
for the Group including a review of 
disaster recovery plans for IT and the 
warehouses. The significant risks facing 
the business are considered to be the 
loss of a large customer or a major 
interruption of warehouse operations 
or IT services.
●
●
●
●
●
●
This process is in accordance with the 
Turnbull guidance and has been in place 
throughout the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and financial statements.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Measures to ensure responsible business 
conduct and the identification and 
assessment of risks associated with 
social, ethical and environmental matters 
are managed in conjunction with all 
other business risks and reviewed at 
regular meetings of the Board and 
senior management. 
The Company has recently launched 
a new CSR initiative entitled ‘Good for 
you, good for us, good for everyone’ 
which aims to combine added value for 
customers with tangible benefits for the 
business and the environment.
A summary report on the Group’s policies 
and objectives for CSR is set out on pages 
14 to 16.
D Rodwell 
Company Secretary
25 February 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 26
Main activities of the 
Nomination Committee
In 2008, the Nomination Committee met 
on two occasions for the sole purpose 
of finding a successor to Peter Bertram 
as non-executive Director. Following 
approaches and initial interviews, 
the Committee arranged for the 
short-listed candidates to meet with 
the Chief Executive prior to a formal 
recommendation being made to the 
Board. As the appointee would chair the 
Audit Committee, due consideration 
was given to the requirements of the 
Combined Code and the Financial 
Reporting Council’s guidance on audit 
committees. Chris Batterham was 
appointed as non-executive Director on 
27 June 2008.
D J Callear 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
25 February 2009
Role of the Nomination 
Committee
The Nomination Committee is a 
sub-committee of the Board and is 
responsible for all appointments to 
the Board, giving full consideration to 
succession plans and the leadership of 
the Group. It makes recommendations 
to the Board of any changes to the Board 
and its committees it considers necessary 
and also reviews the senior management 
structure. The Committee has a formal 
procedure for appointments to the Board 
and senior management team, which is 
available, together with the Committee’s 
terms of reference, on the Company’s 
website (www.office2office.co.uk).
Composition of the Nomination 
Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises 
the Chairman and the independent 
non-executive Directors. The Company 
Secretary is secretary to the Nomination 
Committee. The Committee meets to 
deal with assignments in accordance 
with Company needs and best practice in 
corporate governance. 
Nomination Committee Report o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 27
Main activities of the Audit 
Committee
The Audit Committee met on four 
occasions in 2008 with other Board 
members and the auditors attending 
as required. Three of these meetings 
were to review the 2007 full year results 
and the 2008 half year results prior to 
recommending them to the Board 
for approval. The Committee also 
reviewed the results announcements 
and presentations to investors and 
received reports from the external 
auditors on their work. In December 
2008, the Committee met PwC who set 
out their audit approach and procedures, 
including matters relating to scope, 
auditor independence and fees for the 
full year audit. At the same meeting, the 
Committee reviewed the whistle-blowing 
policy, the risk register and considered 
the need for an internal audit function.
Review of risk management and 
internal control
The risk register profiles the Group’s risk, 
after taking into account any mitigating 
controls, based on likelihood of 
occurrence and impact on the business. 
The main risks are set out on pages 12 to 
13 of the Business and Financial Review.
Internal audit function
The Committee recognises that o2o 
is now a much enlarged group and 
a more complex structure operating 
in a considerably changed economic 
environment. Following the review of 
the risk register in December 2008, the 
Committee has agreed that a structured 
approach to providing assurance on risk 
and control is now required and that an 
internal audit function would be the most 
appropriate way of achieving this. It is 
intended to make a formal appointment 
as soon as possible.
Review of whistle-blowing policy
No concerns were reported in the year 
and following a review of the policy, 
the Committee did not consider that 
any changes were necessary. The policy 
is available on the Company’s website 
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee 
of the Board whose responsibilities include:
reviewing the interim report, the 
annual report and accounts, results 
announcements of the Group and any 
other formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s financial performance 
and recommending them to the Board 
for approval;
reviewing the Group’s systems 
of internal financial control, risk 
management policies and procedures; 
monitoring and reviewing the 
requirement for an internal audit function;
considering the appointment of the 
external auditors, overseeing the 
process for their selection and making 
recommendations to the Board in 
relation to their appointment;
monitoring and reviewing the 
effectiveness and independence of 
the external auditors, agreeing the 
nature and scope of their audit, their 
remuneration and considering their 
reports on the Group’s accounts and 
systems of internal financial control and 
risk management; and
monitoring the Group’s whistle-
blowing procedures.
Composition of the Audit 
Committee
The Audit Committee comprises both 
independent non-executive Directors 
whose biographical details are included 
on page 17 and their remuneration 
on pages 28 to 32. Chris Batterham, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a 
Chartered Accountant. Non-committee 
members and the Company’s external 
auditors are invited to attend meetings 
as and when appropriate. At least once 
each year, representatives of PwC meet 
the Audit Committee without any 
executive Directors being present. The 
Company Secretary is secretary to the 
Audit Committee. The Committee’s terms 
of reference are available on the Company’s 
website (www.office2office.co.uk).
●
●
●
●
●
●
Audit Committee Report
Independence of external 
auditors
The Audit Committee monitors the 
independence and objectivity of PwC by 
keeping under review the relationship 
between the Group and PwC and ensuring 
Group policy is followed in relation to the 
provision of non-audit services.
The Committee meets with the external 
auditors to review and approve audit 
scope and fees and obtain written 
confirmation of their independence. 
Following the audit, the Committee 
meets with PwC without the executive 
Directors being present and also 
discusses the efficiency of the audit 
process with the executive Directors.
Group policy on the provision of 
non-audit services requires that, other 
than for corporate taxation services, 
approval is sought from the Committee 
in advance of any engagement. The 
Committee will consider, taking into 
account the scope of the work and level 
of fees involved, whether the provision 
of such non-audit services impairs the 
independence and objectivity of PwC.
Prior to their appointment to undertake 
the financial due diligence on the 
acquisition of TripleArc plc, the 
Committee considered whether PwC’s 
independence would be impaired as the 
fees of £178,000 were considerably larger 
than the normal annual audit fee for the 
Group. However, as the due diligence was 
to be carried out by a separate team, the 
Committee considered that appointing 
PwC was the most appropriate choice.
C M Batterham 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 February 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 28
Executive Directors’ 
remuneration
Remuneration policy in respect of 
executive Directors is designed to ensure 
that the Group achieves its potential and 
increases shareholder value. In respect of 
basic salary, the objective is to ensure that 
the Group retains and attracts high calibre 
executives with the skills, experience and 
motivation necessary to direct and manage 
the affairs of the Group. Annual bonuses 
and long term incentive schemes are seen 
as an important part of each Director’s total 
remuneration and are designed to drive 
and reward exceptional performance.
The current remuneration package of 
the executive Directors consists of basic 
salary, annual bonus, long term incentive 
schemes, taxable benefits, SAYE option 
schemes and pension arrangements. 
These are described in more detail below.
The executive Directors’ basic salaries are 
reviewed annually by the Committee, 
taking into account the performance of the 
individual, changes in their responsibilities, 
the Group’s performance against 
financial objectives and, when deemed 
appropriate, information from independent 
remuneration consultants’ sources on levels 
of salary for similar jobs. In September 2008, 
the Committee recommended to the 
Board an increase in the executive 
Directors’ salaries to reflect their part in 
driving the Board’s acquisitive strategy, 
their increased executive responsibility of 
an enlarged group and the achievement 
of 2007 full year and 2008 half year results 
against a toughening economic backdrop.
The annual cash bonus scheme for 
executive Directors in 2008 was based 
on achieving profit targets and personal 
objectives. The maximum bonus 
potential was 60% of basic salary. The 
actual profit achieved was below these 
targets. However, Simon Moate and 
Mark Cunningham have each been 
awarded a bonus to recognise their 
performance in the restructuring and 
acquisition activity. Details of the bonuses 
paid are on page 30.
Each year the Committee reviews the 
arrangements and may recommend 
different targets or performance 
conditions to keep the objectives aligned 
with shareholder interests. 
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. 
It outlines the membership and workings 
of the Remuneration Committee, 
together with details of Directors’ 
remuneration in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2008. In accordance 
with the Regulations, a resolution to 
approve this report will be proposed at 
the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee and 
its terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee is a 
sub-committee of the Board and 
membership comprises the Chairman 
and the non-executive Directors, who are 
independent of management and free 
from any business or other relationship 
which could interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement. 
The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee is Jim Cohen. When necessary, 
non-committee members are invited 
to attend by prior arrangement. The 
Committee met four times in the year.
The principal function of the Committee 
is to make recommendations to the Board 
regarding the Company’s policy on the 
remuneration, benefits and terms of 
employment of the executive Directors 
and the Chairman of the Company. In 
addition, the Committee assists the Board 
in ensuring that the Group’s executive 
management are recruited, developed 
and remunerated in an appropriate 
fashion. In determining remuneration 
packages and policies, due regard is given 
to any legal requirements, the provisions 
of the Combined Code (2006), the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002. The Committee uses 
Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP 
and Macfarlanes LLP as its professional 
advisers on executive remuneration and 
employee share schemes.
The Committee’s terms of reference are 
available on the Company’s website 
(www.office2office.co.uk). 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Pension contributions of up to 10% of basic 
salary were made to the personal pension 
schemes of the current executive Directors. 
Simon Moate’s service agreement, dated 
8 May 2007 with an effective appointment 
date of 30 July 2007 , is terminable on 
12 months’ notice by either party, with the 
right for the Company to make a payment 
in lieu of salary and benefits, excluding 
bonus, for any unexpired period of notice. 
Mark Cunningham’s service agreement 
of 23 June 2004 was amended with 
effect from 1 January 2008 to reflect a 
12 month notice period by either party, 
with the right for the Company to make 
a payment in lieu of salary and benefits, 
excluding bonus, for any unexpired period 
of notice. His other terms and conditions of 
employment are unchanged.
Save As You Earn share option 
scheme (SAYE)
The Group operates an Inland Revenue 
approved SAYE scheme open to all 
employees and in which both executive 
Directors participate. Details are provided 
on page 32.
Long term incentive plans
The Company currently operates a long 
term incentive plan, the Performance 
Share Plan (PSP), as detailed below. The 
Company also has a Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan (DSBP) which has been 
inactive since inception. Both these 
plans were approved by shareholders in 
November 2005 following a review by an 
independent adviser and consultation 
with shareholders and the Association 
of British Insurers (ABI). In line with ABI 
guidelines, awards granted under this plan 
are subject to dilution limits. 
Performance Share Plan 
The PSP rules allow awards over Ordinary 
shares, subject to performance criteria 
as detailed below and vesting in three 
years, to be made to individuals in any 
year of a value of up to 100% of basic 
salary. In exceptional circumstances the 
Remuneration Committee has discretion 
to increase the award to up to 200% 
of basic salary. In accordance with the 
scheme rules, the number of Ordinary 
shares awarded are calculated by reference  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 29
to the three day average of the closing 
mid-market quotation of the Company’s 
share price prior to the award date. The 
exercise price of options under the PSP 
scheme is 0.1p per share.
Mark Cunningham currently holds 
awards over 212,705 Ordinary shares 
following grants made in December 2005, 
April 2006 and April 2008, based on an 
average share price of 256.0p, 247.67p and 
168.75p respectively. 
Simon Moate currently holds awards 
over 366,406 Ordinary shares following 
grants made in September 2007 and 
April 2008 based on an average share 
price of 189.0p and 168.75p respectively. 
In September 2008, as part of his salary 
review, the Remuneration Committee 
recommended that an additional award 
is made to Simon Moate representing 
50% of his salary. However, the Company 
has been in a prohibited period since this 
recommendation and the award is likely to 
be made after the announcement of the 
preliminary results in February 2009. Further 
details of the awards are given on page 31 
and in note 26 to the financial statements.
The PSP will reward participants by 
reference to performance criteria based, 
in equal proportion, on (i) a comparative 
measure of total shareholder return 
(TSR) against the companies in the FTSE 
Small Cap Index and (ii) the Company’s 
earnings per share (EPS) growth. The 
combined use of TSR and EPS targets is 
intended to incentivise participants to 
deliver substantial real earnings growth 
in addition to generating above market 
returns for shareholders. 
The portion of any award based on TSR 
will, other than as discussed below, vest 
25% for median performance, with full 
vesting at the upper quartile level (and 
the proportion vesting increasing on a 
straight-line basis between these points). 
TSR will be measured over a three year 
performance period.
The balance of the award will be based 
on the Company’s EPS growth. For 
awards granted in 2005 and 2006, this 
part of the award will vest 25% if EPS 
grows by an average of 4% per annum 
more than the increase in RPI over a three 
year performance period. If EPS grows by 
an average of 15% per annum more than 
the increase in RPI over the period, this 
portion of the award will vest in full. 
The PSP award granted to Simon 
Moate, on joining the Company, was an 
enhanced award. That portion based on 
TSR will vest 40% for median performance 
with full vesting at the upper quartile. 
That portion based on EPS will vest 50% 
if EPS grows by an average of 4% per 
annum more than the increase in RPI over 
a three year performance period. If EPS 
grows by an average of 8% per annum 
more than the increase in RPI over the 
same period, this portion of the award 
will vest in full. 
Having consulted with the major 
institutional investors, the ABI and 
Research Recommendations and 
Electronic Voting (RREV) in November 
2007, the Remuneration Committee 
reassessed the performance conditions to 
provide a common incentive to the senior 
management team. As such, for the PSP 
awards granted in April 2008, that portion 
based on EPS will vest 50% if EPS grows 
by an average of 4% per annum more 
than the increase in RPI over a three year 
performance period. If EPS grows by an 
average of 8% per annum more than the 
increase in RPI over the same period, this 
portion of the award will vest in full.
For EPS growth between the lower 
and upper levels quoted above, the 
proportion vesting will increase on a 
straight-line basis. EPS growth will be 
measured over a three year period.
In the event of a takeover, all awards 
granted under the PSP vest or 
become exercisable to the extent 
that the performance targets have 
been achieved, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. In the event 
of a re-organisation the awards may be 
exchanged for options over shares in the 
new holding company on such terms 
determined by the Committee.
The initial tranche of awards granted in 
December 2005 vested in December 
2008 to the extent that, over the three 
year period, an EPS growth of 28.12% had 
been achieved. This equated to 36.4% 
of the award under the EPS element 
vesting, being a total of 20,921 shares 
to 7 participants. 2,987 of these shares 
related to Mark Cunningham but due to 
the current prohibited period have yet to 
be exercised. No awards vested under the 
TSR element.
Chairman and non-executive 
Directors
David Callear’s and Jim Cohen’s service 
agreements were renewed during 2007 
to run for a further three years ending on 
28 June 2010. Chris Batterham’s service 
agreement which commenced on 
27 June 2008 also runs for three years and 
ends on 26 June 2011. All of these service 
agreements are terminable on three 
months’ notice by either the Company or 
the relevant Director. The Chairman’s and 
non-executive Directors’ remuneration is 
non-pensionable.
The remuneration of the non-executive 
Directors is determined by the Chairman 
and the executive Directors and the 
remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. In both cases and following 
consultation with Hewitt New Bridge 
Street Consultants LLP , salary increases 
were awarded in April 2008 to reflect 
the increased time commitment and 
responsibilities of the roles.
The Chairman and non-executive 
Directors are not eligible to participate 
in any of the Company’s share option or 
Group bonus schemes. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 30
Performance graph
The graph below shows o2o’s total shareholder return performance compared to the FTSE Small Cap index, of which o2o was, until 
17 December 2007 , a constituent member. The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from 
a £100 hypothetical holding of Ordinary shares in o2o and in the index from flotation to 31 December 2008.
29 June 2004 to 31 December 2008
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2008 – audited
The emoluments of the Directors (excluding pension contributions) are shown below:
 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 
 Salary Allowances and  Annual Total Total 
 /fees benefits in kind bonus   
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
D J Callear  139 - - 139 213
Executive
M A Cunningham  159 11 12 182 219
S R Moate (appointed July 2007)  241 10 15 266 180
Subtotal  400 21 27 448 399
Non–executive
J L Cohen  56 - - 56 52
C M Batterham (appointed June 2008)  25 - - 25 -
P M Bertram (resigned April 2008)  18 - - 18 48
Subtotal  99 - - 99 100
Total  638 21 27 686 712
Other allowances and benefits in kind provided to executive Directors comprise car benefits, family private health care, permanent 
health insurance and life assurance at the rate of four times annual salary.
No amounts have been waived in the current or prior year. 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, in 2007 , £146,000 was paid to R C Peck (former Chief Executive who resigned in February 2007).
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Jun 2004
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Aug 2004
Oct 2004
Dec 2004
Feb 2005
Apr 2005
Aug 2005
Oct 2005
Dec 2005
Jun 2005
Feb 2006
Apr 2006
Aug 2006
Oct 2006
Dec 2006
Jun 2006
Feb 2007
Apr 2007
Aug 2007
Oct 2007
Dec 2007
Jun 2007
Feb 2008
Apr 2008
Aug 2008
Oct 2008
Dec 2008
Jun 2008
oce2oce ftse small cap o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 31
Directors’ pensions – audited
Pension contributions reflect amounts payable to defined contribution personal pension schemes.
The contributions payable to personal pension schemes in the year are shown below:
 Pension contributions
    2008 2007
M A Cunningham     16 15
S R Moate (appointed July 2007)     24 9
    40 24
Directors’ interests – unaudited
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of o2o at the year end are set out below:
 Number of Ordinary shares
    2008 2007
D J Callear     350,991 350,991
M A Cunningham     1,086,562 1,086,562  
S R Moate     11,000 11,000
    1,448,553 1,448,553
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests between 31 December 2008 and the date of this report.
No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the period under review. The Directors 
confirm that they have not given any pledges of o2o shares.
Long term incentive plans – audited
Awards granted to Directors under the PSP were as follows:
       Exercise 
      price per Exercisable Expiry 
 1 Jan 08 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Dec 08 share from date
M A Cunningham
2005 PSP Award  16,406 - - 13,419 2,987 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
2006 PSP Award  21,605 - - - 21,605 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
2008 PSP Award  - 188,113 - - 188,113 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
 38,011 188,113 -  13,419 212,705    
S R Moate
2007 PSP Award  232,907 - - - 232,907 0.1p 11.09.10 11.03.11
2008 PSP Award  - 133,499 - - 133,499 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
 232,907 133,499 -  - 366,406    
The awards granted during the year were made on 24 April 2008. The market price of Ordinary shares at the date of grant was 171.25p. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 32
Beneficial options granted to Directors under the SAYE scheme were as follows: 
       Exercise 
      price per Exercisable Expiry 
 1 Jan 08 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Dec 08 share from date
M A Cunningham  5,521 - - 5,521 - 171.6p 01.12.07 31.05.08
  - 8,039 - - 8,039 1 19.4p 01.05.11 30.11.11
S R Moate  - 14,069 - - 14,069 1 19.4p 01.05.13 30.11.13
Lapsed awards were not exercised due to the share price at the end of the exercise period being lower than option price. 
The closing market price of Ordinary shares at 31 December 2008 was 65.5p. The shares traded in the range 62.5p to 195p during the year.
The details and the performance criteria in respect of the above schemes are discussed on pages 28 and 29.
J L Cohen 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2009
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 33
financial statements. The information given 
in the Directors’ Report includes that specific 
information presented in the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review 
and the Business and Financial Review that 
is cross referred from the business review 
section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our 
opinion, the Company has not kept 
proper accounting records, if we have 
not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or 
if information specified by law regarding 
Directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate 
Governance Statement reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the Combined Code (2006) 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and we 
report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and controls, or 
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in 
the annual report and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited financial 
statements. The other information 
comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Chief Executive’s Review, the Business 
and Financial Review, the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Statement, the Directors’ 
Report, the Corporate Governance 
Statement, the Nomination Committee 
Report, the Audit Committee Report 
and the unaudited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. We consider the 
implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent mis-statements or 
material inconsistencies with the financial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not 
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on 
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also 
We have audited the Group and parent 
Company (the Company) financial 
statements (the financial statements) 
of office2office plc for the year ended 
31 December 2008 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated and Company balance 
sheets, the consolidated and Company 
statements of changes in shareholders’ 
equity, the consolidated and Company 
cash flow statements, the significant 
accounting policies and the related 
notes. These financial statements have 
been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have also 
audited the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as 
having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for 
preparing the annual report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union are set out in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited 
in accordance with relevant legal and 
regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
This report, including the opinion, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person 
to whom this report is shown or into whose 
hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether 
the financial statements give a true and fair 
view and whether the financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members 
of office2office plc
includes an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgements made by the 
Directors in the preparation of the financial 
statements, and of whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
the Company’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit 
so as to obtain all the information and 
explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with 
sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are 
free from material mis-statement, whether 
caused by fraud or other irregularity or 
error. In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of the 
presentation of information in the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group financial statements give a 
true and fair view, in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2008, and of its profit 
and cash flows for the year then ended;
the Company financial statements 
give a true and fair view, in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 1985, 
of the state of the Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2008 and cash flows for 
the year then ended;
the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation; and
the information given in the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered 
Auditors 
Norwich
25 February 2009
●
●
●
● o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 34
Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
Note £000 £000
Revenue 3 180,999 167,862
Cost of sales 4 (124,168) (114,276)
Gross profit 56,831 53,586
Distribution costs 4 (20,082) (22,082)
Administrative expenses 4 (25,783) (22,386)
Operating profit 10,966 9,118
Finance income 190 512
Finance costs (1,549) (627)
Finance costs - net 8 (1,359) (115)
Profit before income tax 9,607 9,003
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before income tax* 12,066 11,579
Share option expense 26 (23) (243)
Exceptional and non-recurring costs 5 (1,812) (2,333)
Amortisation 13 (624) -
Profit before income tax 3 9,607 9,003
Income tax expense 9 (2,995) (2,733)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 27 6,612 6,270
Earnings per Ordinary share attributable to equity shareholders
Basic 11 18.5p 17.4p
Diluted 11 18.5p 17.3p
* Profit before income tax, exceptional and non-recurring costs, amortisation and share option expense.
All amounts relate to continuing operations, including the impact of business combinations arising during the year. 
The Company has elected to take exemption under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 to not present the parent Company’s income
statement. The profit for the parent Company for the year was £4,276,000 (2007: £4,275,000). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 35
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 
as at 31 December 2008
2008 2007 2008 2007
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 56,150 13,607 - -
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,599 1,740 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 14 - - 7,705 7,682
Deferred income tax asset 15 1,197 1,316 - -
59,946 16,663 7,705 7,682
Current assets
Inventories 16 8,371 6,513 - -
Trade and other receivables 17 26,713 20,052 9,303 8,861
Cash and cash equivalents 18 2,691 6,963 159 1
37,775 33,528 9,462 8,862
Total assets 97,721 50,191 17,167 16,544
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company
Ordinary shares 25 363 363 363 363
Share premium account 27 5,009 5,009 5,009 5,009
Other reserves 27 286 46 - -
Retained earnings 27 14,502 11,489 11,769 11,109
Total equity 20,160 16,907 17,141 16,481
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 25,374 410 - -
Provisions 23 2,143 602 - -
Retirement benefit liability 24 1,044 1,133 - -
28,561 2,145 - -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 40,465 30,242 26 25
Borrowings 20 6,978 177 - -
Current income tax liabilities 22 1,557 720 - 38
49,000 31,139 26 63
Total liabilities 77,561 33,284 26 63
Total equity and liabilities 97,721 50,191 17,167 16,544
* Restated to reflect the presentation of the balance sheet showing total assets and total equity and liabilities and, in respect of the Company,
the adoption of IFRIC 11.
The financial statements comprising the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, the
consolidated and parent Company statements of changes in shareholders’ equity, the consolidated and parent Company cash flow
statements, the significant accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors 
on 25 February 2009. 
D J Callear
Chairman
25 February 2009
**
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 36
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’
Equity for the year ended 31 December 2008
Share
Ordinary premium Other Retained Total 
shares account reserves earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2007 363 5,009 (11) 9,472 14,833
Currency translation differences - - 57 - 57
Net income recognised directly in equity - - 57 - 57
Profit for the period - - - 6,270 6,270
Total recognised income for the period ended 31 December 2007 - - 57 6,270 6,327
Employee share options:
- value of employee services - - - 232 232
- deferred tax on share options - - - (49) (49)
- proceeds from exercise of share options - - - 2 2
Purchase of shares by employee benefit trust - - - (958) (958)
Deferred tax charged directly to equity upon change of - - - (24) (24)
United Kingdom corporation tax rate
Dividends and other appropriations:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - - (3,456) (3,456)
- - 57 2,017 2,074
Balance at 31 December 2007 363 5,009 46 11,489 16,907
Share
Ordinary premium Other Retained Total 
shares account reserves earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2008 363 5,009 46 11,489 16,907
Currency translation differences - - 240 - 240
Net income recognised directly in equity - - 240 - 240
Profit for the period - - - 6,612 6,612
Total recognised income for the period ended 31 December 2008 - - 240 6,612 6,852
Employee share options:
- value of employee services - - - 45 45
- deferred tax on share options - - - (5) (5)
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust - - - 37 37
Dividends and other appropriations:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - - (3,676) (3,676)
- - 240 3,013 3,253
Balance at 31 December 2008 363 5,009 286 14,502 20,160  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 37
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2007
- as previously stated 363 5,009 9,152 14,524
- prior year adjustment in respect of IFRIC 11 (share options) - - 1,853 1,853
- as restated 363 5,009 11,005 16,377
Profit for the period - - 4,275 4,275
Total recognised income for the period ended 31 December 2007 - - 4,275 4,275
Credit to reserves for share based payments - - 243 243
Purchase of shares by employee benefit trust - - (958) (958)
Dividends and other appropriations:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - (3,456) (3,456)
- - 104 104
Balance at 31 December 2007 363 5,009 11,109 16,481
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2008 363 5,009 11,109 16,481
Profit for the period - - 4,276 4,276
Total recognised income for the period ended 31 December 2008 - - 4,276 4,276
Credit to reserves for share based payments - - 23 23
Sales of shares by employee benefit trust - - 37 37
Dividends and other appropriations:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - (3,676) (3,676)
- - 660 660
Balance at 31 December 2008 363 5,009 11,769 17,141 
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders’
Equity for the year ended 31 December 2008 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 38
Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007 2008 2007
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 28 5,636 8,394 (441) (238)
Interest received 190 512 276 313
Interest paid (1,487) (595) - -
Interest element of finance lease repayments (62) (32) - -
Income tax paid (2,030) (2,857) (38) -
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 2,247 5,422 (203) 75
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (307) (184) - -
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including overdrafts* (21,438) - - -
Dividends received - - 4,000 4,000
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (21,745) (184) 4,000 4,000
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance lease principal payments (219) (151) - -
Increase in borrowings 25,000 - - -
Repayment of borrowings* (12,613) - - -
Sale/(purchase) of shares by employee benefit trust 37 (958) 37 (958)
Dividends paid to Company’s equity shareholders 10 (3,676) (3,456) (3,676) (3,456)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 8,529 (4,565) (3,639) (4,414)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (10,969) 673 158 (339)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 6,963 6,290 1 340
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December 18 (4,006) 6,963 159 1
Net (debt)/funds at 31 December comprises:
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (4,006) 6,963 159 1
Finance leases (655) (587) - -
Bank loans (25,000) - - -
Net (debt)/funds at 31 December (29,661) 6,376 159 1
*Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries which comprises the cost of the acquisitions, bank overdrafts and loans was £34,051,000.
Consolidated Company
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 39
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
General information
office2office plc (the Company) and
its subsidiaries (the Group) provide
managed procurement services and
business critical services. The Group
operates in the United Kingdom and
Republic of Ireland. During the year
the Group acquired control of
TripleArc plc and Accord Office
Supplies Limited (Accord). For details
of the activities of TripleArc plc and
Accord refer to note 31. 
The Company is a public limited
company, which is listed on the
London Stock Exchange and is
incorporated and domiciled in the
UK. The address of its registered
office is St Crispins, Duke Street,
Norwich, NR3 1PD.
The principal accounting policies
applied in the preparation of these
consolidated financial statements are
set out below. These policies have
been consistently applied to all the
years presented, unless otherwise
stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements
of office2office plc have been
prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the
European Union (IFRSs as adopted by
the EU), IFRIC interpretations and the
Companies Act 1985 and 2006 as
applicable to companies reporting
under IFRS. The consolidated financial
statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with IFRS
requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates. It also requires
management to exercise its
judgement in the process of applying
the Group’s accounting policies. The
areas involving a higher degree of
judgement or complexity, or areas
where assumptions and estimates are
significant to the consolidated
financial statements, are disclosed in
note 2.
Recent accounting developments
Standards, amendments and
interpretations effective in 2008 and
relevant to the Group’s operations
  IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments:
Disclosures’ , and the
complementary amendment to
IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial
statements – Capital disclosures’ ,
introduces new disclosures
relating to financial instruments
and does not have any impact on
the classification and valuation in
the Group or Company’s financial
statements. This has been applied
in these financial statements.
  IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and
Treasury Share Transactions’ . IFRIC
11 provides guidance on whether
share-based transactions involving
treasury shares or involving Group
entities (for example, options over
a parent’s shares) should be
accounted for as equity-settled or
cash-settled share-based payment
transactions in the stand-alone
accounts of the parent and Group
companies. This has been applied
in these financial statements.
  IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a
defined benefit asset, minimum
funding requirements and their
interaction’ (effective from 
1 January 2008). IFRIC 14 provides
guidance on assessing the limit in
IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’ on the
amount of the defined benefit
plan surplus that can be
recognised as an asset. It also
explains how the pension asset or
liability may be affected by a
statutory or contractual minimum
funding requirement. The Group
has applied IFRIC 14 from 
1 January 2008. It has not had 
any impact on the Group or
Company’s financial statements.
Standards, amendments and
interpretations effective in 2008 and
not relevant to the Group’s operations
  IFRIC 12, ‘Service Concession
Arrangements’ .
  IFRS 4, ‘Insurance contracts’ .
  IFRIC 7, ‘Applying the restatement
approach under IAS 29, Financial
reporting in hyper-inflationary
economies’ . 
  IFRIC 9, ‘Re-assessment of
embedded derivatives’ .
Amendments and interpretations to
existing standards that are not
effective for 2008 and have not been
early adopted
  IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’ . This
supersedes IAS 14, ‘Segmental
reporting’ , under which segments
were identified and reported on
risk and return analysis. This
standard is effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1
January 2009, and introduces new
rules on the disclosure of
operating results by business
segment. The new standard
requires a ‘management approach’ ,
under which segment information
is presented on the same basis as
that used for internal reporting
procedures. The Group will apply
IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009. The
expected impact is still being
assessed in detail, but the current
view is that it is likely that the
number of reporting segments will
not increase.
  IFRS 2 (Amendment), ‘Share-based
payments’ . Effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1
January 2009, with the main
changes relating to the treatment
of vesting conditions and
cancellations. Management is
assessing the impact of changes to
vesting conditions and
cancellations on the Group’s Save
As You Earn (SAYE) schemes.
  IFRS 3 (Revised), ‘Business
combinations’ . This standard is
applicable to business
combinations occurring in
accounting periods beginning on
or after 1 July 2009. This standard
continues to apply the acquisition
method to business combinations,
with some significant changes. For
example, all payments to purchase
a business are to be recorded at
fair value at the acquisition date,
with some contingent payments
subsequently re-measured at fair
value through income. Goodwill
may be calculated based on the o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 40
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
parent Company’s share of net
assets or it may include goodwill
related to the minority interest. All
transaction costs will be expensed.
The impact of IFRS 3 as revised is
dependent on the extent of
business combinations from 1
January 2010 and cannot currently
be quantified.
  IAS 1 (Revised), ‘Presentation of
financial statements’ . Effective for
annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2009. The revised
standard will prohibit the
presentation of items of income
and expenses (that is, ‘non-owner
changes in equity’) in the
statement of changes in equity,
requiring ‘non-owner changes in
equity’ to be presented separately
from owner changes in equity. All
non-owner changes in equity will
be required to be shown in a
performance statement, but
entities can choose whether to
present one performance
statement (the statement of
comprehensive income) or two
statements (the income statement
and statement of comprehensive
income). Where entities restate or
reclassify comparative information,
they will be required to present a
restated balance sheet as at the
beginning of the comparative
period in addition to the current
requirement to present balance
sheets at the end of the current
period and comparative period.
The Group and Company will
apply IAS 1 (revised) from 1
January 2009, subject to
endorsement by the EU. It is likely
that both the income statement
and statement of comprehensive
income will be presented as
performance statements.
  IAS 23 (Revised), ‘Borrowing costs’ .
Effective for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 January
2009. The main change from the
previous version is the removal of
the option of immediately
recognising as an expense
borrowing costs that relate to
assets that take a substantial
period of time to get ready for use
or sale. The impact of IAS 23 is
dependent upon the extent of
qualifying expenditure from 1
January 2009 onwards and hence
cannot currently be quantified.
  IAS 36 (Amendment), ‘Impairment
of assets’ . Effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1
January 2009. Where fair value less
costs to sell is calculated on the
basis of discounted cash flows,
disclosures equivalent to those for
value-in-use calculation should be
made. The Group will apply IAS 36
(Amendment) and provide the
required disclosure where
applicable for impairment tests
from 1 January 2009, subject to
endorsement by the EU.
  IAS 19 (Amendment), ‘Employee
benefits’ . Effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1
January 2009. The amendment
clarifies that a plan amendment
that results in a change in the
extent to which benefit promises
are affected by future salary
increases is a curtailment, while an
amendment that changes benefits
attributable to past service gives
rise to a negative past service cost
if it results in a reduction in the
present value of the defined
benefit obligation. The definition of
return on plan assets has been
amended to state that plan
administration costs are deducted
in the calculation of return on plan
assets only to the extent that such
costs have been excluded from
measurement of the defined
benefit obligation. The distinction
between short term and long-term
employee benefits will be based
on whether benefits are due to be
settled within or after 12 months
of employee service being
rendered. IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
contingent liabilities and
contingent assets’ , requires
contingent liabilities to be
disclosed, not recognised. IAS 19
has been amended to be
consistent. The Group will apply
IAS 19 (Amendment) from 1
January 2009, subject to
endorsement by the EU.
Amendments and interpretations to
existing standards that are not
effective for 2008 and not relevant for
the Group’s operations
  IFRS 1 (Amendment), ‘First time
adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27
(Amendment), ‘Consolidated and
separate financial statements’ .
  IAS 27 (Revised), ‘Consolidated and
separate financial statements’ . 
  IAS 32 (Amendment), ‘Financial
instruments: Presentation’ , and IAS
1 (Amendment), ‘Presentation of
financial statements’ . 
  IAS 39 (Amendment), ‘Financial
instruments: Recognition and
measurement on eligible hedged
items’ . 
  Annual improvements to IFRSs.
There are a number of minor
amendments to IFRSs which
become effective for periods
beginning on or after 1 January
2009.
  IFRIC 13, ‘Customer loyalty
programmes relating to IAS 18,
Revenue’ . 
  IFRIC 15, ‘Agreements for
construction of real estates’ . 
  IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a net
investment in a foreign operation’ . 
  IFRIC 17, ‘Distributions of non-cash
assets to owners’ . 
  IFRIC 18, ‘Transfer of assets from
customers’ . 
Changes in accounting policies 
Adoption of IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 - Group
and Treasury Share Transactions’
A prior year adjustment has been
made following the adoption of IFRIC
11 ‘IFRS 2 - Group and Treasury Share
Transactions’ which is effective from 1
January 2008 for the Group's financial
statements, whereby the share
options issued in respect of Group
subsidiary entities are reflected in the
Company’s financial statements as a
capital contribution, increasing the
investment carrying amount and
crediting retained earnings.
Investment in subsidiaries and
retained earnings as at 31 December o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 41
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
2006 and retained profits for the year
to 31 December 2007 were increased
by £1,853,000 and £243,000
respectively. 
Exceptional and non-recurring costs
During the period, the Group has
modified the components of
principal costs that are included
within exceptional and non-recurring
costs. This modification redefines the
policy to include non-capitalised
costs incurred in respect of business
combinations. As a result of this
change, £163,000 of non-capitalised
costs in respect of business
combinations have been included.
There is no impact on the prior year
amounts as no such costs were
incurred in the prior year.
Exceptional and non-recurring costs
are those significant items which are
separately disclosed by virtue of their
size or incidence to enable a full
understanding of the Group’s
financial performance. Transactions
which may give rise to exceptional
and non-recurring costs are
principally restructuring related costs
(including non capitalised costs
incurred in respect of business
combinations and potential business
combinations) and costs in respect of
key management changes.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over
which the Group has the power to
govern the financial and operating
policies generally accompanying a
shareholding of more than one half
of the voting rights. The existence
and effect of potential voting rights
that are currently exercisable or
convertible are considered when
assessing whether the Group
controls another entity. Subsidiaries
are fully consolidated from the date
on which control is transferred to the
Group. They are de-consolidated
from the date that control ceases.
The subsidiary undertakings included
within these financial statements are
shown in note 14 to the financial
statements.
The purchase method of accounting
is used to account for the acquisition
of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost
of an acquisition is measured as the
fair value of the assets given, equity
instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination
are measured initially at their fair
values at the acquisition date,
irrespective of the extent of any
minority interest. The excess of the
cost of the acquisition over the fair
value of the Group’s share of the
identifiable net assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of the
acquisition is less than the fair value of
the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised
directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances
and unrealised gains on transactions
between Group companies are
eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses on transactions
between Group companies are also
eliminated but are considered for
impairment purposes in respect of
the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of subsidiaries have been
aligned where necessary to ensure
consistency with the policies
adopted by the Group.
Revenue
Revenue is measured by reference to
the fair value of consideration
received by the Group from goods
supplied and services provided to
external customers. Revenue is stated
after deducting rebates, returns and
other similar discounts, and after
eliminating sales between Group
companies and is exclusive of value
added tax. Revenue is recognised
upon the performance of services or
when the significant risks and rewards
of ownership are transferred to a
customer, which occurs on delivery of
goods as further described below:
(a) Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is
recognised when all the following
conditions have been satisfied:
• the Group has transferred to the
buyer the significant risks and
rewards of ownership of the
goods which is generally upon
delivery of the products to the
customer, except where formal bill
and hold arrangements are in
place when the sale is recognised
when an invoice is raised;
• the Group retains neither
continuing managerial
involvement to the degree usually
associated with ownership nor
effective control over the goods
sold which is generally upon
delivery of the goods to the
customer, except where formal bill
and hold arrangements are in
place, as above;
• the amount of revenue can be
measured reliably, based on
customer agreed purchase orders;
• it is probable that the economic
benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the Group;
and
• the costs incurred or to be
incurred in respect of the
transaction can be measured
reliably, based on purchase orders.
(b) Provision of services
When the outcome of a transaction
involving the provision of services
can be estimated reliably, revenue
associated with the transaction is
recognised on the basis of
performance of contractual
obligations and to the extent that the
right to consideration has been
earned. The outcome of the
transaction is deemed to be able 
to be estimated reliably when all 
the following conditions are 
satisfied: 
• the amount of revenue can be
measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic
benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the entity;
• the stage of completion of the
transaction at the balance sheet
date can be measured reliably and
is estimated by reference to the
percentage completion of the
requested service (or component
parts thereof ) to be provided; and
• the costs incurred for the
transaction and the costs to
complete the transaction can be
measured reliably. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 42
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
Where a contract for goods or
services involves delivery of several
different elements and is not fully
delivered or performed by the year
end, revenue is recognised based on
the proportion of the fair value of the
elements delivered to the fair value
of the overall contract.
(c) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when
the right to receive payment is
established.
Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of
assets and operations engaged in
providing products or services that
are subject to risks and returns that
are different from those of other
business segments. A geographical
segment is engaged in providing
products or services within a
particular economic environment
that are subject to risks and returns
that are different from those
operating in other economic
environments.
Based on risks and returns the
Directors consider that the primary
reporting format is by business
segment. The secondary reporting
format is by geographical analysis by
origin and destination.
Foreign currency translation
The financial information in this
report is presented in sterling, the
functional and presentational
currency of the Company, rounded
to the nearest thousand.
Transactions denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into sterling
at the rate of exchange ruling at the
date of transaction. All realised
foreign exchange differences are
taken to the income statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies
are translated into sterling at the
rates of exchange ruling at the
balance sheet date and are
recognised as a separate component
of equity.
The results and financial position of
the Group entities (none of which
has the currency of a hyper-
inflationary economy) that have a
functional currency different from the
presentation currency are translated
into the presentation currency as
follows:
• assets and liabilities for each
balance sheet presented are
translated at the closing rate at the
date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each
income statement are translated
at average exchange rates (unless
this average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative
effect of the rates prevailing on
the transaction dates, in which
case income and expenses are
translated at the rate on the dates
of the transactions); and
• all resulting exchange differences
are recognised as a separate
component of equity.
Business combinations and
goodwill
The Group recognises intangible
assets as part of business
combinations at fair value at the date
of acquisition. The determination of
these fair values is based upon
management’s judgement and
includes assumptions on the timing
and amount of future incremental
cash flows generated by the assets
acquired and the selection of an
appropriate cost of capital. The useful
lives of intangible assets are
estimated and amortisation charged
on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising on consolidation
represents the excess of the cost of
an acquisition over the fair value of
the Group’s share of the net
assets/net liabilities of the acquired
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of acquisition is less than
the fair value of the Group’s share of
the net assets/net liabilities of the
acquired entity (i.e. a discount on
acquisition) then the difference is
credited to the Consolidated Income
Statement in the period of
acquisition.
At the acquisition date of a
subsidiary, goodwill acquired is
recognised as an asset and is
allocated to each of the cash-
generating units expected to benefit
from the business combination’s
synergies and to the lowest level at
which management monitors the
goodwill. 
On disposal of a subsidiary the
attributable amount of goodwill is
included in the determination of the
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill acquired up to 31
December 2003 was capitalised and
amortised over its useful economic
life. As permitted by IFRS1, ‘First-time
Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards’ , the
classification and accounting
treatment of business combinations
made prior to 1 January 2004 has not
been amended on transition to IFRS. 
Other intangible assets
Customer relationships
Customer relationships are
recognised as intangible assets at the
fair value of the consideration paid to
acquire them less provisions for
amortisation and impairment. The fair
value attributed to the customer
relationships acquired through a
business combination is determined
by discounting the expected future
cash flows to be generated from that
asset at the risk adjusted post tax
weighted average cost of capital at
the time of the acquisition for that
business combination. The residual
values of customer relationships are
assumed to be nil.
Customer relationships are reviewed
for impairment if conditions exist that
indicate a review is required.
Amortisation is provided so as to
write off the cost of the customer
relationships over the expected
economic lives of the asset in equal
instalments as follows:
Customer relationships arising on the
acquisition of:
TripleArc plc (AccessPlus)
10 years
Accord
10 years o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 43
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
Brands
Brands are recognised as intangible
assets at the fair value of the
consideration paid to acquire them
less provisions for amortisation and
impairment. The fair value attributed
to the brands acquired through a
business combination is determined
by discounting the expected future
cash flows that would be generated
by a royalty stream in respect of the
brands, at the risk adjusted post tax
weighted average cost of capital at
the time of the acquisition for that
business combination. The residual
values of brands are assumed to be
nil.
Brands are reviewed for impairment if
conditions exist that indicate that a
review is required. Amortisation is
provided so as to write off the cost of
the brands over the expected
economic lives of the asset in equal
instalments as follows:
TripleArc plc (AccessPlus)
10 years
Accord
10 years
Software
Software is included at cost and
amortised on a straight-line basis
over its useful economic life of 
3 to 5 years. 
The amortisation charge in respect of
customer relationships, brands and
software is recognised within
administration expenses.
Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful
life, for example goodwill, are not
subject to amortisation and are
tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to
amortisation are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. An impairment loss is
recognised for the amount by which
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds
its recoverable amount. The
recoverable amount is the higher of
an asset’s fair value less costs to sell
and value in use. For the purposes of
assessing impairment, assets are
grouped at the lowest levels for
which there are separately
identifiable cash flows (cash-
generating units).
In respect of assets other than
goodwill, an impairment loss is
reversed if there has been a change
in the estimates used to determine
the recoverable amount. An
impairment loss is reversed only to
the extent that the asset’s carrying
amount does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation
or amortisation, if no impairment loss
had been recognised. 
Impairment losses recognised in
respect of goodwill are not
subsequently reversed.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is
stated at historical cost less
accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Historical costs include expenditure
that is directly attributable to the
acquisition of the items. The assets’
residual values and useful lives are
reviewed annually and adjusted as
appropriate. 
Subsequent costs are included in the
asset’s carrying amount or
recognised as a separate asset, as
appropriate, only when it is probable
that future economic benefits
associated with the item will flow to
the Group and the cost of the item
can be measured reliably. The
carrying amount of the replaced part
is derecognised. All other repairs and
maintenance are charged to the
income statement during the
financial period in which they are
incurred.
Gains and losses on disposal are
determined by comparing the
proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in the income
statement.
Depreciation commences in the
month that the assets are fully
installed and commissioned and is
provided on a straight-line basis at
rates calculated to write off the cost,
less estimated residual value, of each
asset over its expected useful life, as
follows:
Short leasehold land and buildings 
– over the lease term
Plant and machinery 
– over 4 to 15 years
Office equipment
– over 3 to 10 years
Assets in the course of construction
are stated at historical costs. Such
assets are not depreciated or
reviewed for impairment. Upon
completion of the assets, costs are
transferred to the appropriate fixed
asset categorisation and commence
being depreciated.
Investments
In the Company’s financial
statements, investments in subsidiary
undertakings are initially stated at
cost, being the fair value of the
consideration given. Investments are
reviewed annually for impairment
and an impairment loss is recognised
for the amount by which the asset’s
carrying amount exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair
value less costs to sell and value in
use.
Leased assets
Assets held under finance leases, as
defined under IAS 17, ‘Leases’ , are
capitalised and included as part of
property, plant and equipment. They
are depreciated over their useful lives
or the lease term (if shorter). The
capital elements of future obligations
under finance leases are included as
liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest element of the rental
obligations is charged to the income
statement over the period of the
lease and represents a constant
proportion of the balance of capital
repayments outstanding. 
Leases in which a significant
proportion of the risks and rewards of
ownership are retained by the lessor
are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating
leases are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 44
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
Benefits received and receivable as
an incentive to enter a lease are
spread evenly over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories comprise of finished
goods and goods held for resale and
are stated at the lower of cost or net
realisable value. Cost includes all
expenditure directly attributable to
bringing each product to its present
location and condition on a first in
first out method. Net realisable value
is based on estimated selling price
less further costs expected to be
incurred to completion and disposal.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents shown on
the balance sheet comprise cash
balances and deposits with banks
that have a maturity of three months
or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts are shown within
borrowings and loans in current
liabilities on the balance sheet, but
are included as a component of cash
and cash equivalents for the
purposes of the cash flow statement
as they form an integral part of the
Group’s cash management.
Bank overdrafts include cash book
overdrafts and confidential invoice
discounting arrangements whereby
the amount borrowed is limited to a
proportion of the trade receivables.
Provisions
The Group makes provision for
liabilities when it has a legal or
constructive obligation arising from a
past event; it is probable that an
outflow of resources will be required
to settle the obligation; and the
amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not discounted on the
basis of materiality.
Provisions for dilapidations represent
the current estimated costs to repair
leased properties which are required
to be made good before the
properties are returned at the end of
the leases. Provision is made on a
property by property basis and the
timing of the utilisation will differ for
each property.
Provisions for onerous leases are
recognised when the Group believes
that the unavoidable costs of
meeting the lease obligations exceed
the economic benefits expected to
be received under the lease. Where
material the leases are discounted to
their present value.
Retirement benefit costs
Group companies operate both
defined benefit and defined
contribution pension plans.
The Group maintains a defined
benefit pension scheme for former
employees of Her Majesty’s
Stationery Office, which requires
contributions to be made to a
separately administered fund. The
scheme currently has 163 members
and is closed to new members. The
scheme is administered by trustee
Directors of Banner Business Supplies
(Pensions) Limited, which is a wholly
owned subsidiary of office2office
(UK) plc, a subsidiary company of
office2office plc.
The net surplus or deficit of the
defined benefit pension scheme is
calculated in accordance with IAS 19,
‘Employee Benefits’ , based on the fair
value of the plan assets less the
present value of the defined benefit
obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent
actuaries using the projected unit
credit method. The present value of
defined benefit obligations is
determined by discounting the
estimated future cash outflows using
interest rates of high-quality
corporate bonds that are determined
in the currency in which the benefits
will be paid, and have terms to
maturity approximating to the terms
of the related pension liability.
The Group has, in respect of IAS 19
and IFRS 1, adopted the corridor
approach to account for its pension
scheme liability. As a result, all
cumulative actuarial gains and 
losses at the date of transition to IFRS
(1 January 2004) have been taken
directly to reserves. In respect of
actuarial gains and losses that arise
subsequent to that date, to the
extent that, cumulatively, they
exceed 10 per cent of the greater of
the present value of the defined
benefit obligation and the fair value
of the plan assets, that portion is
recognised in the income statement
over the expected average remaining
working lives of the employees
participating in the plan from the
accounting period following the year
of exceeding the corridor. Otherwise,
the accumulated actuarial gains and
losses are not recognised.
Where the actuarial valuation of the
scheme demonstrates that the
scheme is in surplus, the recognised
asset is limited to that for which the
Group can benefit in future, for
example, by refunds or a reduction in
contributions.
The cost charged to administrative
expenses in the income statement
consists of current service cost,
interest cost, expected return on plan
assets, past service cost and the
impact of any settlements or
curtailments, as well as actuarial
gains or losses to the extent that they
are recognised.
A valuation is performed annually by
an independent actuary. Further
details in respect of the assumptions
used in providing the valuation are
included in note 24 to the financial
statements.
Since 30 September 1996, all new
employees have been eligible to join
the Group’s personal pension
scheme, which is a defined
contribution scheme. Contributions
to defined contribution
arrangements are charged to the
income statement in the period in
which they fall due. 
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of
share-based compensation schemes
including a SAYE scheme which is
open to all employees. The fair value
of the employee services received in
exchange for the grant of options
(approximated by reference to the
fair value of the option granted) is
recognised as an expense. The fair
value of the option is measured at
grant date and spread over the o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 45
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
vesting period (which is the period
over which all of the specified vesting
conditions are to be satisfied)
through the income statement with
a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the share options
and awards are measured using an
option-pricing model taking into
account the terms and conditions of
the individual schemes. The fair value
of options awarded under schemes
with market based performance
conditions is estimated using a
Monte-Carlo model. The fair value of
options awarded under schemes
with non-market based performance
conditions is estimated using a Black-
Scholes model.
Shares purchased through the
employee benefit trust (EBT) are 
held at cost and treated as treasury
shares and are deducted from
shareholders’ equity. The right to a
dividend on these shares has been
waived. 
The Group makes charges to the
income statement for any potential
employer’s national insurance liability
on options granted, based on the
Director’s best estimate of the fair
value of the options granted at the
balance sheet date and spread over
the vesting period of the option.
The fair value of the options granted
under the various schemes has been
accounted for in the Group’s financial
statements. Where these amounts are
in respect of subsidiaries they are
accounted for as an adjustment to
the investment carrying value in the
Company. 
At each balance sheet date, the
Company revises its estimate of the
number of options that are going to
vest. The Group recognises the
impact of any revision to original
estimates, if any, in the income
statement, with a corresponding
adjustment to equity. The proceeds
on exercise of options, net of any
directly attributable transaction costs,
are credited to share capital (at
nominal value) and share premium
when the options are exercised.
Current and deferred income
tax
The tax charge for the period
comprises both current and deferred
tax. Tax is recognised in the income
statement except to the extent that it
relates to items recognised directly in
equity, in which case it is recognised
in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax
payable on the taxable income for
the period and any adjustment to tax
payable in respect of previous
periods, and is calculated on the
basis of tax rates (and laws) that have
been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided in full using
the balance sheet liability method on
temporary differences between the
tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying value for accounting
purposes. 
Deferred tax is determined on a non-
discounted basis using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred tax asset is
realised or deferred tax liability is
settled. 
Deferred tax is provided on
temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries, except
where the timing of the reversal of
the temporary difference is
controlled by the Group and it is
probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Where the intrinsic value of a share
option exceeds the fair value, the
corresponding deferred tax on the
excess is recognised directly in
equity.
A deferred tax asset is recognised
only to the extent that it is probable
that sufficient taxable profit will be
available to utilise the temporary
difference.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities
are recognised on the Group’s
balance sheet when the Group
becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument.
The Group classifies its financial
assets and liabilities in the following
categories: at fair value through profit
and loss, loans and receivables, and
available for sale. The classification
depends on the purpose for which
the financial assets or liabilities were
acquired. Management determines
the classification of its financial assets
at initial recognition.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised
initially at fair value, less provision for
impairment. A provision for
impairment of trade receivables is
established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be
able to collect all amounts due
according to the original terms of the
receivables. Significant financial
difficulties of the debtor, probability
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy
or financial reorganisation and
default or delinquency in payments
(more than 60 days overdue) are
considered indicators that the trade
receivable is impaired. The amount of
the provision is the difference
between the asset’s carrying amount
and the present value of estimated
future cash flows. The carrying
amount of the asset is reduced
through the use of an allowance
account and the amount of the loss
is recognised in the income
statement within cost of sales. When
a trade receivable is uncollectable, it
is written off against the allowance
account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts
previously written off are credited
against cost of sales in the income
statement.
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at
fair value. Borrowings are
subsequently stated at amortised
cost; any difference between the
proceeds (net of transaction costs)
and the redemption value is
recognised in the income statement
over the period of the borrowings
using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an
unconditional right to defer o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 46
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2008
settlement of the liability for at least
12 months after the balance sheet
date.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest
bearing and are recognised initially at
fair value and subsequently
measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the
Company are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue
costs. Where any Group company
purchases the Company’s equity
share capital (treasury shares), the
consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental
costs (net of income taxes) is
deducted from equity attributable to
the Company’s equity holders until
the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently
reissued, any consideration received,
net of any directly attributable
incremental transaction costs and the
related income tax effects, is included
in equity attributable to the
Company’s equity holders. 
Investments
In accordance with IAS 39, available-
for-sale investments in equity
instruments that do not have a
quoted market price in an active
market and whose fair value cannot
be reliably measured are measured at
cost. If the fair value can
subsequently be measured by
reference to third party information,
such as an offer to purchase, the
financial asset is revalued to this fair
value. Any gains or losses arising from
the revaluation to fair value are
recognised as other gains or losses in
the income statement. The Group
assesses at each balance sheet date
whether there is objective evidence
that a financial asset or a group of
financial assets is impaired.
Dividends
Distributions to equity holders are
disclosed as a component of the
movement in shareholders’ equity. 
A liability is recorded for a final
dividend when the dividend is
approved by the Company’s
shareholders. Interim dividends are
recognised in the period they are
paid. 
Use of non-GAAP profit
measures
The Directors believe that the use of
underlying profit before income tax
provides a clearer understanding of
the performance of the Group. This
measure is used for internal
performance analysis. Underlying
profit is not defined by IFRS and
therefore may not be directly
comparable with other companies’
adjusted profit measures. It is not
intended to be a substitute for, or
superior to IFRS measurements of
profit.
In respect of periods prior to the year
ended 31 December 2008,
amortisation of intangibles did not
form part of the calculation of
underlying profit before income tax
because it was considered
immaterial.
Parent company profit and loss
account
The Company has elected to take the
exemption under Section 230 of the
Companies Act 1985 to not present
the parent Company profit and loss
account.
Underlying profit is calculated as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 9,607 9,003
Add:
Share option charges (note 26) 23 243
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (note 5) 1,812 2,333
Amortisation of intangibles (note 13) 624 -
Underlying profit before income tax 12,066 11,579 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 47
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, price risk and interest
rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability
of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
(a) Market risk
(i) Currency risk
The Group operates in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland and, accordingly, has limited exposure to foreign
exchange risk. Currency risk is managed by matching, where possible, cash inflows and outflows denominated in Euros.
The Group does not currently hedge any foreign currency transactions but continues to keep this policy under review.
Management have considered and concluded that a movement of 10% would be a reasonable benchmark over which
to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to foreign exchange rate risk. For the year ended 31 December
2008, if the Euro had weakened/strengthened by 10% against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax
profit for the year would have been £8,000 (2007: £6,000) lower/higher, as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on
translation of the Euro-denominated monetary assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group has exposure to changes in commodity prices such as steel, oil and paper, which form a constituent part of
many of the products sold. It is the policy of the Group to pass on these unavoidable cost price increases to customers
as appropriate.
The Group does not currently hedge its exposure to commodity prices but continues to keep this policy under review.
(iii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has interest-bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents. Therefore interest income is sensitive to
movements in interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk predominantly arises from short and long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable
rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value
interest rate risk. During 2007 and 2008, the Group’s borrowings, other than in respect of finance leases, were all at
variable rates and all borrowings were denominated in sterling.
The Group continues to keep its policy of not hedging its exposure to interest rate movements under review.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 management have considered and concluded that a movement of 100 basis
points would be a reasonable benchmark over which to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to interest
rate risk. If interest rates on currency-denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher/lower with all other
variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £122,000 (2007: £nil) lower/higher, as a result of
higher/lower interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and
financial institutions and transactions with third party customers as well as credit exposure to customers, including
outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
For banks and financial institutions only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A’ are accepted in normal
circumstances.
Internally, customers are rated according to financial position, history of trading and other factors. Individual credit limits
are based on internal and external ratings, in accordance with limits set by the Board of Directors. The utilisation of
credit limits is regularly monitored. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the
Group’s diverse customer base.
1. Financial risk management o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 48
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an
adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and
cash and cash equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flow.
The table below analyses the Group's financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts shown are contractual (including interest), undiscounted cash flows. 
At 31 December 2008 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 7,710 3,441 24,083 -
Finance leases 324 136 271 6
Trade and other payables 40,465 - - -
48,499 3,577 24,354 6
At 31 December 2007 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
Finance leases 208 112 300 49
Trade and other payables 30,242 - - -
30,450 112 300 49
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses as an objective on the unpredictability of financial markets
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out
centrally and where appropriate under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The policies adopted are
described above.
There have been no breaches in the contractual terms of the amounts shown above.
Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities was as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Fixed-rate borrowings 655 587
Variable-rate borrowings 31,697 -
32,352 587
The fixed-rate borrowings comprise finance leases with an effective weighted average interest rate of 7.4% (2007: 4.8%),
fixed for a weighted average period of 1.9 years (2007: 2.8 years).
In addition to short-term borrowing facilities, the Group arranged a loan on 16 April 2008 of £25,000,000 for the purpose
of funding the Group’s acquisition strategy. The loan is repayable in instalments over five years, with interest charged at a
floating rate linked to LIBOR. A maturity analysis is provided at note 20 to the financial statements.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
2008 2007
£000 £000
Within one year 6,978 177
Over one year and under two years 2,617 91
Between two and five years 22,751 272
After five years 6 47
32,352 587 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 49
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Currency risk profile of financial assets/liabilities
The Group did not have a material profit and loss account exposure to foreign exchange gains or losses on monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at 31 December 2008 and has not used any instruments to
hedge foreign currency transactions.
Financial assets/liabilities relating to cash balances and overdrafts held at financial institutions are at floating rates
denominated in the currency held below:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Sterling - deposits 2,271 6,692
Sterling - bank overdrafts (6,697) -
(4,426) 6,692
Euro - deposits 420 271
(4,006) 6,963
There is no currency risk relating to other financial assets or liabilities.
Fair values of financial instruments
See note 20 for consideration of the differences between the carrying amount and the fair value of borrowings. The fair
value of other financial assets and liabilities is not materially different to their book value due to the short term maturity
of the instruments. 
The Group holds a 60% interest in Banner Document Services Limited, with an option to purchase the remaining 40%,
and has an option to acquire Shred Easy Limited, the entity that holds the remaining 40% of Banner Document Services
Limited. The option price is based upon market values prevailing at the date of the agreement (November 2008) and is
not considered to have a value to the Group as at 31 December 2008, given the short period of time that has elapsed
since the date of the agreement.
Committed undrawn facilities
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Gross undrawn committed confidential invoice discounting facility 20,000 15,000
Cash book overdraft (6,697) -
Net undrawn facilities 13,303 15,000
Bank balances 2,691 6,963
Available liquidity 15,994 21,963
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had not drawn against its committed invoice discounting facility. At that date the
Group had a cash book overdraft of £6,697,000 and bank balances of £2,691,000. If all payments had cleared on the day
of issue the Group would have had net available liquidity of £15,994,000.
The confidential invoice discounting facility is a committed facility, subject to sufficient security from trade receivables,
expiring in April 2013.
The Group has sufficient headroom to enable it to conform to covenants on its existing borrowings. The Group has
sufficient working capital and undrawn financing facilities to service its operating activities and finance further suitable
acquisition opportunities should they arise.
There have been no breaches in the covenants on borrowings in the year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the date
of signing the financial statements.
Embedded derivatives
Management have undertaken a review of the Group for embedded derivatives and none were found (2007: nil).
Capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as facilities plus total shareholders’ equity, so as to o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 50
maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Within this overall
policy, the Group seeks to maintain an optimum capital structure by a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding
needs are reviewed periodically and also each time a significant acquisition is made. A number of factors are considered
which include the net debt/EBITDA ratio, future funding needs (usually potential acquisitions) and Group banking
arrangements (including the monitoring of covenants over current funding arrangements). There were no changes to
the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
The primary source of funding for the Group is bank borrowings.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of gearing ratio, calculated as net debt
divided by total capital. Total debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non current borrowings, less
cash) as shown in the balance sheet. Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by
definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Determination of cash flows, discount rates used in business combinations and impairment reviews of goodwill
and other intangibles
Discount rates are determined by management for the purpose of valuing fair values of intangible assets arising on
business combinations, and to determine the net present value of cash flows in respect of annual impairment reviews
of goodwill, and other intangibles when appropriate.
The discount rates used for the purpose of impairment reviews are based on the appropriate cost of capital adjusted for
managements’ perceived risk.
The cash flows attributable to the cash-generating unit to which goodwill (and, when appropriate, other intangibles) is
allocated are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future profitability and the resulting cash flows.
While management believe the discount rates and cash flows used are the most appropriate rates, changes in these
assumptions could result in impairment of goodwill, other intangibles, or in the fair value of intangibles in respect of
business combinations differing to the values recorded.
Income tax
The Group is subject to income tax in both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Significant judgement is
required in determining the provision for income tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made (see note 9).
Assets and liabilities
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed
2008 2007
£000 £000
Total borrowings (note 20) (32,352) (587)
Less: cash and cash equivalents (note 18) 2,691 6,963
Net debt (29,661) 6,376
Total equity 20,160 16,907
Total capital 20,160 16,907
Gearing ratio 1.47 -
The increase in the gearing ratio during 2008 is a result of facilities drawn down to fund the acquisition of TripleArc plc
and Accord. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 51
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates.
Impairment of inventories
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and damaged stock. This provision represents the
difference between the cost of the stock and its estimated market value, based upon stock turn rates, market conditions
and trends in consumer demand (see note 16).
Allowances for doubtful receivables
Allowances are made for doubtful receivables for estimated losses resulting from the subsequent inability of customers
to make required payments. If the financial conditions of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of
their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required in future periods (see note 17).
Pensions
The determination of the pension benefit obligation and expense for the defined benefit pension plan is dependent on
the selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions are described in
note 24 to the financial statements and include, amongst others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of
increase in future compensation levels and expected mortality rates. A portion of the plan assets are invested in equity
securities. The equity markets have experienced volatility, which has affected the value of the pension plan assets. This
volatility may make it difficult to estimate the long-term rate of return on plan assets. Assumptions are based on actual
historical experience and external data regarding compensation and discount rate trends. While the Directors believe
that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in the
assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and the future expense (see note 24).
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if revision affects only that period, or in the period of the
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Share based payments
The fair value of options awarded under schemes with market based performance conditions is estimated using a
Monte-Carlo model. The fair value of options awarded under schemes with non-market based performance conditions
is estimated using a Black-Scholes model. These models require the use of estimates and forward looking projections. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 52
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
3. Segmental analysis 
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments. The primary format,
business segments, is based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be
allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly interest-bearing borrowings and associated costs,
taxation related assets/liabilities, intangible assets and related amortisation and head office salary and premises costs.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to
be used for more than one period, including acquisitions through business combinations.
(a) Primary reporting format – business segments
At 31 December 2008, the Group is organised into two main business segments:
• managed procurement services; and
• business critical services
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2008 are as follows:
Managed Business
procurement critical
services services Unallocated Group
£000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 151,125 29,874 - 180,999
Operating profit 11,046 945 (1,025) 10,966
Finance costs - net - - (1,359) (1,359)
Profit before income tax 11,046 945 (2,384) 9,607
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before income tax 12,739 1,711 (2,384) 12,066
Share option expense (2) (21) - (23)
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (1,503) (309) - (1,812)
Amortisation (188) (436) - (624)
Profit before income tax 11,046 945 (2,384) 9,607
Other segmental items included in the income statement are as follows:
Managed Business
procurement critical
services services Unallocated Group
£000 £000 £000 £000
Depreciation (638) (216) - (854)
Amortisation (188) (436) - (624)
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2008 are as follows:
Managed Business
procurement critical
services services Unallocated Group
£000 £000 £000 £000
Assets 53,367 44,195 159 97,721
Liabilities (41,720) (35,816) (25) (77,561)
Net assets/(liabilities) 11,647 8,379 134 20,160
Capital expenditure
- tangible assets (note 12) 210 111 - 321
- intangible assets (note 13) 6,868 36,299 - 43,167
7,078 36,410 - 43,488 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 53
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Segment assets and liabilities are reconciled to the Group assets and liabilities as follows:
Assets Liabilities
£000 £000
Unallocated:
Cash and cash equivalents 159 -
Accrued expenses - (25)
Segment assets/liabilities 97,562 (77,536)
Total 97,721 (77,561)
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Directors reported that there was a single operating segment, relating to the
equivalent for the year ended 31 December 2008, described above as managed procurement services, accordingly no
comparative information is provided. The activities relating to business critical services commenced when TripleArc plc
was acquired on 15 May 2008.
(b) Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
United Kingdom 178,052 165,396 10,856 9,061 96,338 49,302
Republic of Ireland 2,947 2,466 110 57 1,383 889
180,999 167,862 10,966 9,118 97,721 50,191
Net interest (1,359) (115)
Profit before income tax 9,607 9,003
Revenue and profit before tax by geographical area is stated by origin, which is not materially different from the analysis
by destination. Expenditure on tangible fixed assets of £321,000 (2007: £184,000) was incurred in the United Kingdom.
Expenditure on intangible fixed assets of £43,167,000 (2007: £62,000) was incurred in the United Kingdom. No amounts
in respect of expenditure on tangible or intangible fixed assets were incurred in the Republic of Ireland.
4. Expenses by nature
2008 2007
£000 £000
Inventories expensed 124,048 114,083
Employee benefit expense (note 6a) 25,689 25,426
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
- owned 535 533
- leased 319 241
Amortisation of intangible assets 624 20
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (note 5) 1,812 2,333
Foreign exchange losses 120 193
Operating lease payments:
- plant and machinery 2,202 1,948
- other 1,958 1,891
Other operating costs 12,726 12,076
Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 170,033 158,744
Profit before income tax Total assets Revenue o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 54
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
5. Exceptional and non-recurring costs
The amounts recognised as exceptional and non-recurring costs are as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Compensation payments and executive recruitment costs 921 1,626
Non capitalised costs in respect of business combinations 163 -
Business and strategic review costs 728 707
1,812 2,333
Compensation payments relate to amounts paid to ex-employees of Group companies. Prior year amounts include
executive recruitment costs incurred in appointing a new Chief Executive Officer. Non capitalised costs in respect to
business combinations are costs incurred which did not qualify to be capitalised. Business and strategic review costs relate
to costs incurred by the Group in relation to management’s commitment to improve operational efficiency. These costs
are considered to be exceptional in nature and not reflective of the underlying operating performance of the Group.
6a. Employee benefit expense
2008 2007
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 22,667 22,172
Social security costs 2,190 2,094
Share based payments (note 26) 45 232
Pension costs - defined benefit (note 24) 229 164
Pension costs-- defined contribution (note 24) 558 764
25,689 25,426
Included within the above figures are compensation payments to ex-employees of £921,000 (2007: £1,626,000).
Key management compensation
The employment costs of key management personnel (including executive Directors) during the year were as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits 1,862 1,562
Pension costs - defined contribution 140 99
Share based payments 341 182
2,343 1,843
In respect to key management, there were £nil (2007: £128,989) compensation payments to ex-employees of Group
companies included in salaries and employee benefits as at 31 December 2008. A detailed numerical analysis of
Directors' remuneration and share options forms part of these financial statements. This analysis is included in the
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32 and shows the highest paid Director and the number of Directors
accruing benefits under money-purchase personal pension schemes. 
6b. Average number of people employed
2008 2007
Average number of people (including executive Directors) employed:
Sales and marketing 395 312
Production and distribution 469 491
Administration 139 69
1,003 872 As at 31 December 2008 the Group had 922 employees (2007: 778).
The Company has no employees (2007: nil).
7. Auditor remuneration
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiary) obtained the following services from the Company’s
auditor and its associates:
2008 2007
Group £000 £000
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 45 45
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services expensed in the income statement:
- audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 85 45
- tax services 36 18
166 108
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services capitalised:
- other services pursuant to legislation 175 -
341 108
8. Finance income and costs
2008 2007
£000 £000
Interest expense:
- bank loans and overdrafts (979) -
- finance lease liabilities (62) (32)
- other financial charges (348) (54)
- customer procurement card charges (160) (541)
Finance costs (1,549) (627)
Finance income:
- interest income on short-term bank deposits 190 512
Net finance costs (1,359) (115)
9. Income tax expense
2008 2007
£000 £000
Current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax at 28.5% (2,637) (2,508)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (167) -
(2,804) (2,508)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (see note 15) (191) (155)
Impact of change in United Kingdom tax rate - (70)
(191) (225)
(2,995) (2,733)
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 55
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 56
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Tax on items charged to equity
2008 2007
£000 £000
Deferred tax charge on share options (see note 15) (5) (48)
Impact of change in United Kingdom tax rate - (25)
(5) (73)
The Group tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax of 28.5% (2007: 30%). 
The differences are explained below:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 9,607 9,003
Income tax at the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28.5% (2,738) (2,701)
Tax effects (at 28%/30%) of:
Non deductible expenses (185) (45)
Other permanent differences 95 83
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (167) -
Impact of change in United Kingdom tax rate - (70)
Total tax charge for the year (2,995) (2,733)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year 
On 1 April 2008, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28%. Accordingly the Group profit for the period
is taxed at an effective rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%). 
Factors affecting future tax charges 
The effective tax rate is anticipated to continue to exceed the standard rate due to the incidence of expenses
(principally relating to an element of amortisation of intangible assets) not deductible for tax purposes.
Details with regard to the availability of tax losses that may be offset against future taxable profits are given in note 15.
10. Dividends
2008 2007
£000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions in the period in respect of:
Ordinary shares – interim dividend 2008 – 3.5p per share (1,249) -
Ordinary shares – final dividend 2007– 6.8p per share (2,427) -
Ordinary shares – interim dividend 2007 – 3.2p per share - (1,149)
Ordinary shares - final dividend 2006 – 6.4p per share - (2,307)
(3,676) (3,456)
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 7.5p per Ordinary share, payable on 12 May 2009 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 14 April 2009. The dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December
2008. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 57
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
11. Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted
average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding Ordinary shares held by the employee benefit
trust.
2008 2007
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (£000) 6,612 6,270
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,695 35,975
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 18.5 17.4
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding to
assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares. The Company has one category of dilutive potential Ordinary
shares, being share options. For share options, a calculation is undertaken to determine the number of shares that could
have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company's shares) based
on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares
calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the
share options.
2008 2007
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (£000) 6,612 6,270
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (‘000) 35,695 35,975
Adjusted for share options ('000) 121 253
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share ('000) 35,816 36,228
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 18.5 17.3
(c) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit before exceptional and non-recurring costs and amortisation
attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the
year excluding Ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust. 
2008 2007
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (£000) 6,612 6,270
Amortisation 624 -
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (net of tax) 1,350 1,633
Profit before exceptional and non-recurring costs and amortisation attributable to equity holders of the 8,586 7,903
Company (£000)
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,695 35,975
Adjusted earnings per share (pence per share) 24.1 22.0 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 58
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
12. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Short
leasehold Assets
land & Plant & Office under
buildings machinery equipment construction Total
2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 1,841 1,664 2,424 - 5,929
Additions arising on business combinations (note 31) 957 106 330 - 1,393
Additions at cost 45 159 117 - 321
Disposals - (14) (2) - (16)
At 31 December 2008 2,843 1,915 2,869 - 7,627
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2008 (1,033) (951) (2,205) - (4,189)
Charge for the year (230) (336) (288) - (854)
Disposals - 14 1 - 15
At 31 December 2008 (1,263) (1,273) (2,492) - (5,028)
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2008 1,580 642 377 - 2,599
Short
leasehold Assets
land & Plant & Office under
buildings machinery equipment construction Total
2007 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2007 1,841 1,515 2,289 100 5,745
Additions at cost - 49 135 - 184
Transfers - 100 - (100) -
At 31 December 2007 1,841 1,664 2,424 - 5,929
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2007 (776) (731) (1,908) - (3,415)
Charge for the year (257) (220) (297) - (774)
At 31 December 2007 (1,033) (951) (2,205) - (4,189)
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2007 808 713 219 - 1,740
At 1 January 2007 1,065 784 381 100 2,330
The net book value of Group fixed assets held under finance leases was £464,000 (2007: £627,000). Depreciation charged
in the period on these assets amounted to £319,000 (2007: £241,000). 
Company 
The Company has no tangible fixed assets. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 59
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
13. Intangible assets
Group
Customer
Goodwill relationships Brands Software Total
2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 13,607 28 - - 13,635
Additions arising on business combinations (note 31) 33,668 5,430 3,938 103 43,139
Additions at cost - - - 28 28
At 31 December 2008 47,275 5,458 3,938 131 56,802
Amortisation
At 1 January 2008 - (28) - - (28)
Amortisation for the year - (357) (243) (24) (624)
At 31 December 2008 - (385) (243) (24) (652)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2008 47,275 5,073 3,695 107 56,150
Customer
Goodwill relationships Total
2007 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2007 13,545 28 13,573
Additions 62 - 62
At 31 December 2007 13,607 28 13,635
Amortisation
At 1 January 2007 - (8) (8)
Amortisation for the year - (20) (20)
At 31 December 2007 - (28) (28)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2007 13,607 - 13,607
At 1 January 2007 13,545 20 13,565
The amortisation charge is reflected within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The customer relationships, brands and software were acquired as a component of business combinations (note 31).
Company
The Company had no intangible assets.
Impairment of goodwill
In accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’ , the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its goodwill and
reviews it annually or more regularly if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. For the purposes of
assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows
(cash-generating units) and goodwill is allocated to these cash-generating units. The allocation is made to those cash-
generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in
which the goodwill arose. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 60
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The components of goodwill by business segment are shown below:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Managed procurement services 18,775 13,607 
Business critical services 28,500 -
47,275 13,607
A review was undertaken at 31 December 2008 to assess whether the carrying value of goodwill was impaired by
reference to value in use calculations. The calculation was based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a
five year period and extended thereafter at growth rates of 2% to 3%, as the Directors are of the opinion that a period
into perpetuity reflects the underlying benefits expected to be derived from the development of the business over the
long-term. The assumed growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which the
Group operates. 
The post tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections approximates to the Group's post tax weighted average
cost of capital, being 9.4%. As the risks relating to each cash-generating unit are considered to be broadly equivalent,
the discount rate of 9.4% is applied to each cash-generating unit.
The impairment review was undertaken by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount (by
reference to value in use calculations) of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Management concluded that no impairment was indicated.
Customer relationships, brands and computer software have 9.5, 9.5 and 2.5 years respectively before the assets are
written down in full. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 61
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
14. Investment in subsidiaries
Company 2008 2007
£000 £000
At 1 January
- as previously stated 7,682 5,586
- prior year adjustment in respect of IFRIC 11 (share options) - 1,853
- as restated 7,682 7,439
Options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 23 243
At 31 December 7,705 7,682
The Directors consider that the carrying value of the investment is supported by the value of the underlying assets. 
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Country of 
Name of company Nature of business incorporation Company Subsidiary
office2office (UK) plc Non trading holding company England 100%
Olive1 Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
Banner Business Services Limited Managed procurement services England 100%
first2office Limited Managed procurement services England 100%
esp2office Limited Managed procurement services England 100%
image2office Limited Business critical services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Ireland) Limited Managed procurement services Republic of Ireland 100%
Banner Document Services Limited Business critical services England 60%
Alpha Office Limited Managed procurement services England 100%
Accord Office Supplies Limited Managed procurement services England 100%
TripleArc Limited Business critical services Republic of Ireland 100%
AccessPlus Holdings Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Services Limited Business critical services England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Logistics Limited Business critical services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Pensions) Limited Non trading England 100%
- trustee for pension scheme only
Alpha Data Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Stationers Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Litho Limited Non trading England 100%
Colebrook Services Limited Non trading England 100%
File-It Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Print Management Limited Non trading England 100%
TripleArc UK Limited Non trading England 100%
GL2 Limited Non trading England 100%
Godfrey Lang Limited Non trading England 100%
West Riding Business Forms Limited Non trading England 100%
Minority interests
The Company holds a 60% holding in Banner Document Services Limited that was set up in partnership with Shred Easy
Limited, refer to note 31.
Banner Document Services Limited commenced trading in January 2009.
% Holding The deferred income tax asset is estimated to be recoverable as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Deferred income tax assets:
- to be recovered after more than 1 year 1,143 1,279
- to be recovered within 1 year 54 37
1,197 1,316
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is
an intention to settle the balances net.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 62
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
15. Deferred income tax asset
The deferred income tax asset recognised in the financial statements is as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Tax effect of timing differences:
Excess of qualifying depreciation over tax allowances 153 198
Employee share schemes 206 228
Retirement benefit obligations 292 317
Temporary differences 521 538
Unutilised tax losses carried forward 25 35
1,197 1,316
2008 2007
£000 £000
At 1 January 1,316 1,614
Charged to the income statement (note 9) (191) (155)
Charged to the income statement - tax rate change - (70)
Arising on business combinations 77 -
Credited to equity (note 9) (5) (48)
Credited to equity - tax rate change - (25)
At 31 December 1,197 1,316
Group
Group
Group o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 63
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The movements in deferred tax assets during the period are shown below:
Group
Deferred income tax assets Depreciation Retirement 
over tax Temporary benefit Share 
allowances differences obligations Tax losses options Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2008 198 538 317 35 228 1,316
Charged to income statement (98) (17) (25) (34) (17) (191)
Arising on business combinations 53 - - 24 - 77
Charged to equity ---- (5) (5)
At 31 December 2008 153 521 292 25 206 1,197
Deferred income tax assets Depreciation Retirement 
over tax Temporary benefit Share 
allowances differences obligations Tax losses options Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2007 216 595 393 62 348 1,614
Charged to income statement (4) (19) (53) (24) (55) (155)
Charged to income statement - tax rate change (14) (38) 1 (3) (16) (70)
Charged to equity ---- (48) (48)
Charged to equity - tax rate change - - (24) - (1) (25)
At 31 December 2007 198 538 317 35 228 1,316
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses and short term timing differences to the extent that the
realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is profitable.
Company
The Company has no provided or unprovided deferred tax balances.
16. Inventories
2008 2007
Group £000 £000
Finished goods and goods for resale 8,371 6,513
The difference between cost of goods purchased or production cost of stocks and their replacement cost is not material.
The Group consumed £124,048,000 (2007: £114,083,000) of inventories during the year. 
The provision to reflect net realisable value being less than cost increased by £215,000 (2007: decreased by £40,000)
during the year.
Company
The Company held no inventories. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 64
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
17. Trade and other receivables
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 25,678 17,924 - -
Less: provision for impairment (2,021) (772) - -
Trade receivables net 23,657 17,152 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 2,901 2,900 - -
Other receivables 155 - - -
Receivables from related parties - - 9,303 8,861
26,713 20,052 9,303 8,861
All of the above amounts are due within one year.
Receivables from related parties are repayable on demand. Included within receivables from related parties is a loan
from Banner Business Services Limited for £4,300,000 upon which interest is charged at a rate of 1.75% above Bank of
England base rate per annum.
There is no difference between the amounts disclosed above and their fair values.
Credit risk in respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customers being predominantly comprised of
large companies and public sector entities. As a result, the Directors consider that no further credit risk provision is
required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling 25,573 20,031 9,303 8,861
Euro 1,140 21 - -
26,713 20,052 9,303 8,861
Group
Trade receivables that are less than 2 months past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2008, trade
receivables of £11,821,000 (2007: £8,911,000) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of these trade
receivables (by reference to due date) is as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Up to 3 months 11,821 8,911
As of 31 December 2008, trade receivables of £3,506,000 (2007: £1,684,000) were impaired and partially provided for. The
amount of the provision against such impaired trade receivables was £2,021,000 as of 31 December 2008 (2007:
£772,000). The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to issues arising from the current economic climate. The
ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
0 to 6 months overdue 1,934 1,311
Over 6 months overdue 1,572 373
3,506 1,684
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 65
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
At 1 January 772 635
Arising on business combinations 1,070 -
Increase in provision for receivables impairment 474 177
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (295) (40)
At 31 December 2,021 772
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the consolidated
income statement. Amounts charged to the provision are written off when there is no expectation of recovering
additional cash. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum
exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The
Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company
The Company has no trade receivables.
18. Cash and cash equivalents
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 2,691 6,963 159 1
The effective average interest rate on overnight deposits for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 5.4% (2007: 5.5%).
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: 
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 2,691 6,963 159 1
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (6,697) - - -
(4,006) 6,963 159 1
19. Trade and other payables
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables (28,111) (11,015) - -
Social security and other taxes (2,802) (2,448) - -
Accrued expenses and deferred income (9,552) (16,779) (25) (24)
Payables to related parties - - (1) (1)
(40,465) (30,242) (26) (25)
Group Company
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 66
20. Borrowings
2008 2007
£000 £000
Non-current
Bank borrowings (25,000) -
Finance leases (374) (410)
(25,374) (410)
Current
Bank overdrafts (6,697) -
Finance leases (281) (177)
(6,978) (177)
Total borrowings (32,352) (587)
The Company does not have any borrowings.
Bank borrowings
Bank borrowings mature in 2013 and bear interest at a floating rate in the range of 95 to 125 basis points above LIBOR
annually. Bank borrowings are secured by an all assets debenture and a cross company guarantee on all assets of the
Group. The Company forms part of the cross guarantee structure.
The bank overdraft represents cash book overdrafts and amounts drawn against a confidential invoice discounting
facility that is committed to 2013. 
The repayment profile of bank borrowings (including overdrafts) is as follows: 
2008 2007
£000 £000
Within one year or on demand (6,697) -
Between one and two years (2,500) -
Between two and three years (2,500) -
Between three and four years (7,500) -
Between four and five years (12,500) -
(31,697) -
The borrowings are denominated in sterling. 
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Bank borrowings (25,000) - (25,096) -
The fair value of the current borrowings equals their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The fair values of bank borrowings are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate at 31
December 2008 of 3.3%, being LIBOR plus 1.1%.
Group
Carrying amount Fair value
Bank borrowings
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 67
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Finance leases
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the future finance charges and present value of
the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
Group 2008 2007
£000 £000
Within one year 324 208
In more than one year, but not more than five years 408 413
In more than five years 6 49
738 670
2008 2007
£000 £000
Within one year 43 31
In more than one year, but not more than five years 40 50
In more than five years - 2
83 83
2008 2007
£000 £000
Within one year 281 177
In more than one year, but not more than five years 368 363
In more than five years 6 47
655 587
Finance leases are secured upon the assets to which the lease agreement relates.
Minimum lease payments
Future finance charges
Net minimum lease payments
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
2008 2007
£000 £000
Gross undrawn committed confidential invoice discounting facility 20,000 15,000
Cash book overdraft (6,697) -
Net undrawn facilities 13,303 15,000
As at 31 December 2008 the Group has a committed but undrawn confidential invoice discounting facility of
£20,000,000 (2007: £15,000,000), subject to sufficient security from trade receivables. The facility is at a floating rate and
is due for renewal in April 2013.
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had not drawn against its committed invoice discounting facility. At that date the
Group had a cash book overdraft of £6,697,000. If all payments had cleared on the day of issue the Group would have
had net undrawn facilities of £13,303,000. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 68
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
21. Financial instruments by category
Cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are classified as loans and
receivables for the purpose of IFRS 7.
Borrowings, finance leases and trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) are classified as other financial
liabilities at amortised cost for the purpose of IFRS 7.
22. Current income tax liabilities
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Current income tax liabilities (1,557) (720) - (38)
23. Provisions
Property Onerous
dilapidations leases Total
2008 2008 2008
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2008 (602) - (602)
Arising on business combinations - (970) (970)
Charged to the income statement (53) (518) (571)
At 31 December 2008 (655) (1,488) (2,143)
2008 2007
Maturity profile of provisions £000 £000
Current (322) -
Non-current (1,821) (602)
At 31 December (2,143) (602)
Company
The Company has no provisions.
24. Retirement benefit liability
Group
The Group is the contributing employer to a defined benefit pension scheme, The Banner Business Supplies Pension
Scheme (BBS scheme), all the members of which were formerly employed by Her Majesty’s Stationery Office and were
members of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme who first elected to transfer funds accrued to The Stationery
Office Limited Scheme and subsequently elected to transfer funds accrued to the BBS scheme. 
The BBS scheme commenced on 1 August 2000 when the funds were transferred in by The Stationery Office Limited.
The scheme is funded by the payment of contributions to a separately administered trust fund. The scheme currently
has 163 members and is closed to new members.
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out on 31 July 2008 and updated to 31 December 2008 by Mercer LLC, a
qualified independent actuary. The pension costs have been determined on the basis of the results of this valuation. 
The fair value of the BBS scheme assets at 31 December 2008 amounted to £7,128,000. 
Group contributions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme for the period were £318,000 (2007: £341,000).
Group contributions in 2009 are expected to be approximately £540,000.
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 69
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The Group also incurred £558,000 (2007: £764,000) in respect of Group personal pension arrangements and employees’
own personal pension arrangements for staff recruited by The Stationery Office Limited and Group companies since 30
September 1996 at rates varying between 6% and 15% of pensionable earnings.
The outstanding accrual in respect of defined contribution pension contributions at 31 December 2008 was £342,000
(2007: £463,000).
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the BBS scheme are determined as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (10,487) (10,413)
Fair value of plan assets 7,128 8,542
(3,359) (1,871)
Unrecognised actuarial losses 2,315 738
Liability in the balance sheet (1,044) (1,133)
The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Equities 5,691 7,004
Bonds 627 513
Property 30 256
Other 780 769
7,128 8,542
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Current service cost (256) (235)
Scheme interest cost (578) (497)
Expected return on plan assets 605 568
Expenses recognised in the income statement as administrative expenses (229) (164)
The movement in the fair value of plan assets is as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January     8,542 7,651
Expected return on plan assets 605 568
Actuarial losses (2,283) (102)
Employer contribution 318 341
Member contributions 104 126
Benefits paid (158) (42)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 7,128 8,542  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 70
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The movement in the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January (10,413) (9,587)
Current service cost (256) (235)
Interest cost (578) (497)
Member contributions (104) (126)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 706 (10)
Benefits paid 158 42
Present value of funded obligations at 31 December (10,487) (10,413)
The principal actuarial assumptions were as follows:
2008 2007
%pa %pa
Discount rate 5.5 5.5
Actual rate of return on plan assets (19.1) 7.9
Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.1 7.0
Future salary increases 2.9 3.2
Future pension increases 2.9 3.2
Inflation 2.9 3.2
The expected return on plan assets for 2009 is based on market expectations at 12 January 2009 for returns over the
entire life of the obligation.
The weighted average life expectancy derived from mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations were:
2008 2007
Years Years
Male member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.0 21.9
Female member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 24.9 24.8
Male member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 23.1 23.0
Female member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 25.9 25.8
History of experienced gains and losses:
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (10,487) (10,413) (9,587) (8,768) (6,948)
Fair value of plan assets 7,128 8,542 7,651 6,323 4,808
Deficit in the plan (3,359) (1,871) (1,936) (2,445) (2,140)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£000) (2,283) (102) 417 744 104
Percentage of scheme assets (32%) (1%) 5% 12% 2%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£000) (199) (436) 14 180 (195)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (2%) (4%) 0% 2% (3%)
At 31 December 2008, the unrecognised actuarial losses were in excess of 10% of the present value of the funded
obligations. Accordingly under IAS 19 the Group will amortise the unrecognised actuarial losses over the average
remaining working lives of the members of the scheme commencing in the year ended 31 December 2009. 
Company
The Company has no retirement benefit liabilities. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 71
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
25. Share capital
Authorised No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of 1p each 50,000,000 500,000 50,000,000 500,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of 1p each 36,308,984 363,090 36,308,984 363,090
582,295 Ordinary shares are held by the EBT (2007: 624,248), for which the right to receive dividends has been waived.
These shares have been deducted in arriving at the allotted, called up and fully paid share capital above.
26. Share options
Exercise
Number Number Number Number Number price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 08 granted exercised expired 31 Dec 08 share from date
Senior managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 50,000 - - - 50,000 1.0p 08.10.06 08.10.14
Managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 9,763 - (2,809) - 6,954 1.0p 08.10.06 08.10.14
Performance share plan
Date granted
December 2005 117,292 - (6,795) (60,579) 49,918 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
April 2006 102,506 - - (32,498) 70,008 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
September 2007 232,907 - - - 232,907 0.1p 11.09.10 11.03.11
December 2007 189,566 - - - 189,566 0.1p 01.04.11 01.10.11
April 2008 - 636,705 - - 636,705 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
June 2008 - 89,740 - - 89,740 0.1p 30.06.11 30.10.11
Executive bonus plan
Date granted
December 2005 36,968 - (3,117) - 33,851 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
April 2006 30,857 - - - 30,857 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
SAYE scheme
Date granted
October 2004 (3yr) 314,415 - (21,328) (293,087) - 171.6p 01.12.07 31.05.08
October 2004 (5yr) 175,802 - - (29,653) 146,149 171.6p 01.12.09 31.05.10
October 2005 (3yr) 64,142 - - (64,142) - 224.4p 11.11.08 11.05.09
October 2005 (5yr) 33,711 - - (23,815) 9,896 224.4p 11.11.10 11.05.11
April 2008 (3yr) - 301,399 - (45,975) 255,424 119.4p 08.04.11 08.10.11
April 2008 (5yr) - 199,765 - (11,253) 188,512 119.4p 08.04.13 08.10.13
1,357,929 1,227,609 (34,049) (561,002) 1,990,487
Options which expired in the year to 31 December 2008 reflected employees leaving the Group, non-achievement of
performance conditions and the expiry of the term of exercise.
At 31 December 2008, there was 1 member (2007: 1 member) of the senior managers’ scheme; there were 2 members
(2007: 3 members) of the managers’ scheme, with average option holdings of 3,477 shares; there were 9 members
(2007: 8 members) of the performance share plan, with average option holdings of 140,983 shares; there were 3
members (2007: 3 members) of the executive bonus plan, with average option holdings of 21,569 shares; there were
180 members of the SAYE scheme, with average holdings of 3,333 shares.
2008 2007
2008 2007 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 72
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The IFRS 2 and associated national insurance costs, before tax, incurred in relation to the above schemes were as follows:
2008 2008 2007 2007
IFRS 2 NI IFRS 2 NI
£000 £000 £000 £000
Senior managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 - (14) - (7)
Managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 - (2) --
Performance share plan
Date granted
December 2005 (10) (8) 36 (2)
April 2006 5 (5) 27 (1)
September 2007 85 4 25 4
December 2007 38 5 2-
April 2008 65 (6) 71 17
June 2008 14 7 --
Executive bonus plan
Date granted
December 2005 13 (2) 13 -
April 2006 10 (1) 10 -
SAYE scheme
Date granted
October 2004 (3yr) (178) - 29 -
October 2004 (5yr) 13 - 5-
October 2005 (3yr) (36) - 10 -
October 2005 (5yr) (7) - 4-
April 2008 (3yr) 23 - --
April 2008 (5yr) 10 - --
45 (22) 232 11
The senior managers’ scheme was introduced on 8 October 2004 to reward key employees for their contribution to the
enhancement of the Group’s longer term future and their commitment to the Group over a sustained period. There are
no performance conditions attached. There is no weighted average remaining contractual life.
The managers’ scheme was introduced on 8 October 2004 to encourage and reward managers for their continued
contribution to the Group’s success. Financial performance conditions apply to the exercise of the options based on
profit expectations set by the Board. 2,809 options were exercised during the year under review. The weighted average
share price as at the date of exercise was 183.25p per share. There is no weighted average remaining contractual life.
The performance share plan and executive bonus plan were introduced on 21 December 2005 to incentivise senior
management relative to the long-term strategy of the Group. Financial performance conditions apply to exercise of the
options, based on a comparative measure of total shareholder return against the companies in the FTSE Small Cap
Index, and the Company’s earnings per share growth. On 24 April 2008 and 30 June 2008, awards were granted over
726,445 shares based on a weighted average share price of 168.0p. 9,912 options were exercised during the year under
review. The weighted average share price as at the date of exercise was 63.75p per share. The weighted average
remaining contractual life is 1.9 years.
The SAYE scheme was first introduced in October 2004. The exercise price is determined at a 20% discount to the
closing mid-market price on the date of invitation. The schemes have either a three or five year vesting period. On 8
April 2008, an award was granted over 501,164 shares based on a weighted average share price of 149.25p. 21,328
options were exercised during the year under review. The weighted average share price as at the date of exercise was
179.0p per share. The weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.6 years. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 73
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
The following valuation assumptions have been applied:
Senior managers’ scheme – October 2004 option value information
Fair value per option* £2.04
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 2 years
Expected volatility 27.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.7%
Risk free interest rate 4.69%
Managers’ scheme – October 2004 option value information 
Fair value per option* £2.04
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 2 years
Expected volatility 27.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.7%
Risk free interest rate 4.69%
Performance share plan – December 2005 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.06
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.22%
Performance share plan – April 2006 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.98
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.5%
Expected dividend yield 4.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.55%
Performance share plan – September 2007 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.07
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 26.7%
Expected dividend yield 5.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.92%
Performance share plan – December 2007 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.63
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.5 years
Expected volatility 30.2%
Expected dividend yield 7.8%
Risk free interest rate 4.63%
Performance share plan – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.96
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 35.4%
Expected dividend yield 5.8%
Risk free interest rate 4.0%
Performance share plan – June 2008 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.12
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 36.1%
Expected dividend yield 5.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.0% o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 74
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Executive bonus plan – December 2005 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.06
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.22%
Executive bonus plan – April 2006 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.98
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.5%
Expected dividend yield 4.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.55%
SAYE 3 year scheme – October 2004 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.61
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 30.2%
Expected dividend yield 3.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.69%
SAYE 5 year scheme – October 2004 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.70
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 34.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.76%
SAYE 3 year scheme – October 2005 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.77
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 26.7%
Expected dividend yield 3.2%
Risk free interest rate 4.31%
SAYE 5 year scheme – October 2005 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.89
Valuation assumptions 
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 30.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.2%
Risk free interest rate 4.32%
SAYE 3 year scheme – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.36
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 34.6%
Expected dividend yield 6.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.0%
SAYE 5 year scheme – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.34
Valuation assumptions 
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 31.8%
Expected dividend yield 6.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.51%
* Estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing method.
** Estimated using the Monte-Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing methods.
Expected volatility was determined by reference to historic share price information of similar companies. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 75
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
27. Reserves
Share Retained Other Share Retained Other
premium earnings reserves premium earnings reserves
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2007
- as previously stated 5,009 9,472 (11) 5,009 9,152 -
- prior year adjustment in respect of IFRIC 11 (share options) ---- 1,853 -
- as restated 5,009 9,472 (11) 5,009 11,005 -
Foreign exchange differences - - 57 - - -
Profit for the year - 6,270 - - 4,275 -
Employee share options: -
- value of employee services - 232 - - 243 -
- deferred tax on share options - (49) ----
- proceeds from share options - 2 ----
Purchase of shares by EBT - (958) - - (958) -
Deferred tax charged directly to 
equity upon change of United Kingdom - (24) ----
corporation tax rate
Dividends - (3,456) - - (3,456) -
Balance at 31 December 2007 5,009 11,489 46 5,009 11,109 -
Foreign exchange differences - - 240 - - -
Profit for the year - 6,612 - - 4,276 -
Employee share options:
- value of employee services - 45 - - 23 -
- deferred tax on share options - (5) ----
Sales of shares by EBT - 37 - - 37 -
Dividends - (3,676) - - (3,676) -
Balance at 31 December 2008 5,009 14,502 286 5,009 11,769 -
Share premium reserve
The share premium reserve represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the amount
received for them. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Other reserves
Other reserves relate to foreign exchange translation differences on the net assets of overseas subsidiaries. This is a non-
distributable reserve.
Minority interests
As described in note 14, the Company owns 60% of the £10 called up share capital of Banner Document Services
Limited. The minority interest included within the consolidated balance sheet is £4.
28. Cash generated from operations
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Profit before income tax 9,607 9,003 4,276 4,313
Adjustments for:
Amortisation 624 20 - -
Depreciation 854 774 - -
Interest received (190) (512) (276) (313)
Interest and similar charges paid 1,549 627 - -
Income from investments - - (4,000) (4,000)
Share option expense 45 232 - -
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (898) 1,469 - -
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 5,352 (1,548) (441) (238)
Decrease in trade payables and provisions (11,307) (1,671) - -
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from operations 5,636 8,394 (441) (238)
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 76
29. Analysis of movement in net funds/(debt) 
At
Group At 1 January Cash Business Non-cash 31 December
2008 flow combinations* movements 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,963 (4,272) - - 2,691
Borrowings – current - (6,697) - - (6,697)
6,963 (10,969) - - (4,006)
Finance leases – current (177) 219 (107) (216) (281)
Total current funds/(debt) 6,786 (10,750) (107) (216) (4,287)
Borrowings – non-current - (12,387) (12,613) - (25,000)
Finance leases – non-current (410) - (150) 186 (374)
Total non-current debt (410) (12,387) (12,763) 186 (25,374)
Net funds/(debt) 6,376 (23,137) (12,870) (30) (29,661)
*Excludes cash and cash equivalents acquired through business combinations.
Non-cash movements relates to the movement of finance leases between non-current and current and new finance
lease agreements taken out during the period. 
Company At
At 1 January Cash 31 December
2008 flow 2008
£000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 1 158 159
30. Guarantees and other financial commitments
Capital commitments
There are no amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements (2007: nil).
Bank guarantees
The Company is a member of the Group banking arrangement under which it is party to unlimited cross-guarantees 
in respect of the banking facilities of other Group undertakings, amounting to £25,000,000 subject to facility as at 
31 December 2008. The Directors do not expect any material loss to the Company to arise in respect of the guarantees.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
Land & Buildings Other
Operating lease commitments
2008 2007 2008 2007
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases payable in respect of 
leases expiring:
Within one year 1,769 1,939 1,717 1,365
Between two and five years 4,848 6,064 2,059 1,294
Over five years 2,086 3,125 - -
8,703 11,128 3,776 2,659
Company
The Company has no obligations under operating leases. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 77
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
31. Business combinations
On 15 May 2008, the Group acquired control of TripleArc plc for a consideration of £13.8m, including costs. TripleArc plc
is the parent company of the AccessPlus Group. AccessPlus provides business process outsourcing to companies
looking to reduce the costs of their print marketing and communication.
The acquisition of TripleArc plc has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired relating to TripleArc plc were as follows:
Carrying Fair value Provisional 
amount adjustment fair value
£000 £000 £000
Customer relationships - 4,468 4,468
Brands - 3,200 3,200
Software - 103 103
Goodwill 34,640 (34,640) -
Property, plant and equipment 1,516 (268) 1,248
Deferred tax asset 107 (28) 79
Inventories 889 (207) 682
Trade and other receivables 10,174 (103) 10,071
Trade and other payables (16,940) (3,832) (20,772)
Current income tax liability (116) 116 -
Bank overdraft (1,000) - (1,000)
Bank loans (12,613) - (12,613)
Obligations under finance leases (197) - (197)
Net liabilities assumed (14,731)
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 12,486
Directly attributable costs 1,283
13,769
Provisional goodwill arising 28,500
Net cash outflow arising in period under review on acquisition:
Cash consideration (12,486)
Directly attributable costs (1,283)
Bank overdraft (1,000)
Bank loans (12,613)
(27,382)
The fair value adjustments relate to the alignment of the accounting policies to those of the Group, adjustments to
accrue for liabilities relating to the period prior to the acquisition and the recognition of intangible assets in connection
with customer relationships, brands and software.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ the above fair value adjustments are provisional
and will be finalised within 12 months from the acquisition date.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is primarily attributable to cost synergies arising from the combination. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 78
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
On 2 June 2008, the Group acquired control of Accord Office Supplies Limited (Accord) for a consideration of £5.9m,
including costs. Accord is an office products dealer based in the south-west of England, which supplies the mid market
corporate sector.
The acquisition of Accord has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired relating to Accord were as follows:
Carrying Fair value Provisional
amount adjustment fair value
£000 £000 £000
Customer relationships - 962 962
Brands - 738 738
Goodwill 1,086 (1,086) -
Property, plant and equipment 155 (10) 145
Deferred tax liability (2) - (2)
Inventories 278 - 278
Trade and other receivables 1,962 (20) 1,942
Trade and other payables (2,406) (33) (2,439)
Current income tax liability (63) - (63)
Bank overdraft (814) - (814)
Obligations under finance leases (60) - (60)
Net liabilities assumed 687
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 5,750
Directly attributable costs 105
5,855
Provisional goodwill arising 5,168
Net cash outflow arising in period under review on acquisition:
Cash consideration (5,750)
Directly attributable costs (105)
Bank overdrafts (814)
(6,669)
The fair value adjustments relate to the alignment of the accounting policies to those of the Group and the recognition
of intangible assets in connection with customer relationships and brands.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ the above fair value adjustments are provisional
and will be finalised within 12 months from the acquisition date.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is primarily attributable to cost synergies arising from the combination.
Since acquisition, TripleArc plc and Accord have contributed revenues of £25,195,000 and £5,940,000 and operating
profits before exceptional and non-recurring costs (£235,000 and £45,000 respectively) of £1,323,000 and £366,000
respectively.
If both the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2008, consolidated revenue would have been £199,934,000 and the
consolidated profit before exceptional costs, fair value adjustments and tax for the year ended 31 December 2008
would have been £10,604,000 (exceptional costs being £4,975,000 and fair value adjustments of £4,484,000).
If only the acquisition of TripleArc plc had taken place and had occurred on 1 January 2008, consolidated revenue would
have been £189,032,000 and the consolidated profit before exceptional costs, fair value adjustments and tax for the year
ended 31 December 2008 would have been £10,120,000 (exceptional costs being £3,408,000 and fair value adjustments
of £4,397,000).
If only the acquisition of Accord had taken place and had occurred on 1 January 2008, consolidated revenue would
have been £160,766,000 and the consolidated profit before exceptional costs, fair value adjustments and tax for the year
ended 31 December 2008 would have been £11,149,000 (exceptional costs being £35,000 and fair value adjustments of
£87,000).
On 9 November 2008, the Group acquired a 60% interest in Banner Document Services Limited. The consideration of £6
was in consideration of ordinary shares at par value as the company had not commenced trading at the point of
acquiring the shareholding. Banner Document Services Limited commenced trading in January 2009. Accordingly the
fair value of the assets acquired equals the fair value of the consideration paid.
There were no business combinations for the year ended 31 December 2007. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 79
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
32. Related parties
Group
Directors’ and key management compensations are disclosed in note 6.
Company
During the year the Company had the following transactions with its subsidiaries:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Dividends received 4,000 4,000
Interest received 276 312
4,276 4,312
As at the 31 December the following amounts were due to the Company from its subsidiaries:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Banner Business Services Limited 9,303 8,861
33. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors consider that there is no ultimate controlling party. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 80
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 180,999 167,862 165,897 150,897 141,769
Operating profit - before goodwill amortisation, 
exceptional costs and share option expenses 13,425 11,694 11,872 11,534 10,390
Goodwill amortisation (624) ----
Exceptional costs (1,812) (2,333) (392) - (3,324)
Share option expenses (23) (243) (768) (869) (216)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 10,966 9,118 10,712 10,665 6,850
Net interest payable (1,359) (115) (367) (430) (675)
Profit before tax 9,607 9,003 10,345 10,235 6,175
Capital employed:
Shareholders’ funds 20,160 16,907 14,833 10,288 4,862
Statistics:
Adjusted earnings per Ordinary share* 24.1p 22.0p 20.9p 20.2p 16.8p
Basic earnings per Ordinary share 18.5p 17.4p 20.2p 20.2p 7.8p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary share 18.5p 17.3p 19.7p 19.7p 7.8p
Dividends per share 11.0p 10.0p 9.6p 9.3p 4.1p
Share price (period end) 65.5p 119.5p 243.5p 260.0p 242.5p
*Adjusted earnings per Ordinary share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional costs have been disclosed to give a clearer
understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance.    
Five Year Summary  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 81
Shareholder Information 
Financial calendar 2009
Announcement of final results for the year ended 31 December 2008 26 February 2009
Annual General Meeting 23 April 2009
Payment of final dividend on Ordinary shares to shareholders on the 
share register at the close of business on 14 April 2009 12 May 2009
Registrar and transfer office
Enquiries about administrative matters relating to
shareholding and dividends should be addressed to the
Company’s registrars.
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA
Telephone +44 (0) 870 162 3100 
or by email to: 
ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share price
Information concerning the day to day movement of
the share price of the Company can be found on our
website www.office2office.co.uk or that of the London
Stock Exchange www.prices.londonstockexchange.com.
The share price can also be found in the appropriate
sections of national newspapers under the classification
‘Support Services’ and under the ticker code ‘OFF.L’ or
‘OFF’ .
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to
public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited
mail from organisations that use it as a mailing list. 
To reduce the amount of unsolicited mail you receive,
contact: 
The Mailing Preference Service 
FREEPOST 22
London W1E 7EZ 
Telephone +44 (0) 845 703 4599
Website www.mpsonline.org.uk  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 82
Registered office
St Crispins
Duke Street
Norwich NR3 1PD
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1603 695 756
Fax: +44 (0) 1603 694 544
Website: www.office2office.co.uk
Email: info@office2office.biz
Professional advisers:
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
The Atrium
St Georges Street
Norwich NR3 1AG
Brokers
Investec
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Joint Brokers
W H Ireland
11 St James’ Square
Manchester
M2 6WH
Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons
1 Park Row
Leeds
LS1 5NR
Solicitors
Macfarlanes LLP
20 Cursitor Street
London
EC4A 1LT
Company Details Delivering managed procurement and business critical services
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Delivering managed procurement and business critical services
office2office      Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Head Office: o2o plc, St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich, NR3 1PD
Telephone: 0845 226 7780 www.office2office.co.uk
office2office plc Registered number 04083206
