 Annual Report and A ccounts
2009
“Good for you. Good for us. Good for everyone.” “office2office plc (o2o) has been transformed
into a leading managed services business focused
on managed procurement and business critical
services. Our aim is to deliver a sustainable first
rate service to all our customers. ”
S R Moate
Chief Executive
Introduction 
Financial Highlights 1
Chairman’s Statement 2-3
Chief Executive’s Review 4-11
Business and Financial Review 12-13
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement 14-16
Board of Directors 17
Directors’ Report 18-21
Corporate Governance Statement 22-25
Nomination Committee Report 26
Audit Committee Report 26-27
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28-32
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of
office2office plcs 33
Contents
Consolidated Income Statement 34
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 35
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets 36
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 37
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 38
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements 39
Significant Accounting Policies 40-47
Notes to the Financial Statements 48-80
Five Y ear Summary 81
Shareholder Information 82
Company Details 83 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 1
Financial Highlights
2009 2008
Revenue £187.5m £181.0m
Profit before tax £8.1m £9.6m
Basic earnings per share 17.2p 18.5p
Underlying profit before tax
1
£13.1m £12.1m
Underlying earnings per share
2
27.1p 24.1p
Net debt £27.8m £29.7m
Final dividend proposed – £2.8m £2.7m
payable 21 May 2010
7.8p per share 7.5p per share
£4.1m £4.0m
Total dividend for the year
11.4p per share 11.0p per share
1. Profit before tax, exceptional and non-recurring costs of £3.6m (2008: £1.8m), £0.4m share option charges (2008: £nil) and amortisation of
intangibles relating to acquisitions of £1.0m (2008: £0.6m) (refer to the consolidated income statement on page 34).
2. Profit after tax (before the after tax effect of exceptional and non-recurring costs, share option charges and amortisation of intangibles
relating to acquisitions) divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (refer to note 11 to the financial statements). Chairman's Statement
D J Callear Chairman
I am pleased to report Group results in line with market
expectations.  
Underlying pre-tax profit improved, despite ongoing product cost
inflation and some softening of sales, particularly in the private
sector. We achieved this result by increasing our market share
through new business wins, retaining all significant contract
customers, effectively managing product cost increases and
accelerating efficiency improvements across the enlarged group.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 2 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 3
The external sales environment
remained tough throughout 2009.
Management focus was directed
both to maximise our sales
performance in this environment
and, internally , to improve business
operations further. Planned
efficiency and centralisation
improvements were accelerated
and we believe that all key aspects
of the business are now operating
more efficiently than ever before. 
Results
Group revenue in 2009 increased to
£187.5m (2008: £181.0m).  Underlying
profit before tax rose by 8.8% to £13.1m
(2008: £12.1m), before exceptional and
non-recurring costs of £3.6m (2008:
£1.8m), share option charges of £0.4m
(2008: £nil) and amortisation of
intangibles of £1.0m (2008: £0.6m).
Profit before tax, after all such charges,
was £8.1m (2008: £9.6m) and profit after
tax was £6.3m (2008: £6.6m).  Basic
earnings per share were 17.2p (2008:
18.5p), the reduction being caused by
non-recurring costs. Underlying earnings
per share were 27.1p (2008: 24.1p).
Cash and net debt
Cash generated from operations
increased to £11.7m (2008: £5.6m).  Net
debt , after payment of the 2008 final
dividend of £2.7m (2008: £2.4m), the
2009 interim dividend of £1.3m (2008:
£1.3m), income tax of £2.8m (2008:
£2.0m) and capital expenditure of £2.1m
(2008: £0.3m), was reduced to £27.8m
at 31 December 2009 (2008: £29.7m). 
Our borrowing facilities remain
unchanged at £45.0m.  The facilities,
which are committed until April 2013,
comprise a term loan of £25.0m and an
invoice discounting arrangement of up
to £20.0m on which we are charged
interest at 1.1% over LIBOR and 0.9%
over bank base rate, respectively.
The first repayment of £2.5m on the
term loan is due in April 2010 and will
be repaid out of operating cashflows.
The second repayment is due in April
2011.  Financial covenants are applied
to the committed facilities and the
Group has continued to comply with
these with significant headroom. 
Dividends
The Board recommends a final
dividend of 7.8p per share (2008:
7.5p), which, if approved at the annual
general meeting (AGM), will be paid on
21 May 2010 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 23
April 2010.  Combined with the interim
dividend paid in November 2009, this
makes a total dividend per share of
11.4p (2008: 11.0p) and amounts to a
distribution of £4.1m (2008: £4.0m).
The total dividend, paid and payable
for the year, is covered by earnings 1.5
times (2008: 1.7 times).
Review of operations 
Markets remained challenging during
2009 with continued product cost
inflation combining with both volume
and sales price pressures. Despite this,
both Group sales and underlying profit
grew in the period, reflecting the mix of
new sales wins, contract retentions and
improved efficiencies across the Group.
In addition to our sales focus, we
concentrated our efforts on streamlining
the Group’s operations to reflect the
underlying market conditions and on
integrating all business areas with
central operations and back office
support functions.
A full review of Group operations is
included in the Chief Executive’s Review.
Employees
This was a challenging year and our
employees have had to work hard to
deliver the results outlined above.  They
continue to show commitment to the
Group, despite the necessary pay freeze
implemented in 2009 and I would like to
thank them.
Acquisitions 
On 18 February 2010, we announced
the acquisition of the trade and certain
assets relating to the business process
outsourcing (BPO) division of The Print
Factory London (1991) Limited (in
administration) and The DSR Group
Limited (in administration). These
assets include two leasehold
properties, certain employees of the
BPO business and a wide range of
customer relationships and contracts
recently generating approximately
£20m annualised turnover. This
business will be amalgamated with our
own BPO activity which operates as
AccessPlus. Further details are
provided on page 8 in the Chief
Executive’s Review.
On 1 February 2010, we acquired the
trade and assets of the Newbury branch
of office supplies dealer, Martin Luck
Limited. This business has been
integrated with the Group’s mid market
managed procurement activity.
We shall continue to seek further earnings
enhancing acquisition opportunities. 
Outlook
Trading for the first quarter of 2010 is
in line with management expectations,
having recovered from the adverse
weather conditions at the beginning of
the year.
The Group now has the right infrastructure
and distribution footprint relative to its
size and we are in better operational shape
than we have been previously .  Our aim in
2010 is to capitalise on this efficient
operating structure and focus on growth.
We will strive competitively to deliver the
best available products and services in our
sector as we further develop our emphasis
on the business services portfolio.
The general economic outlook for 2010
remains uncertain. In particular, it
appears inevitable that efficiencies and
cuts in public sector spending will be
made.  This, however, represents as
much an opportunity to the Group as a
threat. We are offering an expanding
range of government compliant office
products and services to both existing
and new customer departments and our
contract model and environmental focus
position us well to benefit from our
inclusion as a supplier on the new Pan-
Government Collaborative Framework.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the Company’s
head office, St Crispins, Duke Street,
Norwich on 18 May 2010 at 11.00 a.m.
Notice of the AGM together with the
proxy forms for use at the AGM, will be
circulated with the financial statements.
D J Callear
Chairman
24 March 2010 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 4
Chief Executive’s Review
Simon Moate Chief Executive
In common with many businesses, o2o was impacted by the
severe economic downturn in 2009. We responded by right-
sizing our business to deliver the lowest cost to serve ratio in
the Group’s history and to secure a number of important
contracts. As a result, we have improved the Group’s underlying
profitability year-on-year. In 2010, we are focused on achieving
profitable growth by cross-selling our business services
portfolio to our existing clients. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 5
o2o Group | Managed procurement & business critical services
Executive summary
We began 2009 with the challenge of
renewing longstanding contractual
relationships with both NHS Supply
Chain and Barclays. These contracts
represent a material proportion of the
Group’s revenues and both were
renewed successfully albeit, as
anticipated, at reduced margins. 
Soon afterwards, Banner Business
Services (BBS) won a contract with the
Ministry of Justice from a key
competitor. This prestigious new
account demonstrated the
competitiveness of our proposition in
the public sector and a number of other
new contracts were secured during the
course of the year. 
Despite these successes, o2o was not
immune to the effects of the downturn,
although all areas of the business made
a positive contribution to Group
profitability . The unprecedented
product cost inflation that we
experienced in 2008 continued, driven
by a combination of manufacturer
pricing policies and adverse exchange
rates. In particular, substantial cost
increases were incurred in proprietary
branded printer consumables, which
represent a significant proportion of the
BBS and Accord Office Supplies
(Accord) businesses.
The economic conditions prompted
many customers to focus their
purchasing on lower priced, “contract”
products, which contributed to the
reduction in our overall gross margin to
30.7% (2008: 31.4%). Customers’
discretionary marketing expenditure
declined substantially which resulted in
a corresponding fall in the AccessPlus
non-contracted print volumes, although
this impact has, in part, been mitigated
by growth in its contracted business
process outsourcing service.  
Finally, underlying volumes inevitably
suffered as the recession continued into
the second half of 2009. Whilst BBS
held up well, the impact on Accord,
which is focused on the mid market and
SME sectors, was significant.
Managing the impacts of this difficult
commercial environment was a key
focus across the Group.
Firm foundations
In last year’s review, I explained how the
Group had been restructured following
our strategic decision to withdraw from
the Ministry of Defence office supplies
contract in 2007. That decision resulted
in a material loss of revenue but was the
catalyst for change within our business.
For o2o, it meant that the recession and
the work needed to offset its impact
effectively started a year early.
Since that time, the Group has been
transformed and we are now business
services focused and well placed to
exploit the opportunities that will
emerge as economic conditions
improve. Under the four brands: BBS,
Accord, AccessPlus and Banner
Document Services (BDS), we offer
managed procurement and business
critical services.
Managed procurement
Managed procurement helps our
customers to reduce their expenditure
on office and business products,
ethically and sustainably. BBS is a
market leader in the larger corporate
and public sectors, while Accord is one
of the largest dealers in the UK mid
market sector.
Business critical services –
communications and document
destruction services
AccessPlus provides communication
services through creative design, print
management, fulfilment and response
handling services, enabling customers
to outsource these requirements from a
single provider and thereby reduce
costs. BDS provides its customers with
both on-site and off-site document
destruction services, meeting a growing
requirement to ensure that the disposal
of obsolete documents and materials is
achieved securely and responsibly,
whilst ensuring that as much of the
waste material as possible is recycled.
We are encouraged by our success in
cross-selling these services into the
Group’s client base. Building on this
opportunity lies at the heart of our
strategy for 2010 and beyond. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 6
BBS is a market leader in the large
contract supply of business
products and services. BBS
delivers value by helping its
customers manage their
procurement effectively and
thereby reduce their expenditure,
whilst ensuring the highest
standards of business ethics and
environmental sustainability.
BBS enjoyed an excellent start to 2009,
retaining significant contracts with NHS
Supply Chain and Barclays. Subsequently ,
the Ministry of Justice contract was
secured, which delivered an important
new business win in the year. Other new
business contracts followed and no
material existing contracts were lost. 
“Banner” is strong in the corporate and
public sectors, where the name enjoys
considerable recognition and trust.
Leveraging this will play a key role in
the Group’s strategy to cross-sell its
portfolio of business services in 2010.
BDS demonstrates the potential of
this approach.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Managed Procurement | BBS
To date, BBS has weathered the
recession well, albeit volumes in the
private sector did soften during the
second half of 2009. Product cost
inflation continued to impact the
business but this has been largely
mitigated by working closely with
customers to minimise its impact.
A key issue has been the trend towards
lower cost contracted products at the
expense of more profitable non-
contracted items. BBS has responded to
this by promoting the introduction of
“open book” contracts, transparent
commercial mechanisms that are
designed to benefit both customer and
supplier in delivering savings.  
Social and environmental issues are
increasingly important to BBS’s
corporate and public sector customers.
The Group offers over 1,000
environmentally preferred products
under the Globe & Tick™ brand and
publishes a “Green Guide” of sustainable
products and services. It also provides
customers with the Green OPTIMISA™
system to measure the environmental
impacts of their purchases.
Shortly after the year end, we
announced that BBS had been
successful in its bid to secure a place
on the new Pan-Government
Collaborative Framework. This
framework provides public sector
customers with a supply route for a
wide range of products and services
including secure shredding services, as
sold by BDS.  It presents us with a
compliant mechanism to defend our
existing contractual relationships
within the public sector whilst
presenting an important route to
consolidate and grow our share of 
this market.
To better capitalise on these and other
sales opportunities, BBS changed its
sales territories in the final quarter of
2009 to improve sales team
productivity and develop closer
relationships with customers at a local
level. We are already beginning to see
the benefits of this.  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 7
Accord is our mid market sector
managed procurement brand. It is
one of the largest dealers in the
UK and provides customers with a
wide range of office and business
products, excellent service and
strong local support.   
Managed Procurement | Accord
The strength of Accord’s proposition
lies in its excellent service, local sales
representation and competitive prices.
Since acquisition in 2008, Accord has
enjoyed the benefits of the Group’s
purchasing power. However, customers
have continued to seek competitive
pricing and there has been an
increasing trend towards competitive
tendering. In addition, underlying
volumes were impacted by the
recession, although these stabilised
later in the year and have since shown
some signs of recovery.
Like BBS, Accord also suffered from
increases in product costs driven by
inflation and weakness in sterling but
has been largely successful in mitigating
these impacts. The business is now fully
integrated into the Group’s logistics,
purchasing and back office functions.
Recently , the difficult economic
conditions have resulted in a number of
independent office products dealers
facing financial difficulties.  On 1 February
2010, the trade and assets of the
Newbury branch of office supplies dealer,
Martin Luck Limited, were acquired by the
Group and have since been integrated
with Accord. All further opportunities will
be considered on their merits.
Whilst trading conditions in 2010
remain uncertain, Accord is well
positioned to take advantage of any
economic recovery.   o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 8
AccessPlus specialises in the
provision of business
communication services. Its
proposition spans the process
from creative design to
fulfilment and response handling,
enabling customers to outsource
any or all of these services to a
trusted provider.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Critical Services | AccessPlus
AccessPlus offers a complete solution
for creative design, data solutions,
logistics, campaign delivery and print
management services. It has suffered
from the impact of the economic
downturn more than any other part of
the o2o Group. A large proportion of
its business is based on discretionary
marketing spend, where demand
reduced throughout the ensuing
downturn. In total, non-contracted
print volumes fell substantially year-
on-year. This has been partly offset by
an encouraging growth in sales of
contracted BPO services.
To mitigate the reduction in volume,
AccessPlus has been reorganised to
deliver maximum synergies with the
Group’s back office and operational
functions. In addition, selling these
services into BBS and Accord
customers is key to its growth and a
number of successes have been
achieved in this respect, despite the
difficult prevailing economic conditions.
Notable examples of new customers
taking advantage of the Group’s
enlarged service offering include the
NHS and G4S. The AccessPlus sales
team has recently been restructured to
provide local, specialist support to the
BBS and Accord businesses.
Since the year end, AccessPlus has
expanded its position in the BPO sector
following the acquisition of the trade and
certain assets relating to the BPO division
of The Print Factory London (1991)
Limited (in administration) and The DSR
Group Limited (in administration) on 17
February 2010. This development, which
broadens our customer base and
increases our market coverage, underpins
our confidence that this business will
deliver increasing value as economic
conditions improve. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 9
BDS is the Group’s brand in the
secure document destruction
market and is a partnership
arrangement with Shred Easy
Limited. o2o owns 60% of the
issued share capital of BDS and
has the option to acquire either
Shred Easy Limited or the minority
interest in the partnership.
Business Critical Services | BDS
BDS began trading in January 2009 and
its performance met all management
expectations in this, its first year. By the
end of the year, BDS was providing a
national service through its UK-wide
infrastructure to many of the Group’s
large public sector customers including
most of the HMRC property estate and,
increasingly , to the Ministry of Justice. In
addition, BDS services many NHS
locations through its secure off-site
service.  BDS has not been greatly
impacted by the recession as its business
is driven largely by legislation and the
threat to customers of security risks.
The business offers customers a variety
of disposal services, with a key focus on
environmental sustainability and
recycling. The core of its business is the
provision of on-site destruction
services, utilising specialist vehicles
that incorporate large shredders. Off-
site destruction services are also
provided to customers for where an on-
site solution is inappropriate.
This is a fast growing and attractive
market. A particular opportunity exists in
the public sector, where awareness of
the importance of secure disposal has
grown following a number of high profile
lapses. The public sector is also
attracted to the comprehensive audit
trail that BDS is able to provide, from
destruction to recycling. 
Critically, the new Pan-Government
Collaborative Framework, on which BBS
has secured a place, includes the
provision of secure disposal services.
Growing its business in this sector will
be a key focus for BDS in 2010. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 10
Delivering our operating
strategy
The Group has responded to business
challenges by right-sizing to fit the
new commercial and economic reality.
We completed our organisational
restructuring based on the four
customer-facing brands referred to
above, supported by a more efficient
centralised operations and back
office function.
The consolidation of our warehousing,
logistics and procurement functions
under Group management was
materially completed by the end of
the third quarter, without disruption
to customer services. The
centralisation of back office services,
including HR, payroll, finance,
payables and management accounts,
has also been completed.
As well as rationalising the
organisation, we have made
appropriate investments to improve
efficiency. A new fleet management
system has improved the efficiency of
our delivery vehicles, whilst new “track
& trace” technology enables us to
As part of the BDS secure paper
collection, destruction and
disposal service, shredded and
declassified materials are taken
to secure facilities where they
are recycled for manufacture into
low grade paper products. Being
one of the largest distributors of
copier paper in the UK, o2o is
taking this service a step further
with its “close the loop” initiative.
Having supplied the customer
with copier paper and, in due
course, collected and securely
shredded the used paper, the
waste material is then sent to
o2o’s specialist mill partner to be
turned into copier paper for
re-sale back to the customer.
Production trials have been
completed and the quality of the
recycled paper has exceeded
expectations. It is intended to roll
out this initiative during 2010.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
| “Close the Loop” initiative
manage the fulfilment process more
effectively. These activities have
enabled us to achieve the lowest
warehouse and distribution cost to
sales ratio in the Group’s history and
has been crucial to maintaining
profitability in 2009.
“Banner”
The recognised value of the “Banner”
office products brand will be employed
more fully in the future. It already enjoys
strong recognition in the contract
market and, in particular, the public
sector where significant trust has been
built on the basis of a long established
trading history. 
The brand opportunity was further
strengthened at the end of 2009,
when it was announced that BBS has
secured a place on the new Pan-
Government Collaborative Framework
for the supply of office products and
services. This framework enables us
to offer public sector bodies a
compliant supply mechanism for both
managed procurement and secure
disposal services. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 11
Corporate social responsibility
(CSR) – ‘Good for you, good for
us, good for everyone’
We believe that we are differentiated by
our CSR proposition. CSR is increasingly
important to the Group and its large
managed contract customers in both
the public and private sector.
In 2009, the Group introduced a new
trading ethic, ‘Good for you, good for us,
good for everyone’ , that reflected our
determination to make real progress in
this area. The words have been matched
by our actions. 
Our investment in a new fleet
management system has reduced the
fuel consumption and noise pollution of
our delivery fleet, which enabled o2o
to secure the British Office Supplies
and Services (BOSS) Federation
Industry Award for the Environment in
2009. We have transformed our
National Distribution Centre (NDC) in
Manchester, by introducing
comprehensive recycling facilities and
many other new initiatives
recommended by the Environment
Agency. Our accreditation to the
ISO14001 environmental management
standard has been extended to include
our Basingstoke operation and further
sites will follow in 2010. Following the
successful trials in producing recycled
copier paper from our customers’
waste paper, we intend to roll out and
further develop our new “close the
loop” initiative.
These and many other CSR
achievements will be described more
fully in the Group’s CSR Review which is
published under separate cover. We are
committed to delivering further
initiatives. From every perspective,
commercial and ethical, it is the right
thing for us to do.
Management and employees
In 2009, o2o completed the integration
of the back office functions of Accord
and AccessPlus with those of the Group.
As a result, the brand managers are now
focused solely on sales, commercial
management and customer service,
whilst enjoying the improved efficiency
of consolidated Group functions.
We have sought to develop an open and
approachable management style and I
have been encouraged by the improved
communication and relationships across
the Group at all levels. I would like to
take this opportunity to thank our
employees for their continued support
during a difficult year, despite the
commercial necessity of maintaining a
salary freeze. They remain our greatest
asset and we highly value their
experience, expertise and loyalty.
Outlook
Whilst trading conditions in 2009 have
been difficult, the Group has
successfully improved the level of
underlying profit before tax year-on-
year. This achievement reflects both
the underlying strength of our business
and our ability to implement essential
management decisions quickly and
effectively. Having taken the necessary
steps to reshape the business from as
early as 2007, we are confident that
our cost base is now appropriate to our
business strategy and prevailing
market conditions. 
As we move into 2010 our focus is on
business growth and, in particular, on
maximising the opportunity to cross-
sell the Group’s portfolio of business
services into its established client base.
We recognise that the expectation of
public sector expenditure cuts creates
some uncertainty. Nonetheless, our
success in securing a position on the
Pan-Government Collaborative
Framework provides us with a
significant opportunity to both grow
our secure disposal services business
and strengthen our position in the
public sector. 
o2o continues to monitor the market for
acquisition opportunities that will
enhance its strategy to grow the
business. 
I believe that we are well placed to
weather the challenges of 2010.
S R Moate
Chief Executive
24 March 2010 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 12
partially offset by expenses not
deductable for tax purposes.
Shareholders’ return
Basic earnings per share were 17.2p
(2008: 18.5p) with underlying earnings
per share of 27.1p (2008: 24.1p).  The
total dividend paid and payable for the
year of 11.4p per share (2008: 11.0p),
including the 3.6p interim dividend (2008:
3.5p) paid on 13 November 2009, is
covered 1.5 times by earnings (2008: 1.7
times). Shareholders’ equity at the end of
the year was £22.6m (2008: £20.2m).
The middle-market quotation of the
Company’s Ordinary shares at the end of
the financial year was 145.5p with a
market capitalisation of £52.8m (including
shares held by the employee benefit trust).
Cash flow
As set out on page 39, the Group
generated net cash from operating
activities of £8.0m (2008: £2.1m). At 31
December 2009 net debt, incurred as a
consequence of the acquisition activity in
2008, amounted to £27.8m a decrease
of £1.9m compared to net debt of
£29.7m at the start of the year.   
The net debt of £27.8m is supported by
committed borrowing facilities of
£45.0m which are in place until April
2013. The facilities comprise a term loan
(£25.0m) which is repayable over 5 years
with the first instalment of £2.5m due in
April 2010, and an invoice discounting
arrangement (up to £20.0m) on which we
are charged interest at 1.1% over LIBOR
and 0.9% over bank base rate
respectively . Financial covenants are
applied to the committed facilities and
the Group has continued to comply with
these with significant headroom.
Key contractual arrangements
The Group has always had a number of
large customers.  With our major
customers, our approach is to seek long
term, strategic relationships, based on
managed services and shared interests.
The term for a typical supply arrangement
is between 3 to 5 years and we have a
record of successful contract retention.
A key aim for the Group has been to
enlarge and diversify the customer base.
This has been achieved both organically
and by taking advantage of suitable
Revenue and profit
T otal revenue increased by £6.5m (3.6%)
to £187.5m (2008: £181.0m). £8.2m of
the increase came from a full year’s
trading of the businesses acquired in
2008, partially offset by a decrease in
revenues of £1.7m elsewhere, as a result
of the wider economic conditions
experienced in 2009. Underlying profit
before tax was £13.1m (2008: £12.1m)
before exceptional and non-recurring
costs of £3.6m (2008: £1.8m),
amortisation of intangibles relating to
acquisitions of £1.0m (2008: £0.6m) and
share option charges of £0.4m (2008:
£nil). Operating profit before such costs
was £14.0m (2008: £13.4m) and
operating profit after such costs was
£9.0m (2008: £11.0m). Profit before tax,
after such costs, was £8.1m (2008:
£9.6m) and profit after tax was £6.3m
(2008: £6.6m). The underlying profit
margin increased to 7.0% (2008: 6.7%).
Exceptional and non-recurring costs are
those significant items that are
separately disclosed by virtue of their size
or incidence to enable a full understanding
of the Group’s operating performance.
T ransactions, which may give rise to
exceptional and non-recurring costs, are
principally restructuring related charges
and costs in respect of key management
changes. A full analysis of the exceptional
and non-recurring costs is set out in
note 5 to the financial statements.
Tax
A full analysis of the tax charge for the
year is set out in note 9 to the financial
statements.
The Group’s effective tax rate in 2009
was 22.0% (2008: 31.2%).  The reduction
in the effective tax rate reflected the
utilisation of previously unrecognised
brought forward trading losses and the
unwinding of the deferred tax liability
arising in respect of the fair value
adjustments to the intangible fixed assets
in respect of the acquisitions in 2008.
The amount of corporation tax payable
for the year is £2.2m (2008: £2.6m).
The effective tax rate in the near future
is anticipated to continue to be slightly
less than the standard rate, due to
releases of deferred tax liabilities
arising on business combinations,
Business and Financial Review
acquisition opportunities.  As a
consequence, when compared to previous
years, the Group’s reliance on any one
individual customer has been reduced.
The Group has a wide range of suppliers
and it is possible that the challenging
economic conditions could impact some.
However, the Group has limited
exposure to the failure of any single
supplier as the nature of the majority of
products purchased is such that other
options are normally readily available.
The Group maintains flexibility with its
suppliers by typically not making
contractual volume commitments.
It is the Group’s policy to negotiate, with
each of its principal suppliers, terms of
trade appropriate to the business and to
operate within those terms once agreed.
With a wide range of suppliers, the
terms of trade operated by the Group
are diverse, with no standard
characteristics prevailing.
The Group works in partnership with
suppliers to ensure, as far as reasonably
practicable, that its sourcing of products
meets recognised standards of
corporate social responsibility .  The CSR
statement on page 14 gives a description
of the approach o2o takes in this regard.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group are set out below:
  Loss of a large customer
The Group has a number of large
customers and is therefore potentially
vulnerable to the loss of any one of these.
Contingency plans are formulated and
quantified before any large re-tenders are
submitted so that the business is able to
respond rapidly , with minimal disruption,
to a large contract loss. This, coupled with
a strategy of diversifying the customer
base and widening the business portfolio
at the same time as maintaining a high
level of service, helps mitigate the risk;
  Reduction in gross margins
Gross margins are adversely impacted by
increases in cost prices, due to raw
material costs, foreign currency exchange
movements and customers reducing their
demand. Last year saw unprecedented
rises in raw material costs particularly oil,
paper pulp and steel. The Group has
sought to mitigate these increases, where o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 13
2009 2008
Gross margin % 30.7% 31.4%
Gross margin percentage is calculated as the margin expressed as a percentage of Group revenue. It is the measure of profitability of sales less their
direct purchase cost and is a comparable measure with other companies.
The gross margin % decreased by 0.7% due to cost price inflation together with the impact of a weaker sterling, mitigated wherever possible by
negotiation with suppliers and passing unavoidable increases on to customers. 
Distribution costs % 10.2% 11.1%
Distribution costs percentage is calculated as the cost associated with distribution expressed as a percentage of Group revenue.  
The distribution cost % decreased by 0.9% due to further efficiency improvements across the Group. 
Administration costs % 13.1% 12.9%
Administration costs percentage is calculated as the cost associated with administration (before £3.6m of exceptional and non-recurring costs
(2008: £1.8m), amortisation £1.0m (2008: £0.6m) and share option charges £0.4m (2008: £nil)) expressed as a percentage of Group revenue.   
The administration cost % increased by 0.2% due to the full year effect of the acquisitions operating at a higher cost % than BBS offset in part by
further cost saving initiatives.
Underlying profit % 7.0% 6.7%
Underlying profit percentage is calculated as the underlying profit (before exceptional and non-recurring costs, amortisation and share option
charges) expressed as a percentage of Group revenue.
The underlying profit percentage increased as a result of distribution efficiencies referred to above, a lower level of finance cost being incurred during
the year and a higher level of sales.
Underlying earnings per share 27.1p 24.1p
Underlying earnings per share is calculated as the profit on ordinary activities after tax (before the after tax effect of exceptional and non-recurring
costs, amortisation and share option charges) divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share increased as a result of distribution efficiencies referred to above, a lower level of finance cost being incurred
during the year and a higher level of sales.
Health and Safety 91.0% 88.0%
A health and safety management system has been put in place across all sites.  An external assessor audits the operation of the system across all
sites and rates our performance. The audit covers 11 main areas of review (the most significant being health and safety management system, control
of contractors, fire safety and risk assessment) which are then scored.  In 2009, the external assessment of our performance was rated at 91.0%
(2008: 88.0%), which compares to their assessment of the average for our industry sector of 85.0%.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The KPIs which o2o regard as important measures for the Group business are gross margin, distribution and administration
costs as a proportion of revenue, underlying profit as a proportion of revenue, underlying earnings per share and, in respect of
non-financial KPIs, Health and Safety .
possible, by passing these increases onto
customers, but some resistance and lag is
inevitable. Our experience has shown that
widening the Group’s portfolio of business
products and services and driving
efficiency improvements helps mitigate
the risk and a focus on customer
profitability allows for the situation to
be monitored;
  Interruption of operations or IT
services
The business is built around a proven
service with reliance on our warehouses
and IT infrastructure. A severe
disruption in either of these areas would
potentially have a high impact on the
Group. In order to mitigate these risks
we maintain appropriate insurance
cover and disaster recovery plans;
  Competitors
BBS operates in a highly competitive
market. The risk exists therefore, that
contracts are awarded on the basis of
lowest price. The Group’s strategy is to
deliver a first rate, added-value service at
competitive prices. Recent contract wins
and retentions underpin our confidence
that this approach is valued by our
customers. The services provided by
AccessPlus and BDS further extend the
range that can be offered to customers
helping to further differentiate the Group
from its competitors.
Accord operates in the less formal mid
market sector. The Group’s purchasing
scale, national distribution and
complementary range of products and
services, together with the flexible
approach offered by Accord, provides a
distinct advantage in this sector; 
  Economic downturn
The Group is subject to facets of the
current global economic slowdown
such as the weakening of sterling
leading to cost price pressure and the
potential for lower levels of
employment leading to reduced
demand for some of the goods and
services provided by the Group. The
economic downturn could impact
suppliers. However, the Group has
limited exposure to the failure of any
single supplier as the nature of the
majority of products supplied is such
that other sourcing or product options
are normally available. 
The Group also has limited exposure to
the failure of customers. As mentioned in
the half yearly financial report, we are
also mindful that the public sector may
come under tougher budgetary
constraints in the medium term, which
could lead to a reduction in sales. The
Group’s committed borrowing facilities
afford some protection against increased
funding requirements should they arise.
In addition, the broader base of the
business following the acquisitions in the
year, the wide spread of customers and
the public sector element of our account
base helps to mitigate the risks in the
wider economy; and
  Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a
variety of financial risks, which include
market risk (comprising currency risk,
commodity price risk, cash flow and fair
value interest rate risk), credit risk and
liquidity risk, the details of which are
described in note 1 to the financial
statements on pages 48 to 51.  
M A Cunningham
Finance Director
24 March 2010  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 14
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
o2o recognises that its business activities have a material
impact on its employees, customers, suppliers, community
and the environment. The Board is committed to ensuring
that the Group acts in a responsible and ethical manner and
that its good intentions are matched by its actions.
o2o takes CSR seriously for good commercial reasons.
Delivering best practice in CSR means less waste, greater
efficiency and reduced costs, which enables o2o to be more
competitive. It is also increasingly expected by shareholders
and customers. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 15
During 2009, o2o delivered a number of
CSR-related initiatives under its ‘Good for
you, good for us, good for everyone’
trading ethic, and these have had a positive
impact on o2o’s performance.
Performance measures have been
established to quantify improvements and
to help identify where corrective action is
required.  For more details, please refer to
o2o’s “CSR Review” document, which is
published under separate cover .
Workplace
Following our recent acquisition in
February 2010, details of which are
provided in the Chairman’s Statement,
over 1,000 people are now employed
within the Group, across a broad range
of activities. o2o is committed to their
development, to creating a positive
internal culture and to ensuring a safe
and healthy environment for them to
work in.
Employees
o2o aims to provide a challenging yet
rewarding environment that promotes
equal opportunities and is free from
discrimination and harassment.
Employees are encouraged and
supported in their development to
ensure competence in their roles and to
help create a more satisfying work
environment. A variety of methods are
used ranging from on the job training, to
in-house and external specialist
training. ‘ Job shadowing’ was introduced
during the year to facilitate insight into
other roles and increase knowledge
across the business.
The diversity of the workforce is
recognised in o2o’s policies and
practices, such as flexible working
arrangements and participation in the
Childcare Vouchers scheme.
o2o seeks to maintain an open,
constructive and two-way dialogue with
its employees.  An in-house newsletter,
called “Together” , is produced regularly
and an employee suggestion scheme
called “Have Y our Say!” rewards those
employees whose suggestions are
implemented.
All employees are invited to complete an
annual online staff questionnaire. This is
designed to capture employees’ views
regarding a wide range of issues and
provides management with the
opportunity to measure progress
towards employee-related objectives. In
2009, the staff survey was completed by
81% of employees, up from 48.5% in the
previous year. Some 72% of respondents
said that they are proud to say that they
work for o2o, up 11% from 2008. 
Health & Safety
o2o is committed to ensuring the health,
safety and welfare of its employees and
others affected by its business
activities and maintains awareness of
the range of health and safety
legislation relevant to its organisation
and of the standards of proof required
to demonstrate compliance.
All employees receive health and safety
awareness training and British Safety
Council (BSC) training has been
extended; the senior operations
managers now hold BSC Level 2
certificates and all members of the
Head Office health and safety group
have attained BSC Level 1 certificate. 
A health and safety management system
is in place across all sites which is audited
by an external assessor. Each site has
now been audited twice.  The second
audit in 2009, confirmed that each site
had improved considerably and the Group
surpassed the industry sector average in
the prevention of accidents and ill health.
The Group’s health and safety advisor
also carries out regular assessments and
there are health and safety committees
at each of o2o’s premises.
Fire, manual handling, display screen
equipment and workplace task-specific
risk assessments are conducted at each
site. Employees who drive company
vehicles are assessed for their road and
safety awareness and all delivery
drivers undertake an internet based
road safety course.
Community
As part of a wider community, o2o
recognises that it has a responsibility
to support it by helping local
businesses and charitable
organisations and encourages its
employees to do likewise.
o2o offers work experience placements
to students and, wherever practicable,
preference is given to local businesses
when outsourcing services such as
catering, cleaning and recruitment.
Many o2o employees give their personal
time, knowledge and experience to a
wide range of community organisations.
Some 53% of the respondents to o2o’s
annual employee survey said that they
would be interested in doing this and
o2o is currently exploring ways to
facilitate this.
Employees across the Group have been
particularly active during the year in
raising funds for a wide range of
different charities. This has prompted
o2o to create a Charity Committee to
ensure that efforts are co-ordinated
and deliver maximum benefit. 
Marketplace
o2o is a leading player within its target
markets and is committed to supporting
both customers and suppliers in
delivering best practice in CSR.
Ethical sourcing
o2o sources globally on the precept of
its own stringent ethical and
environmental criteria. Suppliers are
actively encouraged to implement
environmental management systems
and o2o will not knowingly source
from companies who fail to meet
these standards.
o2o’s buyers visit suppliers’ factories
overseas and SGS, the leading
provider of inspection and
certification services, ensures
compliance with the Ethical Trading
Initiative Base Code on the Group’s
behalf. In 2009, SGS audited all
suppliers of o2o’s own brand products
in Asia and will have completed audits
on suppliers in the rest of the world by
early 2010. The audits are focused on
working practices, child labour and
health and safety. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 16
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement continued
Environmentally preferred products 
The Globe & Tick™ accreditation scheme
makes it easy for customers to select
environmentally preferred products, all
of which have been stringently assessed
using criteria laid down by an
independent expert. Since its launch 15
years ago, the range has been expanded
and now features over 1,100 products,
which equates to 17% of o2o’s total
product lines. 
The Green Guide, now in its sixth edition,
secured a Green Apple Award in 2009. It
includes details of o2o’s range of Globe
& Tick™ products as well as information
about sustainable services and in-house
environmental initiatives.  
Catalogues and brochures
o2o’s main catalogues are printed on
paper made from 100% recovered
waste. In 2009, the amount of
packaging used to mail these was
significantly reduced by 90% compared
to the previous year.
Wherever possible, the use of electronic
catalogues is promoted.
Green OPTIMISA™  
The Green OPTIMISA™ system is
designed to measure the environmental
impacts of o2o’s customers’ purchasing
and identify key opportunities for
improvement. It works by evaluating and
analysing the transactional data
associated with a customer’s contract,
and applying it to known environmental
metrics. The system was awarded a
Green Apple Award in 2009.
Recycling services and “close the
loop” initiative
o2o offers a wide range of recycling
services including printer cartridges,
technology and furniture products and,
in accordance with recent legislation,
batteries. BDS provides a secure
document destruction, disposal and
recycling service. 
The “close the loop” initiative is o2o’s
latest development. Having supplied
the customer with copier paper and, in
due course, collected and securely
shredded the used paper, the waste
material is then sent to o2o’s specialist
mill partner to be turned into copier
paper for re-sale back to the customer.
Production trials have been completed
and the quality of the recycled paper
has exceeded expectations. It is
intended to roll out this initiative
during 2010.
Environment
The impact of o2o’s trading activities
on the environment has been assessed
and an Environmental Management
system implemented which is certified
to the international standard ISO
14001:2004. 
Waste management
As a national distributor of office
products, o2o inevitably uses a significant
volume of packaging. However, in 2009, a
30% reduction was achieved by using
volumetric data to ensure that deliveries
have just the right amount of packaging to
ensure safe transit.
o2o promotes electronic trading which
is key to reducing paper usage. In 2009,
75% of customer orders were sent
through an e-commerce platform
compared to 70% in 2008. In addition,
many customers are invoiced
electronically and there are electronic
trading links in place with many of o2o’s
major suppliers.
Recycling
o2o is a member of the Valpak
packaging compliance scheme which
aims to minimise the use of packaging
and maximise recycling.
During the year, o2o worked closely with
the Environment Agency at its NDC in
Manchester, to develop best practice in
recycling. As a result, 113 tonnes of
cardboard and 30 tonnes of plastic
were recycled in 2009 compared to 81
tonnes of cardboard and 16 tonnes of
plastic in 2008. 
Energy management
o2o measures its energy consumption in
an effort to reduce usage and cost.
Some of its locations have switched to
providers of renewable energy and the
use of alternative power sources is
being investigated by installing
equipment to measure the potential for
wind and solar power.
Other initiatives include:
  the installation in the NDC in
Manchester of an air source heat
pump which converts air drawn
from the atmosphere into a source
of heat which is then used to heat
the radiators; 
  a major refit of lighting throughout
the NDC in Manchester; and
  the installation of motion sensors in
areas where continuous lighting is
not necessary.
Carbon management
o2o has implemented a number of
initiatives to reduce o2o’s carbon
emissions.
The new company car scheme
encourages staff to select low emission
vehicles. Sales teams have been
reorganised to operate on a
geographical basis and, wherever
possible, video-conferencing is used to
help reduce business related travel.
The CO2 emissions and fuel
consumption of the delivery fleet is
monitored regularly and is now almost
entirely diesel run. Large goods vehicles
and double deck trailers are used to
optimise the number of journeys and
trailers with aerodynamic curved tops
for improved fuel efficiency have
recently been introduced.
Back-loading arrangements exist with a
number of key suppliers whereby
delivery vehicles collect stock on their
return to the warehouse in an otherwise
empty vehicle. This maximises efficiency
and minimises environmental impact.
A new fleet management system has
improved the efficiency of our delivery
vehicles. This achievement was
recognised by the BOSS Federation,
which awarded o2o its industry
Environment Award for 2009. Board of Directors
David, aged 56, is a Chartered Accountant and joined o2o as Chairman in January
2001. His career has been in financial and general management, mainly with
publicly quoted companies including chief executive positions with TIP Europe
plc (Europe-wide vehicle rental) and Jeyes Group plc (international household
products manufacture and supply). He currently holds a number of non-executive
chairman roles working with the boards of private companies including RP Martin
Holdings Ltd and Swift Technical Group Holdings Ltd.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 17
David Callear
Simon Moate
Jim Cohen
Mark Cunningham
Chris Batterham
Simon, aged 47, joined o2o as Chief Executive in July 2007. He was previously an
executive director of Johnson Service Group plc, the managed services business,
where, as chief executive of the facilities management and specialist supplies
division, he led and integrated a number of acquisitions.  Prior to this, he held a
number of senior sales, marketing and operations roles with blue chip companies,
including Well Well Well Ltd, Aramark plc, Provend Group plc and Coca Cola.
Jim, aged 68, joined o2o in June 2004.  He was a main board executive director of
Balfour Beatty plc until his retirement in February 2007. Prior to joining Balfour
Beatty plc in 1993, he held senior management positions with GTE and GEC and was
a senior civil servant at the Department of Energy. In April 2007, Jim took on a non-
executive role for the Swiss construction company, Implenia AG and, in September
2009, joined the investment committee of the Netherlands based infrastructure
fund, DIF II.  He is also chairman of Empower Advisors Ltd, a private company, which
is owned by Actis LLP and provides interim power generation in sub-Saharan Africa.
Mark, aged 43, is a Chartered Accountant and joined Her Majesty’s Stationery
Office in 1994.  He was appointed Finance Director of Banner Business Services
Ltd in 1999, having previously worked as Finance Controller.  Mark became
Finance Director of o2o in December 2000.
Chris, aged 54, joined o2o in June 2008 and is a Chartered Accountant with
significant experience in the business services sector. He was finance director of
Unipalm plc, the first internet company to float on the London Stock Exchange,
and, latterly, chief financial officer of Searchspace Group until 2005. He
currently holds a number of non-executive directorships including SDL plc, DRS
Data and Research Services plc, Iomart plc, Betfair plc and, since September
2009, chairman of Eckoh plc. 
Chairman
Chief Executive
Senior non-executive Director
Finance Director
Non-executive Director o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 18
share register at close of business on
23 April 2010. 
The aggregate dividends recognised as
appropriations of profit in the year
ended 31 December 2009 amounted to
£4.0m (2008: £3.7m).
Share capital and substantial
shareholders
The authorised, issued and fully paid
share capital of the Company, are shown
in note 25 of the financial statements.
There are no contracts of significance in
place between the Group and its
shareholders (2008: none).
The Company has been notified in
accordance with Disclosure and
T ransparency Rule 5.1.2 of the Financial
Services Authority that, as at 15 March
2010, the following shareholders owned
more than 3% of the issued Ordinary
share capital of the Company:
The Directors present their report and
financial statements for the Group for
the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities and results
The principal activity of the parent
Company (the Company) is that of a
holding company. office2office plc is
registered at Companies House under
company number 04083206.
The Group’s principal activities are
delivering managed procurement and
business critical services. Net profit
after tax for the financial year was
£6.3m (2008: £6.6m).
Business and Financial Review
The Business and Financial Review has
been prepared in accordance with the
requirements for a business review under
the Companies Act 2006. The intent is to
provide information to shareholders and
should not be relied on by any other party
or for any other purposes.
The Group’s strategy, objectives and
likely future developments in the
business are reviewed in the Chairman’s
Statement on pages 2 to 3 and in the
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to
11. The KPIs are defined and the
principal risks and uncertainties
(including financial risks) facing the
business are described in the Business
and Financial Review on pages 12 to 13.
Where the annual report contains
forward looking statements, these are
made by the Directors in good faith
based on the information available to
them at the time of their approval of
this report. Consequently, such
statements should be treated with
caution due to the inherent
uncertainties, including both economic
and business risk factors, underlying
such forward looking statements
or information.
Post Balance Sheet events
On 1 February 2010, the trade and
assets of the Newbury branch of office
supplies dealer, Martin Luck Limited,
were acquired. 
Directors’ Report
Aberforth Partners 8,346,900 shares 22.99%
AXA Investment 5,672,329 shares 15.62%
Aviva Investors 2,415,419 shares 6.65%
F & C Asset Management 2,372,117 shares 6.53%
Baillie Gifford 1,822,359 shares 5.02%
Rensburg Sheppards Investment 1,412,000 shares 3.89%
Hermes Pensions Management 1,312,300 shares 3.61%
M A Cunningham 1,089,549 shares 3.00%
On 18 February 2010, the aquisition of
the trade and certain assets relating to
the BPO division of The Print Factory
London (1991) Limited (in
administration) and The DSR Group
Limited (in administration) was
announced by the Group. Further details
are provided on page 8 in the Chief
Executive’s Review.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.6p (2008: 3.5p)
per Ordinary share, amounting to £1.3m
(2008: £1.3m), was paid on 13 November
2009 to shareholders on the register at
close of business on 9 October  2009.
The Directors recommend a final
dividend in respect of the year ended
31 December 2009 of 7.8p (2008:
7.5p) per Ordinary share, amounting to
£2.8m (2008: £2.7m).  If authorised at
the AGM, the dividend will be paid on
21 May 2010 to shareholders on the
At the last AGM, the Directors were given
authority to allot Ordinary shares (within
the meaning of Section 80 Companies Act
1985) up to a maximum nominal amount
of £121,030 (being one-third of the
issued Ordinary share capital) and the
power to disapply pre-emption rights in
respect of the allotment of shares (under
Section 95 Companies Act 1985) up to an
aggregate nominal value of £18,154
(representing 5% of the issued Ordinary
share capital). In addition, the Directors
were given authority , on behalf of the
Company , to make market purchases of
up to 3,630,898 Ordinary shares of the
Company (being 10% of the issued
Ordinary share capital).
These authorities, which continue to
have legal effect as if made under the
relevant section of the Companies Act
2006, are due to expire at the end of
the forthcoming AGM. Separate
resolutions to renew these authorities
within the meanings of the Companies
Act 2006, will be set out in the notice
of meeting and proposed at the AGM
on 18 May 2010.
Special business to be considered
at the forthcoming AGM
There will be two items of special
business to consider at the forthcoming
AGM: an ordinary resolution to revoke o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 19
the provision in the Company’s Articles
of Association (the Articles) setting the
maximum amount of shares that may be
allotted; and a special resolution to
approve a 14 day notice period for
general meetings. 
Ordinary resolution
As mentioned above, the Directors
will be seeking to renew their
authority to allot Ordinary shares up
to a maximum nominal amount of
£121,030 (being one-third of the
issued Ordinary share capital). 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI)
has recently revised its guidelines on
directors’ authority to allot shares. The
guidelines state that resolutions seeking
authority to allot shares representing up
to two-thirds of the issued share capital,
will be treated as routine. This additional
authority (that is the authority to allot
shares representing the additional one-
third of the issued share capital) can only
be used to allot shares pursuant to a fully
pre-emptive rights issue.
In light of these guidelines, the
Directors will be seeking authority to
allot shares in the capital of the
Company up to a maximum nominal
amount of £242,060 representing the
guideline limit of approximately two-
thirds of the issued share capital. The
Company currently has issued share
capital of £363,089.84 and is
restricted by its Articles to a maximum
nominal amount of £500,000.
Shareholder approval, via ordinary
resolution, will therefore be sought to
revoke this restriction in the Articles.
Special resolution
Changes made to the Companies Act
2006 by the Shareholder Rights’
Regulations increase the notice period
required for general meetings of the
Company to 21 days unless shareholders
approve a shorter notice period, which
cannot, however, be less than 14 clear
days. AGMs will continue to be held on at
least 21 clear days’ notice.
Before the coming into force of the
Shareholder Rights’ Regulations on 3
August 2009, the Company was able
to call general meetings (other than an
AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice without
obtaining such shareholder approval.
Therefore, a special resolution will be
proposed in order to preserve this
ability. The shorter notice period
would not be used as a matter of
routine for such meetings, but only
where the flexibility is merited by the
business of the meeting and is thought
to be to the advantage of shareholders
as a whole. The approval will be
effective until the Company’s next
AGM, when it is intended that a similar
resolution will be proposed. 
Directors
The following were Directors during
2009 and held office throughout the
year under review up to the date of
signing these financial statements:
D J Callear
Chairman
1
S R Moate
Chief Executive 
M A Cunningham
Finance Director
J L Cohen
Non-executive Director
2
C M Batterham
Non-executive Director
3
1
Chairman of the Board and of the
Nomination Committee. Member of the
Remuneration Committee.
2
Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and senior independent
Director . Member of the Audit Committee
and Nomination Committee.
3
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee
and Nomination Committee.
Biographical details of the Directors are
shown on page 17.
David Callear will retire by rotation, in
accordance with the Articles at the
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible,
will offer himself for re-election. 
Corporate Governance
Details of the Corporate Governance
arrangements are provided on pages 22
to 25.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests are detailed in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 28 to 32.
Directors’ third party indemnity
provisions
A qualifying third party indemnity
provision as defined in section 234 of
the Companies Act 2006 was in force
for the benefit of each of the Directors
in respect of liabilities incurred as a
result of their office, to the extent
permitted by law throughout the year
and at the year end. In respect of those
liabilities for which Directors may not
be indemnified, the Company
maintained a directors’ and officers’
liability insurance policy throughout
the financial year.
Statement of Directors’
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for
preparing the annual report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the
Group and the Company financial
statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union.
Under company law the Directors must
not approve the financial statements
unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Group and the Company and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements,
the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies
and then apply them consistently; o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 20
Directors’ Report continued
  make judgements and accounting
estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
  state whether applicable IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union have
been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in
the financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain the
Company’s transactions and disclose,
with reasonable accuracy at any time, the
financial position of the Company and the
Group and to enable them to ensure that
the financial statements and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as
regards the Group financial statements,
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are
also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and
functions are listed on page 19 confirm
that, to the best of their knowledge:
  the Group financial statements,
which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the EU, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of the Group; 
  the Directors’ Report contained in
the annual report includes a fair
review of the development and
performance of the business and the
position of the Group, together with
a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that it faces; and
  in accordance with Section 418, in
the case of each Director in office at
the date the Directors’ Report is
approved, that:
(a) so far as the Director is aware,
there is no relevant audit
information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware;
and
(b) he has taken all the steps that he
ought to have taken as a Director
in order to make himself aware of
any relevant audit information and
to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that
information.
Employee involvement
The Group has a policy of providing
employees with information through
corporate newsletters and regular
meetings, which are held between
management and employees. In
addition, the operation of an employee
suggestion scheme facilitates a two-
way flow of information and ideas.
During the year, a staff satisfaction
survey was conducted, involving all
staff across the whole Group, to which
there was an 81% response rate. The
results and the high response rate
were pleasing given that the business
has gone through a lot of change. The
overall indication was that employees
had a good level of business
awareness and welcomed continual
improvements to employee
communications and more information
on current issues such as CSR. The
Directors fully support alternative
ways to engage with employees and
will make available to all employees,
the Group’s CSR Review  (further
details on pages 14 to 16).
A “Supplier Day” is hosted annually
which provides an opportunity for
relevant employees to meet with the
Group’s key suppliers and for the
suppliers to showcase the new products
included in the Group’s catalogues. 
The Group operates a long term
incentive scheme for executive Directors
and senior managers.  Details are
included in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on pages 28 to 32. 
The Group also has Save As Y ou Earn
(SA YE) schemes under which
employees are granted an option to
purchase Ordinary shares in the
Company in either three or five years
time, dependent upon their entering
into a contract to make monthly
contributions to a savings account over
the relevant period. These savings are
used to fund the option exercise. The
initial schemes launched in 2004 and
2005 have an exercise price above the
current market price. No further
options have been granted under the
SA YE scheme since the 2008 launch.
Details of the executive Directors’
participation are included in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 28 to 32.
A low cost dealing service is available to
employees which provides a simple way
of buying or selling o2o shares. Details
of this service are available on the
Company’s website.
Employee benefit trust (EBT)
As at 31 December 2009, the total
number of Ordinary shares held by the
EBT was 514,348 (1.42% of the issued
Ordinary share capital of the Company
(2008: 582,295 (1.60%))). The
reduction in shares held was due to the
exercise of options over shares by a
number of employees, under the Group’s
performance share plan. Whilst held in
trust, the shares do not attract any
payment of dividends. Although the
trustee may exercise his right to vote in
respect of any shares held within the
trust from time to time, this right is
typically waived.
Equal opportunities
The Group is fully committed to a policy
that provides all employees irrespective
of background or disability, with equality
of opportunity for employment, training,
career development and selection on
the basis of ability, qualifications and
suitability for the job.  Executive
Directors, managers and employees are
required to promote equality of
opportunity and to take full account of
the policy in their day-to-day work.  The
aim is to recruit the most appropriate
and qualified staff in the industry and
the Group is committed to the principle
of maximising every employees’
potential.  In selecting, training and o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 21
promoting staff, the Group has to take
account of the physically demanding
nature of much of its work.  Employees
who become disabled will be retained
and re-trained, where possible.
Health and safety
o2o is committed to maintaining the
health, safety and welfare of its
employees. Details of the Group’s health
and safety activities are given on page
14 of the CSR Statement.
Creditor payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to negotiate, with
each of its principal suppliers, terms of
trade appropriate to the business and to
operate within those terms of trade
once agreed.  Trade payable days based
on the year end figures are 79 (2008:
77 days) for the Group. The Company
has no trade payables (2008: nil).
Environmental policy
The Group ensures that, in satisfying its
customers’ requirements, both the
goods and services supplied and its own
housekeeping comply with legislation
and best practice.  The Group
continually reviews its environmental
performance across the business.
Further details of the Group’s
environmental policies are provided on
page 16 of the CSR Statement.
Corporate and social
responsibility
A summary report on the Group policies
and objectives in respect of CSR is set
out on pages 14 to 16.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Group operations expose o2o to a
variety of financial and other risks, a
review of which is provided in the
Business and Financial Review on
pages 12 to 13.  The Board has
delegated the responsibility for
monitoring financial risk management
to the Audit Committee.
Requirements of the Takeover
Directive
The following are disclosed in
accordance with the requirements of
the T akeover Directive:
  the Company’s authorised share
capital is £500,000 divided into
50,000,000 Ordinary shares of 1
pence each. All shares have uniform
rights except where referred to
below;
  there are no restrictions on the
transfers of securities in the
Company including limitations on the
holdings of securities and
requirements to obtain the approval
of the Company or of other holders
prior to a transfer of securities; 
  there are no restrictions on voting
rights, however, for those shares held
in the EBT, as referred to on page 20,
the trustee typically waives his right
to vote; 
  the Directors are not aware of any
agreements between holders of the
Company’s securities that may result
in restrictions on the transfer of
securities or on voting rights;
  the Directors’ beneficial interests
are disclosed on page 31 of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors’ interests
carry special rights with regards to
control of the Company;
  details of the Group employees’
share save scheme are given on
page 20;
  procedures for appointment to the
Board are included on the Company’s
website (www.office2office.co.uk)
under Nomination Committee -
Terms of reference;
  Shareholder approval by special
resolution is required before any
changes are made to the Articles;
  the Directors have authority to allot
Ordinary shares of the Company,
disapply pre-emption rights and
make market purchases of Ordinary
shares of the Company. Details of
these authorities and their
limitations are provided on page 19;
  the terms of the Company’s
committed borrowing facilities
contain a change of control clause
following a takeover bid that requires
mandatory repayment of all
outstanding monies and accrued
interest. The Company does not have
any other significant arrangements
that contain change of control
clauses; and 
  there are no provisions for
compensation for loss of office or
employment in the agreements with
Directors and employees, other than
contractual provisions in respect of
notice periods.
Independent auditors
The Audit Committee has considered
and recommends the re-appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as
auditors.  A resolution proposing their
re-appointment will be put to the
forthcoming AGM.
For and on behalf of the Board
D Rodwell
Company Secretary
24 March 2010  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 22
The non-executive Directors are free from
any business or other relationship which
could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement and have no
involvement with the day-to-day
management of the Group. The Board
considers both non-executive Directors to
be independent and feels that their
diverse experience and background bring
a depth of debate and alternative
viewpoint to the Board. Jim Cohen is the
senior independent non-executive
Director. The terms and conditions of the
non-executive Directors’ appointments
are available on request from the
Company’s registered office.
The Board operates formally through
agenda-driven Board meetings, which
are normally held on a monthly basis,
usually at the Company’s head office.
Meetings are occasionally convened at
the Group’s other locations and this
provides the non-executive Directors
with an opportunity to assess the
operations at first hand. In 2009, the
Board toured the Swindon premises of
AccessPlus and Accord. The monthly
agenda covers both operational and
strategic matters, however, separate
strategy days were also held on two
occasions during the year to cover
longer term considerations without the
distraction of the day-to-day
operational matters.
Frequent informal dialogue between the
Directors supplements the formal
Board meetings. On a number of
occasions during the year, the Chairman
met with the non-executive Directors
without the executive Directors present
to discuss the performance of individual
executive Directors and other senior
managers. The non-executive Directors
also met without the Chairman being
present to discuss his performance.
The Board undertakes a critical
evaluation of itself and its committees
on an annual basis. In December 2009, a
performance evaluation questionnaire
was circulated to each Director to
complete. The questionnaire comprised
of a series of statements, which
required a rating between “strongly
Statement of compliance with
the Combined Code 2008
The Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued in June 2008 (the
Combined Code) sets out standards of
good corporate governance. The
Combined Code is publicly available on
the Financial Reporting Council’s
website www.frc.org.uk.
The Directors consider that the
Company has fully complied with the
principles set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code throughout the period
and the application of these principles
with respect to the composition and
operation of the Board, the
remuneration of the Directors,
shareholder relationships and
procedures for financial reporting and
internal control are described below. 
Directors and the Board
The Board comprises the Chairman,
Chief Executive, Finance Director and
two non-executive Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for leading
the Board and ensuring there is timely
and effective communication to and
between all Board members. He ensures
that Board decisions are made after
taking into consideration the interests
of all stakeholders. The Chief Executive,
supported by the senior management
team, is responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Group and, once
agreed by the Board as a whole, the
development and implementation of
strategy.  He sets the objectives to
ensure the successful delivery of
targets and allocates decision-making
and responsibilities accordingly. The
normal segregation of responsibilities
between the Chairman and the Chief
Executive has been set out in writing
and approved by the Board. The
Chairman’s other main commitments are
disclosed on page 17. A statement of
Directors’ responsibilities is given on
page 19 of the Directors’ Report. The
respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors are given on page 33 of the
Independent Auditors’ report to the
members of office2office plc.
Corporate Governance Statement
disagree” to “strongly agree” and invited
individual comment. The results were
discussed with the Board in January
2010. These indicated that the Board
had a united view of the Group’s
strategy and that alignment with
shareholder interests remains a key
consideration in decision-making. There
was strong agreement that, as a small
Board, its structure and composition
were appropriate and the culture and
dynamics worked well thereby aiding
efficient decision-making. However, it
was recognised that these factors
should be periodically assessed by the
Nomination Committee to ensure that
the Board continues to meet the
requirements of the Group. It was also
recognised that the quality and
effectiveness of senior management
should also be subject to regular review
not only to ensure the Group is well
managed but also to help with
succession planning. Of immediate
focus is the Nomination Committee’s
specification of and recruitment for the
Internal Operations Audit role. It was
acknowledged that the Board is well led
by the Chairman and there were no
issues with his performance.  Similarly,
there were no specific issues with
regards to the performance of the
Board Committees.
The Board is responsible to shareholders
for the management and control of the
Group’s activities, its strategic
objectives, its system of corporate
governance and the stewardship of its
resources. This is achieved by regular
review of the key activities of the Group
through the monthly management
accounts, detailed reports and
presentations. A Board pack comprising
information to be reviewed and
discussed is forwarded to all Board
members in advance of the monthly
meetings to allow the Directors to be
fully prepared. On a daily basis, the
Directors receive a summary of the
previous day’s sales, with cumulative
monthly figures and budget comparison.
Given the current economic climate, the
Board has also received regular detailed
reports on the Company’s funding and o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 23
liquidity position. Analyst and broker
reports are circulated on release and the
Board is updated on any movements in
major shareholdings. There is a formal
schedule of matters reserved for
consideration and approval by the Board
and specific responsibilities have been
delegated to Board committees as
described below.  
The Company Secretary reports to the
Board and advises individual Directors
as required on Board procedures and
corporate governance matters. A
procedure also exists for Directors to
take independent professional advice at
the Company’s expense. 
Under the Companies Act 2006,
Directors must avoid any situations in
which they have or could have a direct or
indirect interest that conflicts with
Company interests. The Articles provide
the Board with the authority to approve
any such conflict, as appropriate.
The Directors are entitled to be
indemnified by the Company to the extent
permitted by law and the Articles in
respect of all losses arising out of or in
connection with the execution of their
powers, duties and responsibilities. The
Company has provided letters of
indemnity for the benefit of each Director
in respect of liabilities which may attach
to them in their capacity as Directors of
the Company . These indemnities were
independently assessed as being in line
with market practice. The Company also
maintains appropriate Directors’ and
Officers’ liability insurance. Neither the
indemnities nor the insurance provide
cover in the event that the Director is
proved to have acted fraudulently .
In 2008, the Board was faced with
balancing its strategic decision to grow
and diversify the Group, through the
acquisition of AccessPlus and Accord,
with the need to restructure and
reorganise the Group following the
withdrawal from the Ministry of
Defence contract in 2007, and also to
mitigate the economic uncertainties
that began to unfold in the second half
of 2008. 
In 2009, the Board supported further
efficiency drives to right-size the
business not only to meet the challenges
of a recession, but also to be in a strong
position at the start of any economic
recovery. Maintaining shareholder
interest with an attractive dividend yield
was balanced by a keen focus on funding
and liquidity. The Board has continued to
follow developments in the markets and
industry and dedicated two separate
strategy days to consider the potential
opportunities for the Group.
As in previous years, the Board has kept
abreast of operational matters via
formal presentations and informal
meetings with senior management. The
Board feels that this not only improves
communications, both in and out of the
boardroom, but also helps in its
understanding of the business. In turn,
the Board has ensured that all
employees are informed of the strategic
and operational developments via the
Chief Executive’s quarterly newsletter
and regular email. The Board is also kept
up-to-date with changes in the
regulatory environment via the
Company Secretary and the Company’s
external advisors.
In accordance with the Articles, no more
than one third of the Directors are
required to retire at each AGM and all
Directors are required to submit
themselves for re-election at least once
every three years. Accordingly, David
Callear will offer himself for re-election
at the next AGM.
Going concern
The Group has net current liabilities as
at 31 December 2009. The Group has
traded profitably since the balance
sheet date with the profits generated
contributing to the funding of the
Group’s working capital requirements. In
addition, the Group meets its day-to-
day working capital requirements
through sufficient and appropriate
credit facilities that are committed until
April 2013. The Group’s forecasts
indicate that it is able to operate within
the level of its current facilities for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, the
Directors, having made appropriate
enquiries, consider it reasonable to
assume that the Group and the
Company have adequate resources to
continue for the foreseeable future and,
for this reason, have continued to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Committees of the Board
Specific responsibilities are delegated
to sub-committees of the Board. The
composition of these sub-committees
is provided below together with
reference to reports on their activities.
All other decisions are taken
collectively by the Board.
The Nomination Committee is
responsible for reviewing the size,
structure and composition of the Board
and making recommendations to the
Board if it considers that any changes
are required. It keeps succession plans
under review and has a formal
procedure for appointments to the
Board and senior management team.
The Nomination Committee includes
both independent non-executive
Directors and is chaired by David
Callear. A report on its activities is given
on page 26.
The Remuneration Committee reviews
and makes recommendations on the
Group’s overall remuneration policy ,
including individual remuneration
packages for executive Directors, the
Chairman and senior management. It is
also responsible for the review of the
Company’s share schemes and senior
incentive plans. The Remuneration
Committee, which is chaired by Jim
Cohen, comprises the independent non-
executive Directors and David Callear.
When necessary , non-committee
members are invited to attend by prior
arrangement. A report on its activities is
given on page 28.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in
discharging its responsibilities effectively
for financial reporting, risk review and
internal control. It comprises the
independent non-executive Directors and o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 24
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Attendance at meetings
The number of full Board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Director in 2009 was as follows:
Remuneration Audit Nomination
Full Board Committee Committee Committee
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Chairman
D J Callear 11 11 4 4 4 4* 1 1
Executive Directors
S R Moate 11 11 4 1* 4 4* 1 1*
M A Cunningham 11 11 4 1* 4 4* 1 1*
Non–executive Directors
J L Cohen** 11 11 4 4 4 4 1 1
C M Batterham 11 11 4 4 4 4 1 1
* By invitation
** Senior independent non-executive Director
is chaired by Chris Batterham, who is a
Chartered Accountant and has relevant
financial expertise, as described in his
biography on page 17. Non-committee
members and the external auditors are
invited to attend by prior arrangement. A
report on its activities is given on page 27.
As Board packs are issued in advance of
the Board meetings, all Directors are
kept informed of the matters to be
discussed and have the opportunity to
make their views known to the Chairman
prior to the meeting if they are unable to
attend. Minutes of meetings are
circulated to the respective members of
the Board or committees.
Directors’ remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 28 to 32 includes details of
remuneration policies and the
remuneration of Directors.
Relationship with shareholders
The Board, led by the Chairman,
recognises the importance of effective
communication and accountability to all
shareholders and is kept informed of
their views through frequent contact
with the house-brokers and feedback
from direct communications with, and
presentations to, institutional investors
and fund managers. 
Each shareholder receives the annual
report and financial statements
containing the full year results and an
interim report on the half year results.
Following the announcement of results,
presentations are given to the
investment community in London and
Edinburgh. The full year and half year
reports and presentations are made
available on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk). Additionally,
and in accordance with the Disclosure
and Transparency Rules, interim
management statements were
released via the RNS news service in
April and October 2009.
The Company’s AGM takes place in
Norwich and formal notification,
together with the annual report and
financial statements, is sent to
shareholders at least 20 working days
in advance of the meeting. All Board
members are available, formally during
the AGM and informally afterwards, for
questions. Each item of business is the
subject of a separate resolution. The
collection and analysis of the proxy
votes is handled independently by the
Company’s registrars. The Chairman
announces the results of the proxy
votes after shareholders have voted on
a show of hands. These results are also
made available on the Company’s
website. Details of the 2010 AGM are
set out in the notice of the meeting
enclosed with this report.
The Chairman and the senior
independent Director are available to
shareholders on all matters relating to
governance and strategy. All members
of the Board may be contacted through
the Company’s website.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for
the Group’s system of internal control and
delegates the annual review of internal
control processes and their effectiveness
to the Audit Committee. The internal
control systems are designed to meet the
Group’s needs and address the risks to
which it is exposed. Such systems
mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risks
faced by the business and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material mis-
statement or loss. Necessary actions are
taken to remedy any significant failings or
weaknesses as they are identified when
the Board reviews the effectiveness of
the system of internal control.
The key elements of the Group’s
procedures and internal financial
control framework are:
  the close involvement of the
executive Directors in all aspects of o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 25
the day-to-day operations, including
regular meetings with senior staff
from across the Group and a review
of the monthly operational reports
compiled by senior management;
  clearly defined responsibilities and
limits of authority. The Board has
responsibility for strategy and has
adopted a schedule of matters which
are required to be brought to it for
decision;
  a comprehensive system of financial
reporting, forecasting and budgeting.
Detailed budgets are prepared
annually for all parts of the business.
Reviews occur through the
management structure culminating in
a Group budget which is considered
and approved by the Board;
  Group management accounts are
prepared monthly and submitted to
the Board for review. Variances from
budget and prior year are closely
monitored and explanations are
provided for significant variances.
Detailed expense reports with
comparisons against budget are
issued monthly to cost centre
managers to assist in cost control; 
  a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant
risks across the Group together with
a comprehensive annual review of
risks which covers both financial and
non-financial areas; and
  an annual review of insurance cover
for the Group including a review of
disaster recovery plans for IT and
the warehouses. The significant risks
facing the business are considered
to be the loss of a large customer or
a major interruption of warehouse
operations or IT services.
This process is in accordance with the
Turnbull guidance and has been in place
throughout the year under review and up
to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements.
Corporate social responsibility
(CSR)
Measures to ensure responsible
business conduct and the identification
and assessment of risks associated with
social, ethical and environmental
matters are managed in conjunction
with all other business risks and
reviewed at regular meetings of the
Board and senior management. 
In 2009, the Company launched a new
CSR initiative entitled ‘Good for you, good
for us, good for everyone’ which aims to
combine added value for customers with
tangible benefits for the business and the
environment. A dedicated brochure,
explaining what CSR means to o2o and its
people, setting out the Group’s
achievements to date and its objectives
going forward, has been developed and is
published under separate cover.
A summary report on the Group’s
policies and objectives for CSR is set
out on pages 14 to 16.
D Rodwell
Company Secretary
24 March 2010  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 26
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board and its
responsibilities include:
  reviewing the interim report, the
annual report and accounts, results
announcements of the Group and any
other formal announcements relating
to the Group’s financial performance
and recommending them to the
Board for approval;
  reviewing the Group’s systems of
internal financial control, risk
management policies and
procedures; 
  monitoring and reviewing the
requirement for an internal audit
function;
  considering the appointment of the
external auditors, overseeing the
process for their selection and
making recommendations to the
Board in relation to their
appointment;
  monitoring and reviewing the
effectiveness and independence of
the external auditors, agreeing the
nature and scope of their audit, their
remuneration and considering their
reports on the Group’s accounts and
systems of internal financial control
and risk management; and
  monitoring the Group’s whistle-
blowing procedures.
Composition of the Audit
Committee
The Audit Committee comprises of
Chris Batterham and Jim Cohen. Their
biographical details are included on
page 17 and their remuneration on 
page 30.  Chris Batterham, Chairman of
the Audit Committee, is a Chartered
Accountant.  Non-committee members
and the Company’s external auditors are
invited to attend meetings as and when
appropriate.  At least once each year,
representatives of PwC meet the Audit
Committee without any executive
Directors being present. The Company
Secretary is secretary to the Audit
Committee. The Committee’s terms of
Role of the Nomination
Committee
The Nomination Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board, responsible for
all appointments to the Board, giving full
consideration to succession plans and
the leadership of the Group. It makes
recommendations to the Board for any
changes to the Board and its
committees that it considers necessary
and also reviews the senior
management structure. The Committee
has a formal procedure for
appointments to the Board and senior
management team, which is available,
together with the Committee’s terms of
reference, on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Composition of the Nomination
Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises
the Chairman and the independent non-
executive Directors. The Company
Secretary is secretary to the
Nomination Committee. The Committee
meets to deal with assignments in
accordance with Company needs and
best practice in corporate governance. 
Main activities of the
Nomination Committee
Although there were no new
appointments to either the Board or
senior management during the year, the
Committee met to consider
requirements for the year ahead and, in
particular, the renewal of contracts for
David Callear and Jim Cohen. Both
Directors are currently serving their
second three-year term since the
Company’s shares were admitted for
trading on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange in June 2004,
and these come to an end in June 2010.
In accordance with Article A.7.2 of the
Combined Code and the Committee’s
own procedures, re-appointment for a
third term should be discussed well in
advance and take into account the need
for progressive refreshment of the
Board.  It was recognised that the
executive and non-executive element of
Nomination Committee
Report
Audit Committee
Report
the Board had been refreshed in 2007
and 2008 with the appointment of
Simon Moate and Chris Batterham
respectively and, for such a small Board,
there should be a balance with the
experience of longer-serving members.
The annual Board performance
assessment, which was discussed at the
January 2010 Board meeting, indicated
strong accord with the current size,
composition, structure and dynamics of
the Board. As such, the Committee and
the Board fully supported David
Callear’s and Jim Cohen’s intention to
serve a third three-year term.
Succession planning, not only for the
Board but also at a senior level, will be
continually assessed, the Committee’s
immediate focus being the specification
of and recruitment for, the Internal
Operations Audit role.
D J Callear
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
24 March 2010 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 27
reference are available on the
Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Main activities of the Audit
Committee
The Audit Committee met on four
occasions in 2009 with other Board
members and the auditors attending as
required. Three of these meetings were
to review the financial results, full-year
and half-year, prior to recommending
them to the Board for approval. The
Committee also reviewed the results
announcements and presentations to
investors and received reports from the
external auditors on their work. In
December 2009, the Committee met
PwC who set out their audit approach
and procedures, including matters
relating to scope, auditor independence
and fees for the full year audit.  At the
same meeting, the Committee reviewed
the whistle-blowing policy and the
requirement for Internal Audit.
Review of risk management and
internal control
The risk register profiles the Group’s
risk, after taking into account any
mitigating controls, based on likelihood
of occurrence and impact on the
business.  The main risks are set out on
pages 12 to 13 of the Business and
Financial Review.
At the end of November 2009, the
Committee reviewed the latest risk
register. Specific areas were being
targeted for a review of controls
including customer service processes,
the online2office facility and contract
approval. In addition, disaster recovery
plans for the Head Office were also
being updated. The conclusions will be
presented to the Committee in 2010. 
The Committee also reviewed the
resource available within the finance
function, not only in respect of
managing the day-to-day requirements
of the business and the financial
reporting process but also with
regards to acquisition activity. Whilst
the current capabilities are generally
adequate, the timing of events, has
stretched existing resource and,
accordingly, the Committee will
continue to assess this as
requirements change.
Internal operations audit
function
o2o is now of a size and structure that
requires a dedicated approach to
providing assurance on risk and control.
The search to find a candidate with the
requisite skills and experience has
proven difficult although the position
was temporarily filled in the last
quarter of 2009. In recognition that
this is a senior role, the Nomination
Committee is focused on the
specification and recruitment of an
Internal Operations Auditor. 
Review of whistle-blowing policy
No concerns were reported in the year
and following a review of the policy, the
Committee did not consider any
changes were necessary. The policy is
available on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Independence of external
auditors
PwC have been the Company’s auditors
since 2002. The Audit Committee is
satisfied with their effectiveness and
independence and has not considered it
necessary to require an independent
tender process. The Committee
validates this, and therefore its
recommendation to the Board with
regards to appointment and
reappointment, formally by:
  assessing their performance on an
annual basis through meetings with
key personnel;
  monitoring their independence and
objectivity by reviewing their
relationship with the Group and
ensuring Group policy is followed in
relation to the provision of non-audit
services; and
  reviewing anticipated future service
requirements and assessing their
ability to meet the requirement by
seeking opportunity to challenge,
question and confirm the new service
proposition.
The Committee meets with the external
auditors to review and approve audit
scope and fees and obtain written
confirmation of their independence.
Following the audit, the Committee
meets with PwC without the executive
Directors being present and also
discusses the efficiency of the audit
process with the executive Directors.
Group policy on the provision of non-
audit services requires that, other than
for corporate taxation services, approval
is sought from the Committee in advance
of any engagement.  The Committee will
consider, taking into account the scope of
the work and level of fees involved,
whether the provision of such non-audit
services impairs the independence and
objectivity of PwC.
C M Batterham
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 March 2010 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 28
Executive Directors’ remuneration
Remuneration policy in respect of
executive Directors is designed to
ensure that the Group achieves its
potential and increases shareholder
value. In respect of basic salary, the
objective is to ensure that the Group
attracts and retains high calibre
executives with the skills, experience
and motivation necessary to direct and
manage the affairs of the Group. Annual
bonuses and long term incentive
schemes are seen as an important part
of each Director’s total remuneration
and are designed to drive and reward
exceptional performance.
The current remuneration package of the
executive Directors consists of basic
salary, annual bonus, long term incentive
schemes, taxable benefits, SA YE option
schemes and pension arrangements.
These are described in more detail below.
The executive Directors’ basic salaries
are reviewed annually by the Committee,
taking into account the performance of
the individual, changes in their
responsibilities, the Group’s performance
against financial objectives and, when
deemed appropriate, information from
independent remuneration consultants’
sources on levels of salary for similar
jobs. In line with the pay freeze across the
Group, the executive Directors did not
receive any increase in their basic
salaries in 2009. However, having
achieved financial results in line with
market expectations despite the
challenging economic conditions and, as a
result of restructuring, putting the
business in a strong starting position for
2010, the Committee wishes to ensure
the executive Directors remain suitably
rewarded and are considering salary
increases early in the current year.
Each year the Committee reviews the
bonus arrangements and may recommend
different targets or performance
conditions to keep the objectives aligned
with shareholder interests. 
The 2009 cash bonus scheme was
designed to drive a unified effort across
the Group’s various functions to deliver
efficiencies and good performance.
This report has been prepared in
accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It outlines the membership and workings
of the Remuneration Committee,
together with details of Directors’
remuneration in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2009. In accordance
with the Regulations, a resolution to
approve this report will be proposed at
the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee and its
terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board and membership
comprises Jim Cohen, Chris Batterham
and David Callear, all of whom are
independent of management and free
from any business or other relationship
which could interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgement. The
Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee is Jim Cohen. Committee
members are excused from meetings
where matters concerning themselves
are discussed. When necessary, non-
committee members are invited to
attend by prior arrangement.  The
Committee met four times in the year.
The principal function of the Committee is
to make recommendations to the Board
regarding the Company’s policy on the
remuneration, benefits and terms of
employment of the executive Directors and
the Chairman of the Company . In addition,
the Committee assists the Board in
ensuring that the Group’s executive
management are recruited, developed and
remunerated in an appropriate fashion. In
determining remuneration packages and
policies, due regard is given to any legal
requirements, the provisions of the
Combined Code (2008), the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. The Committee uses
Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP
and Macfarlanes LLP as its professional
advisers on executive remuneration and
employee share schemes.
The Committee’s terms of reference are
available on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk). 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Accordingly , the cash bonus scheme for the
executive Directors scheme was similar to
that for senior management. The maximum
bonus potential for all participants was
60% of basic salary and was based upon
the achievement of personal, divisional and
Group profit targets.  Consequently , Simon
Moate and Mark Cunningham were
awarded bonuses equivalent to 30% and
28% of basic salary , respectively .  Simon
Moate has elected to take part of his award
to the value of £31,500, in shares at
market value rather than cash. The
bonuses, details of which are on page 30,
will be paid in March 2010.
In view of the aims for 2010 referred to
in the Chairman’s Statement, the cash
bonus scheme for the executive
Directors has been designed to reward
growth in underlying earnings per share
and management of net debt. Simon
Moate’s and Mark Cunningham’s bonus
potential will be 100% and 60% of basic
salary, respectively. 
Pension contributions of up to 10% of
basic salary were made to the personal
pension schemes of the executive
Directors. 
The service agreements for the executive
Directors are on a rolling basis and
terminable on 12 month’s notice by either
party , with the right for the Company to
make a payment in lieu of salary and
benefits, excluding bonus, for any unexpired
period of notice.
Save as you earn share option
scheme (SA YE)
The Group operates an HMRC approved
SA YE scheme open to all employees and
in which both executive Directors
participate.  Details are provided on
page 32.
Long term incentive plans
The Company currently operates a long
term incentive plan, the Performance
Share Plan (PSP), as detailed below. The
Company also has a Deferred Share
Bonus Plan (DSBP) which has been
inactive since inception. Both these plans
were approved by shareholders in
November 2005 following a review by an
independent adviser and consultation o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 29
with shareholders and the ABI. In line with
ABI guidelines, awards granted under this
plan are subject to dilution limits. 
Performance Share Plan 
The PSP rules allow awards over Ordinary
shares, subject to performance criteria as
detailed below and vesting in three years,
to be made to individuals in any year of a
value of up to 100% of basic salary. In
exceptional circumstances, the
Remuneration Committee has discretion
to increase the award to up to 200% of
basic salary. In accordance with the
scheme rules, the number of Ordinary
shares awarded are calculated by
reference to the three day average of the
closing mid-market quotation of the
Company’s share price prior to the award
date. The exercise price of options under
the PSP scheme is 0.1p per share.
The PSP will reward participants by
reference to performance criteria based
on (i) a comparative measure of total
shareholder return (TSR) against the
companies in the FTSE Small Cap Index
and (ii) the Company’s earnings per share
(EPS) growth. For awards made to the
executive Directors to date, these criteria
have had equal weighting. The combined
use of TSR and EPS targets is intended to
incentivise participants to deliver
substantial real earnings growth in
addition to generating above market
returns for shareholders. 
The portion of any award based on TSR
will, other than as discussed below, vest
25% for median performance, with full
vesting at the upper quartile level (and
the proportion vesting increasing on a
straight-line basis between these points).
TSR will be measured over a three year
performance period.
The balance of the award will be based on
the Company’s EPS growth. For awards
granted in 2005 and 2006, this part of
the award will vest 25% if EPS grows by
an average of 4% per annum more than
the increase in RPI over a three year
performance period. If EPS grows by an
average of 15% per annum more than the
increase in RPI over the period, this
portion of the award will vest in full. 
The PSP award granted to Simon Moate,
on joining the Company in 2007, was an
enhanced award. That portion based on
TSR will vest 40% for median
performance with full vesting at the
upper quartile. That portion based on EPS
will vest 50% if EPS grows by an average
of 4% per annum more than the increase
in RPI over a three year performance
period. If EPS grows by an average of 8%
per annum more than the increase in RPI
over the same period, this portion of the
award will vest in full. 
Having consulted with the major
institutional investors, the ABI and
Research Recommendations and
Electronic V oting (RREV) in November
2007, the Remuneration Committee
reassessed the performance conditions to
provide a common incentive to the senior
management team. Accordingly , for the
PSP awards granted in April 2008, that
portion based on EPS will vest 50% if EPS
grows by an average of 4% per annum
more than the increase in RPI over a three
year performance period. If EPS grows by
an average of 8% per annum more than the
increase in RPI over the same period, this
portion of the award will vest in full.
For EPS growth between the lower and
upper levels quoted above, the
proportion vesting will increase on a
straight-line basis. EPS growth will be
measured over a three year period.
Mark Cunningham was granted an award
over 188,113 Ordinary shares in April
2008, based on an average share price of
168.75p. The initial tranche of awards
granted to him in December 2005 vested
in December 2008 to the extent that, over
the three year period, an EPS growth of
28.12% had been achieved. This equated
to 36.4% of the award under the EPS
element vesting and consequently 2,987
shares were transferred to Mark
Cunningham in 2009. No awards vested
under the TSR element. The second
tranche of awards granted in April 2006
have lapsed completely however, as
neither the EPS nor the TSR performance
targets were achieved.
Simon Moate currently holds awards over
527,012 Ordinary shares following grants
made in September 2007, April 2008 and
March 2009 based on an average share
price of 189.0p, 168.75p and 82.5p
respectively.  The award granted to him in
September 2007 will vest, subject to
satisfying conditions in the PSP scheme
rules, in September 2010 as over the
three year period an EPS growth of
20.7% has been achieved. This equates to
52.4% (61,022 shares) of the award
under the EPS element. No awards vested
under the TSR element. Further details of
the awards are given on page 31 and in
note 26 to the financial statements.
In the event of a takeover, all awards
granted under the PSP vest or become
exercisable to the extent that the
performance targets have been achieved,
as determined by the Remuneration
Committee. In the event of a re-
organisation the awards may be
exchanged for options over shares in the
new holding company on such terms
determined by the Committee.
Chairman and non-executive
Directors
David Callear’s and Jim Cohen’s three year
service agreements expire on 28 June
2010 and both have indicated that they
will consider re-appointment for a third
three year term. For David Callear, this will
be conditional to his re-election by
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM
where he retires by rotation. Chris
Batterham’s three year service agreement
ends on 26 June 2011. All of these
service agreements are terminable on
three months’ notice by either the
Company or the relevant Director. The
Chairman’s and non-executive Directors’
remuneration is non-pensionable.
The remuneration of the non-executive
Directors is determined by the Chairman
and the executive Directors and the
remuneration of the Chairman is
determined by the Remuneration
Committee. There was no increase to their
remuneration in 2009.
The Chairman and non-executive
Directors are not eligible to participate in
any of the Company’s share option or
Group bonus schemes. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 30
Performance graph
The graph below shows o2o’s total shareholder return performance compared to the FTSE Small Cap index, of which o2o was,
until 17 December 2007, a constituent member.  The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested
dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of Ordinary shares in o2o and in the index from flotation to 31 December 2009.
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2009 - audited
The emoluments of the Directors (excluding pension contributions) are shown below:
2009 2009 2009 2009 2008
Salary Allowances and Annual
/fees benefits in kind bonus T otal T otal
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
D J Callear 125 - - 125 139
Executive
M A Cunningham 170 13 48 231 182
S R Moate 265 11 80 356 266
Subtotal 435 24 128 587 448
Non–executive
J L Cohen 50 - - 50 56
C M Batterham (appointed June 2008) 50 - - 50 25
P M Bertram (resigned April 2008) ---- 18
Subtotal 100 - - 100 99
T otal 660 24 128 812 686
£31,500 of S R Moate’s annual bonus will be paid in shares issued at market value.
Other allowances and benefits in kind provided to executive Directors comprise car benefits, family private health care,
permanent health insurance and life assurance at the rate of four times annual salary.
No amounts have been waived in the current or prior year.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 31
Directors’ pensions audited
Pension contributions reflect amounts payable to defined contribution personal pension schemes.
The contributions payable to personal pension schemes in the year are shown below:
Pension contributions
2009 2008
£000 £000
M A Cunningham 17 16
S R Moate 27 24
44 40
Directors’ interests unaudited
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of o2o at the year end are set out below: 
Number of Ordinary shares
2009 2008
D J Callear 450,991 350,991
M A Cunningham 1,089,549 1,086,562
S R Moate 28,345 11,000
J L Cohen 38,506 - 
C M Batterham 7,516 -
1,614,907 1,448,553
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests between 31 December 2009 and the date of this report.
No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the period under review. The Directors
confirm that they have not given any pledges of o2o shares.
Long term incentive plans – audited
Awards granted to Directors under the PSP were as follows:
Exercise
price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 09 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Dec 09 share from date
M A Cunningham
2005 PSP Award 2,987 - 2,987 - - 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
2006 PSP Award 21,605 - - 21,605 - 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
2008 PSP Award 188,113 - - - 188,113 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
212,705 - 2,987 21,605 188,113
S R Moate
2007 PSP Award 232,907 - - - 232,907 0.1p 11.09.10 11.03.11
2008 PSP Award 133,499 - - - 133,499 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
2009 PSP Award - 160,606 - - 160,606 0.1p 04.03.12 04.09.12
366,406 160,606 - - 527,012
The awards granted during the year were made on 4 March 2009. The market price of Ordinary shares at the date of grant was 93p. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 32
Beneficial options granted to Directors under the SA YE scheme were as follows: 
Exercise
price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 09 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 Dec 09 share from date
M A Cunningham 8,039 - - - 8,039 119.4p 01.05.11 30.11.11
S R Moate 14,069 - - - 14,069 119.4p 01.05.13 30.11.13
The closing market price of Ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 145.5p.  The shares traded in the range 52.25p to
160.0p during the year.
The details and the performance criteria in respect of the above schemes are discussed on pages 28 to 29.
J L Cohen
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 March 2010 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 33
We have audited the financial statements
of office2office plc for the year ended 31
December 2009 which comprise the
consolidated income statement, the
consolidated statement of
comprehensive income, the consolidated
and Company balance sheets, the
consolidated statement of changes in
equity , the Company statement of
changes in equity , the consolidated and
Company cash flow statements, the
significant accounting policies and the
related notes. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union and, as regards the
Company financial statements, as
applied in accordance with the provisions
of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of
directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’
Responsibilities Statement (set out on
pages 19 to 20), the Directors are
responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair
view. Our responsibility is to audit the
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply
with the Auditing Practices Board’s
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has
been prepared for and only for the
Company’s members as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006 and for no
other purpose. We do not, in giving these
opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or
to any other person to whom this report
is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the
financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about
the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements sufficient to give
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members
of office2office plc 
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
error. This includes an assessment of:
whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s and the
Company’s circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of
significant accounting estimates made by
the Directors; and the overall presentation
of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
  the financial statements give a true
and fair view of the state of the
Group’s and of the Company’s affairs
as at 31 December 2009 and of the
Group’s profit and the Group’s and
the Company’s cash flows for the
year then ended;
  the Group financial statements have
been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the European Union; 
  the Company financial statements
have been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the European Union and as applied in
accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006; and
  the financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Companies Act
2006 and, as regards the Group
financial statements, Article 4 of the
lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters
prescribed by the Companies
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
  the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
2006;
  the information given in the Directors’
Report for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial
statements. 
Matters on which we are
required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of
the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
  adequate accounting records have
not been kept by the Company, or
returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not
visited by us; or 
  the Company financial statements
and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited
are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or 
  certain disclosures of Directors’
remuneration specified by law are
not made; or 
  we have not received all the
information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
  a corporate governance statement
has not been prepared by the
Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required
to review: 
  the Directors’ statement, set out on
pages 19 to 20, in relation to going
concern; and
  the parts of the Corporate Governance
Statement relating to the Company’s
compliance with the nine provisions of
the June 2008 Combined Code
specified for our review.
Christopher Maw
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory
Auditors
Norwich
24 March 2010
The maintenance and integrity of the office2office website
is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by
the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for
any changes that may have occurred to the financial
statements since they were initially presented on the
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 34
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
Note £000 £000
Revenue 3 187,464 180,999
Cost of sales 4 (129,959) (124,168)
Gross profit 57,505 56,831
Distribution costs 4 (19,040) (20,082)
Administrative expenses 4 (29,486) (25,783)
Operating profit 8,979 10,966
Finance income - 190
Finance costs (856) (1,549)
Finance costs - net 8 (856) (1,359)
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before income tax* 13,130 12,066
Share option expense 26 (363) (23)
Exceptional and non-recurring costs 5 (3,645) (1,812)
Amortisation of intangibles 12 (999) (624)
Profit before income tax 3 8,123 9,607
Income tax expense 9 (1,789) (2,995)
Profit for the year 6,334 6,612
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 27 6,138 6,612
Minority interest 27 196 -
6,334 6,612
Earnings per Ordinary share attributable to owners of the Company
Basic 11 17.2p 18.5p
Diluted 11 17.1p 18.5p
* Profit before income tax, exceptional and non-recurring costs, amortisation of intangibles and share option expense.
The Company has elected to take exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Company’s income
statement or statement of comprehensive income.  The profit for the Company was £4,103,000 (2008: £4,276,000).  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 35
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit for the year 6,334 6,612
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences (90) 240
Total comprehensive income for the year net of tax 6,244 6,852
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 6,048 6,852
Minority interest 196 -
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,244 6,852
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax.  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 36
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets 
as at 31 December 2009
2009 2008 2009 2008
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 58,334 59,263 - -
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,427 2,599 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 14 - - 8,068 7,705
Deferred income tax asset 15 1,240 1,197 - -
63,001 63,059 8,068 7,705
Current assets
Inventories 16 6,412 8,371 - -
Trade and other receivables 17 24,051 26,713 9,604 9,303
Cash and cash equivalents 18 5,987 2,691 1 159
36,450 37,775 9,605 9,462
Total assets 3 99,451 100,834 17,673 17,167
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Company
Ordinary shares 25 363 363 363 363
Share premium account 27 5,009 5,009 5,009 5,009
Other reserves 27 196 286 - -
Retained earnings 27 17,023 14,502 12,276 11,769
22,591 20,160 17,648 17,141
Equity attributable to minority interest 27 196 - - -
Total equity 22,787 20,160 17,648 17,141
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 23,493 25,374 - -
Deferred income tax liability 15 2,197 2,623 - -
Provisions 23 2,192 2,143 - -
Retirement benefit liability 24 894 1,044 - -
28,776 31,184 - -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 36,647 40,955 25 26
Borrowings 20 10,310 6,978 - -
Current income tax liabilities 22 931 1,557 - -
47,888 49,490 25 26
Total liabilities 76,664 80,674 25 26
Total equity and liabilities 99,451 100,834 17,673 17,167
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).  There is no
impact on equity.
The financial statements comprising the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the
consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated and
Company cash flow statements, the significant accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements were approved for issue by
the Board of Directors on 24 March 2010.  
D J Callear - Chairman
24 March 2010
*
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 37
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Share Total
Ordinary premium Other Retained attributable Minority Total 
shares account reserves earnings to owners interest equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2009 363 5,009 286 14,502 20,160 - 20,160
Currency translation differences - - (90) - (90) - (90)
Net income recognised directly in
equity --(90)-(90)-(90)
Profit for the year - - - 6,138 6,138 196 6,334
Total recognised income for the
year ended 31 December 2009 - - (90) 6,138 6,048 196 6,244
Employee share options:
- value of employee services 26 - - - 278 278 - 278
- deferred tax on share options - - - 64 64 - 64
Sale of shares by employee benefit
trust ---1010-10
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - - (3,969) (3,969) - (3,969)
- - (90) 2,521 2,431 196 2,627
Balance at 31 December 2009 363 5,009 196 17,023 22,591 196 22,787
Share Total
Ordinary premium Other Retained attributable Minority Total 
shares account reserves earnings to owners interest equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2008 363 5,009 46 11,489 16,907 - 16,907
Currency translation differences - - 240 - 240 - 240
Net income recognised directly in
equity - - 240 - 240 - 240
Profit for the year - - - 6,612 6,612 - 6,612
Total recognised income for the
year ended 31 December 2008 - - 240 6,612 6,852 - 6,852
Employee share options:
- value of employee services 26 - - - 45 45 - 45
- deferred tax on share options - - - (5) (5) - (5)
Sale of shares by employee benefit
trust - - - 37 37 - 37
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - - (3,676) (3,676) - (3,676)
- - 240 3,013 3,253 - 3,253
Balance at 31 December 2008 363 5,009 286 14,502 20,160 - 20,160 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 38
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2009 363 5,009 11,769 17,141
Profit for the year - - 4,103 4,103
Total recognised income for the year ended 31 December 2009 - - 4,103 4,103
Credit to reserves for share based payments 26 - - 363 363
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust - - 10 10
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - (3,969) (3,969)
- - 507 507
Balance at 31 December 2009 363 5,009 12,276 17,648
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2008 363 5,009 11,109 16,481
Profit for the year - - 4,276 4,276
Total recognised income for the year ended 31 December 2008 - - 4,276 4,276
Credit to reserves for share based payments 26 - - 23 23
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust - - 37 37
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 - - (3,676) (3,676)
- - 660 660
Balance at 31 December 2008 363 5,009 11,769 17,141 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 39
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008 2009 2008
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 28 11,685 5,636 (302) (441)
Interest paid (779) (1,487) - -
Interest element of finance lease repayments (77) (62) - -
Income tax paid (2,820) (2,030) - (38)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 8,009 2,057 (302) (479)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,075) (279) - -
Purchase of intangible assets (70) (28) - -
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including overdrafts* - (21,438) - -
Interest received - 190 103 276
Dividends received - - 4,000 4,000
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (1,145) (21,555) 4,103 4,276
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance lease principal payments (337) (219) - -
Increase in borrowings - 25,000 - -
Repayment of borrowings* - (12,613) - -
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust 10 37 10 37
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders 10 (3,969) (3,676) (3,969) (3,676)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (4,296) 8,529 (3,959) (3,639)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,568 (10,969) (158) 158
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 January 18 (4,006) 6,963 159 1
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December 18 (1,438) (4,006) 1 159
Net debt at 31 December comprises:
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (1,438) (4,006) 1 159
Finance leases (1,378) (655) - -
Bank loans (25,000) (25,000) - -
Net debt at 31 December (27,816) (29,661) 1 159
*Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries which comprises the cost of the acquisitions, bank overdrafts and loans was nil 
(2008: £34,051,000). 
Consolidated Company
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 40
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
General information
office2office plc (the Company) and
its subsidiaries (the Group) provide
managed procurement and business
critical services. The Group operates
in the United Kingdom and Republic
of Ireland. 
The Company is a public limited
company, which is listed on the London
Stock Exchange and is incorporated
and registered in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is
St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich,
NR3 1PD.
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies
applied in the preparation of these
consolidated financial statements are
set out below. These policies have
been consistently applied to all
the years presented, unless
otherwise stated.
The consolidated financial statements
of the Company have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union (IFRSs as adopted by
the EU), IFRIC interpretations and the
Companies Act 2006 as applicable to
companies reporting under IFRS. The
consolidated financial statements have
been prepared under the historical
cost convention.
The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with IFRS
requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates. It also requires
management to exercise its judgement
in the process of applying the Group’s
accounting policies. The areas
involving a higher degree of judgement
or complexity, or areas where
assumptions and estimates are
significant to the consolidated
financial statements, are disclosed in
note 2.
Going concern
The Group has net current liabilities as
at 31 December 2009. The Group has
traded profitably since the balance
sheet date with the profits generated
contributing to the funding of the
Group’s working capital requirements.
In addition, the Group meets its day-
to-day working capital requirements
through sufficient and appropriate
credit facilities that are committed
until April 2013. The Group’s forecasts
indicate that it is able to operate
within the level of its current facilities
for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors, having
made appropriate enquiries, consider
it reasonable to assume that the
Group and the Company have
adequate resources to continue for
the foreseeable future and, for this
reason, have continued to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Recent accounting developments
Standards, amendments and
interpretations effective for the first
time in the year ended 31 December
2009:
  IAS 1 (revised), ‘Presentation of
financial statements’. The revised
standard prohibits the presentation
of items of income and expenses
(that is ‘non-owner changes in
equity’) in the statement of changes
in equity, requiring ‘non-owner
changes in equity’ to be presented
separately from owner changes in
equity. All ‘non-owner changes in
equity’ are required to be shown in a
performance statement. Entities
can choose whether to present one
performance statement (the
statement of comprehensive
income) or two statements (the
income statement and statement
of comprehensive income).  The
Group has elected to present two
statements in these financial
statements.
  IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments –
Disclosures’ (amendment). The
amendment requires enhanced
disclosures about fair value
measurement and liquidity risk. In
particular, the amendment requires
disclosure of fair value
measurements by level of a fair
value measurement hierarchy.  The
presentation requirement of IFRS
7 has been applied in these
financial statements.
  IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’. IFRS
8 replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment
reporting’. It requires a
‘management approach’ under
which segment information is
presented on the same basis as
that used for internal reporting
purposes. Management have
confirmed that the Group operates
in two distinct segments.
Operating segments are reported
in a manner consistent with the
internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker
has been identified as the Board of
Directors.  The Board reviews the
Group’s internal reporting in order
to assess performance and
allocate resources. The Board has
determined the operating
segments based on these reports
and this standard has been applied
in these financial statements.
The following amendments to
existing standards and
interpretations were also effective
for the current year, but the
adoption of these amendments to
existing standards and
interpretations did not have a
material impact on the Group:
  IFRS 1 (amendment), ‘First-time
adoption of IFRS’ , and IAS 27
(amendment), ‘Consolidated and
Separate Financial Statements’ .
  IFRS 2 (amendment), ‘Share Based
Payment – Vesting Conditions and
Cancellations’ .
  IAS 23, ‘Borrowing costs’ as revised. 
  ‘Improvements to IFRSs’ contains
amendments to various existing
standards, most being effective
from 1 January 2009. The adoption
of the remaining ‘Improvements to
IFRSs’ did not result in any changes
to the Group’s accounting policies.
Standards, amendments and
interpretations effective for the
first time in the year ended 31
December 2009 but not relevant:
  IFRIC 13, ‘Customer loyalty
programmes’ .
  IFRIC 15, ‘ Agreements for the
construction of real estate’ . o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 41
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
  IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a net
investment in a foreign operation’ .
  IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments:
presentation’ .
  IAS 39 (amendment), ‘Financial
instruments: Recognition and
measurement’ . 
  IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a
defined benefit asset, minimum
funding requirements and their
interaction’ . This provides guidance
on accounting for defined benefit
pension schemes. 
Standards, amendments and
interpretations that are not yet
effective and have not been early
adopted:
  IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business
combinations’. The revision to this
standard changes accounting for
business combinations. While the
acquisition method is still applied,
there are significant changes to the
treatment of contingent payments,
transaction costs and the
calculation of goodwill. Published
by the IASB in January 2008,
the standard is applicable to
business combinations occurring
in accounting periods beginning
on or after 1 July 2009, with
earlier application permitted.
This could impact the Group
financial statements in future if it
makes acquisitions.
  Amendments to IFRS 2, ‘Share-
based payment’ . These amendments
provide a clear basis to determine
the classification of share based
payment awards in both
consolidated and separate financial
statements. The amendments
incorporate IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11
into the standard, expand on the
guidance given in IFRIC 11 to
address plans that were not
considered in the interpretation and
provide some useful tidying up to
the definitions section of IFRS 2.
Published on 18 June 2009, the
standard is effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1
January 2010, and is unlikely to have
a significant impact on the Group.
  IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ on
classification and measurement.
This is the first part of a new
standard on classification and
measurement of financial assets
that will replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 has
two measurement categories:
amortised cost and fair value. All
equity instruments are measured at
fair value. A debt instrument is
measured at amortised cost only if
the entity is holding it to collect
contractual cash flows and the cash
flows represent principal and
interest. Otherwise it is measured at
fair value through profit or loss.
Published in November 2009, and
effective for accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January
2013, this is unlikely to have a
significant impact on the Group.
Standards, amendments and
interpretations that are not yet
effective and not currently relevant to
the Group: 
  Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time
adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27
‘Consolidated and separate financial
statements’ .
  IAS 27 (revised), ‘Consolidated and
separate financial statements’ .
  Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial
instruments: Presentation’ , and IAS 1,
‘Presentation of financial
statements’ .
  Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and
measurement on eligible hedged
items’ .
  Amendment to IFRS 1 on first time
adoption of IFRS additional
exemptions.
  Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39
regarding embedded derivatives.
  Amendment to IAS 32 on
classification of rights issues.
  Amendment to IAS 24, ‘Related party
disclosures’ .
  IFRIC 17, ‘Distributions of non-cash
assets to owners’ .
  IFRIC 18, ‘Transfer of assets from
customers’ .
  IFRIC 19, ‘Extinguishing financial
liabilities with equity instruments’ .
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which
the Group has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies
generally accompanying a shareholding
of more than one half of the voting
rights. The existence and effect of
potential voting rights that are
currently exercisable or convertible are
considered when assessing whether
the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated
from the date on which control is
transferred to the Group. They are de-
consolidated from the date that
control ceases.
The subsidiary undertakings included
within these financial statements are
shown in note 14 to the financial
statements.
The purchase method of accounting is
used to account for the acquisition of
subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of
an acquisition is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity
instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination are
measured initially at their fair values at
the acquisition date, irrespective of the
extent of any minority interest. The
excess of the cost of the acquisition
over the fair value of the Group’s share
of the identifiable net assets acquired
is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of
the acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised
directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances
and unrealised gains on transactions
between Group companies are
eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised
losses on transactions between Group
companies are also eliminated but are
considered for impairment purposes in
respect of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have
been aligned where necessary to ensure
consistency with the policies adopted
by the Group. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 42
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
The Group applies a policy of treating
transactions with minority interests as
transactions with parties external to
the Group. Disposals to minority
interests result in gains and losses for
the Group that are recorded in the
income statement. Purchases from
minority interests result in goodwill,
being the difference between any
consideration paid and the relevant
share acquired of the carrying value of
net assets of the subsidiary.
Revenue
Revenue is measured by reference to
the fair value of consideration received
by the Group from goods supplied and
services provided to external
customers. Revenue is stated after
deducting rebates, returns and other
similar discounts, and after eliminating
sales between Group companies and is
exclusive of value added tax. Revenue is
recognised upon the performance of
services or when the significant risks
and rewards of ownership are
transferred to a customer, which occurs
on delivery of goods as further
described below:
(a) Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is
recognised when all the following
conditions have been satisfied:
  the Group has transferred to the buyer
the significant risks and rewards of
ownership of the goods which is
generally upon delivery of the products
to the customer, except where formal
bill and hold arrangements are in place
when the sale is recognised when an
invoice is raised;
  the Group retains neither continuing
managerial involvement to the
degree usually associated with
ownership nor effective control over
the goods sold which is generally
upon delivery of the goods to the
customer, except where formal bill
and hold arrangements are in place,
as above;
  the amount of revenue can be
measured reliably, based on
customer agreed purchase orders;
  it is probable that the economic
benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the Group;
and
  the costs incurred or to be incurred in
respect of the transaction can be
measured reliably, based on purchase
orders.
(b) Provision of services
When the outcome of a transaction
involving the provision of services can
be estimated reliably, revenue
associated with the transaction is
recognised on the basis of
performance of contractual
obligations and to the extent that the
right to consideration has been
earned. The outcome of the
transaction is deemed to be able to be
estimated reliably when all the
following conditions are satisfied:
  the amount of revenue can be
measured reliably;
  it is probable that the economic
benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the entity;
  the stage of completion of the
transaction at the balance sheet date
can be measured reliably and is
estimated by reference to the
percentage completion of the
requested service (or component
parts thereof) to be provided; and
  the costs incurred for the transaction
and the costs to complete the
transaction can be measured reliably.
Where a contract for goods or services
involves delivery of several different
elements and is not fully delivered or
performed by the year end, revenue is
recognised based on the proportion of
the fair value of the elements
delivered to the fair value of the
overall contract.
(c) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the
right to receive payment is established.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a
manner consistent with the internal
reporting provided to the chief
operating decision-maker.  The chief
operating decision-maker, which is
responsible for allocating resources and
assessing performance of the operating
segments, has been identified as the
Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation
The financial information in this report
is presented in sterling, the functional
and presentational currency of the
Company, rounded to the nearest
thousand.
Transactions denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into sterling
at the rate of exchange ruling at the
date of transaction. All realised
foreign exchange differences are
taken to the income statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are
translated into sterling at the rates of
exchange ruling at the balance sheet
date and are recognised as a separate
component of equity.
The results and financial position of
the Group entities that have a
functional currency different from the
presentational currency are
translated into the presentational
currency as follows:
  assets and liabilities for each balance
sheet presented are translated at the
closing rate at the date of that
balance sheet;
  income and expenses for each
income statement are translated at
average exchange rates (unless this
average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative
effect of the rates prevailing on the
transaction dates, in which case
income and expenses are translated
at the rate on the dates of the
transactions); and
  all resulting exchange differences are
recognised as a separate component
of equity.
Exceptional and non-recurring
costs
Exceptional and non-recurring costs
are those significant items which are
separately disclosed by virtue of their
size or incidence to enable a full
understanding of the Group’s financial
performance.  Transactions which may
give rise to exceptional and non-
recurring costs are principally
restructuring related costs (including
non capitalised costs incurred in o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 43
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
respect of business combinations)
and costs in respect of key
management changes.
Business combinations and
goodwill
The Group recognises intangible assets
as part of business combinations at
fair value at the date of acquisition.
The determination of these fair values
is based upon management’s
judgement and includes assumptions
on the timing and amount of future
incremental cash flows generated by
the assets acquired and the selection
of an appropriate cost of capital. The
useful lives of intangible assets are
estimated and amortisation charged on
a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising on consolidation
represents the excess of the cost of
an acquisition over the fair value of the
Group’s share of the net assets/net
liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at
the date of acquisition. If the cost of
acquisition is less than the fair value
of the Group’s share of the net
assets/net liabilities of the acquired
entity (i.e. a discount on acquisition)
then the difference is credited to the
income statement in the period of
acquisition.  Goodwill is allocated to
cash generating units for the purposes
of impairment testing and is tested
annually for impairment (refer to
impairment of assets policy).
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary,
goodwill acquired is recognised as an
asset and is allocated to each of the
cash-generating units expected to
benefit from the business
combination’s synergies and to the
lowest level at which management
monitors the goodwill. 
On disposal of a subsidiary the
attributable amount of goodwill is
included in the determination of the
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill acquired up to 31 December
2003 was capitalised and amortised
over its useful economic life. As
permitted by IFRS1, ‘First-time
Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards’, the
classification and accounting
treatment of business combinations
made prior to 1 January 2004 was not
amended on transition to IFRS. 
Other intangible assets
Customer relationships
Customer relationships are recognised
as intangible assets at the fair value of
the consideration paid to acquire them
less provisions for amortisation and
impairment. The fair value attributed to
the customer relationships acquired
through a business combination is
determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows to be generated from
that asset at the risk adjusted, post tax,
weighted average cost of capital at the
time of the acquisition for that business
combination. The residual values of
customer relationships are assumed to
be nil.
Customer relationships are reviewed for
impairment if conditions exist that
indicate a review is required.
Amortisation is provided so as to write
off the cost of the customer
relationships over the expected
economic lives of the asset in equal
annual instalments as follows:
Customer relationships arising on the
acquisition of:
TripleArc plc (AccessPlus)
10 years
Accord Office Supplies Limited (Accord)
10 years
Brands
Brands are recognised as intangible
assets at the fair value of the
consideration paid to acquire them
less provisions for amortisation and
impairment. The fair value attributed
to the brands acquired through a
business combination is determined
by discounting the expected future
cash flows that would be generated by
a royalty stream in respect of the
brands, at the risk adjusted, post tax,
weighted average cost of capital at
the time of the acquisition for that
business combination. The residual
values of brands are assumed to be nil.
Brands are reviewed for impairment if
conditions exist that indicate that a
review is required. Amortisation is
provided so as to write off the cost of
the brands over the expected economic
lives of the asset in equal annual
instalments as follows:
TripleArc plc (AccessPlus)
10 years
Accord Office Supplies Limited (Accord)
10 years
Software
Software is included at cost and
amortised on a straight line basis over
its useful economic life of 3-5 years.
The amortisation charge in respect of
customer relationships, brands and
software is recognised within
administrative expenses.
Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful
life, for example goodwill, are not
subject to amortisation and are tested
annually for impairment. Assets that are
subject to amortisation are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be
recoverable. An impairment loss is
recognised for the amount by which the
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount is the higher of an assets fair
value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing
impairment, assets are grouped at the
lowest levels for which there are
separately identifiable cash flows (cash-
generating units).
In respect of assets other than goodwill,
an impairment loss is reversed if there
has been a change in the estimates used
to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to
the extent that the asset’s carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or
amortisation, if no impairment loss had
been recognised.
Impairment losses recognised in
respect of goodwill are not
subsequently reversed. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 44
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated
at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses. Historical costs
include expenditure that is directly
attributable to the acquisition of the
items. The assets’ residual values and
useful lives are reviewed annually and
adjusted as appropriate.
Subsequent costs are included in the
asset’s carrying amount or recognised
as a separate asset, as appropriate,
only when it is probable that future
economic benefits associated with the
item will flow to the Group and the
cost of the item can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the
replaced part is derecognised. All
other repairs and maintenance are
charged to the income statement
during the financial period in which
they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposal are
determined by comparing the proceeds
with the carrying amount and are
recognised in the income statement.
Depreciation commences in the month
that the assets are fully installed and
commissioned and is provided on a
straight line basis at rates calculated to
write off the cost, less estimated
residual value, of each asset over its
expected useful life, as follows:
Short leasehold land and buildings
– over the lease term
Plant and machinery
– over 4 to 15 years
Office equipment
– over 3 to 10 years
Assets in the course of construction
are stated at historical cost. Such
assets are not depreciated. Upon
completion of the assets, costs are
transferred to the appropriate fixed
asset categorisation and commence
being depreciated.
The depreciation charge in respect of
short leasehold land and buildings, plant
and machinery and office equipment is
recognised within distribution costs and
administrative expenses.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements,
investments in subsidiary undertakings
are initially stated at cost, being the
fair value of the consideration given.
Investments are reviewed where an
indication of impairment exists.  An
impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying
amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the
higher of an asset’s fair value less
costs to sell and value in use.
Leased assets
Assets held under finance leases, as
defined under IAS 17, ‘Leases’, are
capitalised and included as part of
property, plant and equipment. They
are depreciated over their useful lives
or the lease term (if shorter). The
capital elements of future obligations
under finance leases are included as
liabilities in the balance sheet. The
interest element of the rental
obligations is charged to the income
statement over the period of the
lease and represents a constant
proportion of the balance of capital
repayments outstanding.
Leases in which a significant
proportion of the risks and rewards of
ownership are retained by the lessor
are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating
leases are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an
incentive to enter a lease are spread
evenly over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories comprise of finished goods
and goods held for resale and are stated
at the lower of cost or net realisable
value. Cost includes all expenditure
directly attributable to bringing each
product to its present location and
condition on a first in first out method.
Net realisable value is based on the
estimated selling price less further
costs expected to be incurred to
completion and disposal.
Provision for obsolete, slow moving and
defective inventories are made on a line
by line basis, where necessary, in order
to reduce inventory to the lower of cost
or net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents shown on the
balance sheet comprise cash balances
and deposits with banks that have a
maturity of three months or less from
the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts are shown within
borrowings in current liabilities on the
balance sheet, but are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents
for the purposes of the cash flow
statement as they form an integral part
of the Group’s cash management.
Bank overdrafts include cash book
overdrafts and confidential invoice
discounting arrangements whereby the
amount borrowed is limited to a
proportion of the trade receivables.
Provisions
The Group makes provision for
liabilities when it has a legal or
constructive obligation arising from a
past event; it is probable that an
outflow of resources will be required to
settle the obligation; and the amount
can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions for property dilapidations
represent the current estimated costs
to repair leased properties which are
required to be made good before the
properties are returned at the end of
the leases. Provision is made on a
property by property basis and the
timing of the utilisation will differ for
each property.
Provisions for onerous leases are
recognised when the Group believes
that the unavoidable costs of meeting
the lease obligations exceed the
economic benefits expected to be
received under the lease. 
Provisions are measured at the
present value of the expenditures
expected to be required to settle the
obligation using a pre-tax rate that
reflects current market assessments
of the time value of money and the o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 45
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
risks specific to the obligation. The
increase in the provision due to
passage of time is recognised as
interest expense.
Retirement benefit costs
Group companies operate both defined
benefit and defined contribution
pension plans.
The Group maintains a defined benefit
pension scheme for former employees
of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office,
which requires contributions to be
made to a separately administered
fund. The scheme currently has 162
members and is closed to new
members. The scheme is administered
by trustee directors of Banner
Business Supplies (Pensions) Limited,
which is a wholly owned subsidiary of
office2office (UK) plc, a subsidiary
company of office2office plc.
The net surplus or deficit of the defined
benefit pension scheme is calculated in
accordance with IAS 19, ‘Employee
Benefits’ , based on the fair value of the
plan assets less the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the
balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent
actuaries using the projected unit
credit method. The present value of
defined benefit obligations is
determined by discounting the
estimated future cash outflows using
interest rates of high-quality
corporate bonds that are determined
in the currency in which the benefits
will be paid, and have terms to
maturity approximating to the terms
of the related pension liability.
The Group has, in respect of IAS 19
and IFRS 1, adopted the corridor
approach to account for its pension
scheme liability. As a result, all
cumulative actuarial gains and losses
at the date of transition to IFRS (1
January 2004) have been taken
directly to reserves. In respect of
actuarial gains and losses that arise
subsequent to that date, to the extent
that, cumulatively, they exceed 10 per
cent of the greater of the present value
of the defined benefit obligation and
the fair value of the plan assets, that
portion is recognised in the income
statement over the expected average
remaining working lives of the
employees participating in the plan
from the accounting period following
the year of exceeding the corridor.
Otherwise, the accumulated actuarial
gains and losses are not recognised.
Where the actuarial valuation of the
scheme demonstrates that the scheme
is in surplus, the recognised asset is
limited to that for which the Group can
benefit in future, for example, by
refunds or a reduction in contributions.
The cost charged to administrative
expenses in the income statement
consists of current service cost, interest
cost, expected return on plan assets, past
service cost and the impact of any
settlements or curtailments, as well as
actuarial gains or losses to the extent that
they are recognised.
A valuation is performed annually by an
independent actuary. Further details in
respect of the assumptions used in
providing the valuation are included in
note 24 to the financial statements.
Since 30 September 1996, all new
employees have been eligible to join the
Group’s personal pension scheme,
which is a defined contribution scheme.
Contributions to defined contribution
arrangements are charged to the
income statement in the period in which
they fall due.  The assets of the scheme
are held separately from those of the
Group in an independently
administered fund.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-
based compensation schemes
including a SA YE scheme which is open
to all employees. The fair value of the
employee services received in
exchange for the grant of options
(approximated by reference to the fair
value of the option granted) is
recognised as an expense. The fair
value of the option is measured at
grant date and spread over the vesting
period (which is the period over which
all of the specified vesting conditions
are to be satisfied) through the income
statement with a corresponding
increase in equity. The fair value of the
share options and awards are
measured using an option-pricing
model taking into account the terms
and conditions of the individual
schemes. The fair value of options
awarded under schemes with market
based performance conditions is
estimated using a Monte-Carlo model.
The fair value of options awarded
under schemes with non-market based
performance conditions is estimated
using a Black-Scholes model.
Shares purchased through the
employee benefit trust (EBT) are held
at cost and treated as Treasury
Shares and are deducted from
shareholders’ equity. The right to a
dividend and voting rights on these
shares has been waived. 
When options are exercised, the
Company sells shares through the EBT
to satisfy the options.
The Group makes charges to the
income statement for any potential
employer’s national insurance liability
on options granted, based on the
Director’s best estimate of the fair
value of the options granted at the
balance sheet date and spread over the
vesting period of the option.
The fair value of the options granted
under the various schemes has been
accounted for in the Group’s financial
statements. Where these amounts are in
respect of subsidiaries they are
accounted for as an adjustment to the
Company’s carrying value of investments. 
At each balance sheet date, the
Company revises its estimate of the
number of options that are going to
vest. The Group recognises the impact
of any revision to original estimates, if
any, in the income statement, with a
corresponding adjustment to equity. The
proceeds on exercise of options, net of
any directly attributable transaction
costs, are credited to share capital (at
nominal value) and share premium when
the options are exercised.
Current and deferred income tax
The tax charge for the period comprises o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 46
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
both current and deferred tax. T ax is
recognised in the income statement
except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised directly in equity , in
which case it is recognised in equity .
Current tax is the expected tax payable
on the taxable income for the period
and any adjustment to tax payable in
respect of previous periods, and is
calculated on the basis of tax rates
(and laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the
balance sheet liability method on
temporary differences between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying value for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is determined on a non-
discounted basis using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date and which are expected to
apply when the related deferred tax
asset is realised or deferred tax
liability is settled. 
Where the intrinsic value of a share option
exceeds the fair value, the corresponding
deferred tax on the excess is recognised
directly in equity .
A deferred tax asset is recognised only
to the extent that it is probable that
sufficient taxable profit will be available
to utilise the temporary difference.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial
liabilities are recognised on the
Group’s balance sheet when the Group
becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument.
The Group classifies its financial assets
and liabilities in the following
categories: loans and receivables, and
other financial liabilities. The
classification depends on the purpose
for which the financial assets or
liabilities were acquired. Management
determines the classification of its
financial assets and liabilities at initial
recognition. The classification of
financial liabilities is determined in
accordance with IFRS 7 taking account
of the repayment profile of the liability.
For those with fixed or determinable
payment profiles the amounts are
recognised as either current liabilities
or, where amounts are not due for more
than 12 months after the reporting
period, as non-current liabilities.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised
initially at fair value and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, less
provision for impairment. A provision
for impairment of trade receivables is
established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able
to collect all amounts due according to
the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the
debtor, probability that the debtor will
enter bankruptcy or financial
reorganisation and default or
delinquency in payments (more than 60
days overdue) are considered indicators
that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the
difference between the asset’s carrying
amount and the present value of
estimated future cash flows. The
carrying amount of the asset is reduced
through the use of an allowance account
and the amount of the loss is recognised
in the income statement within cost of
sales. When a trade receivable is
uncollectable, it is written off against
the allowance account for trade
receivables. Subsequent recoveries of
amounts previously written off are
credited against cost of sales in the
income statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at
fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost; any difference
between the proceeds (net of
transaction costs) and the redemption
value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the
borrowings using the effective
interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an
unconditional right to defer settlement
of the liability for at least 12 months
after the balance sheet date.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing
and are recognised initially at fair value
and subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the
Company are recorded at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs. Where
any Group company purchases the
Company’s equity share capital (treasury
shares), the consideration paid, including
any directly attributable incremental
costs (net of income taxes) is deducted
from equity attributable to the
Company’s owners until the shares are
cancelled or reissued. Where such shares
are subsequently reissued, any
consideration received, net of any
directly attributable incremental
transaction costs and the related income
tax effects, is included in equity
attributable to the Company’s owners. 
Investments
In accordance with IAS 39, available-
for-sale investments in equity
instruments that do not have a quoted
market price in an active market and
whose fair value cannot be reliably
measured are measured at cost. If the
fair value can subsequently be
measured by reference to third party
information, such as an offer to
purchase, the financial asset is
revalued to this fair value. Any gains or
losses arising from the revaluation to
fair value are recognised as other gains
or losses in the income statement. 
The Group assesses at each balance
sheet date whether there is objective
evidence that a financial asset or a
group of financial assets is impaired.
The above financial assets and liabilities
are grouped as follows:
  Cash and cash equivalents and trade
and other receivables (excluding
prepayments) are classified as loans
and receivables for the purpose of
IFRS 7.
  Borrowings, finance leases and trade
and other payables (excluding
statutory liabilities) are classified as o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 47
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2009
Underlying profit is calculated as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607
Add:
Share option charges (note 26) 363 23
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (note 5) 3,645 1,812
Amortisation of intangibles (note 12) 999 624
Underlying profit before income tax 13,130 12,066
other financial liabilities at
amortised cost for the purpose of
IFRS 7.
Dividends
Distributions to owners are disclosed as
a component of the movement in the
statement of changes in shareholders’
equity. A liability is recorded for a final
dividend when the dividend is approved
by the Company’s shareholders. Interim
dividends are recognised in the period in
which they are paid. 
Use of non-GAAP profit
measures
The Directors believe that the use of
underlying profit before income tax
provides a clearer understanding of the
performance of the Group. This measure
is used for internal performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS
and therefore may not be directly
comparable with other companies’
adjusted profit measures. It is not
intended to be a substitute for, or
superior, to IFRS measurements of profit. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 48
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, commodity price risk and cash
flow and fair value interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
(a) Market risk
(i) Currency risk
The Group operates in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland and, accordingly, has limited exposure to foreign exchange
risk. Currency risk is managed by matching, where possible, cash inflows and outflows denominated in Euros.
The Group does not currently hedge any foreign currency transactions but continues to keep this policy under review.
Management have considered and concluded that a movement of 10% would be a reasonable benchmark over which to
determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to foreign exchange rate risk, because a movement of this magnitude
is considered to be a reasonable approximation of movements that could be expected to occur.  For the year ended 31
December 2009, if the Euro had weakened/strengthened by 10% against sterling with all other variables held constant,
post-tax profit and the movement in net assets for the year would have been £72,000 (2008: £8,000) lower/higher, as a
result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of the Euro-denominated transactions and monetary assets and
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The calculation applied in determining the impact of a 10% movement in exchange rates is based upon adjusting the average
exchange rates by 10% on the Euro denominated transactions.
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group has exposure to changes in commodity prices such as steel, oil and paper (including supplier price increases as a result
of foreign exchange movements), which form a constituent part of many of the products sold. It is the policy of the Group to pass
on these unavoidable cost price increases to customers as appropriate.
Management have considered and concluded that a movement of 1% in gross margin percentage would be a reasonable
benchmark over which to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to commodity price risk, because a movement of
this magnitude is considered to be a reasonable approximation of movements that could expect to be incurred by the Group.  For
the year ended 31 December 2009, if the gross margin percentage had weakened/strengthened by 1% with all other variables
held constant, gross profit for the year would have been £1,875,000 (2008: £1,810,000) lower/higher.
The Group does not currently hedge its exposure to commodity prices but continues to keep this policy under review.
(iii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has interest-bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents.  The Company has interest bearing assets in the
form of loans to subsidiary companies. Therefore interest income is sensitive to movements in interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk predominantly arises from short and long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates
expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate
risk. During 2008 and 2009, the Group’s borrowings, other than in respect of finance leases, were all at variable rates and all
borrowings were denominated in sterling.
The Group continues to keep its policy of not hedging its exposure to interest rate movements under review.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 management have considered and concluded that a movement of 100 basis points
would be a reasonable benchmark over which to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to interest rate risk. If
interest rates on borrowings had been 100 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for
the year would have been £212,000 (2008: £122,000) lower/higher, as a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating
rate borrowings.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial
institutions as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
For banks and financial institutions only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘ A ’ are accepted in normal
circumstances.
1. Financial risk management o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 49
Internally, customers are rated according to financial position, history of trading and other factors. Individual credit limits
are based on internal and external ratings, in accordance with limits set by management. The utilisation of credit limits is
regularly monitored. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s diverse
customer base.
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount
of committed credit facilities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and
cash equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flows.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts shown are contractual (including interest), undiscounted cash flows.
At 31 December 2009 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£000 £000 £000 £000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 10,894 3,364 20,766 -
Finance leases 427 396 667 -
Trade payables and accrued expenses 33,850 - - -
45,171 3,760 21,433 -
At 31 December 2008 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£000 £000 £000 £000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 7,710 3,441 24,083 -
Finance leases 324 136 272 6
Trade payables and accrued expenses 38,153 - - -
46,187 3,577 24,355 6
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses as an objective on the unpredictability of financial markets and
seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out centrally
and where appropriate under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The policies adopted are described above.
There have been no breaches in the contractual terms of the amounts shown above.
Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities was as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Fixed-rate borrowings 1,378 655
Variable-rate borrowings 32,425 31,697
33,803 32,352
The fixed-rate borrowings comprise finance leases with an effective weighted average interest rate of 4.3% (2008: 7.4%), fixed
for a weighted average period of 3.2 years (2008: 1.9 years).
In addition to short-term borrowing facilities, the Group arranged a loan on 16 April 2008 of £25,000,000 for the purpose of
funding the Group’s acquisition strategy. The loan is repayable in instalments between April 2010 and April 2013, with interest
charged at a floating rate linked to LIBOR. A maturity analysis is provided at note 20 to the financial statements.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 50
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Maturity profile of financial liabilities (excluding trade payables)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Within one year 10,310 6,978
Over one year and under two years 2,859 2,617
Between two and five years 20,634 22,751
After five years - 6
33,803 32,352
Currency risk profile of financial assets/liabilities
The Group did not have a material exposure to foreign exchange gains or losses on financial assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at 31 December 2009 and has not used any instruments to hedge foreign currency transactions.
Financial assets/(liabilities) relating to cash balances and overdrafts held at financial institutions are at floating rates
denominated in the currency held below:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Sterling - deposits 4,717 2,271
Sterling - bank overdrafts (7,425) (6,697)
(2,708) (4,426)
Euro - deposits 1,270 420
(1,438) (4,006)
There is no material currency risk relating to other financial assets or liabilities.
Fair values of financial instruments
See note 20 for consideration of the differences between the carrying amount and the fair value of borrowings. The fair value of
other financial assets and liabilities is not materially different to their book value due to the short term maturity of the instruments. 
The Group holds a 60% interest in Banner Document Services Limited. The Group holds an option to acquire Shred Easy
Limited, the entity that holds the remaining 40% of Banner Document Services Limited. The option price is based upon market
values prevailing at the date of the agreement (November 2008) and is not considered to have a value to the Group as at
31 December 2009.
Fair value measurement
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance
sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
  Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as
prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
  Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A
market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group,
pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s
length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are
included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily FTSE 100 equity investments classified as trading
securities or available-for-sale.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is
determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is
available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are
observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 51
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
  Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
  The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable
yield curves.
  The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date,
with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
  Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial
instruments.
All of the financial liabilities are included in Level 2.
Committed undrawn facilities
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Gross undrawn committed confidential invoice discounting facility 20,000 20,000
Cash book overdraft (7,425) (6,697)
Net undrawn facilities 12,575 13,303
Bank balances 5,987 2,691
Available liquidity 18,562 15,994
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had not drawn against its committed invoice discounting facility. At that date the Group had
a cash book overdraft of £7,425,000 (2008: £6,697,000) and bank balances of £5,987,000  (2008: £2,691,000). If all
payments had cleared on the day of issue the Group would have had net available liquidity of £18,562,000 (2008: £15,994,000).
The confidential invoice discounting facility is a committed facility, subject to sufficient security from trade receivables, expiring
in April 2013.
The Group has sufficient headroom to enable it to conform to covenants on its existing borrowings. The Group has sufficient
working capital and undrawn financing facilities to service its operating activities and finance further suitable acquisition
opportunities should they arise.
There have been no breaches in the covenants on borrowings in the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of signing
the financial statements.
Capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as facilities plus total shareholders’ equity , so as to  maintain investor,
creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Within this overall policy , the Group seeks to
maintain an optimum capital structure by a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also
each time a significant acquisition is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net debt/earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) ratio, future funding needs (usually potential acquisitions) and Group banking
arrangements (including the monitoring of debt covenants over current funding arrangements). There were no changes to the Group’s
approach to capital management during the year. The primary source of funding for the Group is bank borrowings.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of gearing ratio, calculated as net debt divided by
total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non current borrowings, less cash) as shown in the
balance sheet. Total equity is defined as total equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
2009 2008
£000 £000
Total borrowings (note 20) (33,803) (32,352)
Less: cash and cash equivalents (note 18) 5,987 2,691
Net debt (27,816) (29,661)
Total equity 22,787 20,160
Gearing ratio 1.22 1.47 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 52
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition,
seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Determination of cash flows, discount rates used in business combinations and impairment reviews of goodwill and
other intangibles
Discount rates are determined by management for the purpose of valuing fair values of intangible assets arising on business
combinations and to determine the net present value of cash flows in respect of annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
intangibles when appropriate.
The discount rates used for the purpose of impairment reviews are based on the appropriate cost of capital adjusted for
management’s perceived risk.
The cash flows attributable to the cash-generating unit to which goodwill (and, when appropriate, other intangibles) is allocated
are based on managements’ best estimates of future profitability and the resulting cash flows.
While management believe the discount rates and cash flows used are the most appropriate rates, changes in these assumptions
could result in impairment of goodwill, other intangibles, or in the fair value of intangibles in respect of business combinations
differing to the values recorded.
Income tax
The Group is subject to income tax in both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Significant judgement is required in
determining the provision for income tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination
is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts
that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such
determination is made.
Assets and liabilities
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that
are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Impairment of inventories
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and damaged stock. This provision represents the difference
between the cost of the stock and its estimated market value, based upon stock turn rates, market conditions and trends in
consumer demand.
Allowances for doubtful receivables
Allowances are made for doubtful receivables for estimated losses resulting from the subsequent inability of customers to make
required payments. If the financial conditions of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payments, additional allowances may be required in future periods.
Pensions
The determination of the pension benefit obligation and expense for the defined benefit pension plan is dependent on the selection
of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions are described in note 24 to the financial
statements and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of increase in future compensation levels and
expected mortality rates. A portion of the plan assets are invested in equity securities. The equity markets have experienced
volatility , which has affected the value of the pension plan assets. This volatility may make it difficult to estimate the long-term rate
of return on plan assets. Assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data regarding compensation and
discount rate trends. While the Directors believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual
experience or significant changes in the assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and the future expense.
Share based payments
The fair value of options awarded under schemes with market based performance conditions is estimated using a Monte-Carlo
model. The fair value of options awarded under schemes with non-market based performance conditions is estimated using a
Black-Scholes model. These models require the use of estimates and forward looking projections.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 53
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
3. Segmental information 
IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’; replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment Reporting’ and requires a ‘management approach’ , under which segment
information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.  The operating segments are identified
on the basis of internal reports regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors being the chief operating
decision-maker, in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their respective performance.
The Board considers the business from a service perspective.  The Group is organised into two business segments; 
  Managed procurement; and 
  Business critical services
The business units of each reportable segment (Banner Business Services and Accord in respect of managed procurement and
AccessPlus and Banner Document Services in respect of business critical services), do not qualify as reportable segments as
decisions about the allocation of resources and the assessment of performance are not made at this level.
The Board assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted earnings before interest,
taxation and amortisation (EBITA).  This measurement basis excludes the effects of exceptional and non-recurring expenditure
from the operating segments, such as restructuring costs.  Other information provided to the Board, except as noted below, is
measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial statements.
Total assets include the bank balance of office2office plc, which is managed for the basis of dividend distributions. This is part of
the reconciliation to total balance sheet assets.
Business
Managed critical
procurement services Total
£000 £000 £000
Y ear ended 31 December 2009
Revenue 151,185 36,279 187,464
Adjusted EBITA 19,212 3,875 23,087
Y ear ended 31 December 2008
Revenue 151,125 29,874 180,999
Adjusted EBITA 18,820 2,089 20,909
Total Assets
31 December 2009 59,858 39,592 99,450
31 December 2008* 53,843 46,832 100,675
Additions to property, plant and equipment
31 December 2009 709 1,426 2,135
31 December 2008 212 109 321
Depreciation
31 December 2009 (546) (432) (978)
31 December 2008 (638) (216) (854)
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
A reconciliation of total adjusted EBITA to profit before income tax is provided as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Adjusted EBITA for reportable segments 23,087 20,909
Central costs (9,101) (7,484)
Finance income - 190
Finance costs (856) (1,549)
Underlying profit before income tax 13,130 12,066
Share option expense (363) (23)
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (3,645) (1,812)
Amortisation (999) (624)
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 54
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Reportable segments’ assets are reconciled to total assets as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Total segment assets 99,450 100,675
Unallocated:
Cash and cash equivalents 1 159
Total assets per balance sheet 99,451 100,834
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
United Kingdom 183,436 178,052 8,047 10,856 97,398 99,451
Republic of Ireland 4,028 2,947 932 110 2,053 1,383
187,464 180,999 8,979 10,966 99,451 100,834
Net interest (856) (1,359)
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
Of the revenues generated in the United Kingdom £183,181,000 (2008: £177,896,000) are generated from customers in the
United Kingdom and the total of revenues from customers from other countries is £255,000 (2008: £156,000).  All of the
revenues in respect of the Republic of Ireland are generated from customers in the Republic of Ireland.  Of the total assets in the
United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland £61,761,000 (2008: £61,800,000) and £nil (2008: £62,000) respectively relate to non
current assets (other than deferred tax assets).
Revenue and profit before tax by geographical area is stated by origin, which is not materially different from the analysis by
destination.  Expenditure on property, plant and equipment of £2,134,000 (2008: £321,000) was incurred in the United
Kingdom.  Expenditure on intangible fixed assets of £70,000 (2008*: £46,280,000) was incurred in the United Kingdom. No
amounts in respect of expenditure on property, plant and equipment or intangible fixed assets were incurred in the Republic of
Ireland.
No single customer generates more than 10% of total revenues.
4. Expenses by nature
2009 2008
Group £000 £000
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work in progress and consumption of goods held for resale 129,869 123,574
Employee benefit expense (note 6a) 27,866 25,689
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13) 978 854
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12) 999 624
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (note 5) 3,645 1,812
Foreign exchange losses 30 120
Impairment to trade and other receivables 60 474
Operating lease payments 3,611 4,160
Other operating costs 11,427 12,726
Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 178,485 170,033
Revenue Profit before income tax Total assets
* o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 55
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
5. Exceptional and non-recurring costs
The amounts recognised as exceptional and non-recurring costs are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Compensation payments 2,279 921
Non capitalised costs in respect of business combinations - 163
Business and strategic review costs 1,366 728
3,645 1,812
Compensation payments relate to amounts paid to ex-employees of Group companies.  Non capitalised costs in respect to
business combinations are costs incurred which did not qualify to be capitalised. Business and strategic review costs relate to
costs incurred by the Group in relation to management’s commitment to improve operational efficiency. These costs are
considered to be exceptional in nature and not reflective of the underlying operating performance of the Group. 
6a. Employee benefit expense
2009 2008
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 24,130 22,667
Social security costs 2,446 2,190
Share based payments (note 26) 278 45
Pension costs - defined benefit (note 24) 387 229
- defined contribution (note 24) 625 558
27,866 25,689
Included within the above figures are compensation payments to ex-employees of £2,279,000 (2008: £921,000).
Key management compensation
The employment costs of key management personnel (including executive Directors) during the year were as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits 2,763 1,862
Pension costs – defined contribution 163 140
Share based payments 383 341
3,309 2,343
A detailed numerical analysis of Directors’ remuneration and share options forms part of these financial statements. This
analysis is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 32 and shows the highest paid Director and the number
of Directors accruing benefits under money-purchase personal pension schemes.  
6b. Average number of people employed
2009 2008
Number Number
Average number of people (including executive Directors) employed:
Sales and marketing 366 395
Production and distribution 427 469
Administration 94 139
887 1,003
As at 31 December 2009 the Group had 874 employees (2008: 922). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 56
7. Auditor’s remuneration
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiary) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor and its
associates:
2009 2008
Group £000 £000
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 45 45
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services expensed in the income statement:
- audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 75 85
- tax services 20 36
140 166
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services capitalised:
- services relating to corporate finance transactions - 175
140 341
8. Finance income and costs
2009 2008
Group £000 £000
Interest expense:
- bank loans and overdrafts (404) (979)
- finance lease liabilities (77) (62)
- other financial charges (173) (348)
- customer procurement card charges (202) (160)
Finance costs (856) (1,549)
Finance income:
- interest income on short-term bank deposits - 190
Net finance costs (856) (1,359)
9. Income tax expense
2009 2008
Group £000 £000
Current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax at 28% 2,194 2,637
Adjustments in respect of prior years - 167
2,194 2,804
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (note 15) (405) 191
1,789 2,995
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 57
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Tax on items charged to equity
2009 2008
£000 £000
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on share options (note 15) (64) 5
The Group tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax of 28% (2008: 28.5%). 
The differences are explained below:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607
Income tax at the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% (2008: 28.5%) 2,274 2,738
Tax effects of:
Expenses not deductable for tax purposes 209 185
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (268) (95)
Release of deferred tax liability arising on business combinations (426) -
Adjustment in respect of prior years - 167
Total tax charge for the year 1,789 2,995
Factors affecting future tax charges  
The effective tax rate in the near future is anticipated to continue to be less than the standard rate due to releases of deferred
tax liabilities arising on business combinations partially offset by expenses not deductable for tax purposes.
Details with regard to the availability of unprovided tax losses that may be offset against future taxable profits are given in note 15.
10. Dividends
2009 2008
£000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions in the year in respect of:
Ordinary shares - interim dividend 2009 – 3.6p per share (1,288) -
Ordinary shares - final dividend 2008 – 7.5p per share (2,681) -
Ordinary shares - interim dividend 2008 – 3.5p per share - (1,249)
Ordinary shares - final dividend 2007 – 6.8p per share - (2,427)
(3,969) (3,676)
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 7.8p per Ordinary share (total £2,792,000), payable on 21 May 2010 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2010. The dividend has not been included as a liability as at
31 December 2009. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 58
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
11. Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number
of Ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding Ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust.
2009 2008
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 6,138 6,612
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (‘000) 35,773 35,695
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 17.2 18.5
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding to assume
conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares. The Company has one category of dilutive potential Ordinary shares, being
share options. For share options, a calculation is undertaken to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at
fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the
subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the
number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
2009 2008
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 6,138 6,612
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,773 35,695
Adjusted for share options ('000) 27 121
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share ('000) 35,800 35,816
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 17.1 18.5
(c) Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after tax (before the after tax effect of
exceptional and non-recurring costs, amortisation and share option expense) by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares
in issue during the year excluding Ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust. 
2009 2008
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 6,138 6,612
Amortisation (net of tax) 573 624
Share option expense 363 23
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (net of tax) 2,624 1,350
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 9,698 8,609
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,773 35,695
Adjusted earnings per share (pence per share) 27.1 24.1 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 59
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
12. Intangible assets
Group Customer
Goodwill relationships Brands Software Total
2009 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2009 50,388 5,458 3,938 131 59,915
Additions ---7070
At 31 December 2009 50,388 5,458 3,938 201 59,985
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2009 - (385) (243) (24) (652)
Amortisation for the year - (521) (394) (84) (999)
At 31 December 2009 - (906) (637) (108) (1,651)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2009 50,388 4,552 3,301 93 58,334
Customer
Goodwill relationships Brands Software Total
2008* £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 13,607 28 - - 13,635
Additions arising on business combinations (note 31) 36,781 5,430 3,938 103 46,252
Additions at cost - - - 28 28
At 31 December 2008 50,388 5,458 3,938 131 59,915
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2008 - (28) - - (28)
Amortisation for the year - (357) (243) (24) (624)
At 31 December 2008 - (385) (243) (24) (652)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2008 50,388 5,073 3,695 107 59,263
At 1 January 2008 13,607 - - - 13,607
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
Company
The Company had no intangible assets (2008: none). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 60
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Impairment of goodwill
In accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’ , the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its goodwill and reviews it
annually or more regularly if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. For the purposes of assessing impairment,
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units) and
goodwill is allocated to these cash-generating units. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-
generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The components of goodwill by business segment are shown below:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Managed procurement 19,251 19,251 
Business critical services 31,137 31,137 
50,388 50,388 
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
A review was undertaken at 31 December 2009 to assess whether the carrying value of goodwill was impaired by reference to
value in use calculations.  The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts as
approved by the Board of Directors for a five year period.  Cash flow projections beyond the five year period are extrapolated
using the estimated growth rate referred to below.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculation were:
  cash flow projections for the five year period are based upon recent observable performance of the Group, including budgeted
gross margin and expected operating cash inflows;
  the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the Group is 11.9%. The Group believes that the risk profiles relating
to each business segment are not significantly different, hence the same WACC is universally applied across all cash-
generating units; and
  long-term growth rate of 2.5% which is not greater than the long-term growth assumption for the sector.
The outcome of the impairment tests for the cash-generating units carrying amounts of goodwill is summarised as follows:
Headroom
£000
Managed procurement 181,385
Business critical services 4,032
185,417
The headroom represents the difference between the calculated value-in-use and the net asset carrying value of the cash-
generating unit.
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible an impairment would be identified if any of the above key
assumptions were changed significantly. For instance, factors which could cause impairment are:
  significant underperformance relative to the forecast results;
  a further deterioration in the wider economy; and
  an increase in the Group's WACC.
The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows. Management believe the assumptions used are appropriate,
but in addition have conducted sensitivity analysis to determine the changes in assumptions that would result in an impairment.
A half a percentage point increase/(decrease) in the WACC to 12.4%/11.4% would result in a reduction/(increase) in the
headroom for managed procurement to circa £171m/£191m. The headroom for business critical services would similarly
reduce/(increase) to circa £2m/£6m.  Management consider that a half a percentage point in the movement of the WACC reflects
an approximation to the possible movements in the Group’s cost of capital relevant to the cash-generating units.
In order for there to be no impairments within managed procurement, discounted cash flows in 2015 could fall by up to 75% and
by up to 25% in business critical services.  Management have used 2015 for this purpose due to the long-term growth rate
assumption applied and the relative predictability of operating cashflows to 2015.
Customer relationships and brands both have 8.5 years before the assets are written down in full.  Software costs are amortised
over three years from date of purchase.
* o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 61
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
13. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Short
leasehold
land and Plant and Office
buildings machinery equipment Total
2009 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2009 2,843 1,915 2,869 7,627
Additions at cost 699 1,413 23 2,135
Disposals (643) (853) (2,369) (3,865)
At 31 December 2009 2,899 2,475 523 5,897
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2009 (1,263) (1,273) (2,492) (5,028)
Charge for the year (322) (416) (240) (978)
Disposals 571 601 2,364 3,536
At 31 December 2009 (1,014) (1,088) (368) (2,470)
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2009 1,885 1,387 155 3,427
Short
leasehold
land and Plant and Office
buildings machinery equipment Total
2008 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 1,841 1,664 2,424 5,929
Additions arising on business combinations (note 31) 957 106 330 1,393
Additions at cost 45 159 117 321
Disposals - (14) (2) (16)
At 31 December 2008 2,843 1,915 2,869 7,627
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2008 (1,033) (951) (2,205) (4,189)
Charge for the year (230) (336) (288) (854)
Disposals -14 1 15
At 31 December 2008 (1,263) (1,273) (2,492) (5,028)
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2008 1,580 642 377 2,599
At 1 January 2008 808 713 219 1,740
The net book value of Group plant and equipment held under finance leases was £1,229,000 (2008: £464,000). Depreciation
charged in the year on these assets amounted to £295,000 (2008: £319,000).    
Company 
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2008: none). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 62
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
14. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
2009 2008
£000 £000
At 1 January 7,705 7,682
Options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 363 23
At 31 December 8,068 7,705
The Directors consider that the carrying value of the investment is supported by the value of the underlying assets. 
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Country of 
Name of company Nature of business incorporation Company Subsidiary
office2office (UK) plc Non trading holding company England 100%
Olive 1 Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
Banner Business Services Limited Managed procurement England 100%
first2office Limited Managed procurement England 100%
esp2office Limited Managed procurement England 100%
image2office Limited Business critical services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Ireland) Limited Managed procurement Republic of Ireland 100%
Banner Document Services Limited Business critical services England 60%
Alpha Office Limited Managed procurement England 100%
Accord Office Supplies Limited Managed procurement England 100%
TripleArc Limited Business critical services Republic of Ireland 100%
AccessPlus Holdings Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Services Limited Business critical services England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Logistics Limited Business critical services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Pensions) Limited Non trading England 100%
- trustee for pension scheme only
Alpha Data Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Stationers Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Litho Limited Non trading England 100%
Colebrook Services Limited Non trading England 100%
File-It Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Print Management Limited Non trading England 100%
TripleArc UK Limited Non trading England 100%
GL2 Limited Non trading England 100%
Godfrey Lang Limited Non trading England 100%
West Riding Business Forms Limited Non trading England 100%
Software Stationery Holdings Limited Non trading England 100%
Software Stationery Specialists Limited Non trading England 100%
Banner Managed Services plc Non trading England 100%
All of the above shareholdings are in the subsidiaries’ ordinary share capital.    
% Holding o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 63
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
15. Deferred income tax (liability)/asset
2009 2008
£000 £000
Deferred income tax asset 1,240 1,197
Deferred income tax liability (2,197) (2,623)
(957) (1,426)
The deferred income tax (liability)/asset recognised in the financial statements is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Tax effect of timing differences:
Excess of qualifying depreciation over tax allowances 265 153
Employee share schemes 266 206
Retirement benefit obligations 250 292
Other temporary differences (1,738) (2,102)
Unutilised tax losses carried forward - 25
(957) (1,426)
Group 2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 1,197 1,316 (2,623) -
Credited/(charged) to the income statement (note 9) (21) (191) 426 -
Arising on business combinations (note 31) - 77 - (2,623)
Credited to equity (note 9) 64 (5) - -
At 31 December 1,240 1,197 (2,197) (2,623)
The deferred income tax (liability)/asset is estimated to be recoverable as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Deferred income tax (liability)/assets:
- to be recovered after more than 1 year (781) (1,054)
- to be recovered within 1 year (176) (372)
(957) (1,426)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an
intention to settle the balances net. 
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
Group
*
Group
*
Liability Asset
* *
Group
* o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 64
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The movements in deferred tax (liability)/asset during the period is shown below:
Group
Deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) Depreciation Other Retirement 
over tax temporary benefit Share 
allowances differences obligations Tax losses options Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2009 153 (2,102) 292 25 206 (1,426)
Charged to income statement 112 364 (42) (25) (4) 405
Charged to equity ---- 64 64
At 31 December 2009 265 (1,738) 250 - 266 (957)
Deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) Depreciation Other Retirement 
over tax temporary benefit Share 
allowances differences obligations Tax losses options Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2008 198 538 317 35 228 1,316
Charged to income statement (98) (17) (25) (34) (17) (191)
Arising on business combinations (note 31) 53 (2,623) - 24 - (2,546)
Charged to equity ---- (5) (5)
At 31 December 2008 153 (2,102) 292 25 206 (1,426)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for tax losses and short term timing differences to the extent that the
realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group had an unprovided deferred tax asset relating to the trading losses of £3,547,000 (2008: £4,505,000).  This amount
has not been recognised due to uncertainty as to the future utilisation of these losses.
Company
The Company had no provided or unprovided deferred tax balances in either year.
16. Inventories
2009 2008
Group £000 £000
Finished goods and goods for resale 6,412 8,371
The difference between cost of goods purchased or production cost of stocks and their replacement cost is not material.
The Group consumed £129,929,000 (2008: £124,048,000) of inventories during the year.  
The provision to reflect net realisable value being less than cost decreased by £371,000 (2008: increased by £215,000) during
the year.
Company
The Company held no inventories (2008: £nil). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 65
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
17. Trade and other receivables
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 21,320 25,678 - -
Less: provision for impairment (1,309) (2,021) - -
Trade receivables net 20,011 23,657 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 4,035 2,901 - -
Other receivables 5 155 - -
Receivables from related parties (note 32) - - 9,604 9,303
24,051 26,713 9,604 9,303
All of the above amounts are due within one year.
Receivables from related parties are repayable on demand. Included within receivables from related parties is a loan to Banner
Business Services Limited of £4,300,000 upon which interest is charged at a rate of 1.75% (2008: 1.75%) per annum above
Bank of England base rate. Interest is not charged on the other balances.
There is no difference between the amounts disclosed above and their fair values.
Credit risk in respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customers being predominantly comprised of large
companies and public sector entities. As a result, the Directors consider that no further credit risk provision is required in excess
of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling 23,237 25,573 9,604 9,303
Euro 814 1,140 - -
24,051 26,713 9,604 9,303
Group
Trade receivables that are less than 2 months past due, amounting to £10,455,000 (2008: £10,351,000), are not considered
impaired as amounts within this category generally relate to a number of independent customers for which there is no recent
history of default. As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of £8,155,000 (2008: £11,821,000 ) were past due but not
impaired. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables (by reference to due date) is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Up to 1 month past due 6,108 9,353
1 to 2 months past due 2,047 2,468
8,155 11,821
As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of £2,710,000 (2008: £3,506,000) were impaired and partially provided for. The
amount of the provision against such impaired trade receivables was £1,309,000 as of 31 December 2009 (2008: £2,021,000).
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to issues arising from the current economic climate. The ageing of these
receivables is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
0 to 3 months overdue 660 1,273
3 to 6 months overdue 761 661
Over 6 months overdue 1,289 1,572
2,710 3,506
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 66
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
At 1 January 2,021 772
Arising on business combinations (note 31) - 1,070
Increase in provision for receivables impairment 60 474
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (772) (295)
At 31 December 1,309 2,021
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the consolidated income
statement. Amounts charged to the provision are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash. The
other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the
reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as
security.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets and management consider the credit quality
of these assets as good.
Company
The Company has no trade receivables (2008: £nil).
18. Cash and cash equivalents
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 5,987 2,691 1 159
The effective average interest rate on overnight deposits for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 0.9% (2008: 5.4%).
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement:
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 5,987 2,691 1 159
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (7,425) (6,697) - -
(1,438) (4,006) 1 159
19. Trade and other payables
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables (23,560) (28,111) - -
Social security and other taxes (2,797) (2,802) - -
Accrued expenses and deferred income (10,290) (10,042) (24) (25)
Payables to related parties (note 32) - - (1) (1)
(36,647) (40,955) (25) (26)
* Restated to reflect fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions made in the period ended 31 December 2008 (note 31).
Group Company
Group Company
Group Company
* o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 67
20. Borrowings
2009 2008
£000 £000
Non-current
Bank borrowings (22,500) (25,000)
Finance leases (993) (374)
(23,493) (25,374)
Current
Bank borrowings (2,500) -
Bank overdrafts (7,425) (6,697)
Finance leases (385) (281)
(10,310) (6,978)
Total borrowings (33,803) (32,352)
The Company does not have any borrowings (2008: £nil).
Bank borrowings
Bank borrowings mature in 2013 and bear interest at a floating rate in the range of 95 to 125 basis points above LIBOR. Bank
borrowings are secured by an all assets debenture and a cross company guarantee on all assets of the Group. The Company forms
part of the cross guarantee structure.
The bank overdraft represents cash book overdrafts.  
The repayment profile of bank borrowings (including overdrafts) is as follows: 
2009 2008
£000 £000
Within one year or on demand (9,925) (6,697)
Between one and two years (2,500) (2,500)
Between two and three years (7,500) (2,500)
Between three and four years (12,500) (7,500)
Between four and five years - (12,500)
(32,425) (31,697)
The borrowings are denominated in sterling. 
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Bank borrowings (22,500) (25,000) (21,922) (25,096)
The fair value of the current borrowings equals their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair values
of bank borrowings are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market rate at 31 December 2009 of 5.7%.
Group
Carrying amount Fair value
Bank borrowings
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 68
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
2009 2008
£000 £000
Gross undrawn committed confidential invoice discounting facility 20,000 20,000
Cash book overdraft (7,425) (6,697)
Net undrawn facilities 12,575 13,303
As at 31 December 2009 the Group has a committed but undrawn confidential invoice discounting facility of £20,000,000
(2008: £20,000,000), subject to sufficient security from trade receivables. The facility is at a floating rate and is due for renewal
in April 2013.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had not drawn against its committed invoice discounting facility. At that date the Group had
a cash book overdraft of £7,425,000 (2008: £6,697,000). If all payments had cleared on the day of issue the Group would have
had net undrawn facilities of £12,575,000 (2008: £13,303,000).
Finance leases
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Total aggregate future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the future finance charges and present
value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
Group 2009 2008
£000 £000
Within one year 427 324
In more than one year, but not more than five years 1,063 408
In more than five years - 6
1,490 738
2009 2008
£000 £000
Within one year 42 43
In more than one year, but not more than five years 70 40
In more than five years - -
112 83
2009 2008
£000 £000
Within one year 385 281
In more than one year, but not more than five years 993 368
In more than five years - 6
1,378 655
Finance leases are secured upon the assets to which the lease agreement relates.
Minimum lease payments
Future finance charges
Net minimum lease payments o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 69
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
21. Financial instruments by category
Cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are classified as loans and receivables for
the purpose of IFRS 7.
Borrowings, finance leases and trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) are classified as other financial liabilities
at amortised cost for the purpose of IFRS 7.
22. Current income tax liabilities
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Current income tax liabilities (931) (1,557) - -
23. Provisions
Property Onerous
dilapidations leases Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2009 (655) (1,488) (2,143)
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
- Additional provisions (52) (1,602) (1,654)
- Unwinding of discount - (11) (11)
- Utilised during the year 53 1,563 1,616
At 31 December 2009 (654) (1,538) (2,192)
2009 2008
Maturity profile of provisions £000 £000
Current (919) (322)
Non-current (1,273) (1,821)
At 31 December (2,192) (2,143)
Property dilapidations relate to the expected cost for making good leased properties at the end of their lease. The provision relates to
various properties with different lease end dates ranging between one and ten years.
Onerous leases relate to the future cost of historic lease obligations whereby the Group has no future economic benefit from the lease.
These leases have varying end dates between one and three years.
Company
The Company has no provisions (2008: £nil).
24. Retirement benefit liability
Group
The Group is the contributing employer to a defined benefit pension scheme, The Banner Business Supplies Pension Scheme
(BBS scheme), all the members of which were formerly employed by Her Majesty’s Stationery Office and were members of the
Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme who first elected to transfer funds accrued to The Stationery Office Limited Scheme and
subsequently elected to transfer funds accrued to the BBS scheme. 
The BBS scheme commenced on 1 August 2000 when the funds were transferred in by The Stationery Office Limited. The
scheme is funded by the payment of contributions to a separately administered trust fund. The scheme currently has 162
members and is closed to new members.
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out on 31 July 2008 and updated to 31 December 2009 by Mercer LLC, a qualified
independent actuary. The pension costs have been determined on the basis of the results of this valuation. 
The fair value of the BBS scheme assets at 31 December 2009 amounted to £9,181,000 (2008: £7,128,000).
Group contributions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme for the period were £537,000 (2008: £318,000). Group
contributions in 2010 are expected to be approximately £545,000.
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 70
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The Group also incurred £625,000 (2008: £558,000) in respect of Group personal pension arrangements and employees’ own
personal pension arrangements for staff recruited by The Stationery Office Limited and Group companies since 
30 September 1996 at rates varying between 6% and 15% of pensionable earnings.
The outstanding accrual in respect of defined contribution pension contributions at 31 December 2009 was £364,000 
(2008: £342,000).
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the BBS scheme are determined as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (12,762) (10,487)
Fair value of plan assets 9,181 7,128
(3,581) (3,359)
Unrecognised actuarial losses 2,687 2,315
Liability in the balance sheet (894) (1,044)
The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000
Equities 7.5% 6.9% 7,814 5,691
Bonds 4.5% 3.9% 771 627
Property 6.5% 6.9% 46 30
Other 0.3% 1.5% 550 780
9,181 7,128
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Current service cost (189) (256)
Scheme interest cost (579) (578)
Expected return on plan assets 444 605
Amortisation of unrecognised loss (63) -
Expenses recognised in the income statement as administrative expenses (387) (229)
The movement in the fair value of plan assets is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January     7,128 8,542
Expected return on plan assets 444 605
Actuarial gains/(losses) 1,172 (2,283)
Employer contribution 537 318
Member contributions 87 104
Benefits paid (187) (158)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 9,181 7,128 
Expected return p.a. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 71
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The movement in the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January (10,487) (10,413)
Current service cost (189) (256)
Interest cost (579) (578)
Member contributions (87) (104)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,607) 706
Benefits paid 187 158
Present value of funded obligations at 31 December (12,762) (10,487)
The principal actuarial assumptions were as follows:
2009 2008
%pa %pa
Discount rate 5.7 5.5
Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.8 6.1
Future salary increases 3.6 2.9
Future pension increases 3.6 2.9
Inflation 3.6 2.9
The expected return on plan assets for 2010 is based on market conditions at 31 December 2009 for returns over the entire life
of the obligation.
2009 2008
£000 £000
Actual return on plan assets 1,616 (1,678)
The weighted average life expectancy derived from mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations were:
2009 2008
Y ears Y ears
Male member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.0 22.0
Female member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 24.9 24.9
Male member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 23.1 23.1
Female member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 25.9 25.9
History of experience gains and losses:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (12,762) (10,487) (10,413) (9,587) (8,768)
Fair value of plan assets 9,181 7,128 8,542 7,651 6,323
Deficit in the plan (3,581) (3,359) (1,871) (1,936) (2,445)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£000) 1,172 (2,283) (102) 417 744
Percentage of scheme assets 13% (32%) (1%) 5% 12%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£000) - (199) (436) 14 180
Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% (2%) (4%) 0% 2%
At 31 December 2009, the unrecognised actuarial losses were in excess of 10% of the present value of the funded obligations.
Accordingly under IAS 19 the Group will amortise the unrecognised actuarial losses over the average remaining working lives of
the members of the scheme commencing in the year ended 31 December 2010. 
Company
The Company has no retirement benefit liabilities (2008: £nil). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 72
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
25. Ordinary shares
Authorised No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of 1p each 50,000,000 500,000 50,000,000 500,000
Issued and fully paid No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of 1p each 36,308,984 363,090 36,308,984 363,090
514,348 Ordinary shares are held by the EBT (2008: 582,295), for which the right to receive dividends has been waived. 
26. Share options
Exercise
Number Number Number Number Number price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 09 granted exercised expired 31 Dec 09 share from date
Senior managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 50,000 - (50,000) - - 1.0p 08.10.06 08.10.14
Managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 6,954 - (6,954) - - 1.0p 08.10.06 08.10.14
Performance share plan
Date granted
December 2005 49,918 - (12,769) (37,149) - 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
April 2006 70,008 - - (70,008) - 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
September 2007 232,907 - - - 232,907 0.1p 11.09.10 11.03.11
December 2007 189,566 - - - 189,566 0.1p 01.04.11 01.10.11
April 2008 636,705 - - (94,056) 542,649 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
June 2008 89,740 - - (89,740) - 0.1p 30.06.11 30.10.11
March 2009 - 160,606 - - 160,606 0.1p 04.03.12 04.09.12
April 2009 - 601,215 - (231,148) 370,067 0.1p 30.04.12 30.10.12
Executive bonus plan
Date granted
December 2005 33,851 - (8,152) (25,699) - 0.1p 21.12.08 21.06.09
April 2006 30,857 - - (30,857) - 0.1p 24.04.09 24.10.09
SA YE scheme
Date granted
October 2004 (5yr) 146,149 - - (20,218) 125,931 171.6p 01.12.09 31.05.10
October 2005 (5yr) 9,896 - - (717) 9,179 224.4p 11.11.10 11.05.11
April 2008 (3yr) 255,424 - - (71,047) 184,377 119.4p 08.04.11 08.10.11
April 2008 (5yr) 188,512 - - (61,903) 126,609 119.4p 08.04.13 08.10.13
1,990,487 761,821 (77,875) (732,542) 1,941,891
Options which expired in the year to 31 December 2009 reflected employees leaving the Group, non-achievement of
performance conditions and the expiry of the term of exercise.
2009 2008
2009 2008 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 73
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
At 31 December 2009, there were no members (2008: 1 member) of the senior managers’ scheme; there were no members (2008:
2 members) of the managers’ scheme; there were 10 members with an average option holding of 149,580 (2008: 9 members) of
the performance share plan; there were no members (2008: 3 members) of the executive bonus plan; there were 135 members
with average holdings of 3,304 (2008: 180 members) of the Save-As-Y ou-Earn (SA YE) scheme.
The senior managers’ scheme was introduced on 8 October 2004 to reward key employees for their contribution to the
enhancement of the Group’s longer term future and their commitment to the Group over a sustained period. There are no
performance conditions attached. 50,000 options were exercised during the year under review. The weighted average share price
as at the date of exercise was 101.00p per share. 
The managers’ scheme was introduced on 8 October 2004 to encourage and reward managers for their continued contribution to
the Group’s success. Financial performance conditions apply to the exercise of the options based on profit expectations set by
the Board. 6,954 options were exercised during the year under review. The weighted average share price as at the date of
exercise was 105.83p per share.
The performance share plan and executive bonus plan were introduced on 21 December 2005 to incentivise senior management relative
to the long term strategy of the Group. Financial performance conditions apply to exercise of the options, based on a comparative
measure of total shareholder return against the companies in the FTSE Small Cap Index, and the Company’s earnings per share growth.
On 4 March 2009 and 30 April 2009, awards were granted over 761,821 shares based on a weighted average share price, of the three
days prior to award,  of 103.00p per share. 20,921 options were exercised during the year under review . The weighted average share
price as at the date of exercise was 78.25p per share. The weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.6 years.
The SA YE scheme was first introduced in October 2004. The exercise price is determined at a 20% discount to the closing mid-
market price on the date of invitation. The schemes have either a three or five year vesting period. The weighted average
remaining contractual life is 1.5 years.
The IFRS 2 and associated national insurance costs, before tax, incurred in relation to the above schemes were as follows:
2009 2009 2008 2008
IFRS 2 NI IFRS 2 NI
£000 £000 £000 £000
Senior managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 - (4) - (14)
Managers’ scheme
Date granted
October 2004 - (1) - (2)
Performance share plan
Date granted
December 2005 (28) - (10) (8)
April 2006 (34) 1 5 (5)
September 2007 83 22 85 4
December 2007 40 16 38 5
April 2008 153 40 65 (6)
June 2008 (14) (8) 14 7
March 2009 18 7 --
April 2009 45 9 --
Executive bonus plan
Date granted
December 2005 -2 13 (2)
April 2006 (9) 1 10 (1)
SA YE scheme
Date granted
October 2004 (3yr) -- (178) -
October 2004 (5yr) 1- 13 -
October 2005 (3yr) -- (36) -
October 2005 (5yr) 1- (7) -
October 2008 (3yr) 16 - 23 -
October 2008 (5yr) 6- 10 -
278 85 45 (22) o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 74
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The following valuation assumptions have been applied:
Senior managers’ scheme – October 2004 option value information
Fair value per option* £2.04
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 2 years
Expected volatility 27.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.7%
Risk free interest rate 4.69%
Managers’ scheme – October 2004 option value information 
Fair value per option* £2.04
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 2 years
Expected volatility 27.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.7%
Risk free interest rate 4.69%
Performance share plan – December 2005 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.06
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.22%
Performance share plan – April 2006 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.98
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.5%
Expected dividend yield 4.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.55%
Performance share plan – September 2007 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.07
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 26.7%
Expected dividend yield 5.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.92%
Performance share plan – December 2007 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.63
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.5 years
Expected volatility 30.2%
Expected dividend yield 7.8%
Risk free interest rate 4.63%
Performance share plan – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.96
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 35.4%
Expected dividend yield 5.8%
Risk free interest rate 4.0%
Performance share plan – June 2008 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.12
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 36.1%
Expected dividend yield 5.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.0% o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 75
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Performance share plan – March 2009 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.83
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 48.2%
Expected dividend yield 12.3%
Risk free interest rate 1.10%
Performance share plan – April 2009 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.05
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 49.4%
Expected dividend yield 10.4%
Risk free interest rate 1.10%
Executive bonus plan – December 2005 option value information
Fair value per option** £1.06
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.22%
Executive bonus plan – April 2006 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.98
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 4 years
Expected volatility 26.5%
Expected dividend yield 4.0%
Risk free interest rate 4.55%
SA YE 5 year scheme – October 2004 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.70
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 34.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.76%
SA YE 5 year scheme – October 2005 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.89
Valuation assumptions 
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 30.1%
Expected dividend yield 3.2%
Risk free interest rate 4.32%
SA YE 3 year scheme – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.36
Valuation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 34.6%
Expected dividend yield 6.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.0%
SA YE 5 year scheme – April 2008 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.34
Valuation assumptions 
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 31.8%
Expected dividend yield 6.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.51%
* Estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing method.
** Estimated using the Monte-Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing methods.
Expected volatility was determined by reference to historic share price information of similar companies.
All of the above relate to equity settled share-based payment transactions. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 76
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
27. Reserves
Share Share
premium Other Retained Minority premium Retained
account reserves earnings interest account earnings
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2008 5,009 46 11,489 - 5,009 11,109
Foreign exchange differences - 240 ----
Profit for the year - - 6,612 - - 4,276
Employee share options:
- value of employee services - - 45 - - 23
- deferred tax on share options - - (5) - - -
Sale of shares by EBT - - 37 - - 37
Dividends - - (3,676) - - (3,676)
Balance at 31 December 2008 5,009 286 14,502 - 5,009 11,769
Foreign exchange differences - (90) ----
Profit for the year - - 6,138 196 - 4,103
Employee share options:
- value of employee services - - 278 - - 363
- deferred tax on share options - - 64 - - -
Sale of shares by EBT - - 10 - - 10
Dividends - - (3,969) - - (3,969)
Balance at 31 December 2009 5,009 196 17,023 196 5009 12,276
Share premium account
The share premium account represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the amount received
for them. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Other reserves
Other reserves relate to foreign exchange translation differences on the net assets of overseas subsidiaries. This is a non-
distributable reserve.
Minority interests
As described in note 14, the Company owns 60% of the £10 called up share capital of Banner Document Services Limited. 
28. Cash generated from/(used in) operations
2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Profit before income tax 8,123 9,607 4,103 4,276
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 999 624 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 978 854 - -
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 329 - - -
Finance income - (190) (103) (276)
Finance costs 856 1,549 - -
Income from investments - - (4,000) (4,000)
Share option expense 278 45 - -
Decrease /(increase) in inventories 1,959 (898) - -
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 2,662 5,352 (301) (441)
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (4,499) (11,307) (1) -
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 11,685 5,636 (302) (441)
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 77
29. Analysis of movement in net (debt)/cash 
At
Group At 1 January Cash Non-cash 31 December
2009 flow movements 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 2,691 3,296 - 5,987
Bank overdrafts (6,697) (728) - (7,425)
(4,006) 2,568 - (1,438)
Term loan - current - - (2,500) (2,500)
Finance leases – current (281) 337 (441) (385)
Total current debt (4,287) 2,905 (2,941) (4,323)
Term loan – non-current (25,000) - 2,500 (22,500)
Finance leases – non-current (374) - (619) (993)
Total non-current debt (25,374) - 1,881 (23,493)
Net debt (29,661) 2,905 (1,060) (27,816)
At
Group At 1 January Cash Business Non-cash 31 December
2008 flow combinations movements 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 6,963 (4,272) - - 2,691
Bank overdrafts - (6,697) - - (6,697)
6,963 (10,969) - - (4,006)
Finance leases – current (177) 219 (107) (216) (281)
Total current funds/(debt) 6,786 (10,750) (107) (216) (4,287)
Term loan – non-current - (12,387) (12,613) - (25,000)
Finance leases – non-current (410) - (150) 186 (374)
Total non-current debt (410) (12,387) (12,763) 186 (25,374)
Net debt 6,376 (23,137) (12,870) (30) (29,661)
Non-cash movements relates to the movement of finance leases and movements in the term loan between non-current and current and
new finance lease agreements taken out during the year.
At
Company At 1 January Cash 31 December
2009 flow 2009
£000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 159 (158) 1
At
Company At 1 January Cash 31 December
2008 flow 2008
£000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 1 158 159
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 78
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
30. Guarantees and other financial commitments
Bank guarantees
The Company is a member of the Group banking arrangement under which it is party to unlimited cross-guarantees in respect of
the banking facilities of other Group undertakings, amounting to £25,000,000  (2008: £25,000,000) subject to facility at 31
December 2009. The Directors do not expect any material loss to the Company to arise in respect of the guarantees.
Operating lease commitments
2009 2008 2009 2008
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases payable in respect of
leases expiring:
No later than one year 1,591 1,769 1,280 1,717
Later than one year and no later than five years 4,229 4,848 1,777 2,059
Later than five years 206 2,086 - -
6,026 8,703 3,057 3,776
Company
The Company has no obligations under operating leases (2008: none).
31. Business combinations
Restatement arising from prior year business contributions
On 15 May 2008, the Group acquired control of TripleArc plc for a consideration of £13,769,000, including costs. TripleArc plc is
the parent company of the AccessPlus Group. AccessPlus provides business process outsourcing to companies looking to reduce
the costs of their print marketing and communication.
The acquisition of TripleArc plc has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired relating to TripleArc plc were as follows:
Carrying Fair value Final 
amount adjustment fair value
£000 £000 £000
Customer relationships - 4,468 4,468
Brands - 3,200 3,200
Software - 103 103
Goodwill 34,640 (34,640) -
Property, plant and equipment 1,516 (268) 1,248
Deferred tax asset 107 (28) 79
Inventories 889 (207) 682
Trade and other receivables 10,174 (103) 10,071
Trade and other payables (16,940) (4,322) (21,262)
Deferred income tax liability - (2,147) (2,147)
Current income tax liability (116) 116 -
Bank overdraft (1,000) - (1,000)
Bank loans (12,613) - (12,613)
Obligations under finance leases (197) - (197)
Net liabilities assumed (17,368)
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 12,486
Directly attributable costs 1,283
13,769
Goodwill arising 31,137
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration (12,486)
Directly attributable costs (1,283)
Bank overdraft (1,000)
Bank loans (12,613)
(27,382)
Land and buildings Other o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 79
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
The fair value adjustments relate to the alignment of the accounting policies to those of the Group, adjustments to accrue for
liabilities relating to the period prior to the acquisition and the recognition of intangible assets in connection with customer
relationships, brands and software.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is primarily attributable to cost synergies arising from the combination.
£000
Goodwill provisionally recognised at 31 December 2008 28,500
Finalisation of fair values 2,637
Final goodwill arising 31,137
The finalisation of fair values resulted in an increase in the fair value adjustment to trade and other payables by £490,000,
deferred income tax liability by £2,147,000, resulting in an increase to goodwill of £2,637,000.
On 2 June 2008, the Group acquired control of Accord Office Supplies Limited (Accord) for a consideration of £5,855,000, including
costs. Accord is an office products dealer based in the south-west of England, which supplies the mid market corporate sector.
The acquisition of Accord has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired relating to Accord were as follows:
Carrying Fair value Final
amount adjustment fair value
£000 £000 £000
Customer relationships - 962 962
Brands - 738 738
Goodwill 1,086 (1,086) -
Property, plant and equipment 155 (10) 145
Inventories 278 - 278
Trade and other receivables 1,962 (20) 1,942
Trade and other payables (2,406) (33) (2,439)
Deferred tax liability (2) (476) (478)
Current income tax liability (63) - (63)
Bank overdraft (814) - (814)
Obligations under finance leases (60) - (60)
Net assets assumed 211
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 5,750
Directly attributable costs 105
5,855
Goodwill arising 5,644
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration (5,750)
Directly attributable costs (105)
Bank overdraft (814)
(6,669)
The fair value adjustments relate to the alignment of the accounting policies to those of the Group and the recognition of
intangible assets in connection with customer relationships and brands.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is primarily attributable to cost synergies arising from the combination.
£000
Goodwill provisionally recognised at 31 December 2008 5,168
Finalisation of fair values 476
Final goodwill arising 5,644
The finalisation of fair values resulted in an increase in the fair value adjustment to deferred income tax liability by £476,000,
resulting in an increase to goodwill by £476,000.
On 9 November 2008, the Group acquired a 60% interest in Banner Document Services Limited. The consideration of £6 was in
consideration of ordinary shares at par value as the company had not commenced trading at the point of acquiring the
shareholding. Banner Document Services Limited commenced trading in January 2009. Accordingly the fair value of the assets
acquired equals the fair value of the consideration paid.
There were no business combinations for the year ended 31 December 2009. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 80
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Restatement of comparative balances
As a result of the finalisation of goodwill arising on the acquisitions of TripleArc Plc and Accord Office Supplies Limited, goodwill
– other intangibles increased by £3,113,000, deferred income tax liabilities increased by £2,623,000 and trade and other
payables increased by £490,000.
There was no material impact from these adjustments on the reported profit or net assets and accordingly no opening balance
sheet was presented.
32. Related parties
Group
Directors’ and key management compensations are disclosed in note 6.
Company
During the year the Company had the following transactions with its subsidiaries:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Dividends received 4,000 4,000
Interest received 103 276
4,103 4,276
As at the 31 December the following amounts were due to/(from) the Company from/(to) its subsidiaries:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Banner Business Services Limited 9,604 9,303
Banner Business Services (Ireland) Limited (1) (1)
9,603 9,302
Other than disclosed above, all movements in balances due to and from related parties relate to the movement of cash and other
working capital transactions between Group companies.
33. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors consider that there is no ultimate controlling party.
34. Post balance sheet events
On 1 February 2010, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Martin Luck Newbury, a trading branch of Martin Luck Limited,
for a consideration of £300,000 (of which £75,000 being deferred consideration).
On 17 February 2010, the Group acquired the trade and certain assets of the business process outsourcing division of The Print
Factory (1991) Limited (in administration) and The DSR Group Limited (in administration) for a consideration of £700,000.
Due to the recent completion of both transactions the full financial effect of both transactions have not been fully determined at
the date of these accounts. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 81
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 187,464 180,999 167,862 165,897 150,897
Operating profit - before amortisation, 
exceptional costs and share option expenses 13,986 13,425 11,694 11,872 11,534
Amortisation (999) (624) - - -
Exceptional and non-recurring costs (3,645) (1,812) (2,333) (392) -
Share option expense (363) (23) (243) (768) (869)
Operating profit 8,979 10,966 9,118 10,712 10,665
Net interest payable (856) (1,359) (115) (367) (430)
Profit before tax 8,123 9,607 9,003 10,345 10,235
Capital employed:
Shareholder funds 22,591 20,160 16,907 14,833 10,288
Statistics:
Underlying earnings per Ordinary share* 27.1p 24.1p 22.0p 20.9p 20.2p
Basic earnings per Ordinary share 17.2p 18.5p 17.4p 20.2p 20.2p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary share 17.1p 18.5p 17.3p 19.7p 19.7p
Dividends per share 11.4p 11.0p 10.0p 9.6p 9.3p
Share price (period end) 145.5p 65.5p 119.5p 243.5p 260.0p
*Underlying earnings per Ordinary share, before the after tax effect of exceptional and non-recurring costs, amortisation and share
option expense, has been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance.
Five Y ear Summary o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 82
Shareholder Information 
Financial calendar 2010
Announcement of final results for the year ended 31 December 2009 25 March 2010
Annual General Meeting 18 May 2010
Payment of final dividend on Ordinary shares to shareholders on the 
share register at the close of business on 23 April 2010 21 May 2010
Registrar and transfer office
Enquiries about administrative matters relating to
shareholding and dividends should be addressed to the
Company’s registrars.
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Y orkshire HD8 0LA
Telephone 0871 664 0300
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras)
International: +44 (0) 208 639 3399
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday
or by email to: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share price
Information concerning the day to day movement of the
share price of the Company can be found on our website
www.office2office.co.uk or that of the London Stock
Exchange www.prices.londonstockexchange.com. The share
price can also be found in the appropriate sections of
national newspapers under the classification ‘Support
Services’ and under the ticker code ‘OFF .L ’ or ‘OFF’ .
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public
inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from
organisations that use it as a mailing list. 
To reduce the amount of unsolicited mail you receive,
contact: 
The Mailing Preference Service 
FREEPOST 22
London W1E 7EZ 
Telephone +44 (0) 845 703 4599
Website www.mpsonline.org.uk  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 83
Registered office
St Crispins
Duke Street
Norwich NR3 1PD
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1603 691 102
Fax: +44 (0) 1603 691 106
Website: www.office2office.co.uk
Email: info@office2office.biz
Professional advisers:
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
The Atrium
St Georges Street
Norwich NR3 1AG
Broker
Investec
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Joint Broker
W H Ireland
11 St James’ Square
Manchester
M2 6WH
Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons
1 Park Row
Leeds
LS1 5NR
Solicitors
Macfarlanes LLP
20 Cursitor Street
London
EC4A 1L T
Company Details Head Office: o2o plc, St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich, NR3 1PD
Telephone: 0845 226 7780 www.office2office.co.uk
o2o plc Registered number 04083206
