 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 “office2office plc (o2o) is now a leading provider of office supplies and
solutions, delivering these through two key operating segments –
Managed Procurement and Business Critical Services. Our focus is to
provide our customers with sustainable savings through outsourcing their
non-core yet essential business activities”   Simon Moate, Chief Executive
Financial Highlights                                                                                                                                      1
Chairman’s Statement                                                                                                                       2 – 4
Chief Executive’s Review                                                                                                                 5 – 6
Business and Financial Review                                                                                                   7 – 9
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement                                                             10 – 12
Board of Directors                                                                                                                                     13
Directors’ Report                                                                                                                            14 – 17
Corporate Governance Statement                                                                                   18 – 21
Nomination Committee Report                                                                                                       22
Audit Committee Report                                                                                                          22 – 23
Directors’ Remuneration Report                                                                                        24 – 29
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
members of office2office plc                                                                                               30 – 31
Consolidated Income Statement                                                                                                   32
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income                                                     33
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets                                                                        34
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity                                                                   35
Company Statement of Changes in Equity                                                                             36
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements                                                       37
Significant Accounting Policies                                                                                           38 – 44
Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                                  45 – 74
Five Y ear Summary                                                                                                                                   75
Shareholder Information                                                                                                                      76
Company Details                                                                                                                                         77
Contents o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 1
2011 2010*
Key Financials
Revenue £193.5m £207.6m
Profit before tax £4.3m £4.6m
Basic earnings per share 12.0p 12.0p
Underlying profit before tax
1
£8.4m £11.2m
Underlying earnings per share
2
20.7p 25.1p
Operating cash flow £10.9m £5.0m
Net debt £27.7m £31.4m
Final dividend proposed
Total dividend for the year
£2.8m £2.8m
7.8p per share 7.8p per share
£4.1m £4.1m
11.4p per share 11.4p per share
1. Profit before tax, non-recurring costs of £2.4m (2010: £5.3m), £0.4m share option charges (2010: £0.1m), £nil negative goodwill
(2010: £0.2m) and amortisation of intangibles of £1.3m (2010: £1.3m) (refer to the Consolidated Income Statement on page 32).
2. Profit after tax (before the after tax effect of non-recurring costs, share option charges, negative goodwill and amortisation of
intangibles) divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (refer to note 11 to the financial statements).
* Restated for adjustments arising  from prior year business combinations relating to negative goodwill, amortisation of intangible
assets and deferred income tax expense, resulting in no change to underlying profit before tax and a £50,000 reduction in profit
after tax in 2010 (refer to note 2 to the financial statements). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 2
Results
Notwithstanding the public sector sales volumes and non-core
expenditure shortfalls, we managed to hold revenue at
£193.5m (2010: £207.6m), and underlying profit before tax
was £8.4m (2010: £11.2m).
Administrative expenses excluding non-recurring costs,
amortisation of intangibles and share option expense were
Whilst this has been a year of unprecedented new business wins, revenue and profitability fell
back in 2011 driven entirely by the shortfall in public sector sales volumes and non-core
expenditure relative to prior years. By contrast, private sector trading performance was broadly
in line with our expectations. 
Business wins and retention rates have been high during the year. Notably, two new Managed
Procurement contracts secured in 2011 are expected to generate additional annual revenue in
excess of £50m in 2012 and compensate for continuing, albeit now stable, lower levels of
public sector sales volumes.
The first is a four year contract to supply and distribute office products to the SME sector
through an independent office product dealership network (the Advantia contract). This is
expected to generate revenues in excess of £25m per annum for our new supply chain business,
Truline, which was launched during the year.
Secondly in August, following a competitive tender process for the Government Office Supplies
Contract (GOSC), we were appointed as sole provider of office products and Closed Loop
services to the UK Central Government for a minimum of three years with the option to extend.
GOSC embraces all Central Government departments and, as well as securing all our existing
public sector office product and Closed Loop business, it is expected to generate at least £25m
of additional annual revenue. Further, GOSC is based on our open-book pricing model which
should protect the Group from any adverse product cost increases. 
Having overcome the unexpected implementation delays which limited its impact in 2011,
GOSC has been trading in line with expectations so far in 2012 and other public sector sales
volumes now appear to be stable.
£27.3m (2010: £27.3m) and distribution costs reduced to
£18.4m (2010: £19.3m). Non-recurring costs, as detailed in
note 5 to the financial statements, were £2.4m (2010:
£5.3m) comprising compensation costs following
restructuring of £1.3m (2010: £1.8m), Truline start up costs
of £0.7m (2010: £nil) and £0.7m (2010: £3.3m) of business
and strategic review costs, offset by a curtailment gain on
closure of the defined benefit pension scheme of £0.3m
Chairman’s Statement  
David Callear o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 3
(2010: £nil). In addition, in 2010, there were transaction
costs of £0.2m, relating to the investment in TPF . 
Profit before tax was £4.3m (2010: £4.6m) and following a
tax charge credit, profit after tax remained at £4.3m (2010:
£4.3m). Basic and fully diluted earnings per share were 12.0p
and 12.0p respectively (2010: 12.0p and 12.0p). Underlying
earnings per share were 20.7p (2010: 25.1p).
Cash generated from operations and net debt
Cash generated from operations increased by £5.9m to
£10.9m (2010: £5.0m). This reflected the unusual investment
in working capital and integration costs reported in 2010
following the acquisition of TPF and, subsequently, the impact
of the improved management of TPF working capital as part
of the enlarged Group. Net indebtedness fell to £27.7m
(2010: £31.4m) primarily as a direct consequence of this
improvement.
During the year, the Group’s banking facilities were
renegotiated, increased and the term extended. The revised
facilities of £48m now mature in June 2015 with repayments
due from June 2012 and are based on competitive terms,
interest rates and arrangement fees. 
Business strategy
Over the past year, we have continued with our long term
strategy to build on the base of the traditional contracted
revenue office products business to:
● develop higher added-value managed procurement
activities; 
● expand our product range to encompass a breadth of
consumable products for business; 
● extend into market areas which sit naturally alongside the
traditional business, where there are opportunities to
grow and utilise our core skills in procurement and
logistics; and 
● benefit from a wider customer base. 
As a result of this broad diversification strategy our
operations now comprise:
Managed Procurement
● Banner Business Services, our traditional contracted
office products business which now supplies a broader
range of consumable products; and
● Truline, a business started-up in the year to provide supply
chain services (mainly product procurement and logistics)
to third parties such as Advantia as well as to Group
operations.
Business Critical Services
● Banner Managed Communication (BMC) which is an
outsourced business process provider, specialising in print
management and related services, with good growth
prospects through a diverse and predominantly private
sector customer base; and
● BDS, a waste paper service provider, which is expanding
the ‘Closed Loop’ initiative, our patented environmentally-
friendly paper recycling process. This appeals to the
sustainability goals of both public and private sectors and
was a key factor in the award of GOSC.
BMC and BDS operate within our Business Critical Services
business segment and each is important to our strategy for
complementary market area extension given their
particular product focus. Similarly, Truline which operates
within the Managed Procurement business segment,
provides a platform both to develop our managed
procurement activities and widen the customer base into
the SME sector.
The shift in our trading emphasis over the last four years to
business product and managed services provider has been
accompanied by a shift in the office2office customer base
which originally comprised mainly Government departments.
At the end of 2011, two thirds of Group revenue was
accounted for by private sector corporate customers, a
balance largely maintained following the award of GOSC and
the Advantia contract.
Finally, we have improved the long-term business efficiency
by further reducing our underlying cost base year on year in
response to continued changes in economic conditions. This o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 4
has helped to protect the business from product margin
pressure, particularly in our traditional product ranges.
The 2011 trading performance of the business segments and
our shorter term strategy for the coming year are discussed
in more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review.  
Dividend
The Board believes that the payment of dividends should be
closely linked to affordability and the Group’s trading
prospects. 
We remain sufficiently confident in the long term prospects
of the Group, underpinned by the award of the two major
contracts during the year, to recommend maintaining the level
of the final dividend at 7.8p per share (2010: 7.8p). When
combined with the interim dividend paid on 21 October 2011,
this makes a total dividend per share of 11.4p (2010: 11.4p)
and amounts to a total distribution of £4.1m (2010: £4.1m).
The total dividend paid and payable for the year is covered by
earnings 1.1 times (2010: 1.1 times) and by underlying
earnings 2.0 times (2010: 2.7 times).
If approved at the annual general meeting (AGM), the final
dividend will be paid on 18 May 2012 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 20 April 2012.
Employees
Our employees have remained focused on delivering a quality
service despite the background of falling sales volumes and
tougher market conditions generally and huge efforts were
expended to secure and implement both GOSC and the
Advantia contract during the year.
I would like to thank all our staff for their continued hard work
and commitment to the Group.
Outlook
The shortfall in public sector sales volumes compounded by
the unfavourable product mix was disappointing albeit,
perhaps, inevitable as the Government sought to reduce
spending. Further, the unexpected delays to the
implementation of GOSC limited its compensatory impact in
the year. However, public sector sales volumes now appear to
have stabilised and the additional sales volumes promised by
GOSC and the Advantia contract position the Group for
growth in 2012. 
Whilst we expect the economic environment to remain
challenging, we believe this will be mitigated by extracting
value from our mainly contracted customer base, maintaining
margins and tightly controlling costs while, at the same time,
focusing on cash generation.
We start the current year with overall trading in line with
expectations; GOSC and the Advantia contract fully
operational; significant interest in our Closed Loop initiative;
and our Business Critical Services activity having already
secured those of its major contracts due for renewal in 2012.
T ogether, these underpin the Board’s confidence in the
Group’s prospects.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the Company’s head office, St
Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich on 26 April 2012 at 11.00
a.m. Notice of the AGM together with the proxy forms for use
at the AGM, will be circulated with the annual report and
financial statements. 
D J Callear 
Chairman
29 February 2012
Chairman’s Statement  
(continued) Chief Executive’s Review  
Simon Moate
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 5
For much of 2011, Group revenue suffered from below-
expectation public sector sales volumes, down 13%
compared with last year coupled with margin erosion in
Managed Procurement principally due to a change in the
product mix to more basic products. The impact of Whitehall’s
austerity measures has affected our entire industry but, by
winning GOSC, we believe we have mitigated the impact of
any future volume shortfall and margin dilution. 
Managed Procurement – revenue £131.0m
(2010: £145.7m); adjusted EBITA £13.5m
(2010: £16.4m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
Our Managed Procurement activity competes in the office
product market which has progressively suffered from
product commoditisation. Our response to this has been both
to broaden our product range beyond office products and to
introduce an open book pricing model which allows our
customers to benefit from our purchasing scale, low cost
supply chain and systems while, at the same time, reducing
our exposure to product cost fluctuations. This has enabled
the business to focus on longer term strategic relationships
with customers, supported by a competitive pricing model
which delivers sustainable margins for o2o. 
Overall, private sector trading performance, typically with
large organisations and subject to long term contracts, was in
line with our expectations. 
Public sector sales volumes fell during the year but stabilised
in Q4 and, together with a less favourable product mix as
expenditure on non-core items reduced, have negatively
impacted trading results in 2011. GOSC deliveries started
During 2011, the Group has both won and retained record levels of long term contract business.
The most significant business wins were GOSC and the Advantia contract, which, together,
demonstrate our ability to secure significant opportunities in line with our strategy in both the
public and private sectors. We are confident that our success has come from delivering a low
cost supply chain on sustainable terms; ensuring selling price transparency for the customer;
and margin protection for o2o using our open book pricing model.
late in the year, initially at lower rates than had been planned
and therefore did not have a significant impact on the 2011
results.
The GOSC contract is now being implemented across all
relevant Government departments. As well as providing an
additional £25m annual revenue over its three and,
potentially, four year term, the scope of GOSC allows us to
cross sell with other “arms length” Government bodies and
agencies. 
Our strategic move to enter and grow sales to the SME sector
became a reality in May 2011 with the signing of the four
year exclusive contract to use our start-up Truline business to
provide supply chain services to the Advantia dealership
network. Subsequently, we have integrated with the Advantia
IT systems, completed employee transfers where required,
liaised with each of the dealerships and modified our product
range and catalogue to meet the demands of the dealers and
their customers.  We began trading in January with over 40
members of the dealer group already signed up to use our
services.
Business Critical Services – revenue £62.5m
(2010: £62.0m); adjusted EBITA £6.6m (2010:
£5.4m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
BMC is our key activity in this business segment which has
been built by acquisition. It operates in the large and growing
BPO market providing document outsourcing services such as
logistics, print management, data solutions, digital marketing,
creative design, and campaign management usually under
long term contract to a wide variety of blue chip customers o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 6
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
ranging from pet care providers to political parties.  We
typically achieve an average saving of 20% for BMC clients
by bringing specialist skills and a more streamlined supply
chain to a business activity that is absolutely crucial for them. 
BMC has maintained a solid performance throughout 2011
and achieved growth over the prior year at a time when we
would have anticipated some stress in volumes. Gross margins
have increased through effective product cost control instilled
post-acquisition. This has been achieved by rationalising the
number of suppliers and negotiating improved terms. T wo
significant accounts, T alk T alk and Ladbrokes, were recently
renewed, both on sustainable margins. In addition, BMC
secured a number of new business wins during 2011 including
Hastings Direct Insurance for a five year period. V alued at
£1.5m per annum, this contract will utilise available capacity
through our existing digital print operation.
BMC is an increasingly important and growing activity. It
continues to perform in line with our expectations and is now
a key part of the Group. 
BDS, with its Closed Loop initiative, is our other activity in
this segment. Closed Loop securely destroys confidential
documents and recycles them through the Closed Loop
patented process into a unique copier paper product.  As well
as providing copier paper, this initiative also helps our
customers, including the Government and a variety of banks,
to meet their recycling targets.  
We believe that Closed Loop was a key part in securing GOSC
as, based on Ministerial comment, it represents for many in
Government a clear example of business delivering a
sustainable and commercially viable environmental solution.
There is no doubt that awareness of Closed Loop has
increased substantially following our success in securing
GOSC. 
2012 operating objectives 
Our aim for 2012 is to: 
● establish the Truline business through the recently won
Advantia contract and deliver on this important
opportunity for growth;
● implement deliveries to all Government departments and
arms-length bodies covered by GOSC and to win supply to
those departments which are not specifically named; and 
● continue to organically expand the BMC product and
service ranges.
T o date, this is going to plan. We are also working on the
additional opportunities for revenue that both GOSC and the
Advantia contract have to offer, including the potential for the
Closed Loop initiative. 
Our focus is to provide our customers with sustainable cost
saving solutions which provide long term profitability for o2o.
Our Managed Procurement and Business Critical Services
activities are geared to deliver these. The success we have
had with recent contract awards is testament that our
remodelled proposition is not only delivering value to our
customers but will deliver growth for o2o in the coming year.
S R Moate
Chief Executive
29 February 2012
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued) o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 7
    
Business and Financial Review
Revenue and profit
Total revenue was £193.5m (2010:
£207.6m). Underlying profit before tax
was £8.4m (2010: £11.2m) before non-
recurring costs of £2.4m (2010:
£5.3m), amortisation of intangibles
relating to acquisitions of £1.3m
(2010: £1.3m), negative goodwill of
£nil (2010: £0.2m) and share option
charges of £0.4m (2010: £0.1m).
Operating profit before such costs was
£10.0m (2010: £12.2m) and operating
profit after such costs was £5.8m
(2010: £5.6m).  Profit before tax, after
such costs, was £4.3m (2010: £4.6m)
and profit after tax was £4.3m (2010:
£4.3m). The underlying profit margin
was 4.3% (2010: 5.4%).
Non-recurring costs are those
significant items that are separately
disclosed by virtue of their size or
incidence to enable a full understanding
of the Group’s operating performance.
Transactions, which may give rise to
non-recurring costs, are principally
restructuring and business integration
related charges. In this year we also
incurred £0.7m (2010: £nil) of non-
recurring costs which included
expenditure on IT systems
development, consultancy and
branding, relating to the start up of the
Truline business. A full analysis of the
non-recurring costs is set out in note 5
to the financial statements.
Tax
A full analysis of the tax charge for the
year is set out in note 9 to the financial
statements.
The Group’s effective tax rate in 2011
was negative 1% (2010: 7.3%). The
negative rate in 2011 is attributable to
the utilisation of previously
unrecognised brought forward trading
losses of £522,000, the recognition of a
deferred tax asset in respect of trading
losses available for offset in future
periods of £241,000 where there is
now certainty that these losses can be
offset against future taxable income,
and the impact of adjustments in
respect of prior year estimates of
£245,000.  The lower effective tax rate
in the prior year also reflected the
utilisation of previously unrecognised
brought forward trading losses of
£519,000 and the impact of
adjustments in respect of prior year
estimates £459,000. The Group has a
further £491,000 (2010: £550,000) of
non-trading losses where no tax asset is
recognised as there is currently no
expectation that these non-trade losses
can be offset against future profit
streams.
The amount of corporation tax paid
during the year is £0.8m (2010: £1.4m).
The effective tax rate in the near future
is anticipated to be similar to the
standard rate of corporation tax.
Shareholders’ return
Basic earnings per share were 12.0p
(2010: 12.0p) with underlying earnings
per share of 20.7p (2010: 25.1p).  The
total dividend paid and payable for the
year of 11.4p per share (2010: 11.4p),
including the 3.6p interim dividend
(2010: 3.6p) paid on 21 October 2011,
is covered 1.1 times by earnings (2010:
1.1 times). Shareholders’ equity at the
end of the year was £22.8m (2010:
£22.3m).
The middle market quotation of the
Company’s Ordinary shares at the end
of the financial year was 139.5p with a
market capitalisation of £50.7m
(including shares held by the employee
benefit trust).
Cash flow
As set out on page 37, the Group
generated net cash from operating
activities of £8.8m (2010: £2.7m). At
31 December 2011, net debt
amounted to £27.7m, a decrease of
£3.7m compared to £31.4m at the
start of the year.
The net debt of £27.7m is supported by
borrowing facilities of £48.0m
committed until June 2015. The
facilities comprise a term loan
(£20.0m), repayable over 5 years with
the next installment of £2.5m due in
June 2012; a revolving credit facility of
£3.0m; and an invoice discounting
arrangement (up to £25.0m) for which
we are charged interest at 3.25% over
LIBOR and 1.85% over bank base rate
respectively. Financial covenants are
applied to the committed facilities and
the Group has continued to comply with
these with significant headroom.
Key contractual arrangements
The Group has always had a number of
large customers.  With our major
customers, our approach is to seek long
term, strategic relationships, based on
managed services and shared interests.
The term for a typical supply
arrangement is between three and five
years and we enjoy a record of
consistent contract retention.
A key aim for the Group has been to
enlarge and diversify the customer
base.  This has been achieved both
organically and by taking advantage of
suitable acquisition opportunities. As a
consequence the Group’s reliance on
any one individual customer has been
reduced. 
The Group has a wide range of suppliers
and it is possible that the challenging
economic conditions could impact
some. However, the Group has limited
exposure to the failure of any single
supplier as the nature of the majority of
products purchased is such that other
supply options are normally readily
available. The Group maintains
flexibility with its suppliers by typically
not making contractual volume
commitments.
It is the Group’s policy to negotiate with
each of its principal suppliers, terms of
trade appropriate to the business and
to operate within those terms once
agreed.  Given the wide range of
suppliers, the terms of trade operated
by the Group are diverse, with no
standard characteristics prevailing.
The Group works in partnership with
suppliers to ensure, as far as
reasonably practicable, that its
sourcing of products meets recognised
standards of corporate social
responsibility (CSR).  The CSR o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 8
statement on pages 10 to 12 gives a
description of the approach o2o takes
in this regard.
Principal risks and
uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group are set out below:
● Loss of a large customer
The Group has a number of large
customers and is, therefore, potentially
vulnerable to the loss of any one of
these. Contingency plans are
formulated and quantified before any
large re-tenders are submitted so that
the business is able to respond rapidly,
with minimal disruption, to a large
contract loss. This, coupled with a
strategy of diversifying the customer
base and widening the business
portfolio at the same time as
maintaining a high level of service,
helps mitigate the exposure;
● Reduction in gross margins
Gross margins are adversely impacted
by product cost increases, due to raw
material costs, foreign currency
exchange movements and customers
reducing their demand. The Group has
sought to mitigate this impact by
passing cost increases on to customers,
but some resistance and lag is
inevitable. Our experience has shown
that widening the Group’s portfolio of
business products and services and
driving efficiency improvements helps
mitigate the risk and a focus on
customer profitability allows for the
situation to be monitored. Our open
book pricing model which offers
customers transparency in their
procurement and the benefits of o2o’s
purchasing scale, also reduces o2o’s
exposure to commodity price
fluctuations;
● Interruption of operations or IT
services
The business is built around a proven
service with reliance on our warehouses
and IT infrastructure. A severe
disruption in either of these areas
would potentially have a high impact on
the Group. In order to mitigate these
risks we maintain appropriate
insurance cover and disaster recovery
plans;
● Competitors
The Group operates in a highly
competitive market. The risk exists,
therefore, that contracts are awarded
on the basis of lowest price. Our
strategy is to deliver a wide range of
first rate, added-value services at
competitive prices. Recent contract
wins and retentions underpin our
confidence that this approach is valued
by our customers across the Group; 
● Economic downturn
The Group is impacted by economic
slowdown with the weakening of
sterling leading to cost price pressure
and the potential that lower levels of
employment lead to reduced demand
for some of the goods and services
provided by the Group. This was
particularly evident with the shortfall in
public sector sales volumes as a
consequence of Government austerity
measures. In addition, the economic
downturn could impact suppliers.
However, the Group has limited
exposure to the failure of any single
supplier as the nature of the majority of
products purchased is such that
alternative sourcing or product options
are normally available. The Group also
has limited exposure to the failure of
customers.
The Group’s committed borrowing
facilities afford some protection
against increased funding requirements
should they arise. In addition, the wide
spread nature of our customers and the
public sector element of our account
base helps to mitigate risks in the wider
economy; and
● Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a
variety of financial risks, which include
market risk (comprising currency risk,
commodity price risk, cash flow and fair
value interest rate risk), credit risk and
liquidity risk, the details of which are
described in note 1 to the financial
statements. 
M A Cunningham
Finance Director
29 February 2012 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 9
2011 2010
Gross margin % 28.8% 28.3%
Gross margin percentage is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. It is the measure of sales
profitability after related direct purchase costs and is a measure comparable with other companies.
Despite downward pressure in Managed Procurement, the gross margin % increased by 0.5% as effective
purchase cost control was instilled in BMC post acquisition of TPF .
Distribution cost % 9.5% 9.3%
The distribution cost percentage is the cost associated with distribution expressed as a percentage of
revenue.  
Distribution costs reduced by £0.9m notwithstanding the increase in fuel prices and the cost of preparing
warehouses for the implementation of GOSC and the Advantia contract. However, the distribution cost %
increased by 0.2% as a consequence of the drop in revenue.
Administration cost % 14.1% 13.2%
The administration cost percentage is the cost associated with administration (before £2.4m of non-recurring
costs (2010: £5.3m), amortisation £1.3m (2010: £1.3m), negative goodwill £nil (2010: £0.2m), and share
option charges £0.4m (2010: £0.1m)) expressed as a percentage of revenue.  
Administration costs before non-recurring costs, amortisation, negative goodwill and share options charges
were held at £27.3m (2010: £27.3m). However, the administration cost % increased by 0.9% as a
consequence of the drop in revenue. Whilst there was a further reduction in the underlying headcount during
the year, the implementation requirements of GOSC and Advantia limited this. 
Underlying profit % 4.3% 5.4%
The underlying profit percentage is the underlying profit (before non-recurring costs, amortisation, negative
goodwill and share option charges) expressed as a percentage of revenue.
The underlying profit % decreased as the reduction in revenue was not matched by proportionate reductions
in distribution and administration costs, as defined and explained above. In addition, there was £0.6m
increase in finance costs following the renegotiation of loan facilities during the year. An improved gross
margin partly offset this.
Underlying earnings per share 20.7p 25.1p
Underlying earnings per share is the profit on ordinary activities after tax (before the after tax effect of non-
recurring costs, amortisation, negative goodwill and share option charges) divided by the weighted average
number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share decreased as a result of the reduction in underlying profit as explained
above. 
Net debt £27.7m £31.4m
Net debt is calculated by subtracting cash and cash equivalents from the long and short term borrowings.
Net debt improved by £3.7m largely as a result of a return to normalised working capital requirements
following the unusual demand in 2010 due to the acquisition and integration of TPF , offset by a £2.5m
repayment of the term loan. 
Health and safety 95.3% 94.9%
All sites now operate under an OHSAS 18001 certified health and safety management system, audited by
BSI. No major non-conformities were recorded in the 2011 audits.
Annual workplace inspections are undertaken by an independent assessor with follow up visits to ensure that
all corrective actions have been completed. The external assessment of our performance was rated at 95.3%
(2010: 94.9%) which compares favourably to their assessment of the average for our industry sector (87.8%). 
Further information on Group health and safety is provided in the CSR Statement on pages 10 to 12.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Overall measurement of the financial performance of the operating segments, Managed Procurement and Business
Critical Services, is based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxation and amortisation (EBITA). Details can be
found in note 3 to the financial statements.
Individual KPIs which o2o uses to measure business performance are gross profit, distribution costs, administration
costs and underlying profit, all expressed as a proportion of revenue, underlying earnings per share, net debt and, in
respect of non-financial KPIs, health and safety. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 10
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
o2o is committed to upholding its ‘good
for you, good for us, good for everyone’
trading ethos. CSR is important to o2o
because it is important to o2o’s
customers, staff and shareholders. It
also makes good business sense, leading
to greater efficiency , lower costs and
improved competitiveness. 
Workplace
Over 900 people are employed across
the Group and their experience, skills
and commitment are critical to o2o’s
success. As well as providing them with
a safe and healthy working
environment, o2o promotes a positive
internal culture that both challenges its
employees and allows them to
challenge what they do, openly and
constructively.
Employees
o2o recognises the individual needs of
its employees. For example, it supports
working parents by operating childcare
schemes and offering flexible working
arrangements subject to the operational
needs of the business.
The Company ensures that its
employees are kept aware of changes in
employee related legislation.  In
response to the Equality Act 2010, o2o
arranged for comprehensive Group-wide
diversity awareness training
programmes for management to ensure
understanding of, and compliance with,
diversity legislation and its own related
corporate policies. A short presentation
outlining the salient points for staff was
then rolled out via line management.
Feedback from these sessions was very
positive. A similar communication
programme to promote awareness of
the Bribery Act 2010 and compliance
with o2o’s anti-corruption policy is
planned to be rolled out across the
Group in 2012.
The Group intranet has become an
important communication link with the
Group’s employees and it continues to
grow in scope as employees become
more familiar with it. o2o news is
published on the site’s home page and a
wide range of departmental and
corporate policies are available for
download. 
The Company aims to provide an
agreeable working environment taking
into account the views and opinions of
its employees. The refurbishment of the
canteen facilities in the Manchester
Distribution Centre was based on an
employee initiative, including artwork
and ‘naming’ the facility . Similarly ,
following the acquisition of TPF in 2010,
improvements were made to the
Guildford premises to make them a
brighter and more enjoyable place to
work.
Online staff surveys are regularly
conducted which in 2010 achieved their
highest ever response rate of 89%. A
survey was not undertaken during 2011
but has been scheduled for 2012.
Health & Safety
o2o is committed to ensuring the health
and safety of its employees. Fire, manual
handling, display screen equipment and
workplace task-specific risk
assessments are conducted at each site
and all delivery drivers undertake an
internet-based road safety course.
All sites now operate under an OHSAS
18001 certified health and safety
management system, audited by BSI. No
major non-conformities were recorded in
the 2011 audits.
Annual workplace inspections are
undertaken by an independent assessor
with follow up visits to ensure that all
corrective actions have been completed.
The external assessment of our
performance was rated at 95.3% (2010:
94.9%) which compares favourably to
their assessment of the average for our
industry sector (87.8%). 
During the year, our 5 main sites enrolled
with the British Safety Council (BSC),
improving access to information and
training modules. In addition, the
Manchester site won an International
Health and Safety Award (with Merit)
from BSC based on its work practices
and health and safety culture. 
All our employees receive health and
safety awareness training and o2o
health and safety procedures are
available on the Group intranet. A health
and safety group, comprising employees
from different levels and functions, is in
place at every o2o location, with
responsibility for conducting on-going
reviews of current practices and taking
any corrective action necessary . Our
senior operations managers are trained
to British Safety Council (BSC) Level 2
and all members of the Head Office
health and safety group have attained
BSC Level 1 certificate. 
Community
o2o recognises that it has a
responsibility towards the wider
community and is particularly proud of
the efforts of its employees to raise
funds for charity.
Work experience placements are offered
to students and, wherever practicable,
preference is given to local businesses
when outsourcing services such as
catering, cleaning and recruitment.
The o2o charity committee was
established towards the end of 2009 to
help o2o employees contribute to
community and charitable events by
encouraging and co-ordinating
fundraising across the Group. It has
delivered an array of activities, including
office ‘dress down’ days, cake sales,
raffles and various sponsored events
such as the London Marathon and the
Great Manchester Run. Among the many
charities to benefit have been Cash for
Kids, Sense, Enham, various cancer
research and awareness funds and also
local hospitals. 
Product marketplace
o2o takes seriously CSR initiatives for
its products. The Group ensures good
practice throughout its supply chain
and helps its customers to do likewise.
Ethical sourcing
o2o sources products on a global basis
and encourages all of its suppliers to o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 11
operate environmental management
systems. o2o will not knowingly trade
with organisations that behave in a
manner that is unethical or irresponsible.
In particular, o2o takes proactive steps
to audit the ethical performance of
suppliers who manufacture the Group’s
own brand products. Firstly , o2o is a
member of Sedex, the supplier ethical
data exchange. In addition, o2o’s buyers
visit suppliers’ factories overseas and
use SGS, an independent assessor, to
ensure compliance with the Ethical
T rading Initiative’s base code which is
founded on the conventions of the
International Labour Organisation and is
an internationally recognised code of
labour practice. 
Green OPTIMISA™
The Green OPTIMISA™ system enables
customers to calculate the
environmental impacts of their contract
with o2o, including the use of paper, CO
2
emissions and transport (fuel
consumption). This is important to many
o2o customers and the system
therefore adds value commercially , as
well as from a CSR perspective.
Environmentally preferred products
o2o operates the Globe & Tick™
accreditation scheme, which makes it
easy for customers to select
environmentally preferred products. The
range of ‘green alternatives’ now
consists of over 1,400 products for
every area of the workplace, from office
supplies to catering, technology to
promotional items. In 2011, Globe &
Tick™ products constituted 19.5% of the
lines contained within the o2o catalogue
(2010 catalogue: 17%), though this has
fallen slightly to 18.9% for the 2012
catalogue.
All Globe & Tick™ products are
independently audited against the
scheme’s criteria before they are
showcased in the o2o Green Guide,
which is published annually . The Green
Guide also incorporates information on
other sustainable products and services
and how customers can minimise the
impact of their day to day working
practices on the environment.
Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance
Fairtrade is designed to give
disadvantaged farmers a guaranteed
price for products that meet
internationally agreed standards.
Rainforest Alliance focuses on
standards covering worker protection,
their environment and their
communities. A range of Fairtrade and
‘Rainforest Alliance certified’ catering
supplies are included in o2o’s catalogue.
Recycling services
o2o offers a portfolio of recycling
services, notably waste paper through
its Closed Loop service. 
Having supplied its customers with
copier paper, the Closed Loop service
collects the waste paper; securely
shreds it; and a leading paper mill then
converts it back into copier paper to be
used again by the customer, thereby
‘closing the loop’ .
Over 2 million reams have been
produced equating to a saving of 86,000
trees; a reduction in CO
2
emissions of
3,373 tonnes; a reduction in energy
consumption of 40.6 million kilowatts;
and a reduction in water consumption of
226 million litres.
Closed Loop received a Green Apple
Award in 2010 and was shortlisted for
the 2011 European Office Products
Awards in the Best Environmental
Product category . More information can
be found on the website
www.bannerclosedloop.co.uk.
In addition, o2o offers the safe disposal
of batteries, printer cartridges, office
furniture and technology products.
Environment
o2o operates an environmental
management system that has been
certified to the international standard
ISO 14001: 2004 and has made
significant progress in reducing the
environmental impact of its business
activities. 
Waste management
o2o is a national distributor of business
products and aims to keep packaging to
a minimum. Through a combination of
improved box utilisation, larger product
pack sizes and customer education
regarding the environmental benefits of
consolidating orders, o2o has in the last
two years, reduced the volume of
packaging (specifically cardboard and
plastic) to circa 370 tonnes, from
previously much higher levels (2009:
circa 430 tonnes). 
Where possible, o2o utilises e-
commerce to reduce the amount of
paper used in the transaction process.
Most of the Group’s larger customers
and suppliers are traded with
electronically . 
Recycling
New procedures have been implemented
to recycle waste materials at o2o’s
distribution hubs. A new ‘backloading’
process ensures that waste cardboard
and shrinkwrap is taken back to o2o’s
warehouses for recycling, using the same
trunker vehicle that delivers goods for
onward shipment to customers. Drinks
cans and plastic bottles are also
recycled.
Overall, the volume of cardboard and
paper recycled in 2011 was in excess of
380 tonnes (2010: 300 tonnes) and the
volume of plastic that was recycled
increased to over 50 tonnes (2010: 40
tonnes). 
Energy management
o2o has made a number of investments
to increase the efficiency of the heating
and lighting system and reduce energy
usage. In the National Distribution
Centre in Manchester, an air source heat o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 12
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement (continued)
pump converts air drawn from the
atmosphere into a source of heat for use
in radiators and, in the Basingstoke
warehouse, a new heating system
including down fans has been installed.
Low energy lighting has also been fitted
throughout these sites. 
In 2011, a total of 1,038 tonnes of CO
2
were emitted by o2o’s largest sites
(Manchester, Basingstoke, Swindon and
Norwich) in relation to gas and electricity
usage, representing a significant
improvement on prior year consumption
across the same sites (2010: 1,245
tonnes).
As o2o embraces new smart-enabled
technology provided by energy suppliers
to give real-time consumption
information, it is hoped that further
reductions in energy usage will be
achieved. 
Carbon management
As a national distributor, o2o operates
its own in-house fleet of delivery
vehicles. In addition, since April 2010,
the fleet has performed a large number
of palletised deliveries for The Pallet
Network (TPN). CO
2
emissions
generated by the fleet were 4,657
tonnes in 2011 (2010: 4,386 tonnes)
and reflects the increase in work for TPN
and, towards the end of last year, the
commencement of deliveries for the
GOSC and Advantia contracts. However,
o2o employs a number of initiatives to
maximise efficiency and minimise the
environmental impact of the fleet. 
A four year renewal scheme means that
the most up-to-date, clean running and
fuel efficient vehicles are available. The
HGV vehicles are Euro 5 compliant,
having sloping roof trailers and
aerodynamic bodies to minimise fuel
usage and utilising selective catalytic
reduction to minimise pollution. Almost
all of the vehicles are diesel and some are
fitted with stop start technology which
switches the engine off when the vehicle
has a prolonged stop. Journeys are
optimised by means of a sophisticated
fleet management system and double
deck trailers are used to transport larger
quantities of goods in a single journey .
Back-loading arrangements exist
whereby delivery vehicles collect stock
on their return to the warehouse in an
otherwise empty vehicle. 
The company car scheme encourages
staff to select cars from a defined range
of low emission vehicles and video and
telephone conferencing is used to
minimise the need for business travel. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 13
David Callear Chairman
David, aged 58, is a Chartered Accountant and joined o2o as Chairman in January 2001. His
career has been in financial and general management with both publicly quoted companies
including chief executive positions with TIP Europe plc (Europe-wide vehicle rental) and Jeyes
Group plc (international household products manufacture and supply) and private equity
ventures. He currently holds a number of non-executive chairman roles working with the boards
of private companies including RP Martin Holdings Ltd.
Mark Cunningham Finance Director
Mark, aged 45, is a Chartered Accountant and joined Her Majesty’s Stationery Office in 1994.
He was appointed finance director of Banner Business Services Ltd in 1999, having previously
worked as finance controller.  Mark became Finance Director of o2o in December 2000.
Steve McKeever Chief Operating Officer
Steve, aged 47, was appointed to the Board in August 2010. He joined o2o in December 2007
with responsibility for the Group’s IT function and later assumed additional responsibility for
o2o’s integrated supply chain. Until recently, he acted as temporary Managing Director of BMC.
Before joining o2o, he was a director of Johnson Group Management Services Ltd, holding both
IT and operations director roles.
Jim Cohen Senior non-executive Director
Jim, aged 70, joined o2o in June 2004.  He was a main board executive director of Balfour Beatty
plc until his retirement in February 2007. Prior to joining Balfour Beatty in 1993, he held senior
management positions with GTE and GEC and was a senior civil servant at the Department of
Energy.  Since 2009, he has been a member of the investment committee of the Netherlands
based infrastructure fund, DIF II and is currently an adviser to Logikal Projects Limited, a
privately owned project management company.     
Chris Batterham Non-executive Director 
Chris, aged 56, joined o2o in June 2008 and is a Chartered Accountant with significant
experience in the business services sector. He was finance director of Unipalm plc, the first
internet company to float on the London Stock Exchange, and, latterly, chief financial officer of
Searchspace Group until 2005. He currently holds a number of non-executive directorships
including SDL plc, DRS Data and Research Services plc, Iomart plc and chairman of Eckoh plc. 
Simon Moate Chief Executive
Simon, aged 49, joined o2o as Chief Executive in July 2007. He was previously an executive
director of Johnson Service Group plc, the managed services business, where, as chief
executive of the facilities management and specialist supplies division, he led and integrated a
number of acquisitions.  Prior to this, he held a number of senior sales, marketing and operations
roles with blue chip companies, including Well Well Well Ltd, Aramark plc, Provend Group plc and
Coca Cola.
Board of Directors o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 14
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report and
the audited consolidated financial
statements for the Group for the year
ended 31 December 2011.
Principal activities and results
The principal activity of the parent
Company (the Company) is that of a
holding company. office2office plc is
registered at Companies House under
company number 04083206.
The Group’s principal activities are
delivering managed procurement and
business critical services. Net profit
after tax for the financial year was
£4.3m (2010: £4.3m).
Business and Financial Review
The Business and Financial Review has
been prepared in accordance with the
requirements for a business review
under the Companies Act 2006. The
intent is to provide information to
shareholders and should not be relied on
by any other party or for any other
purposes.
The Group’s strategy, objectives and
likely future developments in the
business are reviewed in the Chairman’s
Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to
6. The KPIs are defined and the principal
risks and uncertainties (including
financial risks) facing the business are
described in the Business and Financial
Review on pages 7 to 9. The Board has
delegated the responsibility for
monitoring financial risk management to
the Audit Committee.
Where the annual report contains
forward looking statements, these are
made by the Directors in good faith
based on the information available to
them at the time of their approval of
this report. Consequently, such
statements should be treated with
caution due to the inherent
uncertainties, including both economic
and business risk factors, underlying
such forward looking statements or
information.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.6p (2010: 3.6p)
per Ordinary share, amounting to £1.3m
(2010: £1.3m), was paid on 21 October
2011 to shareholders on the register at
close of business on 23 September
2011.
The Directors recommend a final
dividend in respect of the year ended 31
December 2011 of 7.8p (2010: 7.8p)
per Ordinary share, amounting to £2.8m
(2010: £2.8m).  If authorised at the
AGM, the dividend will be paid on 18
May 2012 to shareholders on the share
register at close of business on 20 April
2012. 
The aggregate dividends recognised as
distributions in the year ended 31
December 2011 amounted to £4.1m
(2010: £4.1m).
Share capital and substantial
shareholders
The issued and fully paid share capital
of the Company, is shown in note 25 to
the financial statements.
There are no contracts of significance in
place between the Group and its
shareholders (2010: none).  
The Company has been notified in
accordance with Disclosure and
Transparency Rule 5.1.2 of the Financial
Services Authority that, as at 6
February 2012, the following
shareholders in the table below owned
3% or more of the issued Ordinary
share capital of the Company:
At the last AGM, the Directors were
given authority to allot Ordinary shares
(within the meaning of s.551 Companies
Act 2006) up to a nominal amount of
£121,030 and, separately, a further
nominal amount of £121,030 provided
they are offered by way of a rights issue
to existing shareholders in proportion to
their existing holdings, in line with the
Association of British Insurers
guidelines. In total these authorities
represent two thirds of the issued
Ordinary share capital. Additionally, the
Directors were given the power to
disapply pre-emption rights in respect
of the allotment of shares (under s.570
Companies Act 2006) up to an
aggregate nominal value of £18,154
(representing 5% of the issued Ordinary
share capital) and, on behalf of the
Company, to make market purchases of
up to 3,630,898 Ordinary shares of the
Company (being 10% of the issued
Ordinary share capital).
These authorities are due to expire at
the end of the forthcoming AGM.
Separate resolutions to renew these
authorities will be set out in the notice
of meeting and proposed at the AGM on
26 April 2012.
Special business to be
considered at the forthcoming
AGM
There will be two items of special
business to consider at the forthcoming
AGM: an ordinary resolution to revoke
the provision in the Company’s Articles
of Association (the Articles) setting the
maximum amount of shares that may be
allotted; and a special resolution to
approve a 14 day notice period for
general meetings.
Aberforth Partners 8,842,000 shares 24.35%
AXA Framlington 4,406,715 shares 12.14%
F & C Asset Management 2,460,905 shares 6.78%
Aviva Investors 2,249,251 shares 6.19%
Henderson Global Investors 1,892,768 shares 5.21%
Baillie Gifford & Co 1,722,359 shares 4.74%
Mark Cunningham 1,089,549 shares 3.00% o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 15
Ordinary resolution
As mentioned above, the Directors will
be seeking to renew their authority to
allot Ordinary shares up to a total
nominal amount of £242,060 (being
two-thirds of the issued Ordinary share
capital). The Company currently has
issued share capital of £363,090 and is
restricted by its Articles to a maximum
nominal amount of £500,000.
Shareholder approval, via ordinary
resolution, will therefore be sought to
revoke this restriction in the Articles.
Special resolution
Changes made to the Companies Act
2006 by the Shareholder Rights’
Regulations increase the notice period
required for general meetings of the
Company to 21 days unless
shareholders approve a shorter notice
period, which cannot, however, be less
than 14 clear days.  AGMs will continue
to be held on at least 21 clear days’
notice.
Before the coming into force of the
Shareholder Rights’ Regulations on 3
August 2009, the Company was able to
call general meetings (other than an
AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice without
obtaining such shareholder approval.
Therefore, a special resolution will be
proposed in order to preserve this
ability.  The shorter notice period would
not be used as a matter of routine for
such meetings, but only where the
flexibility is merited by the business of
the meeting and is thought to be to the
advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the
Company’s next AGM, when it is
intended that a similar resolution will be
proposed.  
Directors
The following were Directors during
2011 and held office throughout the
year under review up to the date of
signing the annual report and financial
statements:
David Callear
Chairman
1
Simon Moate
Chief Executive 
Mark Cunningham
Finance Director
Steve McKeever
Chief Operating Officer
Jim Cohen
Non-executive Director
2
Chris Batterham
Non-executive Director
3
1
Chairman of the Board and of the
Nomination Committee. Member of the
Remuneration Committee and Audit
Committee.
2
Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee, the Risk and Opportunity
Committee and senior independent
Director. Member of the Audit
Committee and Nomination Committee.
3
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration
Committee and Nomination Committee.
Biographical details of the Directors are
shown on page 13.
David Callear and Chris Batterham, both
Chartered Accountants, will retire at the
forthcoming AGM in accordance with
the Articles and, being eligible, will offer
themselves for re-election. The
Chairman confirms that Chris
Batterham continues to make an
effective contribution to the Board and
demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board reviewed its performance in
2011, as it does annually, and believes
that it has a balanced and effective
membership. This review included
separate assessments of the Chairman
and the non-executive Directors and
indicated that the knowledge and
experience that both David Callear and
Chris Batterham bring to the Board
from their other business experience is
an important factor of a balanced and
effective membership.  Accordingly, the
Board recommends their re-election.
Corporate Governance
Details of the Corporate Governance
arrangements are provided on pages 18
to 21.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests are detailed in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 24 to 29.
Directors’ third party indemnity
provisions
A qualifying third party indemnity
provision as defined in s.234 of the
Companies Act 2006 was in force for
the benefit of each of the Directors in
respect of liabilities incurred as a result
of their office, to the extent permitted
by law during the financial year and also
at the date of approval of the financial
statements. In respect of those
liabilities for which Directors may not be
indemnified, the Company maintained a
directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance policy throughout the
financial year.
Statement of Directors’
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for
preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law, the
Directors have prepared the Group and
parent Company financial statements in
accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted
by the European Union. Under Company
Law, the Directors must not approve the
financial statements unless they are
satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group
and the Company and of the profit or
loss of the Group for that period.  In
preparing these financial statements,
the Directors are required to: o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 16
● select suitable accounting policies
and then apply them consistently;
● make judgements and accounting
estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
● state whether applicable IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union have
been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements;
and
● prepare the financial statements on
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for
keeping adequate accounting records
that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and
disclose, with reasonable accuracy at
any time, the financial position of the
Company and the Group to enable them
to ensure that the financial statements
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
comply with the Companies Act 2006
and, as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and
functions are listed on page 15 confirm
that, to the best of their knowledge:
● the Group financial statements,
which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the EU, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of the Group; 
● the Directors’ Report contained in
the annual report includes a fair
review of the development and
performance of the business and the
position of the Group, together with
a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that it faces; and
● in accordance with s.418 Companies
Act 2006, in the case of each
Director in office at the date the
Directors’ Report is approved, that:
(a) so far as the Director is aware,
there is no relevant audit
information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware;
and
(b) he has taken all the steps that he
ought to have taken as a Director
in order to make himself aware of
any relevant audit information and
to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that
information.
Employee involvement
The Group has a policy of providing
employees with information through:
● an intranet facility which hosts
amongst other things internal
vacancies, o2o news items, Group
policies, HR forms and procedures;
● corporate and divisional newsletters
and announcements;
● local employee forums which bring
together a cross section of employees
to cover, separately , matters such as
health and safety , site improvements
and fund-raising activities;
● operation of an employee suggestion
scheme which facilitates a two-way
flow of information and ideas;
● supplier meetings which provide an
opportunity for relevant employees
to meet with the Group’s key
suppliers and get a better
understanding of the products they
are selling and for the suppliers to
showcase the new products included
in the Group’s catalogues; 
● Group sales meetings which bring
together the different sectors of the
business to share knowledge on
products and services to promote
cross-selling capabilities;
● staff satisfaction surveys involving
all employees across the whole
Group.
The Group operates a long term
incentive scheme for executive
Directors and senior managers.  Details
are included in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 24 to
29. 
The Group also has Save As Y ou Earn
(SA YE) schemes under which employees
are granted an option to purchase
Ordinary shares in the Company in
either three or five years time,
dependent upon their entering into a
contract to make monthly contributions
to a savings account over the relevant
period. These savings are used to fund
the option exercise. There are currently
three live schemes: a new three and five
year scheme which was launched in
November 2011 and a five year 2008
scheme which is exercisable in 2013.
Details of these schemes are given in
note 26 to the financial statements.
Details of the executive Directors’
participation are included in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 24 to 29.
A low cost dealing service is available to
employees which provides a simple way
of buying or selling o2o shares. In
addition, an on-line share portal,
available through the Company’s
registrar, allows individuals to view and
manage their shareholdings. Details of
these services are available on the
Company’s website.
Employee benefit trust (EBT)
As at 31 December 2011, the total
number of Ordinary shares held by the
EBT was 269,356 (0.74% of the issued
Ordinary share capital of the Company
(2010: 433,198 (1.19%))). The
reduction in shares held was due to the
exercise of options over shares by a
number of employees, under the Group’s
performance share plan and the SA YE
schemes. During the year, 45,883 shares
were purchased on the open market by
the T rust. Whilst held in trust, the shares
do not attract any payment of dividends.
Although the trustee may exercise his
right to vote in respect of any shares
held within the trust from time to time,
this right is typically waived.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to a policy that
provides all employees irrespective of
background or disability, with equality of
Directors’ Report (continued) o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 17
opportunity for employment, training,
career development and selection on
the basis of ability, qualifications and
suitability for the job.  Executive
Directors, managers and employees are
required to promote equality of
opportunity and to take full account of
the policy in their day-to-day work.  The
aim is to recruit the most appropriate
and qualified staff in the industry and
the Group is committed to the principle
of maximising every employees’
potential.  In selecting, training and
promoting staff, the Group has to take
account of the physically demanding
nature of much of its work.  Employees
who become disabled will be retained
and re-trained, where possible.
Diversity and anti-discrimination
o2o’s diversity and anti-discrimination
policy is available to all employees via
the Group intranet. In response to the
new Equality Act 2010, a training
program was rolled out across the Group
to promote awareness of diversity in the
workplace and to communicate the
potential consequences of
discrimination and how to avoid it. 
Bribery and anti-corruption
o2o does not tolerate any form of
bribery or corruption and this is codified
in the Group policy on anti-corruption
available on the Group intranet. Further
to adoption of the Bribery Act 2010, a
Group-wide training program is planned
to be run in 2012 to promote awareness
of it and also compliance with o2o’s
policy on this. 
Health and safety
o2o is committed to maintaining the
health, safety and welfare of its
employees. Details of the Group health
and safety activities are given on pages
10 to 12 of the CSR Statement.
Creditor payment policy
It is Group policy to negotiate, with each
of its principal suppliers, terms of trade
appropriate to the business and to
operate within those terms of trade
once agreed.  Trade payable days based
on the year end figures are 86 (2010:
76 days) for the Group. The increase in
creditor days arose because of the
increase in stock levels towards the end
of 2011 to service the new contract
wins. The Company has no trade
payables (2010: nil).
Environmental policy
The Group ensures that, in satisfying its
customers’ requirements, both the
goods and services supplied and its own
housekeeping comply with legislation
and best practice.  The Group
continually reviews its environmental
performance across the business.
Further details of Group environmental
policies are provided in the CSR
Statement on pages 10 to 12.
Corporate and social
responsibility
A summary report on the Group policies
and objectives in respect of CSR is set
out on pages 10 to 12.
Requirements of the Takeover
Directive
The following are disclosed in
accordance with the requirements of
the T akeover Directive:
● the Company’s issued share capital is
£363,090 divided into 36,308,984
Ordinary shares of 1 pence each. All
shares have uniform rights except
where referred to below;
● there are no restrictions on the
transfers of securities in the
Company including limitations on the
holdings of securities and
requirements to obtain the approval
of the Company or of other holders
prior to a transfer of securities; 
● there are no restrictions on voting
rights, however, for those shares held
in the EBT , as referred to on page 16,
the trustee typically waives his right
to vote; 
● the Directors are not aware of any
agreements between holders of the
Company’s securities that may result in
restrictions on the transfer of securities or
on voting rights;
● the Directors’ beneficial interests are
disclosed on page 28 of the Directors’
Remuneration Report. None of the
Directors’ interests carry special rights
with regards to control of the Company;
● details of the Group employees’ share save
scheme are given on page 16;
● procedures for appointment to the Board
are included on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk) under
Nomination Committee - T erms of
reference;
● shareholder approval by special resolution
is required before any changes are made to
the Articles;
● the Directors have authority to allot
Ordinary shares of the Company, disapply
pre-emption rights and make market
purchases of Ordinary shares of the
Company. Details of these authorities and
their limitations are provided on page 14;
● the terms of the Company’s committed
borrowing facilities contain a change of
control clause following a takeover bid that
requires mandatory repayment of all
outstanding monies and accrued interest.
The Company does not have any other
significant arrangements that contain
onerous change of control clauses; and 
● there are no provisions for compensation
for loss of office or employment in the
agreements with Directors and employees.
Independent auditors
The Audit Committee has considered and
recommends the re-appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as
auditors.  A resolution proposing their re-
appointment will be put to the forthcoming
AGM.
For and on behalf of the Board
D Rodwell
Company Secretary
29 February 2012 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 18
Statement of compliance with
the UK Corporate Governance
Code 2010   
The UK Corporate Governance Code
(the Code) was issued in May 2010,
replacing the 2008 Combined Code, and
sets out standards of good corporate
governance. The Code is publicly
available on the Financial Reporting
Council’s website www.frc.org.uk.
The Directors consider that the
Company has fully complied with the
principles set out in each section of the
Code throughout the period and the
application of these principles with
respect to the composition and
operation of the Board, the
remuneration of the Directors,
shareholder relationships and
procedures for financial reporting and
internal control are described below. 
Directors and the Board
The Board comprises the Chairman,
Chief Executive, Chief Operating
Officer, Finance Director and two non-
executive Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for leading
the Board and ensuring there is timely
and effective communication to and
between all Board members. He ensures
that Board decisions are made after
taking into consideration the interests
of all stakeholders. The Chief Executive,
supported by the senior management
team, is responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Group and, once
agreed by the Board as a whole, the
development and implementation of
strategy.  He sets the objectives to
ensure the successful delivery of
targets and allocates decision-making
and responsibilities accordingly. The
normal segregation of responsibilities
between the Chairman and the Chief
Executive has been set out in writing
and approved by the Board. The
Chairman’s other main commitments are
disclosed on page 13. A statement of
Directors’ responsibilities is given on
pages 15 to 16 of the Directors’ Report.
The respective responsibilities of
directors and auditors are given on page
30 of the Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of office2office plc.
The non-executive Directors are free
from any business or other relationship
which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement and have no
involvement with the day-to-day
management of the Group. The Board
considers both non-executive Directors
to be independent, underpinning their
ability to challenge decisions, and feels
that their diverse experience and
background bring a depth of debate and
alternative viewpoint to the Board. Jim
Cohen is the senior independent non-
executive Director. The terms and
conditions of the non-executive
Directors’ appointments are available
on request from the Company’s
registered office.
The Board operates formally through
agenda-driven Board meetings, which
are normally held on a monthly basis,
usually at the Company’s head office.
Meetings are occasionally convened at
the Group’s other locations with site
reviews conducted to provide the non-
executive Directors with an opportunity
to assess the operations at first hand.
The monthly agenda covers both
operational and strategic matters,
however, separate strategy days are
also held to focus on longer term
considerations without the distraction
of the day-to-day operational matters.
At each meeting, all Directors are
invited to declare the nature and extent
of their interests in the matters for
discussion.
Frequent informal dialogue between the
Directors supplements the formal
Board meetings. On a number of
occasions during the year, the Chairman
met with the non-executive Directors
without the executive Directors present
to discuss the performance of individual
executive Directors and other senior
managers. The non-executive Directors
also met without the Chairman being
present to discuss his performance.
Formal presentations by, and informal
meetings with, senior management
allow the Board to keep abreast of
operational matters, helps their
understanding of the business and
improves communications both in and
out of the boardroom. 
The Company Secretary reports to the
Board and advises individual Directors
as required on Board procedures,
corporate governance matters and
changes in the regulatory environment.
A procedure also exists for Directors to
take independent professional advice at
the Company’s expense.  Newly
appointed Directors are provided with
comprehensive documentation aimed at
providing information in relation to the
remit and obligations of the role and
current areas under consideration for
the Board.
The Board is responsible to
shareholders for the management and
control of the Group’s activities, its
strategic objectives, its system of
corporate governance and the
stewardship of its resources. This is
achieved by regular review of the key
activities of the Group through the
monthly management accounts, reports
and presentations. A Board pack
comprising information to be reviewed
and discussed is forwarded to all Board
members in advance of the monthly
meetings to allow the Directors to be
fully prepared. Regular detailed reports
on the Company’s funding and liquidity
position are also circulated. Upon
release, analyst and broker reports are
circulated and the Board is updated on
any movements in major shareholdings.
There is a formal schedule of matters
reserved for consideration and approval
by the Board and specific
responsibilities have been delegated to
Board committees as described below. 
Over a number of years, the Board has
balanced the longer term strategic
direction with immediate operational
requirements and delivery of acceptable
financial results. 
In summary, the Board:
● 2008 - facing unfolding economic
uncertainties, balanced the
integration of AccessPlus and Accord
and the operational restructuring
Corporate Governance Statement o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 19
following the withdrawal from the
Ministry of Defence contract in
2007; 
● 2009 - further streamlined the cost-
base to meet the challenges of a
recession while creating a strong
position for the start of any
economic recovery and maintained
an attractive dividend yield balanced
by a focus on funding and
affordability; and 
● 2010 - against a background of
political and economic uncertainty
leading up to and immediately
following a change in Government,
scaled the Business Critical Services
segment by the acquisition of TPF
and undertook further restructuring. 
In 2011, when public sector sales
volumes fell and economic uncertainty
prevailed, the Board encouraged the
strategy to grow in the SME sector, a
market with different demands on the
business including service levels and
credit terms. This move had been two
years in the making, culminating in the
Advantia contract win. News of the
GOSC contract win followed. Both
contracts required significant resource
for implementation and roll-out and
timing issues meant that any in-year
compensation for the adverse impact of
sales volume shortfall was limited. The
Board further addressed the Group’s
cost base while mindful to maintain the
means to realise the long term potential
of these contracts. 
Under the Companies Act 2006,
Directors must avoid any situations in
which they have or could have a direct or
indirect interest that conflicts with
Company interests. The Articles provide
the Board with the authority to approve
any such conflict, as appropriate.
The Directors are entitled to be
indemnified by the Company to the
extent permitted by law and the Articles
in respect of all losses arising out of or
in connection with the execution of their
powers, duties and responsibilities. The
Company has provided letters of
indemnity for the benefit of each
Director in respect of liabilities which
may attach to them in their capacity as
Directors of the Company. These
indemnities were independently
assessed as being in line with market
practice. The Company also maintains
appropriate Directors’ and Officers’
liability insurance. Neither the
indemnities nor the insurance provide
cover in the event that the Director is
proved to have acted fraudulently.  
In accordance with the Articles, no more
than one third of the Directors are
required to retire at each AGM and all
Directors are required to submit
themselves for re-election at least once
every three years. Accordingly, at the
next AGM, David Callear and Chris
Batterham will offer themselves for re-
election. 
In response to the recent
communication from Lord Davies in
respect of women on boards it should
be noted that the Board will continue to
recruit in line with the requirements of
the Board and ensure that the correct
mix of skills and experience is
maintained. The Nomination Committee
has a formal procedure for
appointments to the Board and this
welcomes candidates from both sexes.
The Board will ensure this is
communicated to any recruitment
agencies that are engaged in the future.
Appointments are made on merit
against objective criteria, following
recommendation by the Nomination
Committee. 
Board performance
The Board undertakes a critical
evaluation of itself and its committees
on an annual basis. The 2011
performance evaluation questionnaire
comprised a series of statements, which
required a rating between “strongly
disagree” to “strongly agree” and
individual comment was invited on each.
The review concluded that the size of
the Board, its composition and balance,
together with its open and inclusive
culture, remain appropriate for the
current business and that the
Committees remain effective. In
addition, it was recognised that the
Nomination Committee kept the
leadership needs of the Group under
review notwithstanding the limitations
on succession planning within a small
company.
A number of recommendations were
made in respect of information
requirements and Board reports and it
was agreed to introduce changes as
soon as practicable.
The 2011 performance questionnaire
included a section to allow the Directors
to assess their personal involvement in
various Board matters on a scale from
“too much involvement” to “not enough
involvement” . Given the need to
regularly review and agree with each
Director their training needs, the
purpose was to determine whether
there were any time, experience or
development issues with individual roles
and to address these. There were,
however, no issues raised.
Going concern     
The Group has net current liabilities as
at 31 December 2011 and has traded
profitably since the balance sheet date
with the profits generated contributing
to the funding of the Group’s working
capital requirements. In addition, the
Group meets its day-to-day working
capital requirements through sufficient
and appropriate credit facilities that are
committed until June 2015. The Group’s
forecasts indicate that it is able to
operate within the level of its current
facilities and related covenants for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, the
Directors, having made appropriate
enquiries, consider it reasonable to
assume that the Group and the
Company have adequate resources to
continue for the foreseeable future and,
for this reason, have continued to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Committees of the Board
Specific responsibilities are delegated
to sub-committees of the Board. The
composition of these sub-committees is o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 20
provided below together with reference
to reports on their activities. All other
decisions are taken collectively by the
Board.
The Nomination Committee is
responsible for reviewing the size,
structure and composition of the Board
and making recommendations to the
Board if it considers that any changes
are required. It keeps succession plans
under review and has a formal
procedure for appointments to the
Board and senior management team.
The Nomination Committee includes
both independent non-executive
Directors and is chaired by David
Callear. A report on its activities is given
on page 22.
The Remuneration Committee reviews
and makes recommendations on the
Group’s overall remuneration policy,
including individual remuneration
packages for executive Directors, the
Chairman and senior management. It is
also responsible for the review of the
Company’s share schemes and senior
incentive plans. The Remuneration
Committee, which is chaired by Jim
Cohen, comprises the independent non-
executive Directors and David Callear.
When necessary, non-committee
members are invited to attend by prior
arrangement. A report on its activities is
given on page 24.
The Audit Committee assists the Board
in discharging its responsibilities
effectively for financial reporting, risk
review and internal control. It
comprises the independent non-
executive Directors and David Callear.
All members have financial literacy.
Chris Batterham, who chairs the
Committee, and David Callear are
Chartered Accountants and have
relevant financial expertise, as
described in their biographies on page
13. Non-committee members and the
external auditors are invited to attend
by prior arrangement. A report on its
activities is given on page 22.
The Risk and Opportunity Committee
was formed in 2010 and is chaired by
Jim Cohen. The aim is to provide a forum
for risk and opportunities to be
regularly reviewed by Board members
and senior management. There is no set
membership, as this will vary according
to the matters under review.  Further
details are provided on page 22.
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
Attendance at meetings
The number of full Board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Director in 2011 was as follows:
Remuneration Audit Nomination
Full Board Committee Committee Committee
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Chairman
David Callear 13 13 66 66 55
Executive Directors
Simon Moate 13 12 6 5* 6 4* 5 5*
Mark Cunningham 13 13 60 6 6* 50
Steve McKeever 13 12 60 6 3* 50
Non–executive Directors
Jim Cohen 13 13 66 66 55
Chris Batterham 13 12 65 66 55
* By invitation
As Board packs are issued in advance of
the Board meetings, all Directors are
kept informed of the matters to be
discussed and have the opportunity to
make their views known to the Chairman
prior to the meeting if they are unable to
attend. Minutes of meetings are
circulated to the respective members of
the Board or committees.
Directors’ remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 24 to 29 includes details of
remuneration policies and the
remuneration of Directors.
Relationship with shareholders
and constructive use of the AGM
The Board, led by the Chairman,
recognises the importance of effective
communication and accountability to all
shareholders and is kept informed of
their views through frequent contact
with the house-brokers and feedback
from direct communications with, and
presentations to, institutional investors
and fund managers. During the year, the
Remuneration Committee wrote to and
discussed directly with, the major
shareholders to gauge opinion on
proposals relating to senior
management incentives. This is covered
in more detail on page 25.
Each shareholder receives the annual
report and financial statements
containing the full year results and an
interim report on the half year results.
Following the announcement of results,
presentations are given to the
investment community in London and o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 21
Edinburgh. The full year and half year
reports and presentations are made
available on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk). Additionally,
and in accordance with the Disclosure
and Transparency Rules, interim
management statements were released
via the RNS news service in May and
October 2011.
The Company’s AGM takes place in
Norwich and formal notification,
together with the annual report and
financial statements, is sent to
shareholders at least 20 working days in
advance of the meeting. All Board
members are available, formally during
the AGM and informally afterwards, for
questions. Each item of business is the
subject of a separate resolution. The
collection and analysis of the proxy
votes is handled independently by the
Company’s registrars. The Chairman
announces the results of the proxy
votes after shareholders have voted on
a show of hands. These results are also
made available on the Company’s
website. Details of the 2012 AGM are
set out in the notice of the meeting
enclosed with this report.
The Chairman and the senior
independent Director are available to
shareholders on all matters relating to
governance and strategy. All members
of the Board may be contacted through
the Company’s website.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for
the Group’s system of internal control
and delegates the annual review of
internal control processes and their
effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The internal control systems are
designed to meet the Group’s needs and
address the risks to which it is exposed.
Such systems mitigate, rather than
eliminate, the risks faced by the business
and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material mis-
statement or loss. Necessary actions are
taken to remedy any significant failings
or weaknesses as they are identified.
The Directors have conducted a review
of the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control and consider
it appropriate for the business. No
significant failings or weaknesses were
identified. Further to a review
undertaken by the Risk and Opportunity
Committee, a number of areas have been
prioritised for improvement. See page
22 for further details.
The key elements of the Group’s
procedures and internal financial
control framework are:
● the close involvement of the
executive Directors in all aspects of
the day-to-day operations, including
regular meetings with senior staff
from across the Group and a review
of the monthly operational reports
compiled by senior management;
● clearly defined responsibilities and
limits of authority. The Board has
responsibility for strategy and has
adopted a schedule of matters which
are required to be brought to it for
decision;
● financial teams dedicated to each
business segment but with a
reporting line to the central finance
function. This ensures that the
specific accounting needs of each
segment can be closely managed
whilst ensuring financial discipline is
maintained;
● central control of key functions such
as tax, treasury , payroll and insurance,
rather than on a divisional basis;
● a comprehensive system of financial
reporting, forecasting and budgeting.
Detailed budgets are prepared
annually for all parts of the business
and consolidated by the central
finance team. Reviews occur through
the management structure culminating
in a Group budget which is considered
and approved by the Board;
● an agreed time-plan and schedule of
responsibility for the preparation of
consolidated accounts and a
continual review process with the
Board. Reports and statements are
prepared independently to the
financial statements to ensure
integrity of content;
● Group management accounts are
prepared monthly and submitted to
the Board for review. V ariances from
budget and prior year are closely
monitored and explanations are
provided for significant variances.
Detailed expense reports with
comparisons against budget are
issued monthly to cost centre
managers to assist in cost control; 
● a continuous process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant
risks across the Group together with
a comprehensive annual review of
risks which covers both financial and
non-financial areas; and
● an annual review of insurance cover
for the Group including a review of
disaster recovery plans for IT and the
warehouses. The significant risks
facing the business are considered to
be the loss of a large customer or a
major interruption of warehouse
operations or IT services.
This process is in accordance with the
Turnbull guidance and has been in place
throughout the year under review and up
to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements.
Corporate social responsibility
(CSR)
Measures to ensure responsible
business conduct and the identification
and assessment of risks associated with
social, ethical and environmental
matters are managed in conjunction
with all other business risks and
reviewed at regular meetings of the
Board and senior management. 
o2o maintains its CSR initiative entitled
‘good for you, good for us, good for
everyone’ which aims to combine added
value for customers with tangible
benefits for the business and the
environment. A dedicated CSR brochure
is published under separate cover.
A summary report on the Group’s
policies and objectives for CSR is set
out on pages 10 to 12.
D Rodwell
Company Secretary
29 February 2012 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 22
Nomination
Committee
Report
Audit Committee Report
Role of the Nomination
Committee
The Nomination Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board, responsible for
all appointments to the Board, giving full
consideration to succession plans and
the leadership of the Group. It makes
recommendations to the Board for any
changes to the Board and its
committees that it considers necessary
and also reviews the senior
management structure. The Committee
has a formal procedure for
appointments to the Board and senior
management team where due regard is
given to diversity, including gender. This
is available together with the
Committee’s terms of reference which
were updated during the year, on the
Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Composition of the Nomination
Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises
the Chairman and the independent non-
executive Directors. The Company
Secretary is secretary to the
Nomination Committee. The Committee
meets to deal with assignments in
accordance with Company needs and
best practice in corporate governance. 
Main activities of the
Nomination Committee
During the year the Committee met on
five occasions to review succession
plans for executive and senior
management.  No new appointments
were required but the Committee
recognises the importance of keeping
the leadership needs of the Group under
review as o2o evolves to meet the
challenges of the business environment.  
D J Callear
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
29 February 2012
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board and its
responsibilities include:
● reviewing and recommending to the
Board for approval, the half-year
report, the annual report and
financial statements, results
announcements of the Group and any
other formal announcements relating
to the Group’s financial performance;
● reviewing the Group’s systems of
internal financial control, risk
management policies and
procedures; 
● monitoring and reviewing the
requirement for an internal audit
function;
● considering the appointment of the
external auditors, overseeing the
process for their selection and
making recommendations to the
Board in relation to their
appointment;
● monitoring and reviewing the
effectiveness and independence of
the external auditors, agreeing the
nature and scope of their audit, their
remuneration and considering their
reports on the Group’s accounts and
systems of internal financial control
and risk management; and
● monitoring the Group’s whistle-
blowing procedures.
Composition of the Audit
Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Chris
Batterham (Committee Chairman), Jim
Cohen and David Callear. Their
biographical details are included on
page 13 and their remuneration on
pages 24 to 29.  Chris Batterham and
David Callear are Chartered
Accountants.  Non-committee members
and the Company’s external auditors
(PwC) are invited to attend meetings as
and when appropriate.  At least once
each year, representatives of PwC meet
the Audit Committee without any
executive Directors being present.  The
Company Secretary is secretary to the
Audit Committee.  The Committee’s
terms of reference, were updated
during the year and are available on the
Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Main activities of the Audit
Committee
The Audit Committee met on six
occasions in 2011 with other Board
members and the auditors attending as
required. These meetings covered:
PwC‘s presentation of their audit
approach and procedures, including
matters relating to scope, auditor
independence and fees; consideration of
changes in accounting policies and
standards; discussions concerning the
external audit reports and any matters
arising; and reviews of the financial
results and investor presentations, at
the full-year and half-year, prior to
recommending them to the Board for
approval. The Group whistle-blowing
policy and the Banner Business Pension
Scheme accounts were also reviewed by
the Committee. The fees paid to PwC
for audit services are disclosed in note 7
to the financial statements.
Internal audit function – risk
and opportunity management
A Risk and Opportunity function was
established in 2010 to deliver value to
the business by ensuring risk is
managed at every level throughout the
Group, reducing inefficiencies through
process improvements and optimising
the opportunities that this brings.
Individual managers have taken
responsibility for their respective areas
and a formal reporting procedure has
been established by the Risk and
Opportunity Manager. Overseeing this
function is the Risk and Opportunity
Committee, comprising Audit
Committee representatives, the Risk
and Opportunity Manager and those
Directors and managers responsible for
key priorities. It provides a forum for
discussion, enables progress to be
monitored and actions prioritised. 
The Audit Committee is pleased by the
progress achieved to date and is keen o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 23
for the risk and opportunity ethos to be
further embedded in the business.
Consequently, the Committee does not
consider it necessary to have a separate
internal audit function.
Review of risk management and
internal control
The Risk and Opportunity Committee
had its inaugural meeting in January
2011. This meeting, which was fully
attended by the Board, included a
review of the financial, infrastructure,
commercial and reputational matters,
identified specific risks and
opportunities that each presents and
recommended actions. The key
priorities centred on strengthening the
core administrative health of the
business to ensure the Group could
capitalise on commercial opportunities
as they arise and included new financial
arrangements for the business and
improving the IT infrastructure. The
Group’s banking facilities were
renegotiated on favourable terms in
May 2011 and significant
improvements have been made to the
latter, including off-site secure hosting
of the Group’s IT infrastructure, with
further efficiencies to follow.  
Follow-up meetings were convened in
September 2011 and January 2012.
The approach adopted will help mitigate
the principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group which are set out on
pages 7 to 9 of the Business and
Financial Review.
Review of whistle-blowing
policy
o2o has a whistle-blowing policy in place
which establishes a confidential channel
of communication for employees to
bring matters of concern about the
running of the business to the attention
of senior management. Upon being
notified of such a concern, the policy
sets out a defined process for full
investigation and, where necessary,
corrective action to be taken. The Audit
Committee reviews the whistle-blowing
policy on an annual basis.
No concerns were reported in the year
and following a review of the policy, the
only change made was to enhance the
contact details by providing telephone
numbers in addition to Directors’ email
addresses. The policy is available on the
Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk).
Independence of external
auditors
PwC have been the Company’s auditors
since 2002. A new audit partner was
assigned to the Group following the
2009 year end process in line with
PwC’s own partner rotation policy. The
Audit Committee is satisfied with their
effectiveness and independence and
has not considered it necessary to
require an independent tender process.
The Committee formally validates this
and, therefore, its recommendation to
the Board with regards to appointment
and reappointment, by:
● assessing PwC’s performance on an
annual basis through meetings with
key personnel;
● monitoring their independence and
objectivity by reviewing their
relationship with the Group and
ensuring Group policy is followed in
relation to the provision of non-audit
services; and
● reviewing anticipated future service
requirements and assessing their
ability to meet the requirement by
seeking opportunity to challenge,
question and confirm the new service
proposition.
The Committee meets with the external
auditors to review and approve audit
scope and fees and obtain written
confirmation of their independence.
Following the audit, the Committee
meets with PwC without the executive
Directors being present and also
discusses the efficiency of the audit
process with the executive Directors.
Group policy on the provision of non-
audit services requires that, other than
for corporate taxation services,
approval is sought from the Committee
in advance of any engagement.  The
Committee will consider, taking into
account the scope of the work and level
of fees involved, whether the provision
of such non-audit services impairs the
independence and objectivity of PwC.
As detailed in note 7 to the financial
statements, total fees paid to PwC in
2011 were £152,000, of which
£122,000 related to audit fees. Fees
for the interim review amounted to
£10,000 and were £20,000 for tax
services. The Committee approved all
fees prior to the work being undertaken.
With regards to tax services, these were
provided by an independent team and
the Committee was satisfied that the
level of fees did not prejudice PwC’s
independence.
C M Batterham
Chairman of the Audit Committee
29 February 2012 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 24
This report outlines the membership
and workings of the Remuneration
Committee, together with details of
Directors’ remuneration in respect of
the year ended 31 December 2011.  A
resolution to approve this report will be
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee and
its terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee is a sub-
committee of the Board. Membership
comprises Jim Cohen (Committee
Chairman), Chris Batterham and David
Callear, all of whom are independent of
management and free from any
business or other relationship which
could interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement.  When
necessary, non-committee members are
invited to attend by prior arrangement.
The Committee met six times in the
year.
The principal function of the Committee
is to make recommendations to the
Board regarding the Company’s policy
on the remuneration, benefits and terms
of employment of the executive
Directors. In addition, the Committee
assists the Board in ensuring that the
Group’s executive Directors are
recruited, developed and remunerated
in an appropriate fashion. The
Committee also monitors the
remuneration of senior management
generally.
In determining remuneration packages
and policies, due regard is given to any
legal requirements, the provisions of the
UK Corporate Governance Code and the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. The Committee seeks
independent advice from AonHewitt
Limited (operating through the brand
New Bridge Street) and Macfarlanes
LLP . Neither AonHewitt Limited, nor any
other part of the Aon Corporation
Group, provided other services to the
Company during the year under review.
Macfarlanes LLP are consulted on
various other corporate and legal
matters. In 2010, an independent
comparative remuneration review for
the executive and senior management
team was conducted by Hyperion HR
Limited. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are
available on the Company’s website
(www.office2office.co.uk). 
Executive Directors’
remuneration
Remuneration policy in respect of
executive Directors is designed to
ensure that the Group achieves its
potential and increases shareholder
value.  In respect of basic salary, the
objective is to ensure that the Group
attracts and retains high calibre
executives with the skills, experience
and motivation necessary to direct and
manage the affairs of the Group.  Annual
bonuses and long term incentive
schemes are seen as an important part
of each Director’s total remuneration
and are designed to drive and reward
exceptional performance.
The current remuneration package of
the executive Directors consists of
basic salary, annual bonus, long term
incentive schemes, taxable benefits,
SA YE option schemes and pension
arrangements. These are described in
more detail below.
The executive Directors’ basic salaries
are reviewed annually by the
Committee, taking into account the
performance of the individual, changes
in their responsibilities, the Group’s
performance against financial
objectives, intended pay increases
across the Group and, when deemed
appropriate, information from
independent remuneration consultants’
sources on levels of salary for similar
jobs. No changes were made to their
remuneration in 2011. 
The maximum annual bonus potential
for Simon Moate is 100% of basic
salary. For Mark Cunningham and Steve
McKeever, this maximum is 60% of
basic salary.
Each year the Committee reviews the
bonus arrangements and may
recommend different targets or
performance conditions to keep the
objectives aligned with shareholder
interests. 
As with 2010, the 2011 annual cash
bonus scheme was designed to reward
growth in underlying EPS and rigorous
management of net debt and working
capital. A varying proportion of the
bonus was based on personal targets
tailored to each Director and objectively
measurable.  
No bonus is payable with regards to the
EPS and net debt performance targets.
However, an element of bonus relating
to the management of working capital
and the fulfilment of personal targets
was achieved. Accordingly, bonuses
equating to 16.9%, 28.6% and 11.4%
of basic salary are payable to Simon
Moate, Steve McKeever and Mark
Cunningham respectively. The bonuses,
details of which are on page 27, will be
paid in April 2012.
It is intended that the 2012 cash bonus
will continue to take account of the key
KPIs on o2o’s performance. Personal
targets will again be included and the
Committee will reserve the right to
apply discretion.
Pension contributions to the executive
Director’s personal pension schemes
were made at a rate of 10% of basic
salary.
The service agreements for the
executive Directors are on a rolling basis
and terminable on 12 month’s notice by
either party, with the right for the
Company to make a payment in lieu of
salary and benefits, excluding bonus, for
any unexpired period of notice.
Save as you earn share option
scheme (SA YE)
The Group operates an HMRC approved
SA YE scheme open to all employees in
which Simon Moate and Steve
McKeever participate. Details are
provided on page 29.
Long term incentive plans
The Company currently operates a long
Directors’ Remuneration Report o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 25
term incentive plan, the Performance
Share Plan (PSP), as detailed below. The
Company also has a Deferred Share
Bonus Plan (DSBP) which has been
inactive since inception. Both these
plans were approved by shareholders in
November 2005 following a review by
an independent adviser and
consultation with shareholders and the
ABI. In line with ABI guidelines, awards
granted under this plan are subject to
dilution limits. 
Performance Share Plan    
The PSP rules allow awards over
Ordinary shares, subject to performance
criteria as detailed below and vesting in
three years, to be made to individuals in
any year of a value of up to 100% of
basic salary. In exceptional
circumstances, the Remuneration
Committee has discretion to increase
the award to up to 200% of basic salary.
In accordance with the scheme rules, the
number of Ordinary shares awarded is
calculated by reference to the three day
average of the closing mid-market
quotation of the Company’s share price
prior to the award date. The exercise
price of options under the PSP scheme
is 0.1p per share.
From inception in 2005 to awards made
in 2010, the performance criteria were
based on (i) a comparative measure of
total shareholder return (TSR) against
companies in the FTSE Small Cap Index
and (ii) the Company’s earnings per
share (EPS) growth. The combined use
of TSR and EPS targets was intended to
incentivise participants to deliver
substantial real earnings growth in
addition to generating above market
returns for shareholders. 
The portion of the award based on TSR
vests on a scale for median to upper
quartile level performance.  TSR is
measured over a three year
performance period and independently
calculated. 
The portion of the award based on the
Company’s EPS growth, vests initially if
EPS grows by an average of 4% per
annum more than the increase in RPI
over a three year performance period.  If
EPS grows by an average of 8% per
annum more than the increase in RPI
over the period, this portion of the
award vests in full.  For EPS growth
between the lower and upper levels
quoted above, the proportion vesting
increases on a straight-line basis. 
As indicated in the 2010 Annual Report,
the Committee was concerned that the
PSP had lost credibility with senior
management and had thus lost
effectiveness as only a small proportion
(11.8%) had vested since the scheme
was implemented. Management
understood that they had not delivered
the required EPS growth. The issue has
been with TSR which, far from uniquely,
management found difficult to use as a
practical basis for driving value in the
business, not least because none of the
Company’s competitors feature in the
comparator group, as the significant
ones are either privately owned or
quoted in the USA. 
The Committee followed up in 2011
with a detailed review of incentive
arrangements, consulting with their
independent remuneration advisors as
mentioned above.
Rather than implement a different
incentive scheme, the Committee
proposed to keep within the remit of the
existing scheme in relation to matters
such as individual award levels and
dilution limits, whilst modifying the
performance criteria to provide
participants with targets that they could
identify with, but which remained
challenging. The Committee believed
these changes which are a modification
of standard practice would make the
PSP an effective incentive and retention
scheme for key management and in a
way that keeps them aligned with the
interests of shareholders.
The Committee presented these
proposals to each of the major
shareholders, in writing and in person, to
gauge their views. The ABI were also
consulted.  Shareholder feedback
acknowledged that management had
performed well in protecting investors’
interests during a period when the
economy and trading in the Company’s
sector had been more difficult than
expected. A clear majority were
supportive of the changes.
For prospective awards, the PSP is now
a two part scheme, each part allowing
awards up to 100% of salary. Part A is
open to the executive Directors and a
number of senior management with
performance measurements split
equally between growth in both
underlying EPS and share price.  The
latter was chosen as it is understood by
all and unites the team around a goal in
common with shareholders. Part A is
also subject to a judgemental underpin
of performance (see below). Part B
awards, which are only open to
executive Directors and only in special
circumstances, rely solely on the
judgemental underpin of performance
(see below) exercised by the Committee.
In 2011, Part B awards were granted to
Simon Moate and Steve McKeever.
For Part A awards, the EPS component
operates on a similar basis to that
mentioned above but is split into three
equal tranches to be measured annually .
Each tranche will provisionally vest 50%
if EPS grows by an average of 4% more
than RPI in the year, with full provisional
vesting if EPS grows by an average of 8%
more than RPI in the year. Proportionate
provisional vesting will occur on a
straight-line basis between the lower and
upper level. T o the extent that targets are
not met, the relevant portion of the first
and second tranches, are measured with
the following year’s tranche.
The share price component is measured
on 5 occasions during the period of the
award. If the share price hits a sliding
scale of challenging targets for a period
of 30 days after the announcement of
full year and half year results, then
provisional vesting will occur.  Any
unvested provisional award is carried
over to the next measurement period
but vesting will only occur if a higher
share price target is met than with
earlier testing.
For the 2011 PSP awards, the first
testing date of the share price
component will be after the expiry of 30 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 26
days following the announcement of the
Company’s final results for 2011. If the
average closing share price over that 30
day period hits 160p then 20% of that
component will provisionally vest. A
sliding scale applies with proportionate
provisional vesting up to 240p where
full provisional vesting occurs. 
The provisional vesting of the awards
provides participants with a barometer
of how their award is faring within its
three year wrapper.  Actual vesting will
only occur at the end of the three years
following grant of the award and subject
to continued employment and
satisfaction of the same underpin
judgement by the Committee as the
Part B awards.
The underpin is a check by the
Remuneration Committee to ensure
there are no irrational outcomes and,
amongst other things, whether the
Company has been able to declare
appropriate dividends throughout the
period. 
Current holdings
In May 2011, the executive Directors
exercised their options under the 2008
PSP awards.  Although an EPS growth of
13.7% over the three year period was
achieved, this was below the minimum
performance target and accordingly no
shares vested under the EPS element.
Conversely, 27.2% of the TSR element
did vest, equating to 18,156, 25,583
and 14,104 shares to Simon Moate,
Mark Cunningham and Steve McKeever
respectively. Further to shares being
sold at 130.0p to settle the related tax
obligations the remaining 8,686,
12,239 and 6,747 shares were
transferred to the executive Directors.
Simon Moate currently holds awards
over 792,265 Ordinary shares following
grants made in March 2009, May 2010
and June 2011 based on an average
share price of 82.5p, 155.5p and
133.5p respectively.  The June 2011
grant comprises two awards over
220,974 shares each, under Part A and
Part B of the scheme, as mentioned
above, equating to 200% of salary in
total.
Mark Cunningham currently holds
awards over 266,537 Ordinary shares
following grants made in May 2010 and
June 2011 based on an average share
price of 155.5p and 133.5p respectively.
Steve McKeever currently holds awards
over 374,712 Ordinary shares following
grants made in May 2010 and June 2011
based on an average share price of
155.5p and 133.5p respectively. The
June 2011 grant comprises two awards
over 131,086 shares each, under Part A
and Part B of the scheme, as mentioned
above, equating to 200% of salary in
total.
The above awards are detailed on page
28 and in note 26 to the financial
statements.
In the event of a takeover, all awards
granted under the PSP vest or become
exercisable to the extent that the
performance targets have been
achieved, as determined by the
Remuneration Committee. In the event
of a re-organisation the awards may be
exchanged for options over shares in the
new holding company on such terms
determined by the Committee.
Company share option plan
(CSOP)
As a separate exercise during the year,
the Committee sought approval from
HMRC to operate a CSOP . This is not an
additional incentive award but is
intended to be linked to and operate in
conjunction with, the existing PSP . Its
purpose is to improve the tax efficiency
of PSP awards. Approval was received
after the June 2011 awards were
granted and, as it cannot be applied
retrospectively, the Committee will
consider this facility for future awards.
This amendment will not increase the
cost to the Company of the awards.
Chairman and non-executive
Directors
David Callear’s and Jim Cohen’s three
year service agreements were renewed
on 29 June 2010 and cover their third
terms since o2o floated on the Stock
Market in June 2004. Chris Batterham’s
three year service agreement was
renewed on 26 June 2011. David and
Chris will both retire and seek re-
election at the forthcoming AGM. All of
these service agreements are
terminable on three months’ notice by
either the Company or the relevant
Director.  The Chairman’s and non-
executive Directors’ remuneration is
non-pensionable.
The remuneration of the non-executive
Directors is determined by the
Chairman and the executive Directors
and the remuneration of the Chairman is
determined by the Remuneration
Committee. There were no changes to
their remuneration during the year. 
The Chairman and non-executive
Directors are not eligible to participate
in any of the Company’s share option or
Group bonus schemes.
Performance graph
The graph at the top of the next page
shows o2o’s total shareholder return
performance (TSR) compared to the
FTSE Small Cap index, of which o2o
was, until 17 December 2007, a
constituent member.  This index is
stipulated in the PSP scheme rules and
for those PSP awards that have a TSR
performance target, the Board
considers that it continues to be the
most appropriate comparator. The
values indicated in the graph show the
share price growth plus reinvested
dividends from a £100 hypothetical
holding of Ordinary shares in o2o and in
the index from flotation to 31
December 2011.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 27
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2011 - audited
The emoluments of the Directors (excluding pension contributions) are shown below:
2011 2011 2011 2011 2010
Salary/ Allowances and Annual
fees benefits in kind bonus T otal T otal
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
David Callear 138 -- 138 134
Executive
Mark Cunningham 185 14 21 220 203
Steve McKeever 175 14 50 239 *75
Simon Moate 295 14 50 359 309
Subtotal 655 42 121 818 587
Non–executive
Jim Cohen 55 -- 55 54
Chris Batterham 50 -- 50 50
Subtotal 105 -- 105 104
T otal 898 42 121 1,061 825
* From the period of appointment to the Board.
Other allowances and benefits in kind provided to executive Directors comprise car benefits, family private health care,
permanent health insurance and life assurance at the rate of four times annual salary.
No amounts have been waived in the current or prior year. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 28
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Long term incentive plans – audited
Awards granted to Directors under the PSP were as follows:
Exercise
price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 11 Granted Exercised Expired 31 Dec 11 share from date
Mark Cunningham
2008 PSP Award 188,113 - (25,583) (162,530) - 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
2010 PSP Award 118,971 --- 118,971 0.1p 21.05.13 21.11.13
2011 PSP Award - 147,566 -- 147,566 0.1p 20.06.14 20.12.14
307,084 147,566 (25,583) (162,530) 266,537
Steve McKeever
2008 PSP Award 103,704 - (14,104) (89,600) - 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
2010 PSP Award 112,540 --- 112,540 0.1p 21.05.13 21.11.13
2011 PSP Award - 262,172 -- 262,172 0.1p 20.06.14 20.12.14
216,244 262,172 (14,104) (89,600) 374,712
Simon Moate
2008 PSP Award 133,499 - (18,156) (115,343) - 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
2009 PSP Award 160,606 --- 160,606 0.1p 04.03.12 04.09.12
2010 PSP Award 189,711 --- 189,711 0.1p 21.05.13 21.11.13
2011 PSP Award - 441,948 -- 441,948 0.1p 20.06.14 20.12.14
483,816 441,948 (18,156) (115,343) 792,265
Directors’ pensions – audited
Pension contributions reflect amounts payable to defined contribution personal pension schemes. The contributions payable to personal
pension schemes in the year are shown below:
Pension contributions
2011 2010
£000 £000
Mark Cunningham 20 18
Steve McKeever 18 6
Simon Moate 30 55
68 79
Directors’ interests – unaudited
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of o2o at the year end are set out below:   
Number of Ordinary shares
2011 2010
David Callear 450,991 450,991
Mark Cunningham 1,089,549 1,089,549
Steve McKeever 6,747 -
Simon Moate 158,497 119,811
Jim Cohen 65,496 38,506 
Chris Batterham 7,516 7,516
1,778,796 1,706,373
There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the period under review. The Directors
confirm that they have not given any pledges of o2o shares. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 29
The awards granted during the year were made on 20 June 2011. The market price of Ordinary shares at the date of grant was
133.5p. For those awards vesting during 2011, the market price of Ordinary shares on the exercise date was 130.0p. The notional
gains made by each Director were as follows:
V alue of shares
V alue of shares transferred
on date of Shares Shares on date of
exercise sold to settle transferred exercise
Exercised £000 tax liabilities to individual £000
Mark Cunningham 25,583 33 (13,344) 12,239 16
Steve McKeever 14,104 18 (7,357) 6,747 9
Simon Moate 18,156 24 (9,470) 8,686 11
57,843 75 (30,171) 27,672 36
Beneficial options granted to Directors under the SA YE scheme were as follows: 
Exercise
price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 11 Granted Exercised Expired 31 Dec 11 share from date
Mark Cunningham 8,039 -- (8,039) - 119.4p 01.05.11 30.11.11
Steve McKeever - 12,842 -- 12,842 116.8p 01.01.17 30.06.17
Simon Moate 14,069 --- 14,069 119.4p 01.05.13 30.11.13
The closing market price of Ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was 139.5p.  The shares traded in the range 112.5p to
166.5p during the year.
The details and the performance criteria in respect of the above schemes are discussed on pages 25 and 26.
J L Cohen
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29 February 2012  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 30
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members
of office2office plc 
We have audited the financial
statements of office2office plc for the
year ended 31 December 2011 which
comprise the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated statement
of comprehensive income, the
consolidated and Company balance
sheets, the consolidated statement of
changes in equity, the Company
statement of changes in equity, the
consolidated and Company cash flow
statements, the significant accounting
policies and information and the related
notes. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union and, as regards the
parent company financial statements,
as applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of
directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’
Responsibilities Statement set out on
page 15 to 16, the Directors are
responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair
view. Our responsibility is to audit and
express an opinion on the financial
statements in accordance with
applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply
with the Auditing Practices Board’s
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has
been prepared for and only for the
Company’s members as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006 and for no
other purpose.  We do not, in giving
these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or
to any other person to whom this report
is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the
financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements sufficient to
give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s
and the parent Company’s
circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of
significant accounting estimates made
by the Directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial
statements. In addition, we read all the
financial and non-financial information
in the financial statements to identify
material inconsistencies with the
audited financial statements. If we
become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
● the financial statements give a true
and fair view of the state of the
Group’s and of the parent Company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2011  and
of the Group’s profit and Group’s and
parent Company’s cash flows for the
year then ended;
● the Group financial statements have
been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the European Union; 
● the parent Company financial
statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with IFRSs
as adopted by the European Union
and as applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act
2006; and
● the financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Companies Act
2006 and, as regards the Group
financial statements, Article 4 of the
lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters
prescribed by the Companies
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
● the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
2006;
● the information given in the
Directors’ Report for the financial
year for which the financial
statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial
statements; and
● the information given in the
Corporate Governance Statement
set out on pages 18 to 21 with
respect to internal control and risk
management systems and about
share capital structures is consistent
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are
required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of
the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are
required to report to you if, in our
opinion: 
● adequate accounting records have
not been kept by the parent
Company, or returns adequate for our
audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or 
● the parent Company financial
statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns;
or 
● certain disclosures of Directors’
remuneration specified by law are
not made; or 
● we have not received all the
information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
● a corporate governance statement
has not been prepared by the parent
Company.  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 31
Under the Listing Rules we are required
to review: 
● the Directors’ statement, set out on
page 19, in relation to going concern;
● the parts of the Corporate
Governance Statement relating to
the Company’s compliance with the
nine provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code specified for our
review; and
● certain elements of the report to
shareholders by the Board on
Directors’ remuneration.
S. Newman
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory
Auditors, Norwich
29 February 2012 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 32
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010*
Note £000 £000
Revenue 3 193,498 207,631
Cost of sales 4 (137,860) (148,817)
Gross profit 55,638 58,814
Distribution costs 4 (18,375) (19,298)
Administrative expenses 4 (31,418) (33,884)
Operating profit 5,845 5,632
Finance costs 8 (1,555) (1,000)
Profit before income tax 4,290 4,632
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before income tax
#
8,412 11,176
Share option expense 26 (409) (138)
Non-recurring costs 5 (2,398) (5,336)
Negative goodwill - 188
Amortisation of intangibles 12 (1,315) (1,258)
Profit before income tax 3 4,290 4,632
Income tax credit/(expense) 9 22 (336)
Profit for the year 4,312 4,296
Earnings per Ordinary share attributable to owners of the Company
Basic 11 12.0p 12.0p
Diluted 11 12.0p 12.0p
* Restated for adjustments arising from prior year business combinations relating to negative goodwill (decrease of £56,000),
amortisation of intangible assets (decrease of £108,000) and deferred income tax expense (increase of £102,000) resulting in no
change to underlying profit before tax and a £50,000 reduction in profit after tax in 2010 (refer to note 2 to the financial statements).
#
Profit before income tax, non-recurring costs, amortisation of intangibles, negative goodwill and share option expense.
The Company has elected to take exemption under s.408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Company’s income statement or
statement of comprehensive income.  The profit for the Company was £4,097,000 (2010: £4,097,000).  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 33
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Profit for the year 4,312 4,296
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences (75) (37)
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,237 4,259
* Restated for adjustments arising from prior year business combinations relating to negative goodwill (decrease of £56,000),
amortisation of intangible assets (decrease of £108,000) and deferred income tax expense (increase of £102,000) resulting in no
change to underlying profit before tax and a £50,000 reduction in profit after tax in 2010 (refer to note 2 to the financial statements). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 34
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets 
as at 31 December 2011
2011 2010* 2011 2010
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 58,671 59,986 - -
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,316 3,168 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 14 - - 8,615 8,206
Retirement benefit asset 24 105 - - -
Deferred income tax assets 15 1,391 1,801 - -
63,483 64,955 8,615 8,206
Current assets
Inventories 16 8,974 5,993 - -
Trade and other receivables 17 28,965 28,831 9,670 9,617
Current income tax asset 22 98 - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,169 3,693 - -
39,206 38,517 9,670 9,617
Total assets 102,689 103,472 18,285 17,823
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Company
Ordinary shares 25 363 363 363 363
Share premium account 5,009 5,009 5,009 5,009
Other reserves 84 159 - -
Retained earnings 17,386 16,770 12,888 12,426
Total equity 22,842 22,301 18,260 17,798
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 17,515 20,704 - -
Deferred income tax liabilities 15 1,520 1,934 - -
Provisions 23 470 1,061 - -
Retirement benefit obligations 24 - 778 - -
19,505 24,477 - -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 48,362 40,763 25 25
Borrowings 20 11,304 14,361 - -
Provisions 23 676 861 - -
Current income tax liabilities 22 - 709 - -
60,342 56,694 25 25
Total liabilities 79,847 81,171 25 25
Total equity and liabilities 102,689 103,472 18,285 17,823
* Restated for adjustments arising from prior year business combinations for intangible assets (reduction of £1,099,000) and deferred
income tax liabilities (reduction of £1,049,000). See note 2.
The financial statements comprising the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income,
the consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated
and Company cash flow statements, the significant accounting policies and information and the notes to the financial statements
were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2012.
D J Callear - Chairman
29 February 2012
Registered number 04083206
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 35
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011
Total
Share attributable
Ordinary premium Other Retained to owners Minority Total 
shares account reserves earnings of the parent interest equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2011 363 5,009 159 16,770 22,301 - 22,301
Profit for the year -- - 4,312 4,312 - 4,312
Other comprehensive income -- (75) - (75) - (75)
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 December 2011 -- (75) 4,312 4,237 - 4,237
Employee share options:
- value of employee services 26 -- - 342 342 - 342
- deferred tax on share options 9- -- 6 6 - 6
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust -- - 51 51 - 51
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 -- - (4,095) (4,095) - (4,095)
-- (75) 616 541 - 541
Balance at 31 December 2011 363 5,009 84 17,386 22,842 - 22,842
Total
Share attributable
Ordinary premium Other Retained to owners Minority Total 
shares account reserves earnings* of the parent interest equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2010 363 5,009 196 17,023 22,591 196 22,787
Profit for the year -- - 4,296 4,296 - 4,296
Other comprehensive income -- (37) - (37) - (37)
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 December 2010 -- (37) 4,296 4,259 - 4,259
Employee share options:
- value of employee services 26 -- - 135 135 - 135
- deferred tax on share options 9- -- 14 14 - 14
Acquisition of minority interest -- - (613) (613) 44 (569)
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 -- - (4,085) (4,085) - (4,085)
- Minority interest -- --- (240) (240)
-- (37) (253) (290) (196) (486)
Balance at 31 December 2010 363 5,009 159 16,770 22,301 - 22,301
* Restated for adjustments arising from prior year business combinations relating to negative goodwill (decrease of £56,000),
amortisation of intangible assets (decrease of £108,000) and deferred income tax expense (increase of £102,000) resulting in no
change to underlying profit before tax and a £50,000 reduction in profit after tax in 2010 (refer to note 2 to the financial statements). 
Share premium account
The share premium account represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the amount received
for them. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Other reserves
Other reserves relate to foreign exchange translation differences on the net assets of overseas subsidiaries. This is a 
non-distributable reserve. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 36
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2011 363 5,009 12,426 17,798
Profit for the year -- 4,097 4,097
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 -- 4,097 4,097
Credit to reserves for share based payments 26 -- 409 409
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust -- 51 51
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 -- (4,095) (4,095)
-- 462 462
Balance at 31 December 2011 363 5,009 12,888 18,260
Share
Ordinary premium Retained Total 
shares account earnings equity
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2010 363 5,009 12,276 17,648
Profit for the year -- 4,097 4,097
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2010 -- 4,097 4,097
Credit to reserves for share based payments 26 -- 138 138
Dividends:
- Ordinary shares 10 -- (4,085) (4,085)
-- 150 150
Balance at 31 December 2010 363 5,009 12,426 17,798
Share premium account
The share premium account represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the amount received
for them. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Other reserves
Other reserves relate to foreign exchange translation differences on the net assets of overseas subsidiaries. This is a 
non-distributable reserve.
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 37
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 2011 2010
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 27 10,870 5,037 (53) (13)
Interest paid (1,251) (1,000) - -
Income tax paid (783) (1,369) - -
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 8,836 2,668 (53) (13)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (960) (411) - -
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including overdrafts - (838) - -
Interest received - - 97 97
Dividends received - - 4,000 4,000
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (960) (1,249) 4,097 4,097
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance lease principal payments (288) (446) - -
Repayment of borrowings (2,500) (2,500) - -
Arrangement fee on re-financing (683) - - -
Acquisition of minority interest - (569) - -
Sale of shares by employee benefit trust 51 - 51 -
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders 10 (4,095) (4,085) (4,095) (4,085)
Dividends paid to minority interests - (240) - -
Net cash used in financing activities (7,515) (7,840) (4,044) (4,085)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents
and bank overdrafts 361 (6,421) - (1)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 January 18 (7,859) (1,438) - 1
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December 18 (7,498) (7,859) - -
Net debt at 31 December comprises:
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (7,498) (7,859) - -
Finance leases (725) (1,013) - -
Bank loans (19,427) (22,500) - -
Net debt at 31 December (27,650) (31,372) - -
Consolidated Company
Consolidated Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 38
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
General information
office2office plc (the Company) and its
subsidiaries (the Group) provide managed
procurement and business critical
services. The Group operates in the United
Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. 
The Company is a public limited
company , which is listed on the London
Stock Exchange and is incorporated and
domiciled in the United Kingdom. The
address of its registered office is
St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich,
NR3 1PD.
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies applied
in the preparation of these consolidated
financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently
applied to all the years presented, unless
otherwise stated.
The consolidated financial statements of
the Group and the individual financial
statements of the Company have been
prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted
by the EU), IFRIC (IFRS Interpretations
Committee) interpretations and the
Companies Act 2006 as applicable to
companies reporting under IFRS. The
consolidated financial statements have
been prepared under the historical cost
convention.
The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with IFRS requires the use
of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise
its judgement in the process of applying
the Group’s accounting policies. The
areas involving a higher degree of
judgement or complexity , or areas where
assumptions and estimates are
significant to the consolidated financial
statements, are disclosed in note 2.
Going concern
The Group has net current liabilities as
at 31 December 2011. The Group has
traded profitably since the balance
sheet date with the profits generated
contributing to the funding of the
Group’s working capital requirements.
In addition, the Group meets its day-
to-day working capital requirements
through sufficient and appropriate
credit facilities that are committed
until June 2015. The Group’s forecasts
indicate that it is able to operate
within the level of its current facilities
for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors, having
made appropriate enquiries, consider
it reasonable to assume that the
Group and the Company have
adequate resources to continue for
the foreseeable future and, for this
reason, have continued to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Recent accounting
developments
Standards, amendments and
interpretations effective for the first
time in the year ended 31 December
2011:
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC
interpretations that are effective for
the first time for the financial year
beginning on or after 1 January 2011
that would be expected to have a
material impact on the group.
The following amendments to existing
standards and interpretations were
also effective for the current year, but
the adoption of these amendments to
existing standards and
interpretations did not have a
material impact on the Group:
●
Amendment to IAS 32, 'Financial
instruments: Presentation –
Classification of rights issues'.
●
IFRIC 19, ‘Extinguishing financial
liabilities with equity instruments’ .
●
Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First-time
adoption of IFRS – Limited
exemption from comparative IFRS 7
disclosures for first-time adopters’ .
●
IAS 24 (revised), ‘Related party
disclosures’ .
●
Amendment to IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 –
The limit on a defined benefit asset,
minimum funding requirements and
their interaction’ .
Standards, amendments and
interpretations that are not yet
effective and have not been early
adopted:
●
Amendments to IAS 19, 'Employee
benefits'.
●
IFRS 9, 'Financial instruments'.
●
IFRS 10, 'Consolidated financial
statements'.
●
IFRS 12, 'Disclosures of interests in
other entities'.
●
IFRS 13, 'Fair value measurement'.
Standards, amendments and
interpretations that are not yet
effective and not currently relevant to
the Group: 
●
Amendment to IFRS 1 on
hyperinflation and fixed dates.
●
Amendment to IFRS 7, 'Financial
instruments: Disclosures'.
●
Amendment to IAS 12, 'Income
taxes' on deferred tax.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which
the Group has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies
generally accompanying a shareholding
of more than one half of the voting
rights. The existence and effect of
potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are
considered when assessing whether the
Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from
the date on which control is transferred
to the Group. They are de-consolidated
from the date that control ceases.
The subsidiary undertakings included
within these financial statements are
shown in note 14 to the financial
statements.
The acquisition method of accounting
is used to account for business
combinations. The cost of an
acquisition is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity
instruments issued and liabilities
incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange. Identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination are o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 39
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
measured initially at their fair values at
the acquisition date, irrespective of the
extent of any minority interest. The
excess of the cost of the acquisition
over the fair value of the Group’s share
of the identifiable net assets acquired
is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of
the acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the
subsidiary acquired, the difference is
recognised directly in the income
statement. Directly attributable costs
associated with a business
combination are recognised in the
income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and
unrealised gains on transactions between
Group companies are eliminated on
consolidation. Unrealised losses on
transactions between Group companies
are also eliminated but are considered for
impairment purposes in respect of the
asset transferred. Accounting policies of
subsidiaries have been aligned where
necessary to ensure consistency with the
policies adopted by the Group.
Transactions with non-controlling
interests that do not result in a loss of
control are accounted for as equity
transactions – that is, as transactions
with the owners in their capacity as
owners. The difference between fair
value of any consideration paid and the
relevant share acquired of the carrying
value of net assets of the subsidiary is
recorded in equity. Gains or losses on
disposals to non-controlling interests
are also recorded in equity.
Revenue
Revenue is measured by reference to
the fair value of consideration received
by the Group from goods supplied and
services provided to external
customers. Revenue is stated after
deducting rebates, returns and other
similar discounts, and after eliminating
sales between Group companies and is
exclusive of value added tax. Revenue is
recognised upon the performance of
services or when the significant risks
and rewards of ownership are
transferred to a customer, which occurs
on delivery of goods.
Supply of goods
Our Managed Procurement segment
provides a stock and distribution
operation for the supply of stationery
and office products, furniture and
technology products. Revenue is
recognised once the delivery to the
customer has been completed. 
Supply of services
Our Business Critical Services segment
is a service based operation providing
print management, document
management, marketing services, direct
marketing and professional consultancy
and on and off site shredding services.
The value attributed to the service is
determined through contractual prices
agreed prior to the commencement of
the work with the customer. Where
there are retained customer
arrangements and a range of services
are provided, the revenue for each
separate service is recognised when all
the elements of that service are
complete; each separate service is
generally subject to specific pricing.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a
manner consistent with the internal
reporting provided to the chief
operating decision-maker.  The chief
operating decision-maker, which is
responsible for allocating resources and
assessing performance of the operating
segments, has been identified as the
Executive Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation
The financial information in this report is
presented in Sterling, the functional and
presentational currency of the Company ,
rounded to the nearest thousand.
T ransactions denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into Sterling at
the rate of exchange ruling at the date of
transaction. All realised foreign
exchange differences are taken to the
income statement. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into Sterling at
the rates of exchange ruling at the
balance sheet date and are recognised in
the income statement.
The results and financial position of the
Group entities that have a functional
currency different from the
presentational currency are translated
into the presentational currency as
follows:
●
assets and liabilities for each balance
sheet presented are translated at the
closing rate at the date of that
balance sheet;
●
income and expenses for each income
statement are translated at average
exchange rates (unless this average is
not a reasonable approximation of
the cumulative effect of the rates
prevailing on the transaction dates, in
which case income and expenses are
translated at the rate on the dates of
the transactions); and
●
all resulting exchange differences are
recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income.
Non-recurring costs
Non-recurring costs are those significant
items which are separately disclosed by
virtue of their size or incidence to enable
a full understanding of the Group’s
financial performance.  T ransactions
which may give rise to non-recurring
costs are principally restructuring
related and business start-up costs,
costs in respect of key management
changes, transaction costs incurred in
respect of business combinations and
costs associated with the closure of
employee pension schemes.
Business combinations and
goodwill
The Group recognises intangible assets
as part of business combinations at fair
value at the date of acquisition. The
determination of these fair values is
based upon management’s judgement
and includes assumptions on the timing
and amount of future incremental cash
flows generated by the assets acquired
and the selection of an appropriate cost
of capital. The useful lives of intangible
assets are estimated and amortisation
charged on a straight-line basis. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 40
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
Goodwill arising on consolidation
represents the excess of the cost of an
acquisition over the fair value of the
Group’s share of the net assets/net
liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at
the date of acquisition. If the cost of
acquisition is less than the fair value of
the Group’s share of the net assets/net
liabilities of the acquired entity (i.e. a
discount on acquisition) then the
difference is credited to the income
statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating
units for the purposes of impairment
testing and is tested annually for
impairment (refer to impairment of
assets policy) and carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses. 
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary ,
goodwill acquired is recognised as an
asset and is allocated to each of the cash-
generating units expected to benefit
from the business combination’s
synergies and to the lowest level at which
management monitors the goodwill. 
On disposal of a subsidiary the
attributable amount of goodwill is
included in the determination of the
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill acquired up to 31 December
2003 was capitalised and amortised
over its useful economic life. As
permitted by IFRS1, ‘First-time
Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards’ , the classification
and accounting treatment of business
combinations made prior to 1 January
2004 was not amended on transition
to IFRS. 
Other intangible assets
Customer relationships
Customer relationships are recognised
as intangible assets at the fair value of
the consideration paid to acquire them
less provisions for amortisation and
impairment. The fair value attributed to
the customer relationships acquired
through a business combination is
determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows to be generated from
that asset at the risk adjusted, post tax,
weighted average cost of capital at the
time of the acquisition for that business
combination. The residual values of
customer relationships are assumed to
be £nil.
Amortisation is provided so as to write
off the cost of the customer
relationships over the expected
economic lives of the asset in equal
annual instalments as follows:
Customer relationships arising on the
acquisition of:
T ripleArc plc
(BMC) 10 years
Accord Office Supplies Limited
(Accord) 10 years
The Print Factory (London) 1991
Limited and DSR Group Limited
(BMC) 10 years
Martin Luck Limited – Newbury branch
(Accord) 10 years
Brands
Brands are recognised as intangible
assets at the fair value of the
consideration paid to acquire them less
provisions for amortisation and
impairment. The fair value attributed to
the brands acquired through a business
combination is determined by
discounting the expected future cash
flows that would be generated by a
royalty stream in respect of the brands,
at the risk adjusted, post tax, weighted
average cost of capital at the time of the
acquisition for that business
combination. The residual values of
brands are assumed to be £nil.
Amortisation is provided so as to write
off the cost of the brands over the
expected economic lives of the asset in
equal annual instalments as follows:
T ripleArc plc 
(BMC) 10 years
Accord Office Supplies Limited
(Accord) 10 years
Software
Software is recognised as an intangible
asset at the fair value of the
consideration paid to acquire it less
provisions for amortisation and
impairment.
Software is amortised on a straight line
basis over its useful economic life of
3-5 years.
The amortisation charge in respect of
customer relationships, brands and
software is recognised within
administrative expenses.
Impairment of non-financial
assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life,
for example, goodwill are not subject to
amortisation and are tested annually for
impairment. Assets that are subject to
amortisation or depreciation are
reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. An impairment loss
is recognised for the amount by which
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair
value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing
impairment, assets are grouped at the
lowest levels for which there are
separately identifiable cash flows (cash-
generating units).
In respect of assets other than goodwill,
an impairment loss is reversed if there
has been a change in the estimates used
to determine the recoverable amount. An
impairment loss is reversed only to the
extent that the asset’s carrying amount
does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined, net of
depreciation or amortisation, if no
impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment losses recognised in respect
of goodwill are not subsequently
reversed.
Property, plant and equipment
Property , plant and equipment is stated
at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses. Historical costs
include expenditure that is directly
attributable to the acquisition of the
items. The assets’ residual values and
useful lives are reviewed annually and
adjusted as appropriate.
Subsequent costs are included in the
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as
a separate asset, as appropriate, only
when it is probable that future economic o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 41
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
benefits associated with the item will
flow to the Group and the cost of the
item can be measured reliably . The
carrying amount of the replaced part is
derecognised. All other repairs and
maintenance are charged to the income
statement during the financial period in
which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposal are
determined by comparing the proceeds
with the carrying amount and are
recognised in the income statement.
Depreciation commences in the month
that the assets are fully installed and
commissioned and is provided on a
straight line basis at rates calculated to
write off the cost, less estimated
residual value, of each asset over its
expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold land and buildings
– over 40 years
Short leasehold land and buildings
– over the lease term
Plant and machinery
– over 4 to 15 years
Office equipment
– over 3 to 10 years
The depreciation charge in respect of
freehold land and buildings, short
leasehold land and buildings, plant and
machinery and office equipment is
recognised within distribution costs and
administrative expenses.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements,
investments in subsidiary undertakings
are initially stated at cost, being the fair
value of the consideration given.
Investments are reviewed where an
indication of impairment exists.  An
impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying
amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of
an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
value in use.
Leased assets
Assets held under finance leases, as
defined under IAS 17, ‘Leases’ , are
capitalised and included as part of
property , plant and equipment. They are
depreciated over their useful lives or the
lease term (if shorter). The capital
elements of future obligations under
finance leases are included as liabilities
in the balance sheet. The interest
element of the rental obligations is
charged to the income statement over
the period of the lease and represents a
constant proportion of the balance of
capital repayments outstanding.
Leases in which a significant proportion
of the risks and rewards of ownership
are retained by the lessor are classified
as operating leases. Rentals payable
under operating leases are charged to
the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an
incentive to enter a lease are spread
evenly over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories comprise of finished goods
and goods held for resale and are stated
at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost includes all expenditure directly
attributable to bringing each product to
its present location and condition on a
first in first out method. Net realisable
value is based on estimated selling price
less further costs expected to be incurred
to completion and disposal.
Provision for obsolete, slow moving and
defective inventories are made on a line
by line basis, where necessary , in order to
reduce inventory to the lower of cost or
net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents shown on the
balance sheet comprise cash balances
and deposits with banks that have a
maturity of three months or less from
the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts are shown within
borrowings in current liabilities on the
balance sheet, but are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents
for the purposes of the cash flow
statement as they form an integral part
of the Group’s cash management.
Bank overdrafts include cash book
overdrafts and confidential invoice
discounting arrangements whereby the
amount borrowed is limited to a
proportion of the trade receivables.
Provisions
The Group makes provision for
liabilities when it has a legal or
constructive obligation arising from a
past event; it is probable that an
outflow of resources will be required to
settle the obligation; and the amount
can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions for property dilapidations
represent the current estimated costs to
repair leased properties which are
required to be made good before the
properties are returned at the end of the
leases. Provisions are made on a
property by property basis and the
timing of the utilisation will differ for
each property .
Provisions for onerous leases are
recognised when the Group believes that
the unavoidable costs of meeting the
lease obligations exceed the economic
benefits expected to be received under
the lease. 
Provisions are measured at the present
value of the expenditures expected to
be required to settle the obligation
using a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value
of money and the risks specific to the
obligation. The increase in the provision
due to passage of time is recognised as
interest expense.
Retirement benefit costs
Group companies operate both defined
benefit and defined contribution pension
plans.
The Group maintains a defined benefit
pension scheme for former employees of
Her Majesty’s Stationery Office, which
requires contributions to be made to a
separately administered fund. The
scheme currently has 162 members and
is closed to new members. The scheme
closed to future accrual on 31 December
2011. The scheme is administered by
trustee directors of Banner Business
Supplies (Pensions) Limited, which is a o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 42
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
wholly owned subsidiary of office2office
(UK) plc, a subsidiary company of
office2office plc.
The net surplus or deficit of the defined
benefit pension scheme is calculated in
accordance with IAS 19, ‘Employee
Benefits’ , based on the fair value of the
plan assets less the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance
sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent
actuaries using the projected unit credit
method. The present value of defined
benefit obligations is determined by
discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using interest rates of high-
quality corporate bonds that are
determined in the currency in which the
benefits will be paid, and have terms to
maturity approximating to the terms of
the related pension liability .
The Group has, in respect of IAS 19
and IFRS 1, adopted the corridor
approach to account for its pension
scheme liability. As a result, all
cumulative actuarial gains and losses
at the date of transition to IFRS (1
January 2004) have been taken
directly to reserves. In respect of
actuarial gains and losses that arise
subsequent to that date, to the extent
that, cumulatively, they exceed 10 per
cent of the greater of the present value
of the defined benefit obligation and
the fair value of the plan assets, that
portion is recognised in the income
statement over the expected average
remaining working lives of the
employees participating in the plan
from the accounting period following
the year of exceeding the corridor.
Otherwise, the accumulated actuarial
gains and losses are not recognised.
Where the actuarial valuation of the
scheme demonstrates that the scheme
is in surplus, the recognised asset is
limited to that for which the Group can
benefit in future, for example, by refunds
or a reduction in contributions.
The cost charged to administrative
expenses in the income statement
consists of current service cost, interest
cost, expected return on plan assets and
the impact of any settlements or
curtailments, as well as actuarial gains or
losses to the extent that they are
recognised.
A valuation is performed annually by an
independent actuary . Further details in
respect of the assumptions used in
providing the valuation are included in
note 24 to the financial statements.
Since 30 September 1996, all new
employees have been eligible to join the
Group’s personal pension scheme,
which is a defined contribution scheme.
Contributions to defined contribution
arrangements are charged to the
income statement in the period in which
they fall due.  The assets of the scheme
are held separately from those of the
Group in an independently
administered fund.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-
based compensation schemes
including a SA YE scheme which is open
to all employees. The fair value of the
employee services received in
exchange for the grant of options
(approximated by reference to the fair
value of the option granted) is
recognised as an expense. The fair
value of the option is measured at
grant date and spread over the vesting
period (which is the period over which
all of the specified vesting conditions
are to be satisfied) through the income
statement with a corresponding
increase in equity. The fair value of the
share options and awards are
measured using an option-pricing
model taking into account the terms
and conditions of the individual
schemes. The fair value of options
awarded under schemes with market
based performance conditions is
estimated using a Monte-Carlo model.
The fair value of options awarded
under schemes with non-market based
performance conditions is estimated
using a Black-Scholes model.
Shares purchased through the employee
benefit trust (EBT) are held at cost and
treated as T reasury Shares and are
deducted from retained earnings. The
right to a dividend and voting rights on
these shares has been waived. 
When options are exercised, the
Company sells shares through the EBT
to satisfy the options.
The Group makes charges to the income
statement for any potential employer’s
national insurance liability on options
granted, based on the Director’s best
estimate of the fair value of the options
granted at the balance sheet date and
spread over the vesting period of the
option.
The fair value of the options granted
under the various schemes has been
accounted for in the Group’s financial
statements. Where these amounts are in
respect of subsidiaries they are
accounted for as an adjustment to the
Company’s carrying value of
investments. 
At each balance sheet date, the
Company revises its estimate of the
number of options that are going to vest.
The Group recognises the impact of any
revision to original estimates, if any , in
the income statement, with a
corresponding adjustment to equity . The
proceeds on exercise of options, net of
any directly attributable transaction
costs, are credited to share capital (at
nominal value) and share premium when
the options are exercised.
Current and deferred income
tax
The tax charge for the period comprises
both current and deferred tax. T ax is
recognised in the income statement
except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised directly in equity , in
which case it is recognised in equity .
Current tax is the expected tax payable
on the taxable income for the period and
any adjustment to tax payable in respect
of previous periods, and is calculated on
the basis of tax rates (and laws) that
have been enacted by the balance sheet
date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the
balance sheet liability method on
temporary differences between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying value for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is determined on a non- o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 43
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
discounted basis using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date and which are expected to
apply when the related deferred tax
asset is realised or deferred tax liability
is settled. 
Where the intrinsic value of a share
option exceeds the fair value, the
corresponding deferred tax on the
excess is recognised directly in equity .
A deferred tax asset is recognised only
to the extent that it is probable that
sufficient taxable profit will be available
to utilise the temporary difference.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities
are recognised on the Group’s balance
sheet when the Group becomes a party
to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.
The Group classifies its financial
assets and liabilities in the following
categories: loans and receivables, and
other financial liabilities. The
classification depends on the purpose
for which the financial assets or
liabilities were acquired. Management
determines the classification of its
financial assets and liabilities at initial
recognition. The classification of
financial liabilities is determined in
accordance with IFRS 7 taking account
of the repayment profile of the
liability.  For those with fixed or
determinable payment profiles the
amounts are recognised as either
current liabilities or, where amounts
are not due for more than 12 months
after the reporting period, as non-
current liabilities.
T rade receivables
T rade receivables are recognised initially
at fair value and subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective
interest method, less provision for
impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when
there is objective evidence that the
Group will not be able to collect all
amounts due according to the original
terms of the receivables. Significant
financial difficulties of the debtor,
probability that the debtor will enter
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation
and default or delinquency in payments
(more than 60 days overdue) are
considered indicators that the trade
receivable is impaired. The amount of
the provision is the difference between
the asset’s carrying amount and the
present value of estimated future cash
flows. The carrying amount of the asset
is reduced through the use of an
allowance account and the amount of the
loss is recognised in the income
statement within cost of sales. When a
trade receivable is uncollectable, it is
written off against the allowance
account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts
previously written off are credited
against cost of sales in the income
statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at
fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost; any difference between
the proceeds (net of transaction costs)
and the redemption value is recognised
in the income statement over the period
of the borrowings using the effective
interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current
liabilities unless the Group has an
unconditional right to defer settlement
of the liability for at least 12 months
after the balance sheet date.
T rade payables
T rade payables are not interest bearing
and are recognised initially at fair value
and subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the
Company are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue
costs. Where any Group company
purchases the Company’s equity share
capital (treasury shares), the
consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental
costs (net of income taxes) is
deducted from equity attributable to
the Company’s owners until the shares
are cancelled or reissued. Where such
shares are subsequently reissued, any
consideration received, net of any
directly attributable incremental
transaction costs and the related
income tax effects, is included in
equity attributable to the Company’s
owners. 
The Group assesses at each balance
sheet date whether there is objective
evidence that a financial asset or a group
of financial assets is impaired.
The above financial assets and liabilities
are grouped as follows:
●
Cash and cash equivalents and trade
and other receivables (excluding
prepayments) are classified as loans
and receivables for the purpose of
IFRS 7.
●
Borrowings, finance leases and trade
and other payables (excluding
statutory liabilities) are classified as
other financial liabilities at amortised
cost for the purpose of IFRS 7.
Dividends
Distributions to owners are disclosed as
a component of the movement in the
statement of changes in shareholders’
equity . A liability is recorded for a final
dividend when the dividend is approved
by the Company’s shareholders. Interim
dividends are recognised in the period in
which they are paid. 
Use of non-GAAP profit
measures
The Directors believe that the use of
underlying profit before income tax
provides a clearer understanding of the
performance of the Group. This measure
is used for internal performance
analysis. Underlying profit is not defined
by IFRS and therefore may not be
directly comparable with other
companies’ adjusted profit measures. It
is not intended to be a substitute for, or
superior, to IFRS measurements of
profit. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 44
Significant Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2011
Underlying profit is calculated as follows:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 4,290 4,632
Add:
Share option charges (note 26) 409 138
Non-recurring costs (note 5) 2,398 5,336
Negative goodwill - (188)
Amortisation of intangibles (note 12) 1,315 1,258
Underlying profit before income tax 8,412 11,176
* Restated for adjustments arising from prior year business combinations relating to
negative goodwill (decrease of £56,000), amortisation of intangible assets (decrease of
£108,000) and deferred income tax expense (increase of £102,000) resulting in no
change to underlying profit before tax and a £50,000 reduction in profit after tax in
2010 (refer to note 2 to the financial statements). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 45
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, commodity price risk and cash
flow and fair value interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
(a) Market risk
(i) Currency risk
The Group operates in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland and, accordingly, has limited exposure to foreign exchange
risk. Currency risk is managed by matching, where possible, cash inflows and outflows denominated in Euros.
The Group does not currently hedge any foreign currency transactions but continues to keep this policy under review.
Management have considered and concluded that a movement of 10% would be a reasonable benchmark over which to
determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to foreign exchange rate risk, because a movement of this magnitude is
considered to be a reasonable approximation of movements that could be expected to occur.  For the year ended 31 December
2011, if the Euro had weakened/strengthened by 10% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit and
the movement in net assets for the year would have been £75,000 (2010: £84,000) lower/higher, as a result of foreign exchange
gains/losses on translation of the Euro-denominated transactions and monetary assets and liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss.
The calculation applied in determining the impact of a 10% movement in exchange rates is based upon adjusting the average
exchange rates by 10% on the Euro denominated transactions.
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group has exposure to changes in commodity prices such as steel, oil and paper (including supplier price increases as a result
of foreign exchange movements), which form a constituent part of many of the products sold. It is the policy of the Group to pass
on these unavoidable cost price increases to customers as appropriate.
The Group does not currently hedge its exposure to commodity prices but continues to keep this policy under review.
Management have considered and concluded that a movement of 1% in gross margin percentage would be a reasonable
benchmark over which to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to commodity price risk, because a movement of
this magnitude is considered to be a reasonable approximation of movements that could expect to be incurred by the Group.  For
the year ended 31 December 2011, if the gross margin percentage had weakened/strengthened by 1% with all other variables
held constant, gross profit for the year would have been £1,935,000 (2010: £2,076,000) lower/higher.
(iii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has interest-bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents.  The Company has interest bearing assets in the
form of loans to subsidiary companies. Therefore interest income is sensitive to movements in interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk predominantly arises from short and long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates
expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate
risk. During 2010 and 2011, the Group’s borrowings, other than in respect of finance leases, were all at variable rates and all
borrowings were denominated in Sterling.
The Group continues to keep its policy of not hedging its exposure to interest rate movements under review.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, management have considered and concluded that a movement of 100 basis points would
be a reasonable benchmark over which to determine the sensitivity of the Group’s performance to interest rate risk, because a
movement of this magnitude is considered to be a reasonable approximation of movements that could be expected to occur. If
interest rates on borrowings had been 100 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the
year would have been £339,000 (2010: £238,000) lower/higher, as a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating rate
borrowings.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial
institutions as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
For banks and financial institutions only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘ A ’ are accepted in normal
circumstances.
1. Financial risk management o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 46
Internally, customers are rated according to financial position, history of trading and other factors. Individual credit limits are
based on internal and external ratings, in accordance with limits set by management. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly
monitored. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s diverse customer base.
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount
of committed credit facilities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and
cash equivalents) on the basis of expected cash flows.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts shown are contractual (including interest), undiscounted cash flows. 
At 31 December 2011 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£000 £000 £000 £000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 11,888 4,101 14,583 -
Finance leases 327 341 97 16
Trade payables and accrued expenses 45,219 -- -
57,434 4,442 14,680 16
At 31 December 2010 Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
£000 £000 £000 £000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 14,697 7,958 12,613 -
Finance leases 344 367 356 23
Trade payables and accrued expenses 36,742 -- -
51,783 8,325 12,969 23
There have been no breaches in the contractual terms of the amounts shown above.
Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities was as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Fixed-rate borrowings 725 1,013
V ariable-rate borrowings 28,667 34,052
29,392 35,065
The fixed-rate borrowings comprise finance leases with an effective weighted average interest rate of 3.9% (2010: 3.8%), fixed
for a weighted average period of 2.3 years (2010: 2.7 years).
In addition to short-term borrowing facilities, the Group refinanced a £20,000,000 loan on 19 May 2011. The loan is repayable in
instalments between June 2012 and June 2015, with interest charged at a floating rate linked to LIBOR. A maturity analysis is
provided at note 20 to the financial statements.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 47
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
Currency risk profile of financial assets/liabilities
The Group did not have a material exposure to foreign exchange gains or losses on financial assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at 31 December 2011 and has not used any instruments to hedge foreign currency transactions.
Financial assets/(liabilities) relating to cash balances and overdrafts held at financial institutions are at floating rates
denominated in the currency held below:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Sterling - deposits 824 2,914
Sterling - bank overdrafts (8,667) (11,552)
(7,843) (8,638)
Euro - deposits 345 779
(7,498) (7,859)
There is no material currency risk relating to other financial assets or liabilities.
Fair values of financial instruments
See note 20 for consideration of the differences between the carrying amount and the fair value of borrowings. The fair value of
other financial assets and liabilities is not materially different to their book value due to the short term maturity of the instruments. 
Committed and uncommitted undrawn facilities
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Gross undrawn committed confidential invoice discounting facility 18,290 20,000
Gross undrawn uncommitted confidential invoice discounting facility - 1,200
Revolving credit facility 3,000 -
Cash book overdraft (1,957) (11,552)
Net undrawn facilities 19,333 9,648
Bank balances 1,169 3,693
Available liquidity 20,502 13,341
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had drawn £6,710,000 against its committed and uncommitted invoice discounting facility.
At that date the Group had a cash book overdraft of £1,957,000 (2010: £11,552,000) and bank balances of £1,169,000 (2010:
£3,693,000). If all payments had cleared on the day of issue, the Group would have had net available liquidity of £20,502,000
(2010: £13,341,000).
The confidential invoice discounting facility is a committed facility, subject to sufficient security from trade receivables, expiring
in June 2015.
The Group has sufficient headroom to enable it to conform to covenants on its existing borrowings. The Group has sufficient
working capital and undrawn financing facilities to service its operating activities and finance further suitable acquisition
opportunities should they arise.
There have been no breaches in the covenants on borrowings in the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date of signing
the financial statements.
Capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as facilities plus total shareholders’ equity, so as to maintain
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Within this overall policy, the Group
seeks to maintain an optimum capital structure by a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed
periodically and also each time a significant acquisition is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net
debt/earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) ratio, future funding needs (usually potential
acquisitions) and Group banking arrangements (including the monitoring of debt covenants over current funding arrangements).
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. The primary source of funding for the
Group is bank borrowings. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 48
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, retain
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of gearing ratio, calculated as net debt divided by
total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings, less cash) as shown in the
balance sheet. T otal equity is defined as total equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet. T otal capital is calculated as
total equity plus net debt.
During 2011, the Group reduced its gearing ratio from 58% to 55%. The gearing ratios at 31 December 2011 and 2010 were as
follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
T otal borrowings (note 20) 28,819 35,065
Less: cash and cash equivalents (note 18) (1,169) (3,693)
Net debt 27,650 31,372
T otal equity 22,842 22,301
T otal capital 50,492 53,673
Gearing ratio 55% 58%
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition,
seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Restatement of comparative balances 
Adjustments have been made to the acquisition accounting for business combinations made in February 2010. These
adjustments are in respect of the recognition of deferred tax liabilities on identified customer relationships and, relatedly, to the
value of these customer relationships which were both overstated in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts. As this is outside the
hindsight period these are made as prior year adjustments and have no effect on 2010 Underlying Profit before Income T ax of
£11,176,000 and decrease profit after tax by £50,000.
The effect of these prior year adjustments is to decrease the negative goodwill arising on the business combinations by £56,000,
to reduce the amortisation of intangible assets by £108,000 and to increase the deferred tax charge by £102,000. Adjustments
have been reflected in the restated Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income,
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2010 for these amounts. 
At 31 December 2010, the balance sheet has been adjusted for a reduction in the value attributed to customer relationships of
£1,099,000 and a reduction in the deferred income tax liability of £1,049,000. 
As the restatement relates only to the financial information previously presented in the 2010 financial statements, no additional
balance sheet is presented in respect of earlier periods.
Determination of cash flows, discount rates used in business combinations and impairment reviews of goodwill and
other intangibles
Discount rates are determined by management for the purpose of valuing fair values of intangible assets arising on business
combinations and to determine the net present value of cash flows in respect of annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
intangibles when appropriate.
The discount rates used for the purpose of impairment reviews are based on the appropriate cost of capital adjusted for
management’s perceived risk. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 49
The cash flows attributable to the cash-generating unit to which goodwill (and, when appropriate, other intangibles) is allocated,
are based on managements’ best estimates of future profitability and the resulting cash flows.
While management believe the discount rates and cash flows used are the most appropriate rates, changes in these assumptions
could result in impairment of goodwill, other intangibles, or in the fair value of intangibles in respect of business combinations
differing to the values recorded.
Income tax
The Group is subject to income tax in both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Significant judgement is required in
determining the provision for income tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination
is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts
that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such
determination is made.
Assets and liabilities
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that
are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Impairment of inventories
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and damaged stock. This provision represents the difference
between the cost of the stock and its estimated market value, based upon stock turn rates, market conditions and trends in
consumer demand.
Allowances for doubtful receivables
Allowances are made for doubtful receivables for estimated losses resulting from the subsequent inability of customers to make
required payments. If the financial conditions of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payments, additional allowances may be required in future periods.
Pensions
The determination of the pension benefit obligation and expense for the defined benefit pension plan is dependent on the
selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions are described in note 24 to
the financial statements and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of increase in future
compensation levels and expected mortality rates. A portion of the plan assets are invested in equity securities. The equity
markets have experienced volatility, which has affected the value of the pension plan assets. This volatility may make it difficult
to estimate the long-term rate of return on plan assets. Assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data
regarding compensation and discount rate trends. While the Directors believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant
differences in the actual experience or significant changes in the assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and
the future expense.
Share based payments
The fair value of options awarded under schemes with market based performance conditions is estimated using a Monte-Carlo
model. The fair value of options awarded under schemes with non-market based performance conditions is estimated using a
Black-Scholes model. These models require the use of estimates and forward looking projections.
3. Segmental information 
IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’ , requires a ‘management approach’ , under which segment information is presented on the same
basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.  The operating segments are identified on the basis of internal reports
regularly reviewed by the Executive Board of Directors, the Executive Board of Directors being the chief operating decision-
maker, in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their respective performance.
The Board considers the business from a service perspective.  The Group is organised into two business segments:
●
Managed Procurement; and 
●
Business Critical Services.
The business units of each reportable segment (Banner Business Services and Accord in respect of Managed Procurement and
Banner Managed Communication and Banner Document Services in respect of Business Critical Services), do not qualify as
reportable segments as decisions about the allocation of resources and the assessment of performance are not made at this level.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 50
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The Board assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted earnings before interest,
taxation and amortisation (EBITA).  This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the
operating segments, such as restructuring costs. An analysis of intangible assets and amortisation, although not included in the
performance measure for the segments, have been included to aid the reader. Other information provided to the Board, except as
noted below, is measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial statements.
T otal assets include the bank balance of office2office plc, which is managed for the basis of dividend distributions. As at 31
December 2011 the bank balance was £nil (2010: £nil). This is part of the reconciliation to total balance sheet assets.
Business
Managed Critical
Procurement Services Total
£000 £000 £000
Y ear ended 31 December 2011
Revenue 130,979 62,519 193,498
Adjusted EBITA 13,502 6,550 20,052
Y ear ended 31 December 2010
Revenue 145,660 61,971 207,631
Adjusted EBITA 16,397 5,435 21,832
Total Assets
31 December 2011 50,105 52,178 102,283
31 December 2010* 52,123 50,886 103,009
Additions to property, plant and equipment
31 December 2011 851 109 960
31 December 2010 342 150 492
Depreciation
31 December 2011 (461) (334) (795)
31 December 2010 (449) (355) (804)
Intangible assets
31 December 2011 20,475 38,196 58,671
31 December 2010* 20,729 39,257 59,986
Amortisation
31 December 2011 (254) (1,061) (1,315)
31 December 2010* (198) (1,060) (1,258)
A reconciliation of total adjusted EBITA to profit before income tax is provided as follows:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Adjusted EBITA for reportable segments 20,052 21,832
Central costs (10,085) (9,656)
Finance costs (1,555) (1,000)
Underlying profit before income tax 8,412 11,176
Share option expense (409) (138)
Non-recurring costs (2,398) (5,336)
Negative goodwill - 188
Amortisation (1,315) (1,258)
Profit before income tax 4,290 4,632
* Restated refer to note 2. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 51
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
Reportable segments’ assets are reconciled to total assets as follows:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
T otal segment assets 102,283 103,009
Unallocated:
Short leasehold land and buildings - head office 406 463
Total assets per balance sheet 102,689 103,472
* Restated refer to note 2.
Revenue generated by geographical segment:
2011 2010
£000 £000
United Kingdom 189,829 203,524
Republic of Ireland 3,669 4,107
Total 193,498 207,631
Of the revenues generated in the United Kingdom £188,059,000 (2010: £201,163,000) are generated from customers in the
United Kingdom and the total of revenues from customers from other countries is £1,770,000 (2010: £2,361,000).  All of the
revenues in respect of the Republic of Ireland are generated from customers in the Republic of Ireland.  Of the total assets in the
United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland £62,092,000 (2010: £63,154,000) and £nil (2010: £nil) respectively relate to non-
current assets (other than deferred tax assets).
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment of £960,000 (2010: £492,000) was incurred in the United Kingdom.  Expenditure
on intangible fixed assets of £nil (2010: £nil) was incurred in the United Kingdom. No amounts in respect of expenditure on
property, plant and equipment or intangible fixed assets were incurred in the Republic of Ireland.
No single customer generates more than 10% of total revenues.
4. Expenses by nature
2011 2010*
Group £000 £000
Changes in inventories of finished goods and consumption of goods held for resale 138,070 148,513
Employee benefit expense (note 6a) 28,742 30,435
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 13) 795 804
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12) 1,315 1,258
Negative goodwill - (188)
Non-recurring costs (note 5) 2,398 5,336
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (19) 194
Impairment to trade and other receivables (191) 110
Operating lease payments 3,249 2,836
Other operating costs 13,294 12,701
Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 187,653 201,999
* Restated refer to note 2. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 52
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
5. Non-recurring costs/(credits)
The amounts recognised as non-recurring costs/(credits) are as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Compensation payments 1,264 1,832
Transaction costs in respect of business combinations - 201
Business and strategic review costs 734 3,303
Net curtailment gain on cessation of defined benefit scheme (333) -
Business start up costs 733 -
2,398 5,336
Compensation payments relate to amounts paid to ex-employees of Group companies.  Transaction costs in respect to business
combinations are costs incurred which did not qualify to be capitalised. Business and strategic review costs relate to costs
incurred by the Group in relation to management’s commitment to improve operational efficiency. Business start up costs relate
to costs incurred with setting up the Truline business. The curtailment gain arises following the closure of the defined benefit
pension scheme to future accrual, net of costs incurred.
6a. Employee benefit expense
2011 2010
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 25,508 26,668
Social security costs 2,594 2,613
Share based payments (note 26) 342 135
Pension costs - defined benefit (note 24) (378) 402
- defined contribution (note 24) 676 617
28,742 30,435
Included within the above figures are compensation payments to ex-employees of £1,264,000 (2010: £1,832,000).
Key management compensation
The employment costs of key management personnel (including executive Directors) during the year were as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits 2,026 2,286
Post-retirement benefits 146 161
Share based payments 299 121
2,471 2,568
Key management are the executive Directors and the senior management teams of the trading divisions.
A detailed numerical analysis of Directors’ remuneration and share options forms part of these financial statements. This
analysis is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 29 and shows the highest paid Director and the number
of Directors accruing benefits under money-purchase personal pension schemes. 
6b. Average number of people employed
2011 2010
Number Number
Average monthly number of people (including executive Directors) employed:
Sales and marketing 388 436
Production and distribution 394 400
Administration 129 123
911 959 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 53
7. Auditor’s remuneration
Services provided by the Company’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiary) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors and its
associates:
2011 2010
Group £000 £000
Fees payable to Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 45 45
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services expensed in the income statement:
- audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 77 78
- interim review fee 10 7
- tax services 20 20
152 150
8. Finance costs
2011 2010
Group £000 £000
Finance costs:
- bank loans and overdrafts (1,102) (559)
- finance lease liabilities (55) (38)
- other financial charges (119) (123)
- customer procurement card charge (279) (280)
(1,555) (1,000)
9. Income tax (credit)/expense
2011 2010*
Group £000 £000
Current tax
United Kingdom corporation tax on profits of the year 792 1,665
Adjustments in respect of prior years (816) (519)
(24) 1,146
Deferred tax (note 15)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 278 (297)
Impact of change in the UK tax rate (84) (54)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (192) (459)
2 (810)
(22) 336
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 54
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
Tax on items charged to equity
2011 2010
£000 £000
Deferred tax credit on share options (note 15) (6) (14)
The Group tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax of 26.5%. The differences are explained below:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 4,290 4,632
Income tax at the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 26.5% (2010: 28%) 1,137 1,297
T ax effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 60 124
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (127) -
Negative goodwill not taxable - (53)
Re-measurement of deferred tax - change in the UK tax rate (84) (54)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,008) (978)
T otal tax charge for the year (22) 336
* Restated refer to note 2.
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Current tax
The adjustment relates to the utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses £522,000 (2010: £519,000) and differences
between the tax charged to the income statement and the submitted return £294,000 (2010: £nil). Unrecognised tax losses
related predominantly to business combinations arising in 2008 where at the time there was significant uncertainty with regard
to the Group’s ability to utilise them. Subsequently greater clarification with regard to their future offset has been obtained.
Deferred tax
The adjustment relates to the recognition of a tax asset on trading losses available for offset in future periods £241,000 (2010:
£nil) and adjustments in respect of prior period estimates £49,000 (2010: £459,000).
Factors affecting future tax charges 
The effective tax rate in the near future is anticipated to be similar to the standard rate of corporation tax.
During the year, the relevant deferred tax balances have been re-measured as a result of the change in the UK main corporation
tax rate to 26%, which was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and was effective from 1 April 2011; and to 25% which
was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011 and will be effective from 1 April 2012, further reductions to the UK corporation tax
rate were announced in the March 2011 Budget.  The changes which are expected to be enacted separately each year, propose to
reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.  The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
Details with regard to the availability of unrecognised tax losses that may be offset against future taxable profits are given in
note 15.
10. Dividends
2011 2010
£000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions in the year in respect of:
Ordinary shares - interim dividend 2011 – 3.6p per share (1,297) -
Ordinary shares - final dividend 2010 – 7.8p per share (2,798) -
Ordinary shares - interim dividend 2010 – 3.6p per share - (1,292)
Ordinary shares - final dividend 2009 – 7.8p per share - (2,793)
(4,095) (4,085)
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 7.8p per Ordinary share (total £2,832,000), payable on 18 May 2012 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012. The dividend has not been included as a liability as at
31 December 2011. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 55
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
11. Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number
of Ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding Ordinary shares held by the EBT .
2011 2010*
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 4,312 4,296
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,974 35,828
Basic earnings per share (pence) 12.0 12.0
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding to assume
conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares. The Company has one category of dilutive potential Ordinary shares, being
share options. For share options, a calculation is undertaken to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at
fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the
subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the
number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
2011 2010*
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 4,312 4,296
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,974 35,828
Adjusted for share options ('000) 95 80
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share ('000) 36,069 35,908
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 12.0 12.0
(c) Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after tax (before the after tax effect of non-
recurring costs, amortisation and share option expense) by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the
year excluding Ordinary shares held by the EBT . 
2011 2010*
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 4,312 4,296
Amortisation (net of tax) 966 718
Share option expense 409 138
Non-recurring costs (net of tax) 1,763 3,842
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 7,450 8,994
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,974 35,828
Underlying earnings per share (pence per share) 20.7 25.1 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 56
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
12. Intangible assets
Customer
Goodwill relationships Brands Software Total
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 50,253 8,503 3,938 201 62,895
At 31 December 2011 50,253 8,503 3,938 201 62,895
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2011 - (1,700) (1,034) (175) (2,909)
Amortisation for the year - (890) (402) (23) (1,315)
At 31 December 2011 - (2,590) (1,436) (198) (4,224)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2011 50,253 5,913 2,502 3 58,671
Customer
Goodwill relationships* Brands Software Total
2010 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 50,253 5,593 3,938 201 59,985
Additions arising on business combinations - 2,910 -- 2,910
At 31 December 2010 50,253 8,503 3,938 201 62,895
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 - (906) (637) (108) (1,651)
Amortisation for the year - (794) (397) (67) (1,258)
At 31 December 2010 - (1,700) (1,034) (175) (2,909)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 50,253 6,803 2,904 26 59,986
* Restated refer to note 2.
(d) Underlying diluted earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after tax (before the after tax effect of non-
recurring costs, amortisation and share option expense) by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the
year excluding Ordinary shares held by the EBT . 
2011 2010*
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 4,312 4,296
Amortisation (net of tax) 966 718
Share option expense 409 138
Non-recurring costs (net of tax) 1,763 3,842
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the Company (£000) 7,450 8,994
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue ('000) 35,974 35,828
Adjusted for share options ('000) 95 80
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share ('000) 36,069 35,908
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence) 20.7 25.0
* Restated refer to note 2. Customer relationships have 8.2 years (2010: 9.2 years) and brands have 6.5 years (2010: 7.5 years) before the assets are
written down in full.  Software costs are amortised over three to five years from date of purchase.
Company
The Company had no intangible assets (2010: none).
Impairment of goodwill
In accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’ , the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its goodwill and reviews it
annually or more regularly if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. For the purposes of assessing impairment,
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units) and
goodwill is allocated to these cash-generating units. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-
generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The components of goodwill by business segment are shown below:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Managed Procurement 19,116 19,116
Business Critical Services 31,137 31,137
50,253 50,253
A review was undertaken at 31 December 2011 to assess whether the carrying value of goodwill was impaired by reference to value
in use calculations. The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts as approved by
the Board of Directors for a five year period and then into perpetuity based on no changes to the underlying strategy of the business.
Cash flow projections beyond the five year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rate referred to below, and are
considered appropriate as it is expected that there will be no significant changes in the operation of these businesses.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculation were:
●
cash flow projections for the five year period are based upon recent observable performance of the Group, including budgeted
gross margin and expected operating cash inflows;
●
the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the Group is 12.0%. The Group believes that the risk profiles relating
to each business segment are not significantly different, hence the same WACC is universally applied across all cash-
generating units; and
●
long-term growth rate of 2.5% which is not greater than the long-term growth assumption for the sector.
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible an impairment would be identified if any of the above key
assumptions were changed significantly. For instance, factors which could cause impairment are:
●
significant underperformance relative to the forecast results;
●
a further deterioration in the wider economy; and
●
an increase in the Group's WACC.
The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows. Management believe the assumptions used are appropriate,
but in addition have conducted sensitivity analysis to determine the changes in assumptions that would result in an impairment.
Based on the results of the current period impairment review, no impairment charges have been recognised by the Group in the
year ended 31 December 2011. Having assessed the anticipated future cash flows the Directors do not consider there to be any
reasonably possible changes in assumptions that would lead to such an impairment charge in the year ended 31 December 2011.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 57
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 58
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
13. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Short
Freehold leasehold
land and land and Plant and Office
buildings buildings machinery equipment Total
2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 944 2,173 2,662 615 6,394
Additions at cost 5 660 138 157 960
Disposals - (24) (281) (175) (480)
At 31 December 2011 949 2,809 2,519 597 6,874
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 (89) (1,187) (1,475) (475) (3,226)
Charge for the year (28) (228) (400) (139) (795)
Disposals - 24 264 175 463
At 31 December 2011 (117) (1,391) (1,611) (439) (3,558)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2011 832 1,418 908 158 3,316
Short
Freehold leasehold
land and land and Plant and Office
buildings buildings machinery equipment Total
2010 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 944 1,955 2,475 523 5,897
Additions arising on business combinations -- 45 8 53
Additions at cost - 218 142 132 492
Disposals -- - (48) (48)
At 31 December 2010 944 2,173 2,662 615 6,394
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2010 (61) (953) (1,088) (368) (2,470)
Charge for the year (28) (234) (387) (155) (804)
Disposals -- - 48 48
At 31 December 2010 (89) (1,187) (1,475) (475) (3,226)
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 855 986 1,187 140 3,168
The net book value of Group plant and equipment held under finance leases was £807,000 (2010: £1,062,000). 
The Group leases various vehicles and machinery under non-cancellable finance lease arrangements.  The lease terms are
between one and six years, and ownership of the assets lie within the Group.
Company 
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2010: none). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 59
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
14. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
2011 2010
£000 £000
At 1 January 8,206 8,068
Options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 409 138
At 31 December 8,615 8,206
The Directors consider that the carrying value of the investment is supported by the value of the underlying assets. 
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Country of 
Name of company Nature of business incorporation Company Subsidiary
office2office (UK) plc Non trading holding company England 100%
Olive 1 Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
Truline Logistics Limited Managed Procurement England 100%
Banner Business Services Limited Managed Procurement England 100%
first2office Ltd Managed Procurement England 100%
esp2office Ltd Managed Procurement England 100%
image2office Ltd Business Critical Services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Ireland) Limited Managed Procurement Republic of Ireland 100%
Banner Document Services Ltd Business Critical Services England 100%
Alpha Office Limited Managed Procurement England 100%
Accord Office Supplies Limited Managed Procurement England 100%
TripleArc Limited Business Critical Services Republic of Ireland 100%
AccessPlus Holdings Limited Non trading holding company England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Services Limited Business Critical Services England 100%
AccessPlus Marketing Logistics Limited Business Critical Services England 100%
Banner Business Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Banner Business Supplies (Pensions) Limited Non trading- trustee for pension England 100%
scheme only
Alpha Data Supplies Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Stationers Limited Non trading England 100%
Alpha Litho Limited Non trading England 100%
Colebrook Services Limited Non trading England 100%
File-It Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Limited Non trading England 100%
AccessPlus Print Management Limited Non trading England 100%
TripleArc UK Limited Non trading England 100%
GL2 Limited Non trading England 100%
Godfrey Lang Limited Non trading England 100%
Adversion Limited Non trading England 100%
Software Stationery Holdings Limited Non trading England 100%
Software Stationery Specialists Limited Non trading England 100%
Banner Managed Services plc Non trading England 100%
Banner Managed Communication Limited Non trading England 100%
All of the above shareholdings are in the subsidiaries’ ordinary share capital.    
% Shareholding o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 60
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
15. Deferred income tax (liability)/asset
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Deferred income tax asset 1,391 1,801
Deferred income tax liability (1,520) (1,934)
(129) (133)
The net deferred income tax liability is estimated to be payable as follows:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
Deferred income tax (liability)/assets:
- to be recovered after more than 1 year 74 102
- to be recovered within 1 year (203) (235)
(129) (133)
The deferred income tax (liability)/asset recognised in the financial statements is as follows:
2011 2010*
£000 £000
T ax effect of timing differences:
Excess of qualifying depreciation over tax allowances 392 595
T ax losses 241 -
Employee share schemes 318 318
Retirement benefit obligations (26) 210
Provisions 440 576
Intangible assets (1,494) (1,832)
(129) (133)
Group 2011 2010 2011 2010*
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 1,801 1,240 (1,934) (2,197)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (note 9) (416) 547 414 263
Credited to equity (note 9) 6 14 - -
At 31 December 1,391 1,801 (1,520) (1,934)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an
intention to settle the balances net. 
Group
Group
Liability Asset
Group o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 61
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The movements in deferred tax assets/(liabilities) during the period is shown below:
Group
(Charged)/
credited to
At the income Credited At
1 Jan 2011 statement to equity 31 Dec 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
Depreciation over tax allowances 595 (203) - 392
Intangible assets (1,832) 338 - (1,494)
Provisions 576 (136) - 440
Retirement benefit obligations 210 (236) - (26)
T ax losses - 241 - 241
Share options 318 (6) 6 318
Total (133) (2) 6 (129)
(Charged)/
credited to
At the income Credited At
1 Jan 2010 statement to equity 31 Dec 2010*
£000 £000 £000 £000
Depreciation over tax allowances 265 330 - 595
Intangible assets (2,199) 367 - (1,832)
Provisions 461 115 - 576
Retirement benefit obligations 250 (40) - 210
Share options 266 38 14 318
Total (957) 810 14 (133)
* Restated refer to note 2..
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for tax losses and short term timing differences to the extent that the
realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group had an unrecognised deferred tax asset relating to trading losses of £nil (2010: £404,000).  Additionally the Group
has not recognised a deferred tax asset relating to non-trade losses of £491,000 (2010: £550,000) as there are no expected
changes in the operating characteristics of the subsidiary to which they relate that would permit utilisation in future periods.
Company
The Company had no provided or unprovided deferred tax balances in either year. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 62
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
16. Inventories
2011 2010
Group £000 £000
Finished goods and goods for resale 8,974 5,993
The Group consumed £138,070,000 (2010: £148,513,000) of inventories during the year.  
The provision to reflect net realisable value being less than cost decreased by £278,000 (2010: decreased by £80,000) during
the year.
Company
The Company held no inventories (2010: £nil).
17. Trade and other receivables
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 24,208 26,062 - -
Less: provision for impairment (871) (1,309) - -
Trade receivables net 23,337 24,753 - -
Prepayments and accrued income 5,573 4,020 - -
Other receivables 55 58 - -
Receivables from related parties (note 30) - - 9,670 9,617
28,965 28,831 9,670 9,617
Receivables from related parties are repayable on demand. Included within receivables from related parties is a loan to Banner
Business Services Limited of £4,300,000 upon which interest is charged at a rate of 1.75% (2010: 1.75%) per annum above
Bank of England base rate. Interest is not charged on the other balances.
Credit risk in respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customers being predominantly comprised of large
companies and public sector entities. As a result, the Directors consider that no further credit risk provision is required in excess
of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling 27,704 27,005 9,670 9,617
Euro 1,175 1,826 - -
US Dollar 86 - - -
28,965 28,831 9,670 9,617
Group
Trade receivables that are not past due, amounting to £11,551,000 (2010: £12,890,000) are not considered impaired as
amounts within this category generally relate to a number of independent customers for which there is no recent history of
default. As of 31 December 2011, trade receivables of £11,080,000 (2010: £10,718,000) were past due but not impaired. The
analysis of these trade receivables (by reference to due date) are aged as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Up to 1 month past due 8,899 8,943
Over 1 month past due 2,181 1,775
11,080 10,718
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 63
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
As of 31 December 2011, trade receivables of £1,577,000 (2010: £2,454,000) were impaired and partially provided for. The
amount of the provision against such impaired trade receivables was £871,000 as of 31 December 2011 (2010: £1,309,000).
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to issues arising from the current economic climate. These receivables are
aged as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
0 to 3 months overdue 498 721
3 to 6 months overdue 335 952
Over 6 months overdue 744 781
1,577 2,454
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
At 1 January 1,309 1,309
(Decrease)/increase in provision for receivables impairment (191) 110
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (247) (110)
At 31 December 871 1,309
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the consolidated income
statement. Amounts charged to the provision are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash. The other
classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting
date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security .
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets and management consider the credit quality
of these assets as good – pre-existing customers with no defaults in the previous six months.
18. Cash and cash equivalents
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 1,169 3,693 - -
The effective average interest rate on overnight deposits for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 0.3% (2010: 0.8%).
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement:
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 1,169 3,693 - -
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (8,667) (11,552) - -
(7,498) (7,859) - -
19. Trade and other payables
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables (33,336) (27,551) - -
Social security and other taxes (3,143) (4,021) - -
Accrued expenses and deferred income (11,883) (9,191) (24) (24)
Payables to related parties (note 30) - - (1) (1)
(48,362) (40,763) (25) (25)
Group Company
Group Company
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 64
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
20. Borrowings
2011 2010
£000 £000
Non-current
Bank borrowings (17,089) (20,000)
Finance leases (426) (704)
(17,515) (20,704)
Current
Bank borrowings (2,338) (2,500)
Bank overdrafts (8,667) (11,552)
Finance leases (299) (309)
(11,304) (14,361)
Total borrowings (28,819) (35,065)
The Company does not have any borrowings (2010: £nil).
Bank borrowings
Bank borrowings mature in 2015 and bear interest at a floating rate in the range of 200 to 325 basis points above LIBOR. Bank
borrowings are secured by an all assets debenture and a cross company guarantee on all assets of the Group. The Company forms
part of the cross guarantee structure.
The bank overdraft represents cash book overdrafts. 
The repayment profile of bank borrowings (including overdrafts) is as follows: 
2011 2010
£000 £000
Within one year or on demand (11,005) (14,052)
Between one and two years (3,338) (7,500)
Between two and three years (3,838) (12,500)
Between three and four years (9,913) -
(28,094) (34,052)
The borrowings are denominated in Sterling.
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Bank borrowings (17,089) (20,000) (19,934) (21,999)
The fair value of the current borrowings equals their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair
values of bank borrowings are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market rate at 31 December 2011
of 4.7%.
Finance leases
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations is not considered to be materially different to their carrying value.
Group
Carrying amount Fair value
Bank borrowings o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 65
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
T otal aggregate future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the future finance charges and present
value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
Group 2011 2010
£000 £000
Within one year 327 344
In more than one year, but not more than five years 438 723
In more than five years 16 23
781 1,090
2011 2010
£000 £000
Within one year 28 35
In more than one year, but not more than five years 24 41
In more than five years 4 1
56 77
2011 2010
£000 £000
Within one year 299 309
In more than one year, but not more than five years 414 682
In more than five years 12 22
725 1,013
Finance leases are secured upon the assets to which the lease agreement relates.
21. Financial instruments by category
Cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are classified as loans and receivables for
the purpose of IFRS 7.
Borrowings, finance leases and trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) are classified as other financial liabilities
at amortised cost for the purpose of IFRS 7.
22. Current income tax asset/(liabilities)
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Current income tax asset/(liabilities) 98 (709) - -
Minimum lease payments
Future finance charges
Net minimum lease payments
Group Company o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 66
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
23. Provisions
Property Onerous
dilapidations leases Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2011 (589) (1,333) (1,922)
Charged to the income statement:
- Additional provisions - (39) (39)
- Unwinding of discount - (20) (20)
Utilised during the year 62 773 835
At 31 December 2011 (527) (619) (1,146)
2011 2010
Maturity profile of provisions £000 £000
Current (676) (861)
Non-current (470) (1,061)
At 31 December (1,146) (1,922)
Property dilapidations relate to the expected cost for making good leased properties at the end of their lease.  The provision
relates to various properties with different lease end dates ranging between one and eight years.
Onerous leases relate to the future cost of historic lease obligations whereby the Group has no future economic benefit from the
lease.  These leases have varying end dates between one and five years.
Company
The Company has no provisions (2010: £nil).
24. Retirement benefit asset/(liability)
Group
The Group is the contributing employer to a defined benefit pension scheme, The Banner Business Supplies Pension Scheme
(BBS scheme), all the members of which were formerly employed by Her Majesty’s Stationery Office and were members of the
Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme who first elected to transfer funds accrued to The Stationery Office Limited Scheme and
subsequently elected to transfer funds accrued to the BBS scheme. 
The BBS scheme commenced on 1 August 2000, when the funds were transferred in by The Stationery Office Pension Scheme
(TSOPS). The scheme is funded by the payment of contributions to a separately administered trust fund. The scheme currently
has 162 members and was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2011.
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out on 31 July 2010 and updated to 31 December 2011 by Punter Southall
Limited, a qualified independent actuary. The pension costs have been determined on the basis of the results of this valuation. 
The fair value of the BBS scheme assets at 31 December 2011 amounted to £11,854,000 (2010: £11,299,000).
Group contributions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme for the period were £505,000 (2010: £518,000). Group
contributions in 2012 are expected to be approximately £337,000.
The Group also incurred £676,000 (2010: £617,000) in respect of Group personal pension arrangements and employees’ own
personal pension arrangements for staff recruited by The Stationery Office Limited and Group companies since 30 September
1996 at rates varying between 6% and 15% of pensionable earnings.
The outstanding accrual in respect of defined contribution pension contributions at 31 December 2011 was £203,000 (2010:
£411,000). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 67
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the BBS scheme are determined as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (12,476) (13,010)
Fair value of plan assets 11,854 11,299
(622) (1,711)
Unrecognised actuarial losses 727 933
Asset/(liability) in the balance sheet 105 (778)
The amounts included in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2011 2010 2011 2010
£000 £000
Equities 6.0% 7.2% 9,116 8,887
Bonds 3.0% 4.2% 1,195 953
Property 5.0% 6.2% 979 891
Other 0.3% 0.3% 564 568
11,854 11,299
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Current service cost (219) (239)
Scheme interest cost (735) (735)
Expected return on plan assets 752 643
Amortisation of unrecognised loss - (71)
Curtailment – removal of ill health allowance 222 -
Curtailment – removal of salary link 394 -
Net actuarial losses (gains) recognised in the year (curtailment) (36) -
Expenses recognised in the income statement as administrative expenses 378 (402)
The movement in the fair value of plan assets is as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 11,299 9,181
Expected return on plan assets 752 643
Actuarial (loss)/gain (700) 938
Employer contribution 505 518
Member contributions 75 81
Benefits paid (77) (62)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 11,854 11,299
The movement in the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January (13,010) (12,762)
Current service cost (219) (239)
Interest cost (735) (735)
Member contributions (75) (81)
Actuarial gains 870 745
Benefits paid 77 62
Curtailment – removal of ill health allowance 222 -
Curtailment – removal of salary link 394 -
Present value of funded obligations at 31 December (12,476) (13,010)
Expected return p.a. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 68
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The principal actuarial assumptions were as follows:
2011 2010
%pa %pa
Discount rate 5.0 5.6
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.3 6.5
Future salary increases n/a 3.6
Future pension increases:
- transferred from TSOPS 2.5 3.6
- earned in Scheme 3.2 3.6
Inflation - RPI 3.2 3.6
Inflation - CPI 2.5 2.9
The expected return on plan assets for 2011 is based on market conditions at 31 December 2011 for returns over the entire life
of the obligation.
2011 2010
£000 £000
Actual return on plan assets 52 1,581
The weighted average life expectancy derived from mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations were:
2011 2010
Y ears Y ears
Male member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.1 22.0
Female member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 24.2 24.9
Male member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 23.5 23.1
Female member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 25.8 25.9
History of experience gains and losses:
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded obligations (12,476) (13,010) (12,762) (10,487) (10,413)
Fair value of plan assets 11,854 11,299 9,181 7,128 8,542
Deficit in the plan (622) (1,711) (3,581) (3,359) (1,871)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets (700) 938 1,172 (2,283) (102)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 768 -- (199) (436)
Company
The Company has no retirement benefit liabilities (2010: £nil).
25. Ordinary shares
Issued and fully paid No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of 1p each 36,308,984 363,090 36,308,984 363,090
269,356 Ordinary shares are held by the EBT (2010: 433,198), for which the right to receive dividends has been waived. 
2011 2010 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 69
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
26. Share options
Exercise
Number Number Number Number Number price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 11 granted exercised expired 31 Dec 11 share from date
PSP
Date granted
December 2007 189,566 - (25,781) (163,785) - 0.1p 01.04.11 01.10.11
April 2008 542,649 - (73,800) (468,849) - 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
March 2009 160,606 -- - 160,606 0.1p 04.03.12 04.09.12
April 2009 370,067 -- - 370,067 0.1p 30.04.12 30.10.12
May 2010 669,292 -- (27,331) 641,961 0.1p 21.05.13 21.11.13
September 2010 58,333 -- - 58,333 0.1p 24.09.13 24.03.14
June 2011 - 1,466,796 -- 1,466,796 0.1p 20.06.14 20.12.14
SA YE scheme
Date granted
October 2005 (5yr) 9,179 -- (9,179) - 224.4p 01.12.10 31.05.11
April 2008 (3yr) 162,677 - (110,144) (52,533) - 119.4p 01.05.11 31.10.11
April 2008 (5yr) 110,289 -- (11,254) 99,035 119.4p 01.05.13 31.10.13
December 2011 (3yr) - 379,406 - (3,082) 376,324 116.8p 01.01.15 01.07.15
December 2011 (5yr) - 90,401 -- 90,401 116.8p 01.01.17 01.07.17
2,272,658 1,936,603 (209,725) (736,013) 3,263,523
Exercise
Number Number Number Number Number price per Exercisable Expiry
1 Jan 10 granted exercised expired 31 Dec 10 share from date
PSP
Date granted
September 2007 232,907 - (61,022) (171,885) - 0.1p 11.09.10 11.03.11
December 2007 189,566 -- - 189,566 0.1p 01.04.11 01.10.11
April 2008 542,649 -- - 542,649 0.1p 24.04.11 24.10.11
March 2009 160,606 -- - 160,606 0.1p 04.03.12 04.09.12
April 2009 370,067 -- - 370,067 0.1p 30.04.12 30.10.12
September 2010 - 58,333 -- 58,333 0.1p 24.09.13 24.03.14
May 2010 - 669,292 -- 669,292 0.1p 21.05.13 21.11.13
SA YE scheme
Date granted
October 2004 (5yr) 125,931 -- (125,931) - 171.6p 01.12.09 31.05.10
October 2005 (5yr) 9,179 -- - 9,179 224.4p 01.12.10 31.05.11
April 2008 (3yr) 184,377 - (1,607) (20,093) 162,677 119.4p 01.05.11 31.10.11
April 2008 (5yr) 126,609 -- (16,320) 110,289 119.4p 01.05.13 31.10.13
1,941,891 727,625 (62,629) (334,229) 2,272,658
Options which expired in the year to 31 December 2011 reflected employees leaving the Group, non-achievement of
performance conditions and the expiry of the term of exercise.
At 31 December 2011, there were 18 members (2010: 11 members) with an average option holding of 149,876 (2010:
175,653) of the performance share plan and 154 members (2010: 92 members) with average holdings of 3,674 (2010: 3,304)
of the Save-As-Y ou-Earn (SA YE) scheme. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 70
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The performance share plan was introduced on 21 December 2005 to incentivise senior management relative to the long term
strategy of the Group. Financial performance conditions apply to exercise of the options, based on the Group’s earnings per share
growth and, for awards made up to 2010, a comparative measure of total shareholder return (TSR) against the companies in the
FTSE Small Cap Index. For awards made in 2011 the TSR measure has been replaced by growth in share price. On 20 June 2011,
awards were granted over 1,466,796 shares based on a weighted average share price, of the three days prior to award, of
133.5p per share. 99,581 options were exercised during the year under review. The weighted average share price as at the date
of exercise was 125.5p per share. The weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.8 years.
The SA YE scheme was first introduced in October 2004. The exercise price is determined at a 20% discount to the closing mid-
market price on the date of invitation. The schemes have either a three or five year vesting period. The weighted average share
price as at the date of exercise was 147.23p per share. The weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.0 years.
Exercise price Shares
Expiry date Grant per share 2011 2010
2011 2005-8 23.8p - 904,071
2012 2009 0.1p 530,673 530,673
2013 2008-10 16.0p 740,996 779,581
2014 2010-11 0.1p 1,525,129 58,333
2015 2011 116.8p 376,324 -
2017 2011 116.8p 90,401 -
3,263,523 2,272,658
The IFRS2 and associated national insurance costs, before tax, incurred in relation to the above schemes were as follows:
2011 2011 2010 2010
IFRS 2 NI IFRS 2 NI
£000 £000 £000 £000
PSP
Date granted
December 2005 -- - (4)
April 2006 -- - (4)
September 2007 -- 13 (10)
December 2007 -- (26) (5)
April 2008 26 - (78) (11)
March 2009 (12) - 22 6
April 2009 (80) (4) 67 14
May 2010 187 32 114 17
September 2010 16 4 --
June 2011 204 35 --
SA YE scheme
Date granted
October 2005 (5yr) (8) - 1-
October 2008 (3yr) 4- 16 -
October 2008 (5yr) 5- 6-
342 67 135 3 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 71
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
The following valuation assumptions have been applied in respect of schemes introduced in the current year. The assumptions in
respect of prior year schemes may be found in the prior year annual report and accounts.
Performance share plan – September 2010 option value information
Fair value per option* £0.65
Option exercise price £0.001
Weighted average share price £1.200
V aluation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 50.8%
Expected dividend yield 9.4%
Risk free interest rate 3.70%
Performance share plan – June 2011 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.84
Option exercise price £0.001
Weighted average share price £1.342
V aluation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 38.5%
Expected dividend yield 8.4%
Risk free interest rate 2.00%
SA YE 3 year scheme – December 2011 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.29
Option exercise price £1.168
Weighted average share price £1.430
V aluation assumptions
Expected option term 3.25 years
Expected volatility 37.3%
Expected dividend yield 7.9%
Risk free interest rate 1.21%
SA YE 5 year scheme – December 2011 option value information
Fair value per option** £0.32
Option exercise price £1.168
Weighted average share price £1.430
V aluation assumptions
Expected option term 5.25 years
Expected volatility 41.9%
Expected dividend yield 7.9%
Risk free interest rate 2.40%
* Estimated using the Monte-Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing methods. 
** Estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing models.
Expected volatility was determined by reference to historic share price information of similar companies.
All of the above relate to equity settled share-based payment transactions. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 72
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
Group Company
27. Cash generated from/(used in) operations
2011 2010* 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Profit before income tax 4,290 4,632 4,097 4,097
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,315 1,258 - -
Negative goodwill - (188) - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 795 804 - -
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 - - -
Finance income - - (97) (97)
Finance costs 1,665 1,000 - -
Income from investments - - (4,000) (4,000)
Share option expense 342 135 - -
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,981) 795 - -
Increase in trade and other receivables (134) (4,780) (53) (13)
Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 5,561 1,381 - -
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 10,870 5,037 (53) (13)
* Restated refer to note 2. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 73
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
28. Analysis of movement in net (debt)/cash 
At
Group At 1 January Cash Non-cash 31 December
2011 flow movements 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 3,693 (2,524) - 1,169
Bank overdrafts (11,552) 2,885 - (8,667)
(7,859) 361 - (7,498)
T erm loan – current (2,500) 2,500 (2,338) (2,338)
Finance leases – current (309) 288 (278) (299)
T otal current debt (10,668) 3,149 (2,616) (10,135)
T erm loan – non-current (20,000) - 2,911 (17,089)
Finance leases – non-current (704) - 278 (426)
T otal non-current debt (20,704) - 3,189 (17,515)
Net debt (31,372) 3,149 573 (27,650)
At
At 1 January Cash Non-cash 31 December
2010 flow movements 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 5,987 (2,294) - 3,693
Bank overdrafts (7,425) (4,127) - (11,552)
(1,438) (6,421) - (7,859)
T erm loan – current (2,500) 2,500 (2,500) (2,500)
Finance leases – current (385) 446 (370) (309)
T otal current debt (4,323) (3,475) (2,870) (10,668)
T erm loan – non-current (22,500) - 2,500 (20,000)
Finance leases – non-current (993) - 289 (704)
T otal non-current debt (23,493) - 2,789 (20,704)
Net debt (27,816) (3,475) (81) (31,372)
Non-cash movements relates to the movement of finance leases and movements in the term loan between non-current and
current, movements in bank arrangement fees and new finance lease agreements taken out during the year. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 74
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
29. Guarantees and other financial commitments
Bank guarantees
The Company is a member of the Group banking arrangement under which it is party to unlimited cross-guarantees in respect of
the banking facilities of other Group undertakings, amounting to £20,000,000 (2010: £22,500,000) subject to facility at 31
December 2011. The Directors do not expect any material loss to the Company to arise in respect of the guarantees.
Operating lease commitments
2011 2010 2011 2010
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
No later than one year 2,190 1,985 1,518 1,022
Later than one year and no later than five years 4,543 4,571 2,544 1,343
Later than five years 1,331 1,120 8 -
8,064 7,676 4,070 2,365
Company
The Company has no obligations under operating leases (2010: none).
30. Related parties
Group
Directors’ and key management compensation is disclosed in note 6.
Company
During the year the Company had the following transactions with its subsidiaries:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Dividends received 4,000 4,000
Interest received 97 97
4,097 4,097
As at 31 December the following amounts were due to/(from) the Company from/(to) its subsidiaries:
2011 2010
£000 £000
Banner Business Services Limited 9,670 9,617
Banner Business Supplies (Ireland) Limited (1) (1)
9,669 9,616
Other than disclosed above, all movements in balances due to and from related parties relate to the movement of cash and other
working capital transactions between Group companies.
Land and buildings Other o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 75
2011 2010* 2009 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 193,498 207,631 187,464 180,999 167,862
Operating profit - before amortisation, negative goodwill,
non-recurring costs and share option expenses 9,967 12,176 13,986 13,425 11,694
Amortisation (1,315) (1,258) (999) (624) -
Negative goodwill - 188 -- -
Non-recurring costs (2,398) (5,336) (3,645) (1,812) (2,333)
Share option expense (409) (138) (363) (23) (243)
Operating profit 5,845 5,632 8,979 10,966 9,118
Net interest payable (1,555) (1,000) (856) (1,359) (115)
Profit before tax 4,290 4,632 8,123 9,607 9,003
Capital employed:
Shareholder funds 22,842 22,301 22,591 20,160 16,907
Statistics:
Basic underlying earnings per Ordinary share
#
20.7p 25.1p 27.1p 24.1p 22.6p
Basic earnings per Ordinary share 12.0p 12.0p 17.2p 18.5p 17.4p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary share 12.0p 12.0p 17.1p 18.5p 17.3p
Dividends per share 11.4p 11.4p 11.4p 11.0p 10.0p
Share price (period end) 139.5p 124.5p 145.5p 65.5p 119.5p
* Restated refer to note 2.
#
Basic underlying earnings per Ordinary share, before the after tax effect of non-recurring costs, amortisation and share option
expense, has been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance. 
Five Y ear Summary o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 76
Shareholder Information 
Financial calendar 2012
Announcement of final results for the year ended 31 December 2011 01 March 2012
Annual General Meeting 26 April 2012
Payment of final dividend on Ordinary shares to shareholders on
the share register at the close of business on 20 April 2012 18 May 2012
Registrar and transfer office
Enquiries about administrative matters relating to
shareholding and dividends should be addressed to the
Company’s registrars.
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Y orkshire HD8 0LA
T elephone: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus
network extras)
International: +44 (0) 208 639 3399
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday
or by email to: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share price
Information concerning the day to day movement of the
share price of the Company can be found on our website
www.office2office.co.uk or that of the London Stock
Exchange www.prices.londonstockexchange.com. The share
price can also be found in the appropriate sections of
national newspapers under the classification ‘Support
Services’ and under the ticker code ‘OFF .L ’ or ‘OFF’ .
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public
inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from
organisations that use it as a mailing list. T o reduce the
amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: 
The Mailing Preference Service
FREEPOST 22
London W1E 7EZ
T elephone: +44 (0) 845 703 4599
Website: www.mpsonline.org.uk   o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 77
Registered office
St Crispins
Duke Street
Norwich NR3 1PD
United Kingdom
T elephone: +44 (0) 1603 691 102
Fax: +44 (0) 1603 691 106
Website: www.office2office.co.uk
Email: info@office2office.biz
Professional advisers
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
The Atrium
St Georges Street
Norwich NR3 1AG
Broker
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall
155 Moorgate
London EC2M 6XB
Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons
1 Park Row
Leeds LS1 5NR
Solicitors
Macfarlanes LLP
20 Cursitor Street
London EC4A 1L T
Company Details
The maintenance and integrity of the
office2office website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work
carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may
have occurred to the financial
statements since they were initially
presented on the website. Legislation in
the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. Head Office and Registered Office
St Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich, NR3 1PD
Telephone: 0845 226 7780 www.office2office.co.uk
Registered In England and Wales
Registered number 04083206
We are committed to environmental practices, 
so this Annual Report has been laminated with Cel-
loGreen, to enable you to recycle it. 
Thank you for your support.
Cover and inside pages
The cover and inside pages of this catalogue 
are printed on Antalis Cocoon Silk 100, which is
100% de-inked recycled waste with FSC
®
recycled certification.
Printed by Banner Managed Communication 
which is part of the office2office group.
