 Annual Report and Accounts 2012  Strategy and review
01  Our mission
02  Operational and ﬁnancial highlights
04 Chairman’s message
05  Management team
06 Our strategy for success
08  Chief Executive Officer’s review
09 Gene therapy at a glance 
10 Product pipeline
13  Operational review
 
 13  LentiVector
®
 platform development
   – ocular portfolio
 17  LentiVector
®
 platform manufacturing
 18  Other assets
 19  Intellectual property and technology  
   licensing
 21  5T4 tumour antigen platform 
 22 Manufacturing feature
  
28 Financial review
30 Corporate social responsibility
32 Principal risks and uncertainties
Governance 
36 The Board of Directors
38 Corporate governance
41 Directors’ remuneration report
47 Directors’ report
Group ﬁnancial statements
50  Independent auditors’ report 
51  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
52 Balance sheets
53 Statements of cash ﬂows
54  Statements of changes in equity  
attributable to owners of the parent
55  Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements
78  Technology and product glossary
80 Advisers
We are one of the leading companies 
in gene therapy and immunotherapy 
with a platform of exclusive and 
pioneering technologies to design, 
develop and manufacture unique 
gene-based medicines. Our pipeline 
addresses diseases for which there  
is currently no treatment or that are 
inadequately treated today, including 
ocular diseases, neurodegenerative 
disorders and cancer, and our product 
candidates have the potential to 
transform treatment landscapes. 
Through our in-house development 
programmes and collaborations with 
leading industry partners, our goal  
is to improve the lives of patients  
with debilitating and life-threatening 
diseases.
Oxford BioMedica in brief    01
Our mission is to build a top-tier, 
proﬁtable biopharmaceutical company 
founded on the successful development 
and commercialisation of breakthrough 
gene-based medicines.
We have a unique contribution  
to make to healthcare Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 02
Operational and ﬁnancial
1
 highlights
1.Audited ﬁnancial results  
 Sanoﬁ ocular partnership  
nearing successful conclusion: 
US$53 million committed to date
—   Options exercised for StarGen
™
 
and UshStat
®
 for a total of  
US$3 million
—    Ground-breaking RetinoStat
®
 
data show sustained,  
dose-related protein expression; 
treatment of ﬁnal patient  
cohort ongoing
LentiVector
®
 platform evolution 
supports next generation of ocular 
gene therapies
—   Growing clinical data set 
underscores conﬁdence  
in the technology platform
—   Pre-clinical evaluation of 
Glaucoma-GT ongoing to 
maximise proof of concept
—   Planning underway for  
pre-clinical evaluation of  
four new ocular products
Manufacturing capability 
complements commercial  
strategy
—   GMP facility approved to 
manufacture supplies for  
clinical studies 
—   In-house manufacturing  
and analytical development 
activities underway to secure 
future alliances
—   Launch of OXB Solutions 
microsite to showcase leading 
GMP manufacturing and 
analytical competences 
(www.oxbsolutions.co.uk)
Pioneering ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II 
study successfully met primary 
endpoints
—     ProSavin
®
 is safe, well-tolerated 
and mediates long-term 
improvement of motor function
—   Non-clinical programme for  
dose optimisation on track 
Industry collaborations validate 
Oxford BioMedica’s 5T4 tumour 
antigen technology
—   ImaginAb option exercise for 
5T4-targeted in vivo diagnostic 
for cancer imaging
—    Multiple presentations of  
5T4-ADC programme by Pﬁzer  
at key industry conferences
During 2012 we reported positive developments across our core clinical 
programmes, strengthened our LentiVector
®
 technology platform and 
secured MHRA approval for our GMP manufacturing plant. Macroeconomic 
conditions remain challenging, however sentiment towards the 
biopharmaceutical sector is improving and we are seeing more interest  
than ever in personalised medicines and niche disease indications,  
all of which positions Oxford BioMedica well for further developments  
in the year ahead.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
Research and development £m
   External
  Internal
  Amortisation
12
10
08
06
04
02
0
2012 2011
Revenue analysis £m
   Sanoﬁ upfront
 Sanoﬁ R&D
  Sanoﬁ options
  Other
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
2011 2012
£11.6m
Fundraising of £11.6 million 
completed in July 2012;  
net proceeds £10.1 million
£14.0m
Research and development  
costs of £14.0 million  
(2011: £17.8 million)
£10.5m
Net cash burn
2
 of £10.5 million  
(2011: net cash burn
2
 £16.5 million)
2.  Net cash used in operating activities  
plus sales and purchases of non-current  
assets and interest received
£7 .8m
Revenue of £7.8 million  
(2011: £7.7 million)
£8.7m
Net loss of £8.7 million  
(2011: £12.6 million)
£14.1m
Net cash
3
 of £14.1 million  
as at 31 December 2012  
(2011: £14.3 million)
3.  Cash, cash equivalents and available  
for sale investments Chairman’s message
 
Gene therapy is the future
In November 2012, the European Commission approved 
its ﬁrst gene therapy product, Glybera
®
, to treat patients 
suffering from a rare disease. This key regulatory and 
industry milestone supports the future for gene therapy  
in major markets, particularly the US where a gene 
therapy product is yet to be licensed. We are seeing 
greater interest than ever in gene therapy and, with  
a leading gene therapy technology platform in terms  
of its design, manufacturing and clinical development 
status, I believe we are now very well-positioned to 
exploit the considerable effort that has been invested  
over a number of years.
Biotech is coming back…
The EU biotechnology sector as a whole gained 25.8%  
in 2012 (versus -33% in 2011) outperforming the larger 
pharmaceutical sector and the broader market indices 
(source: Nomura Code European Biotechnology Index). 
Whilst this highlights the volatile nature of the sector, it 
also appears to underline increasingly positive investor 
sentiment. In terms of UK biotechnology, performance 
was not as strong, largely due to investors’ continued 
aversion to risk. However, we are seeing signs of renewed 
interest in the sector and an opportunity for recognised 
technology leaders to prosper.
Finding tomorrow’s treatments
The pressures on the healthcare industry continue, 
particularly given the resource constraints across  
payers, pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology 
innovators. With ageing populations and growing 
societies in emerging markets, the industry needs  
to accelerate medicines for diseases which impose  
a signiﬁcant social burden, such as chronic and 
neurodegenerative conditions. It is exactly these sorts  
of indications which Oxford BioMedica can target  
with its LentiVector
®
 platform product candidates.
Strategy commitment
Our strategy remains to build a ﬁnancially self-sustaining 
company, based on our proprietary LentiVector
®
  
platform, targeting high value, fast growing markets  
such as ophthalmology. There is potential for four 
revenue streams: i) through the exploitation of our 
existing product portfolio, ii) by developing new product 
opportunities iii) by securing specialist manufacturing 
alliances and iv) by leveraging our intellectual property.  
In addition, the Board is continuing to seek out 
complementary acquisitions as a means to secure 
commercial success. 
Board change
I am delighted that Martin Diggle joined the Board in 
October 2012 as a non-Executive Director. He has a 
wealth of ﬁnancial investment experience across many 
sectors and through Vulpes Investment Management,  
of which he is a founder, he has been a supporter of  
a number of life sciences businesses. The Vulpes Life 
Sciences Fund is our largest shareholder and Martin  
brings a clear investor’s perspective to the Board.
In conclusion
I believe that Oxford BioMedica has a unique contribution 
to make to healthcare and there is a great sense of pride 
in what we do within the Company. Our employees have 
once again made a considerable effort during 2012 and 
we are grateful for their contribution. We have some 
exciting prospects ahead and, with a highly-experienced 
team leading the evolution of the Company, I am 
conﬁdent that our science and our strategy will deliver.
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Oxford BioMedica delivered another year of strong operational progress 
during 2012. Highlights included the MHRA approval of our manufacturing 
facility; Sanoﬁ’s US$3 million option exercise payment for StarGen
™
  
and UshStat
®
; and the raising of a further £11.6 million. These developments 
highlight our commitment to creating value in the business and we are 
grateful for the continued support from our shareholders. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
1. John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer
John Dawson joined Oxford BioMedica’s board as  
a non-Executive Director in August 2008 and was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer on 13 October 2008. 
From 1996 to 2007, Mr Dawson held senior management 
positions in the European operations of Cephalon Inc. 
where he led many of the deals that built the European 
business to over 1,000 people, taking the business from 
having no sales in 1998 to revenue of several hundred 
million US dollars. 
Team expertise:
— Leadership and strategy
—   Business development
2. Tim Watts
Chief Financial Officer
Tim Watts was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary in February 2012. He is  
a chartered accountant with over 30 years’ experience  
in leading multinational and entrepreneurial businesses. 
Prior to joining Oxford BioMedica, Mr Watts held senior 
ﬁnance positions at ICI, AstraZeneca and Archimedes 
Pharma. Mr Watts has a proven track record in the 
industry, including managing corporate transactions,  
M&A activity, fundraising and strategic implementation.
Team expertise:
—   Financial management
—   Strategic implementation
   3. Dr Stuart Naylor
Chief Scientiﬁc Officer
Dr Stuart Naylor joined Oxford BioMedica in 1997 and  
was appointed to the Board in July 2008. He established 
an international reputation at two world class cancer 
institutes; the Imperial Cancer Research Fund and the 
Institute of Cancer Research. Dr Naylor’s career has 
covered many aspects of tumour biology from its 
molecular basis to the clinic.
Team expertise:
—   Technical and regulatory acumen
—   Alliance management
    4. Peter Nolan
Senior Vice President, Commercial Development
Peter Nolan was appointed to Oxford BioMedica’s  
board in May 2002, having been a senior member of  
the Company since its foundation. He is also a Director  
of the UK BioIndustry Association and is a past Chairman 
of the Oxfordshire Bioscience Network. Prior to joining 
Oxford BioMedica, Mr Nolan served as Head of the 
Biotechnology Unit at the UK Department of Trade  
& Industry for eight years.
Team expertise:
—   In/out-licensing, collaborations and legal issues
—   Intellectual property strategy and management
Management team
2 1 4 3 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06
Our strategy for success
Our strategy is to build and grow a ﬁnancially self-sustaining company  
based on our proprietary LentiVector
®
 platform targeting high value,  
rapidly expanding markets such as ophthalmology. 
Our approach is underpinned by four core principles, against which  
we delivered many successes during 2012:
Manage risks and resources
Our aim is to ensure that Oxford BioMedica is an 
efficient, focused and resilient organisation. Pioneering 
innovation within the ﬁeld of biotechnology comes 
with inherent risk, and our risk management processes 
are set out in the Governance Report. Our strategy is 
to mitigate both technical and ﬁnancial risk through 
careful planning and management of projects and 
partnerships that bring the clinical, regulatory and 
commercialisation capabilities required to maximise 
the market potential of our novel treatments. We take 
careful consideration in allocating resources and remain 
focused on developing our core LentiVector
®
 platform 
products which we believe have the highest potential  
in the near-term.
There is potential for four revenue streams: i) exploiting 
our existing product portfolio, ii) developing new product 
opportunities iii) securing specialist manufacturing 
alliances and iv) leveraging our intellectual property. 
Key achievements 2012
—  Options exercised by Sanoﬁ for StarGen
™
  
and UshStat
®
 for a total of US$3 million  
(future milestones/royalties)
—  Fundraising of £11.6 million completed in July 2012; 
net proceeds £10.1 million
—   Funding award of US$125,000 for UshStat
®
  
Phase I/IIa study from Foundation Fighting  
Blindness
Key achievements 2012
—  Sanoﬁ exercised its options to acquire two exclusive 
worldwide licences for StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
—  Collaborators at Cardiff University, Wales (UK) 
initiated a Phase II trial of TroVax
®
 in colorectal cancer
—  New master services agreement signed with 
Immune Design Corp. to leverage Oxford 
BioMedica’s expertise in lentiviral vector clinical 
development
—  ImaginAb exercised its option to acquire an 
exclusive worldwide licence for a 5T4-targeted  
in vivo diagnostic for cancer imaging
Focus 2013
—   Generate income from our manufacturing facility
—  Seek funding from translational grant opportunities 
and charities
—   Continue to strike a balance between growing  
the Company whilst also being careful with costs
Focus 2013
—  Secure new manufacturing alliances
—  Complete non-clinical programme for enhanced 
ProSavin
®
 construct
—  Leverage relationships with key opinion leaders
Pursuing partners to help take programmes forward
With one of the broadest patent estates in our chosen 
ﬁelds, we are well-positioned to exploit the value of  
our products and intellectual property through strategic 
partnerships. Our progress to date reﬂects the 
importance of strong relationships and industry 
alliances in delivering success. We continuously  
seek ways to improve the value of our assets so as  
to increase the value of future partnerships. Examples 
include product optimisation for ProSavin
®
, biomarker 
development for TroVax
®
 and furthering the development 
of Glaucoma-GT towards a ﬁrst-in-man clinical study.
We are actively pursuing multiple initiatives to secure 
further funding for our core programmes and continue 
to evaluate development strategies in light of our 
ﬁnancial resources. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
What is gene therapy?
Ensuring timely delivery of pipeline
Timely delivery is a core component of our strategy.  
As one of the leading companies in the ﬁeld of gene 
therapy and immunotherapy, we work closely with 
regulatory agencies to deﬁne appropriate development 
pathways. However, as with other biotechnology 
companies, forecasting product development timelines 
can be challenging – particularly as our product 
candidates are based on ground-breaking science and 
therefore unexpected delays may occur. We endeavour 
to provide guidance on timelines based on our best 
assumptions and are committed to ensuring timely 
delivery of our goals and milestones.
Key achievements 2012
—  Pioneering ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II study successfully 
met primary endpoint
—    GMP facility approved by UK Medicines and 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)  
to manufacture material supplies for clinical studies
—  Ground-breaking RetinoStat
®
 data reported which 
show sustained, dose-related protein expression
—  Safety data from StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
 Phase I/IIa 
studies announced following positive reviews  
by Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
Key achievements 2012
—  Following the strategic acquisition of a plant in 
February 2011, attaining certiﬁcation for specialist 
manufacturing capabilities provides a robust 
commercial arm to our business
Focus 2013
—    Complete RetinoStat
®
 Phase I study
—  Initiate pre-clinical development of the next 
generation of ocular product opportunities
Focus 2013
—  Evaluate complementary acquisition opportunities
Seizing opportunity
Oxford BioMedica has evolved from being a  
research-driven organisation into a more commercially-
focused company. The management team has the 
breadth and depth of expertise necessary to manage 
the Company in today’s environment and enables us to 
respond quickly to market conditions and opportunities. 
For example, ophthalmology is a high growth market 
estimated to be worth €13.4 billion in 2011, increasing  
to €16 billion worldwide by 2016 (source: Visiongain). 
There is strong demand for innovative products and 
Oxford BioMedica is in an increasingly strong position  
to develop a new wave of high value ocular products.  
In addition to organic growth, we remain alert to 
external opportunities for strategic corporate activity  
as a means to accelerate proﬁtability. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08
Portfolio progress
We continue to build a leading position within the ﬁeld  
of ophthalmology. Our landmark ocular partnership  
with Sanoﬁ is starting to generate milestone revenues 
following the option exercise payment received for 
StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
. Treatment of the ﬁnal RetinoStat
®
 
patient cohort is underway; we are extremely encouraged 
by the results to date and, should Sanoﬁ choose to exercise 
its option for RetinoStat
®
 during 2013, we are eligible  
to receive a substantial milestone payment. We are also 
privileged to be working with Mayo Clinic, a global leader 
in medical research, to develop Glaucoma-GT; a novel 
gene therapy for chronic glaucoma. As a recognised 
technology pioneer, we are well-placed to leverage our 
expertise to exploit new opportunities and planning is 
underway for the pre-clinical evaluation of a tranche of 
new ocular product candidates. The ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II 
study successfully met its primary endpoint and we  
are currently evaluating a more potent product construct 
to ensure the greatest chance of success in Phase II studies.
Proprietary manufacturing
We successfully attained GMP certiﬁcation for our  
state-of-the-art facilities in June 2012, just 16 months 
after the acquisition. The MHRA conducted inspections  
in March and May 2012 to evaluate whether our 
processes, facilities and quality management systems 
were in accordance with EU GMP standards. This is  
an impressive achievement for a company of our size  
and I express my sincere thanks to everyone involved.  
Our specialist manufacturing capabilities provide a robust 
commercial arm to our business - not only to deliver 
signiﬁcant operational and cost efficiencies for our 
internal programmes but also to generate revenue  
from new alliances.
Partnering initiatives
Since we cannot fund the development of all our portfolio 
product opportunities, we continuously seek ways to 
improve the value of our assets so as to increase the value 
of future partnerships. Examples include the ongoing  
dose optimisation for ProSavin
®
 and, for TroVax
®
, the UK 
investigator-led Phase II studies which will further validate 
use of the biomarker to predict those patients who are 
likely to beneﬁt. We also continue to move Glaucoma-GT 
towards a future ﬁrst-in-man clinical study.
Financial management
Cash, cash equivalents and available for sale investments 
were £14.1 million at 31 December 2012 and we have 
sufficient ﬁnancial resources to fund the business until  
Q1 2014. This does not take into account the signiﬁcant 
potential milestone payment should Sanoﬁ elect to 
exercise its option for RetinoStat
®
 during 2013, nor does  
it factor in potential revenue from manufacturing or 
product partnerships.
Outlook
The continued success of the ocular products partnered 
with Sanoﬁ, our conﬁdence in the LentiVector
®
 platform, 
and our manufacturing capability underline our belief that 
our strategy should be founded on the development  
of ophthalmology products and the exploitation of our 
manufacturing and technical expertise. We are resolutely 
focused on turning Oxford BioMedica into a company 
that is ﬁnancially self-sustaining. To this end, in 2013  
our goals are to complete the RetinoStat
®
 Phase I study, 
generate income from our manufacturing facility and 
initiate pre-clinical development of the next generation  
of ocular product opportunities.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer 
Chief Executive Officer’s review
I am pleased to report that we achieved many operational successes during 
2012 – our clinical ophthalmology programmes continued to deliver positive 
results, we completed the ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II study in Parkinson’s disease  
and we received MHRA approval for our manufacturing plant. In addition,  
we received option exercise payments from Sanoﬁ and ImaginAb, signed  
a new master services agreement with Immune Design Corp. and received  
a funding award for UshStat
®
 from Foundation Fighting Blindness.  
Our progress to date reﬂects the importance of strong relationships  
and industry alliances in delivering success.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
Gene therapy at a glance
What is gene therapy? 
Gene therapy is a technique 
which arms the body with its 
own biological ammunition 
to ﬁght disease. 
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)  
is a complex chemical that carries 
genetic information. Genes are 
speciﬁc units of DNA which encode 
instructions on how to make 
proteins; the building blocks which 
cells in the body require to function 
properly.  Examples of proteins 
include enzymes, hormones  
and antibodies.
There are several gene therapy 
approaches in development such as:
—  Inserting a healthy copy of a 
gene to address a mutated gene 
that causes disease
—  Inactivating, or “knocking out”,  
a mutated gene that is 
functioning improperly  
(gene silencing)
—  Introducing a new gene, or 
genes, into speciﬁc cells within 
the body to help ﬁght a disease
One of the most common forms  
of gene therapy involves inserting 
healthy genes into speciﬁc cells
within a patient who has inherited  
a faulty copy of the gene. For 
example, StarGen
™
 inserts the 
healthy ABCR gene into the retina  
of patients with Stargardt disease 
and, similarly, UshStat
®
 delivers  
a healthy MYO7A gene to treat 
patients with Usher syndrome  
type 1B.
 
How does it work? 
In order to deliver the functional 
gene into the target cells such as  
the eye, for example, the gene needs  
to be carried by a “vector” which can 
enter the cell without causing any 
damage. Viruses have spent millions 
of years living in human cells and 
have adapted to be able to grow and 
replicate (i.e. make more of themselves) 
very well. Using a type of virus called 
a lentivirus, our scientists have hijacked 
the virus’ ability to get into target 
cells in order to deliver a signiﬁcant 
amount of genetic information safely 
and very efficiently.
Using a lentivirus called equine 
infectious anaemia virus (EIAV), we 
strip out the virus’ ability to replicate 
and then insert the desired genetic 
payload into this vector. Once 
administered directly to the target 
tissue in the patient, the shell of  
the virus knows what to do:
1.   It provides the mechanism for 
entry into the target cell across  
the cell surface membrane
2.   It takes the DNA gene(s) into the 
nucleus; the control centre which 
contains the cell’s own DNA
 —   Lentiviruses are speciﬁcally 
adapted to perform this task 
efficiently in non-dividing cells 
such as retinal cells in the eye 
or neurons in the brain
3.   The vector inserts the genetic 
payload into the cell’s DNA sequence
4.   The viral shell is naturally 
degraded away
5.    The newly-inserted gene(s) is  
then able to make a new protein 
product to target disease or produce 
a molecule that inactivates a 
mutated gene
 
Future development 
In November 2012 the European 
Commission approved its ﬁrst  
gene therapy product, Glybera
®
,  
to treat patients with lipoprotein 
lipase deﬁciency. 
Only two other gene therapy 
products are approved for use: 
Gendicine
™
 in China (for cancer)  
and Neovasculgen in Russia (for 
peripheral arterial disease). Gene 
therapy offers a long-lasting 
treatment from a single administration 
and, although still very much in 
development, scientiﬁc breakthroughs 
continue to move this technology 
towards mainstream medicine.
Gene therapy has the potential to create medicines and treatments  
that could improve life for millions of people worldwide. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10
Product pipeline
Technology platform Product (partner/funding)
LentiVector
®
Ophthalmology
RetinoStat
®
 (Sanoﬁ)
Gene-based treatment for neovascular “wet” age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD) which aims to preserve and improve vision.
StarGen
™ 
(Sanoﬁ)
Gene-based treatment for Stargardt disease, which delivers a healthy version of the 
ABCR gene to address vision loss. 
UshStat
®
 (Sanoﬁ)
Gene-based treatment for the treatment of Usher syndrome type 1B. The disease leads 
to progressive retinitis pigmentosa combined with a congenital hearing defect.
EncorStat
®
 (Sanoﬁ)
Gene-based treatment for the prevention of corneal graft rejection. 
Glaucoma-GT (Mayo Clinic, USA)
Gene-based treatment for chronic glaucoma which aims to provide long-term control 
of intraocular pressure to minimise the risk of vision loss.
5T4  
Tumour Antigen
Cancer
TroVax
® 
(Cardiff University)
A therapeutic vaccine that stimulates the immune system to destroy cancerous cells 
expressing the 5T4 tumour antigen which is present on most solid tumours.
Anti-5T4 antibody (Pﬁzer)
A 5T4-targeted antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) which binds to 5T4 on the surface of 
cancerous cells. Once bound, the complex is internalised by the tumour cell, the anti-cancer 
agent is released from the antibody, and the free drug kills the cancerous cell.
MoNuDin
®
 (UK Motor Neurone Disease Association)
Gene-based treatment for motor neuron disease used to prevent further degeneration 
of the motor neurons and potentially restore motor function.
ProSavin
®
Gene-based treatment for Parkinson’s disease which converts cells into a dopamine 
“factory”, thus replacing the patient’s own lost source of dopamine.
LentiVector
®  
Central Nervous  
System
LentiVector
®
 technology is one of the most advanced gene delivery  
systems currently available. It has speciﬁc advantages in certain neurological 
and ocular disorders and could achieve permanent therapeutic beneﬁt. 
The 5T4 tumour antigen is a unique protein found on most common  
types of solid cancer, which makes it a potentially valuable target for novel 
anti-cancer interventions.  
Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
Stage of development Indication
“Wet” age-related macular degeneration
Stargardt disease
Usher syndrome type 1B
Corneal graft rejection
Chronic glaucoma
Colorectal cancer
Cancer
Phase II trial ongoing
Pre-clinical
Phase I trial ongoing
Phase I/IIa trial ongoing
Phase I/IIa trial ongoing
Phase I/II trial preparation
Pre-clinical
Motor neuron disease Research 
Parkinson’s disease Phase I/II trial completed   12
The European Commission approved its ﬁrst gene therapy product  
to treat patients suffering from an orphan disease in 2012. An industry 
milestone which supports the potential of gene therapy. 
 
Ophthalmology is a high growth market estimated to be worth  
€16 billion worldwide by 2016. As conﬁdence in gene therapy grows,  
we are well-positioned to ﬁght ocular disease with the next generation  
of high value gene-based medicines. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Operational review
LentiVector
® 
platform development
Oxford BioMedica’s proprietary LentiVector
®
 technology 
platform is a highly efficient system for the delivery of 
therapeutic genes to a wide range of tissues, and it has 
speciﬁc advantages for targeting diseases of the eye and 
the central nervous system. It is anticipated that a single 
application of a LentiVector
®
 platform product could 
provide long-term or potentially permanent efficacy.  
The Company’s product candidates beneﬁt from a 
common manufacturing platform, which can facilitate 
accelerated development and regulatory strategies.  
With strong industry alliances, a growing clinical data  
set and a favourable safety proﬁle, the LentiVector
®
 
platform is increasingly recognised as a leading platform 
to ﬁght chronic disease. 
Ocular portfolio
Revenue-generating ocular collaboration:  
US$53 million committed by Sanoﬁ to date
In April 2009, Oxford BioMedica became the ﬁrst 
company to establish a lentiviral vector multi-product 
alliance with a large pharmaceutical company. The Sanoﬁ 
partnership comprises four LentiVector
®
 platform product 
candidates for four ocular indications: RetinoStat
®
 for 
“wet” age-related macular degeneration (AMD); StarGen
™
 
for Stargardt disease; UshStat
®
 for Usher syndrome type 
1B; and EncorStat
®
 for corneal graft rejection. The 
agreement included an upfront receipt of US$26 million 
and up to US$24 million in development funding over  
the initial phase of development.
Options exercised for StarGen
™
  
and UshStat
®
 for a total of US$3 million
In June 2012, Sanoﬁ elected to exercise its options  
under the 2009 agreement to acquire exclusive 
worldwide licences for further development, manufacture 
and commercialisation of StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
.  
Oxford BioMedica received the aggregate option  
exercise payments of US$3 million in July 2012 and is 
eligible for further development and commercialisation 
milestone payments and royalties on any future sales  
of the products. Oxford BioMedica is currently conducting  
the ongoing Phase I/IIa trials for StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
. 
The companies continue to work together to plan  
the next stages of development and ﬁnalise the terms  
of the worldwide licence agreements.
Ground-breaking RetinoStat
®
 data show sustained, 
dose-related protein expression
Oxford BioMedica delivered data from its Phase I  
study in “wet” age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
throughout 2012. The ﬁrst results were announced at  
the 2012 Annual Meeting of the Association for Research 
in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO), the largest and 
most respected eye and vision research organisation  
in the world. The ongoing study is led by Professor  
Peter Campochiaro at the Wilmer Eye Institute at Johns 
Hopkins, Baltimore (USA) and Oxford BioMedica opened  
a second clinical site in August 2012 at the Oregon Health 
& Science University, Portland (USA) with Dr Andy Lauer 
as Principal Investigator. The latest highlights from the  
trial include:
—    favourable, long-term safety proﬁle now up  
to 19 months post-treatment (dose level 1);
—    successful retinal transduction, as shown by substantial 
increase in expression and secretion of endostatin  
and angiostatin proteins measured in the anterior 
chamber of the eye following a single administration 
of RetinoStat
®
;
—     long-term protein expression
1
: now sustained for at 
least one year post-treatment at dose levels 1 and 2, 
and at least two months at dose level 3; and
—    further preliminary data continue to show a dose 
response, with the escalation to dose levels 2 and 3 
yielding an increase in average protein expression.
  1. as at latest available time points
The RetinoStat
®
 Phase I study was the ﬁrst US clinical 
study to directly administer a lentiviral vector-based 
treatment to patients. Furthermore, Oxford BioMedica 
believes this is the ﬁrst time that protein expression has 
been directly demonstrated in the eye following the 
administration of a gene therapy. 
Favourable RetinoStat
®
 safety proﬁle supports 
treatment of less severe “wet” AMD patients
Oxford BioMedica has completed the ﬁrst three  
patient cohorts (n=9, ascending dose levels 1, 2 and 3)  
and treatment of the ﬁnal patient cohort is ongoing 
(conﬁrmatory dose level). Given the encouraging 
preliminary data, in December 2012 Oxford BioMedica 
and Sanoﬁ submitted an amendment to the existing 
Phase I study protocol to broaden the patient population 
to include up to 12 patients with a less severe level  
of the disease in the conﬁrmatory dose cohort. 
As a regulatory requirement, RetinoStat
®
 must ﬁrst be 
tested for safety in patients with a severe level of disease. 
As such, patients can often be elderly and may ﬁnd  
the commitment of surgery plus frequent follow up 
appointments challenging. Whilst recruitment of the  
ﬁnal patient cohort was slower than anticipated during 
Q4 2012, the protocol amendment has considerably 
widened the pool of eligible patients which is expected  
to positively inﬂuence recruitment onto the study.
$3m
Total option exercise payment of 
US$3 million received in July 2012. 
Potential for future development and 
commercialisation milestone 
payments plus royalties on sales Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14
Operational review
LentiVector
® 
platform development
Funding award for UshStat
®
 Phase I/IIa study  
from Foundation Fighting Blindness
In July 2012, the US non-proﬁt organisation, the 
Foundation Fighting Blindness, granted Oxford BioMedica 
an award of US$125,000. The award will support the 
opening of a second clinical site for the ongoing UshStat
®
 
Phase I/IIa study, currently led by Professor Richard 
Weleber in the US at the Oregon Health & Science 
University’s Casey Eye Institute. The second clinical site 
will be at Centre Hospitalier National d’Ophtalmologie des 
Quinze-Vingts in Paris, France with Professor José-Alain 
Sahel as Principal Investigator. The Company submitted  
a dossier to the Haut Conseil des Biotechnologies (HCB) 
in Q4 2012. Subject to receiving regulatory approval,  
the second clinical site is expected to open in H2 2013.
Continued support from expert Data Safety  
Monitoring Board (DSMB)
As expected, Oxford BioMedica reported early StarGen
™
 
data in August 2012 following a positive review of  
the ongoing RetinoStat
®
 and StarGen
™
 studies by the  
DSMB, an independent panel of experts in the ﬁeld of 
ophthalmology, virology and vectorology. In addition,  
the Company announced a further update across its 
clinical ocular programmes in November 2012 following  
a positive DSMB review of ﬁrst patient cohort in UshStat
®
 
Phase I/IIa study.
Next objectives
Treatment of the ﬁnal RetinoStat
®
 patient cohort  
(n=up to 12) is ongoing and six-month data are expected 
to be reported by the end of the year. At any time prior  
to or within a deﬁned period after completion of the 
RetinoStat
®
 Phase I study, Sanoﬁ can exercise its option  
to license RetinoStat
®
 which would trigger a signiﬁcant 
milestone payment to Oxford BioMedica. As funding 
resources have been focused on the clinical development 
of the ﬁrst three products, the companies continue to 
evaluate the optimal development strategy for EncorStat
®
.
Market opportunity
AMD is a major cause of blindness affecting an  
estimated 25 million to 30 million people worldwide  
and the incidence of AMD is steadily increasing. 
Neovascular “wet” AMD accounts for 90% of all severe 
vision loss from the disease with up to 4.5 million  
patients worldwide (source: AMD Alliance International). 
The industry standard treatment for “wet” AMD and  
other related ocular conditions had global sales in  
excess of US$4.8 billion in 2012 (source: Novartis/Roche/
Regeneron). On the basis of non-clinical data, it is 
anticipated that RetinoStat
®
 may require only a single 
administration. If so, this would give the product  
a signiﬁcant advantage over currently available  
treatments in the market that require frequent,  
repeated administration. With no approved treatments  
for Stargardt disease (StarGen
™
), Usher syndrome  
type 1B (UshStat
®
) or corneal graft rejection (EncorStat
®
), 
these indications have an estimated market of  
$780 million (source: Oxford BioMedica).
Glaucoma-GT: targeting chronic glaucoma  
with Mayo Clinic
In collaboration with Mayo Clinic, Rochester (USA),  
Oxford BioMedica is developing a novel gene therapy  
for the treatment of chronic glaucoma. Under the terms 
of the agreement, Mayo Clinic and Oxford BioMedica will 
undertake pre-clinical studies to establish the feasibility  
of treating glaucoma using Oxford BioMedica’s proprietary 
LentiVector
®
 gene delivery technology expressing a 
COX-2 gene and a PGF-2α receptor gene to reduce 
intraocular pressure.
Oxford BioMedica has successfully completed initial 
pre-clinical studies which have demonstrated that the 
LentiVector
®
 platform is both well-tolerated at high  
vector dose and transduces suitable target cells following 
transcorneal injection into the front of the eye. In 
preparation for the pre-clinical efficacy study to assess  
the lowering of intraocular pressure, the Company has 
decided to evaluate a more translational glaucoma model 
in order to maximise proof of concept. This pre-clinical 
evaluation is ongoing, results from which are expected  
by the end of H1 2013.
Next objectives
The collaboration includes an option for exclusive US 
rights to license Mayo Clinic’s glaucoma technology 
which Oxford BioMedica can choose to exercise under 
conﬁdential terms agreed by both parties. In the longer 
term it is likely that Oxford BioMedica will require a future 
partner for Glaucoma-GT but in the meantime the 
Company will continue to move the product towards 
clinical development in order to add value to the asset.
Market opportunity
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases characterised by 
vision loss due to damage of the optic nerve affecting 
over 60 million people worldwide (source: Mayo Clinic). 
Glaucoma represents the largest ophthalmic market with 
global sales of over US$5 billion in 2008. The most 
common form of glaucoma is classed as primary 
open-angle glaucoma (also known as chronic glaucoma 
or chronic open-angle glaucoma) which accounts for 
75-95% of all glaucoma cases (source: Datamonitor 2010). 
Current treatment options for glaucoma aim to reduce 
intraocular pressure either through topical methods (e.g. 
eye drops) or eye surgery, however these approaches are 
not effective in all cases. It is anticipated that the use of  
a novel gene therapy to provide long-term control of 
intraocular pressure could minimise the risk of disease 
progression and obviate the requirement for surgery.
90%
Neovascular “wet” AMD accounts  
for 90% of all severe vision loss from  
the disease with up to 4.5 million  
patients worldwide Platform evolution: the next generation  
of ocular gene therapies
Ophthalmology is a high growth market estimated  
to be worth €13.4 billion in 2011, increasing to €16 billion 
worldwide by 2016 (source: Visiongain). There is strong 
demand for innovative products and the LentiVector
®
 
platform is well suited to creating novel, long-acting 
products which could command attractive pricing. 
Moreover, a common manufacturing platform can 
facilitate predictable or accelerated development and 
regulatory strategies for new ocular products. By 
cross-referring data generated across the LentiVector
®
 
platform portfolio, Oxford BioMedica is in an increasingly 
strong position to develop a new wave of high  
value products and improve its leading intellectual 
property position. 
Oxford BioMedica is currently evaluating product 
candidates for four new ocular indications, including 
uveitis and three undisclosed genetic retinal diseases, 
where there is a clear unmet medical need. The  
Company plans to seek funding from translational grant 
opportunities and charities, in addition to leveraging its 
relationships with key opinion leaders, in order to initiate 
pre-clinical programmes to demonstrate proof of concept. 
The ﬁrst two pre-clinical programmes are expected to 
start in H2 2013. 
Market opportunity
The three undisclosed genetic retinal diseases have  
a conservatively estimated market of over $400 million 
(source: Oxford BioMedica) and niche indications  
such as these can build signiﬁcant business value.  
Uveitis has an estimated market of over $300 million 
(source: GlobalData). 
Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Current treatment options for glaucoma aim  
to reduce intraocular pressure either through 
topical methods (e.g. eye drops) or eye surgery. 
However these approaches are not effective  
in all cases 
The novel gene therapy we are working on  
could provide long-term control of intraocular 
pressure, this approach could minimise  
the risk of disease progression and obviate  
the requirement for surgery
 
€16bn
Ophthalmology is a high growth  
market estimated to be worth  
€13.4 billion in 2011, increasing  
to €16 billion worldwide by 2016
$300m
Uveitis has an estimated  
market of over $300 million     16
Our pioneering technology has inspired powerful industry alliances.  
We are privileged to be working alongside global pharmaceutical players, 
professors, academic institutions, charitable organisations and industry 
specialists within our chosen ﬁelds of development. 
Together, we can bring hope and relief to people suffering from chronic  
and life threatening illness. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
Oxford BioMedica is a world leader in the development  
of lentiviral vector-based products and, in February 2011, 
the Company acquired a manufacturing site situated  
at Cowley, close to its headquarters in Oxford. The 
rationale for the acquisition was to deliver long-term 
operational and ﬁnancial efficiencies for the Company  
by manufacturing its own clinical study material as 
opposed to outsourcing to a contract manufacturing 
organisation. The cost of the acquisition, refurbishment 
and equipment was £3.6 million.  
Certiﬁcation attained to perform GMP  
manufacturing activities for clinical supply 
In June 2012, Oxford BioMedica announced that it had 
received approval from the UK Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to manufacture  
bulk drug material for Investigational Medicinal  
Products (IMPs) at its specialist manufacturing facility.  
This represents an extension of Oxford BioMedica’s 
existing Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) certiﬁcation 
which covers the established in-house activities for 
testing and subsequent release of IMPs for clinical 
development. Having attained GMP certiﬁcation, the  
plant has since been fully-operational and authorised  
to perform GMP manufacturing activities in support  
of clinical supply.
In-house manufacturing activities underway  
with potential to secure future alliances
The manufacturing plant totals approximately  
16,000 square feet, which includes c. 4,400 square feet  
in cleanrooms. With two primary clean room suites on  
the ﬁrst ﬂoor, there is also capacity for a third suite in 
addition to ﬁll and ﬁnish capabilities on the ground ﬂoor. 
Oxford BioMedica therefore has ﬂexibility to run up to 
three specialist manufacturing suites in parallel. Since 
June 2012, Oxford BioMedica has been working on the 
StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
 technology transfer to Sanoﬁ 
which has required some manufacturing activity.  
The Company has also produced test batches of the 
enhanced ProSavin
®
 product construct, to support the 
ongoing pre-clinical bridging studies, and test batches of 
RetinoStat
®
 for MHRA comparability testing requirements. 
Not only does Oxford BioMedica have the capacity to 
support its existing programmes, but there is also ample 
opportunity for the Company to become the supplier  
of choice for its current and future partners.
OXB Solutions: www.oxbsolutions.co.uk
Oxford BioMedica has launched a microsite, called OXB 
Solutions, designed to support the Company’s alliances  
in GMP manufacturing and leverage its leading position  
in intellectual property, translational research and clinical 
development. This online communications tool provides 
a strong platform from which Oxford BioMedica can 
inform and update its existing partners and key 
stakeholders. It will also help to build new relationships 
and industry alliances across all stages of viral vector 
product development and GMP manufacturing from 
clinical to commercial scale.
New master services agreement with  
Immune Design Corp.
In September 2012, Oxford BioMedica signed a master 
services agreement with Immune Design. The collaboration 
aims to leverage Oxford BioMedica’s expertise in lentiviral 
vector clinical development by focusing on the design 
and validation of custom analytical methods, in order to 
facilitate the future clinical development path for Immune 
Design’s pre-clinical therapeutic vaccine candidate for  
the treatment of cancer.
Next objectives
Oxford BioMedica regularly manufactures test batches  
of viral vector for third parties; this could lead to new 
alliances or research collaborations in 2013.
Operational review
LentiVector
® 
platform manufacturing
£3.6m
Total cost of the acquisition,  
refurbishment and equipment  
relating to our state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18
Operational review
LentiVector
® 
platform development
Other assets
ProSavin
®
: gene-based therapy for Parkinson’s disease 
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive movement 
disorder caused by the degeneration of dopamine 
producing nerve cells in the brain. ProSavin
®
 uses the 
Company’s LentiVector
®
 gene delivery technology to 
deliver the genes for three enzymes that are required for 
dopamine synthesis. The product is administered locally 
to the region of the brain called the striatum, converting 
cells into a replacement dopamine factory within the 
brain, thus replacing the patient’s own lost source of the 
neurotransmitter in a tonic level analogous to natural 
dopamine supply in the absence of PD.
Pioneering Phase I/II study successfully  
met primary endpoints
In April 2012, Oxford BioMedica announced that a Phase  
I/II study to assess the safety, efficacy and dose evaluation 
of ProSavin
®
 in patients with mid-to-late-stage PD 
successfully met its primary endpoints. The study 
evaluated three ascending dose levels of ProSavin
®
  
(1x, 2x and 5x) in a total of 15 patients. The primary 
endpoints were safety and efficacy as measured by 
improvements in motor function at six months. ProSavin
®
 
has demonstrated a long-term safety proﬁle and all  
15 patients showed improvements in motor function  
at the six-month efficacy endpoint relative to baseline.
ProSavin
®
 mediates long-term improvement  
of motor function 
Oxford BioMedica will monitor all patients treated for at 
least 10 years post-treatment. Motor function assessments 
at the latest available time points indicate:
—    Cohort 1 (1x dose):  
improvement vs. baseline after four years (n=2 of 3)
—    Cohort 2 (2x dose):  
improvement vs. baseline after three years (n=3 of 3)
—    Cohort 3 (2x dose, enhanced technique): 
improvement vs. baseline after two years (n=2 of 3)
—    Cohort 4 (5x dose, enhanced technique):  
improvement vs. baseline after 12 months (n=6 of 6)
Results can vary considerably when treating small patient 
numbers, particularly in a heterogeneous disease such  
as PD; for example, a patient in cohort 1 (at four years) 
and another in cohort 3 (at two years) did not show  
an improvement over baseline at their latest assessments. 
However, given the nature of this inexorably degenerative 
disease, the overall results are very encouraging as the 
expected disease progression without ProSavin
®
 may  
be signiﬁcantly worse. 
Non-clinical programme for product  
optimisation on track
Oxford BioMedica is currently evaluating a more  
potent product construct to ensure the greatest chance  
of success in future randomised Phase II studies, by 
increasing the beneﬁt for patients, and to increase the 
commercial opportunity by offering extended patent 
protection and a relative reduction in cost of goods.  
The Company initiated a non-clinical programme in  
H1 2012 to evaluate the efficacious dose range of the 
enhanced product construct using the gold standard 
MPTP model of Parkinson’s disease. The non-clinical 
programme will evaluate improvements in motor 
function, in addition to Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET) data to assess dopaminergic activity. Progress  
is on track and the full non-clinical programme  
is expected to complete in Q3 2013.
Next objectives
Oxford BioMedica is seeking further funding, via a 
development partnership or grant opportunities, to 
support a small Phase IIa trial which would generate 
valuable data. The Company holds regular updates with 
interested parties and is evaluating the most effective 
strategy to advance the enhanced ProSavin
®
 construct 
into its next stage of development.
Market opportunity
Parkinson’s disease affected approximately 2.3 million 
patients in 2011 in the seven major markets (US, Japan, 
UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain), projected to rise  
to 2.8 million by 2021 (source: Datamonitor). None  
of the current treatments provide long-term relief from 
symptoms, yet, by 2019, sales of these treatments could 
exceed US$2.8 billion in the seven major markets (source: 
Datamonitor). ProSavin
®
 has the potential to address a 
major unmet medical need in Parkinson’s disease, offering 
long-lasting beneﬁt from a single administration with  
an excellent safety proﬁle. The product could therefore 
also signiﬁcantly reduce the social care burden that  
is associated with the mid to late-stage of disease.
2.3m
Parkinson’s disease affected  
approximately 2.3 million patients  
in 2011 in the seven major markets  
(US, Japan, UK, France, Germany,  
Italy and Spain), projected to rise  
to 2.8 million by 2021 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
Intellectual property and  
technology licensing
MoNuDin
®
: motor neuron disease
The pre-clinical development of MoNuDin
®
 is supported 
by the UK Motor Neurone Disease Association (MNDA). 
The LentiVector
®
 platform technology has the ability to 
deliver genes safely and efficiently to the neuronal cells 
affected by motor neuron disease. In collaboration with 
VIB/University of Leuven, funded by a grant from the 
MNDA, Oxford BioMedica is exploring novel therapeutic 
approaches to treat Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), 
the most prevalent type of motor neuron disease. A route 
of administration directly into the cerebrospinal ﬂuid 
bathing the spinal cord has been established. Two forms 
of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have since 
been evaluated using this method. Further pre-clinical 
work to evaluate the efficacy of these VEGF forms in  
a model of ALS is ongoing. One of the major hurdles  
to treating motor neurone disease is ensuring that 
therapeutic agents are delivered to the relevant site  
of action in the brain and spinal cord; therefore this 
collaboration continues to support the future clinical 
development of MoNuDin
®
.
Market opportunity
Despite being one of the most common 
neurodegenerative diseases of adult onset, motor neuron 
disease has a high unmet need. Amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS), often referred to as Lou Gehrig’s disease,  
is the most prevalent type of motor neuron disease.  
In the US, there are an estimated 30,000 patients with  
ALS and nearly 6,000 new cases are diagnosed annually 
(source: ALS Association). If MoNuDin
®
 proves to be  
an effective neuroprotective treatment that can slow  
or arrest injury to patients’ motor neurons, it would  
have compelling competitive advantages.
The LentiVector
®
 platform technology is protected by  
a comprehensive patent portfolio of around 60 patent 
families including over 500 issued patents. In November 
2012, Oxford BioMedica announced that the Carnegie 
Institution for Science and the University of Massachusetts 
Medical School were granted a key US patent for the use 
of RNA interference (RNAi) to inhibit expression of a target 
gene in animal cells, including mammalian cells. The 
patent covers vector-based delivery of RNAi and, as a 
result, triggered a modest milestone payment by Oxford 
BioMedica for its exclusive rights to this technology.  
This patent further strengthened the Company’s  
leading intellectual property position.
The Company also has the potential to enjoy future 
milestone payments and royalties from a number of 
licensing agreements with partners who are developing 
mid-to-late-stage products including:
MolMed, 2004: 
Licensed Oxford BioMedica’s retroviral ex vivo gene 
delivery technology (TK008 in Phase III for transplant 
rejection in patients with acute leukaemia)
Bavarian Nordic, 2010:  
Licensed Oxford BioMedica’s heterologous PrimeBoost 
technology patents and poxvirus patents (PROSTVAC
™
  
is in Phase III for advanced prostate cancer)
Emergent BioSolutions, 2010: 
Licensed Oxford BioMedica’s heterologous PrimeBoost 
technology patents and poxvirus patents (Tuberculosis 
vaccine is in Phase II)
30,000
In the US, there are an estimated  
30,000 patients with ALS and nearly  
6,000 new cases are diagnosed  
annually Our capabilities cover the entire product lifecycle; from pre-clinical 
development, to regulatory support, to all future stages of clinical 
development and specialist manufacturing. With multiple opportunities  
ahead, our highly-experienced management team is resolutely  
focused on leading our evolution.
   20 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
Oxford BioMedica’s proprietary 5T4 antigen is an ideal 
target for anti-cancer treatment given its restricted 
expression on normal tissues and its high prevalence  
on the surface of cancerous cells across a wide range  
of solid tumours. 
TroVax
®
 (MVA-5T4): therapeutic cancer vaccine  
with a biomarker
TroVax
®
 is a late-stage clinical asset that has completed  
10 clinical trials in colorectal, renal and prostate cancer. 
Few immunotherapy treatments have demonstrated a 
direct link between the predicted mode of action and 
clinical beneﬁt. TroVax
®
 stands apart as a cancer vaccine 
that elicits a strong and readily deﬁnable immune response. 
Oxford BioMedica has identiﬁed a biomarker, using a 
simple blood test, which predicts both the magnitude  
of the induced 5T4 antibody response and treatment 
beneﬁt. This enables us to identify those patients who  
are most likely to beneﬁt from treatment with TroVax
®
. 
Encouraging preliminary biomarker data
In October 2012, Oxford BioMedica made a strategic 
decision to close its US Phase II study in hormone 
refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) to focus on investigator- 
led Phase II studies. As the HRPC study closed prior to 
completion of patient recruitment the efficacy results 
should be interpreted with caution, however data indicate:
—    a trend towards increased time to disease progression 
in patients who received TroVax
®
 plus chemotherapy 
drug docetaxel versus those who received docetaxel 
alone; and
—    prospective validation that Oxford BioMedica’s 
pre-treatment biomarker can identify patients most 
likely to beneﬁt from treatment with TroVax
®
.
First of multiple Phase II investigator-led  
studies underway
In July 2012, Oxford BioMedica’s partners at Cardiff 
University, Wales (UK) initiated a Phase II trial to assess  
the safety and immunological activity of TroVax
®
 in 
patients with inoperable metastatic colorectal cancer. The 
Company expects two further sponsored Phase II studies 
in mesothelioma and ovarian cancer to be initiated in the 
UK by academic collaborators in 2013. All of these studies 
will use the biomarker to select patients for the studies.
Next objectives
Securing a partner to fund TroVax
®
’s future late-stage 
development remains a priority. Expenditure on TroVax
®
 
to support the investigator-led Phase II studies will  
be modest. 
5T4-targeted antibody therapy for cancer:  
partnered with Pﬁzer
Pﬁzer’s continued commitment to the 5T4-ADC 
programme, as demonstrated by presentations at key 
industry conferences during 2012, is encouraging. The 
potential value of Oxford BioMedica’s collaboration with 
Pﬁzer is up to US$28 million, which comprises upfront 
payments, license option fees and milestone payments 
that are subject to the achievement of certain project 
objectives. The next milestone payment to Oxford 
BioMedica would be due if Pﬁzer initiates clinical trials  
for the development of a 5T4-targeted antibody therapy.
Diagnostic cancer imaging: research collaboration 
with ImaginAb
In November 2012 ImaginAb exercised its option  
to acquire an exclusive worldwide licence for 
commercialisation of an in vivo 5T4-based imaging 
diagnostic. ImaginAb is preparing to initiate clinical 
development of the 5T4 in vivo diagnostic in 2013.  
Under the terms of the agreement, Oxford BioMedica 
received an upfront option exercise payment and could 
receive proceeds up to a total of US$4 million in future 
initiation and development milestone payments,  
in addition to royalties on product sales, subject  
to the achievement of certain programme objectives.
Market opportunity
The oncology market was estimated to be $72 billion  
in 2010, forecast to grow to $93 billion in 2015 (source: 
Datamonitor, 2011). In particular, the cancer targeted 
therapies and immunotherapy market was $19.5 billion  
in 2009, forecast to increase to $36.8 billion in 2019 
(source: Datamonitor, 2010). TroVax
®
 is administered  
in the same way as most infectious disease vaccines  
are given; a simple injection in the arm. If shown to be 
efficacious in a pivotal trial for even just one of the major 
cancers where it is known that 5T4 is present on the 
tumours, TroVax
®
 has signiﬁcant potential. The concept of 
an anti-cancer therapy, which has antibody-like speciﬁcity 
as well as chemotherapy-like potency, is clearly attractive. 
The 5T4-targeted antibody therapy has the potential  
to beneﬁt patients with any solid cancer that expresses 
the 5T4 tumour antigen, which represents a multi-billion 
US dollar market. Targeted molecular imaging for the 
diagnosis and staging of cancer also holds signiﬁcant 
promise in the era of personalised medicine.
Operational review
5T4 tumour antigen
 
platform
$19.5bn
The cancer targeted therapies  
and immunotherapy market  
was $19.5 billion in 2009, forecast  
to increase to $36.8 billion in 2019 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22
Having attained GMP certiﬁcation from the MHRA in June 2012, our 
state-of-the-art manufacturing plant is now fully-operational and authorised 
to perform GMP manufacturing activities in support of clinical supply.
The investment in specialist manufacturing processes addresses one  
of the main hurdles associated with the rapid progression of products 
through to market. Not only do we have capacity to support our existing 
programmes, but there is also ample opportunity for us to become the 
supplier of choice for our current and future partners.
Our manufacturing capabilities cover the entire product lifecycle;  
from pre-clinical development, to regulatory support, to all future stages  
of viral vector product clinical development and commercial scale.  
Ongoing process development aims to optimise our manufacturing 
processes to develop highly innovative technologies and therapies. 
Manufacturing feature
Our state-of-the-art, fully-operational facility
GMP
Our world class facilities provide the 
full range of services from proof of 
concept through GMP manufacture 
and supply for clinical trials
2004
We attained GLP accreditation  
in 2004; GMP in 2005; and GCP 
certiﬁcation in 2006 from the  
MHRA and have continued to 
operate under GLP, GMP and GCP 
accreditations ever since Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24
Manufacturing feature
Interview with our Head of Manufacturing
James Christie joined Oxford BioMedica in February 2011 with over 30 years 
of experience in the industry.  Led by James, an integrated team comprising 
manufacturing, development, quality control, quality assurance, engineering 
and logistics were engaged in commissioning the newly-acquired 
manufacturing facility. In line with expectations and on budget, the 
manufacturing facility produced its ﬁrst pilot run at the end of 2011  
and Oxford BioMedica attained GMP certiﬁcation in June 2012.
Q. What attracted you to Oxford BioMedica?
A.  Oxford BioMedica has a broad portfolio of exciting 
products underpinned by the LentiVector
®
 gene 
delivery technology platform. I felt I could work well 
with the Company’s strong management team and 
apply my experience to bring the manufacturing plant 
to operational readiness and contribute to delivering  
a commercial arm to the business.
Q.  What sets your team’s expertise apart from  
others in the industry?
A.  We have world-class expertise in gene therapy and 
immunotherapy. Our unique technical experience 
with the LentiVector
®
 platform has underpinned  
a successful track record to date in bringing novel 
gene-based products into clinical development.  
Our scientists and engineers are tasked with ﬁnding 
the best ways to improve our systems, processes  
and procedures in order to keep us at the forefront  
of science and technology. It’s an exciting place  
to be.
Q.  What have you been doing in the facility  
since you bought it?
A.  Following the acquisition in 2011, we worked very 
hard on commissioning the plant and preparing  
for the MHRA inspection to obtain a GMP licence for 
production. Since obtaining MHRA approval in June 
2012, we have produced materials for various internal 
and external projects. We continuously aim to 
enhance our novel product candidates, therefore 
ongoing process development aims to further 
improve our processes at all stages of development. 
In addition, we launched the OXB Solutions microsite 
to give key stakeholders the opportunity to learn 
about our team, facilities and technologies associated 
with our production and analytics. This online tool  
is very useful to showcase our expertise and support 
our alliances. 
Q. Can you explain your manufacturing process?
A.  In general, our manufacturing process involves 
culturing a human cell line through revival and 
expansion phases, followed by a production phase. 
The material is then puriﬁed and further processed  
to drug substance prior to generation of ﬁnal drug 
product. More speciﬁcally, we revive cells from a 
frozen cell bank and introduce three pieces of DNA 
required for production; two pieces of DNA remain 
the same for all platform products (one for the shell  
of the vector and its associated enzymes, and a 
second to provide a surface protein that is required 
for subsequent entry into target cells).  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
James Christie
Head of Manufacturing
The third piece of DNA changes depending on which 
product you are making, but essentially provides the 
genetic “payload” for delivery to target cells.
Q. What is the production capacity of the facility?
A.  The facility is very ﬂexible, ideally suited to our needs 
and is conﬁgured speciﬁcally to provide efficient ﬂows 
of product, materials and personnel. We currently 
have two independent suites in operation, with a third 
suite for additional capacity when required. The 
facility currently meets our needs for our existing 
clinical trials and collaborative partnerships.
Q.  What are the speciﬁc challenges in manufacturing 
gene-based medicines?
A.  Currently I think the main challenges are i) minimising 
cost of goods, ii) improving the scale of operation  
and iii) having the correct analytics to test and 
characterise the product. Here at Oxford BioMedica 
we meet these challenges head on by bringing 
multi-disciplinary teams together in order to provide 
solutions and improvements.
Q. What else can you make in your plant?
A.  The plant is very ﬂexible, so it could potentially  
be used to produce any gene therapy product.  
The plant is currently equipped to support lentiviral 
vector production, but it beneﬁts from typical 
pharmaceutical utilities (e.g. puriﬁed water, clean 
steam, compressed gases) which will support 
bioreactors and other upstream and downstream 
technologies for production.
Q.  What impact do you feel the manufacturing  
facility has made to Oxford BioMedica?
A.  The plant provides a strong commercial arm  
to our business. It will deliver signiﬁcant operational 
and cost efficiencies for our internal programmes  
but we also expect to generate revenue from new 
alliances. This will help us fund new, high value 
projects. In terms of the future, I would like to see 
manufacturing play a key role in the growth of the 
business by providing a real opportunity to bring 
products into clinical development and to market.  
I would also like us to build long-lasting relationships 
with our key partners. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26
Manufacturing feature
Inside the facility
4400ft
2
The facility includes 4,400ft
2
  
(409m
2
) in cleanrooms
16,000ft
2
The manufacturing facility totals 
approximately 16,000ft
2
 (1486m
2
)
Ground ﬂoor
 
1. Office and admin
2.   Primary change
  Provides appropriate cleanroom appropriate gowning, 
goggles, hair nets and face masks. 
3.  Material transfer/temperature-controlled storage 
Temperature monitored and validated cold storage 
equipment facilitates the storage of raw materials, 
drug substance and drug product.
4.   Plant and utilities 
The heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) 
system is situated here. The plant utilises four 
independent HVAC systems for providing single pass 
air supply to the clean room facilities. 
5.    Fill and ﬁnish
  Aseptic ﬁll and ﬁnish is the last step of a biologic drug 
manufacturing process and results in packaged 
product in its ﬁnal form.
First ﬂoor
 
6.  Clean room suites 
With two primary clean room suites on the ﬁrst  
ﬂoor and additional capacity on the ground ﬂoor,  
we have the capability to run up to three specialist 
manufacturing suites in parallel.
7.  Central services 
Used to prepare media/buffer and any other 
equipment and materials required for the 
manufacturing bioprocess.
8.  Process development 
Dedicated laboratories that are fully equipped to 
support all aspects of upstream and downstream 
process development.
9.  Micro/QC labs 
Where we perform quality control (QC) activities such 
as environmental monitoring; raw material analyses; 
and cleaning validation and testing.
9
8
6
5
7
1
2
3
4 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28
Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators monitored regularly  
by the Board are:
—  Cash balance (total of cash, cash equivalents and
 current ﬁnancial investments)
  At the start of 2012 the cash balance was  
£14.3 million. This fell to £9.0 million at 30 April 2012 
and £6.6 million at 30 June 2012. Following the 
fund-raising in July 2012 the balance at 31 October 
2012 was £14.4 million and £14.1 million at  
31 December 2012.
—  Cash burn (net cash used in/generated from
 operations plus sales and purchases of non-current
 assets and interest received)
  During 2012 the cash burn was £10.5 million 
compared with £16.5 million during 2011.
—  Headcount
  At 31 December 2012 the number of employees  
was 81, compared with 99 at 31 December 2011. 
Revenue £7 .8m (2011: £7 .7m)
 2012 2011 
 £’000 £’000
Sanoﬁ –  
2009 agreement upfront recognition 3,414 4,665
Sanoﬁ –  
2009 agreement R&D funding 1,932 2,651
Sanoﬁ –  
exercise of StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
 options 1,913 –
Technology licences & other revenue 497 402
Total revenue 7 ,756 7 ,718
Revenues were virtually unchanged in 2012 compared 
with 2011 although the composition was slightly different. 
The bulk of the Group’s revenue in 2012 and 2011 was 
generated from the collaboration with Sanoﬁ which 
began in April 2009. There are three elements in 2012. 
First, in 2009 the Group received a non-refundable 
upfront payment of US$26 million (£16.6 million) which  
is being spread over the term of the agreement. Revenue 
to date of £15.9 million has been recognised under this 
collaboration, of which £3.4 million was recognised in 
2012 (£4.7 million in 2011). The remaining £0.7 million  
is classiﬁed as deferred income and is expected to be 
recognised as income in the next 12 months. 
Secondly, Sanoﬁ is funding R&D expenditure on the  
four products covered by the collaboration agreement  
up to a maximum of $24 million. To date, £13.3 million 
(US$21.1 million) has been recognised as revenue,  
of which £1.9 million was recognised in 2012  
(£2.7 million in 2011). £0.6 million has been classiﬁed  
as current deferred income. 
Finally, under the 2009 agreement, Sanoﬁ has the  
option to acquire exclusive worldwide licences for further 
development, manufacture and commercialisation of  
any one or all of the products covered by the agreement. 
Financial review
 
Tim Watts
Chief Financial Officer
2012 has been an important developmental year for Oxford BioMedica from  
a ﬁnancial perspective. In February 2012, steps were taken to reduce costs and 
16 staff were made redundant. This included the closure of the small US office. 
In June 2012 our manufacturing facility in Oxford was approved by the MHRA 
(Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency) to manufacture  
bulk drug material for Investigational Medicinal Products. This approval gives 
us the opportunity in the future of generating revenues which would reduce 
our cash burn, as well as making substantial savings on our internal R&D 
programmes. We also beneﬁted in June 2012 from Sanoﬁ exercising  
its options over StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
 which brought in $3.0 million  
(£1.9 million) and opens up the prospect of future development milestones.  
In July 2012 we completed a Firm Placing and Open Offer raising £10.1 million 
net of expenses. At the end of 2012, we had £14.1 million of cash, cash 
equivalents and available for sale investments.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
In June 2012, Sanoﬁ exercised its options in relation  
to StarGen™ and UshStat
®
, triggering option fees of  
$2.0 million and $1.0 million respectively (in aggregate 
£1.9 million) which were recognised as revenue in full  
in 2012.
Cost of sales £0.7m (2011: £0.6m)
Costs of sales are the royalties payable to third party 
licensors attributable to upfront and option fees from  
the Sanoﬁ agreement that are recognised as revenue.  
The increase in cost of sales in 2012 is caused by the 
royalty payments due to licensors triggered by the receipt 
of the option fees for StarGen™ and UshStat
®
. 
Research & development costs (pre-exceptional)  
£14.0m (2011: £14.7m)
 2012 2011 
 £’000 £’000
External costs 3,783 4,766
In-house costs 9,862 9,494
Amortisation of intangibles 370 450
Total non-exceptional  
research & development costs 14,015 14,710
R&D costs comprise external costs paid for clinical trial 
materials and outsourced activities; in-house expenditure 
including staff costs, R&D consumables, intellectual 
property, facilities and depreciation of R&D assets; and 
amortisation of intangibles. External costs in 2012 were 
lower than in 2011 mainly because the costs of the Sanoﬁ 
collaboration activities, £1.9 million, were lower than in 
2011 (£2.7 million). Other external costs were mainly in 
respect of the enhanced ProSavin
®
 construct non-clinical 
studies and the TroVax
®
 prostate cancer study, the latter 
of which was terminated in October 2012.
Administrative expenses £3.6m (2011: £3.8m)
Administrative expenses of £3.6 million in 2012 were  
£0.2 million lower than in 2011 despite the inclusion  
in 2012 of redundancy costs and the closure of the  
US office, and also £0.4 million professional fees incurred 
on a conﬁdential corporate project. 
Operating loss (pre-exceptional) £10.5m (2011: £11.3m) 
The operating loss in 2012 of £10.5 million was  
£0.8 million lower than in 2012 because of the lower  
R&D and administrative expenses. 
Net ﬁnance income £0.1m (2011: £0.1m)
Finance income in 2012 was virtually unchanged from 
2011, as interest rates remain low and average cash 
balances in the two years were similar.
Tax credit £1.6m (2011: £1.7m)
The tax credit of £1.6 million (2011:£1.7 million) represents 
the amount expected to be received under current 
legislation on research and development tax credits  
for small and medium-sized companies. 
Loss for the year before exceptional items  
£8.7m (2011: £9.5m)
Before exceptional items, the lower net loss in 2012  
is attributable to the lower costs and operating loss. 
Balance sheet
Non-current assets decreased from £7.3 million at the 
start of the year to £6.8 million at 31 December 2012. 
There were additions of £0.2 million intangible assets  
and £0.3 million property, plant and equipment which 
were offset by £0.4 million amortisation of intangible 
assets and £0.6 million depreciation of ﬁxed assets.
Current assets declined from £18.8 million at the start  
of the year to £17.6 million due mainly to lower trade and 
other receivables. The 2011 trade and other receivables 
balance had a signiﬁcant VAT receivable and also larger 
clinical trial prepayments than at 31 December 2012.
Current liabilities have decreased from £7.7 million at  
31 December 2011 to £4.3 million at 31 December 2012. 
Trade and other payables are £0.5 million lower, mainly 
due to lower trade payables, and current deferred 
revenue is £2.8 million lower because most of the  
Sanoﬁ collaboration agreement upfront payment  
has now been recognised.
Cash resources
Cash used in operations in 2012 was £11.5 million,  
£2.8 million less than in 2011, and the R&D tax credit 
received was a similar amount at £1.5 million (2011:  
£1.4 million). Fixed asset purchases of £0.5 million in  
2012 were much lower than in 2011 when £3.6 million 
was spent, largely on the purchase and refurbishment  
of the manufacturing facility.
In 2012, £10.3 million net proceeds were received from 
the issue of ordinary shares, compared with £18.6 million 
in 2011.
At the end of 2012, the Group had £14.1 million of cash, 
cash equivalents and current ﬁnancial investments  
(2011: £14.3 million). 
Financial outlook
With £14.1 million cash resources at the end of 2012  
the Group has sufficient ﬁnancial resources to fund the 
business into Q1 2014. However this does not take into 
account the potential revenue generating possibilities 
from the manufacturing facility, nor the signiﬁcant  
option fee should Sanoﬁ choose to exercise its option 
over RetinoStat
®
 during 2013. We are also continuing  
to explore ways of generating cash from ProSavin
®
  
and TroVax
®
.
Our objective is to develop Oxford BioMedica’s  
business model in a balanced way such that net cash 
burn is reduced to the point where we reach sustainable 
proﬁtability. We also continue to seek to leverage  
the value of our intellectual property through strategic 
partnerships and other growth opportunities may  
also come from corporate activity.  Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30
At Oxford BioMedica we recognise our obligation  
to behave as a responsible corporate citizen and believe 
that by doing so we will minimise business risk and 
enhance our reputation. The Board recognises the 
potential beneﬁts of corporate social responsibility  
(CSR) for the competitiveness of Oxford BioMedica and 
encourages a culture of continuous improvement in 
CSR-related issues. We have set speciﬁc policies that  
cover key aspects of CSR and strive to operate at  
the highest level of integrity.
 
Our relationships
Internal relationships
Attracting, motivating and retaining a highly skilled 
workforce is critical to Oxford BioMedica’s success and 
sustainability. The Company’s employment policies are 
based on guidelines for best practice. They recognise the 
rights and ensure equal opportunities for all employees 
without discrimination. The Board as a whole takes 
considerable interest in employment matters which are 
represented at board level by the Chief Executive Officer.
Training and development 
We aim to develop and maintain a motivated and 
professional workforce through career development, 
performance management, training and promotion.  
Our managers are responsible for developing employees 
and identifying talent within the workforce. Training is 
given in a wide variety of ways including on-the-job 
coaching, in-house and external courses. Our annual 
employee appraisal process continues to function well,  
by providing a formal process for setting objectives  
and reviewing performance.
Company values 
Our mission, vision and values aim to encourage 
innovation amongst our people. The values are designed 
to engage and inspire employees to work together to 
achieve timely delivery and to cultivate enthusiasm in  
the work place. By implementing these new initiatives  
we are motivating our staff to work to the best of their 
ability and strive to be the best.
Sharing information 
We acknowledge the importance of communication 
between colleagues. Company brieﬁngs, R&D  
seminars and informal all-staff meetings are held to  
keep employees informed of general business issues  
and any other matters of interest. The circulation of  
press announcements and internal newsletters keeps 
employees informed of business and employee activities. 
At the start of 2013 we also conducted an employee 
engagement survey to learn more about views and 
opinions within the Company and enable us to identify 
areas that may need attention.
External relationships
Our external stakeholders include shareholders, patients, 
healthcare professionals, patient advocacy organisations, 
charitable institutions, partners, collaborators, licensees, 
suppliers and advisers.
These relationships are a fundamental aspect of our 
business activities. We are committed to interacting  
with all stakeholders in an ethical manner, and to ensuring 
that the relationships are maintained at a professional  
and appropriate level. Our interactions with external 
stakeholders are regularly reviewed by the Senior 
Management Group.
Clinical trials 
We have a policy for the management of clinical trials  
to ensure compliance with appropriate guidelines and 
legislation. Our website (wwwoxfordbiomedica.co.uk) 
provides information on ongoing clinical trials and we 
also disclose our trials on a US government-sponsored 
website (www.ClinicalTrials.gov).
Communication 
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors  
have primary responsibility for communication  
with shareholders and related stakeholders. We also  
use the services of external ﬁnancial and corporate 
communications agencies. We seek to disseminate 
information in a timely, reliable and comprehensive 
fashion, and we comply with the rules and guidelines  
of the UK Listing Authority for a company on the  
Official List. Further information is given in the 
Governance Report.
 
Product development
Animal testing
It is legally mandated by regulatory authorities worldwide 
that all new therapeutic products must be extensively 
tested for safety before they are administered to patients, 
and there is currently no alternative to using animal 
models as part of this process. We are committed to 
following the principles of the three “Rs”: replacement, 
reﬁnement and reduction of animal testing. These 
principles ensure that animals are only used when 
necessary and where there are no alternatives.  
Oxford BioMedica minimises the use of animal models  
by cross-referring LentiVector
®
 platform data packages  
for the regulatory authorities.
Quality assurance
We are committed to operating all of our activities at a 
high level of scientiﬁc quality and regulatory compliance. 
Our policies reinforce senior management’s commitment 
to high standards of quality being maintained at all times. 
A set of regulations and procedures provide guidance and 
instruction pertaining to the development, manufacturing, 
testing, clinical evaluation, storage and distribution  
of investigational medicinal products (IMP) performed  
by or authorised by the Company.
Corporate social responsibility Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
We place the highest priority on the safety and well- 
being of our clinical trial patients who are treated with  
our products. It is a regulatory and company requirement  
that employees are aware of the implications and 
importance of maintaining drug safety, quality and 
efficacy throughout its clinical trial programmes.  
Oxford BioMedica regularly holds company-wide  
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good Clinical 
Practice (GCP), Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and 
Pharmacovigilance training to ensure that employees  
are aware of and compliant with current best practice. 
The Company continues to support ongoing and  
periodic training as an essential part of its continuous 
improvement philosophy.
Strong emphasis is also placed on maintaining the 
integrity of the Company’s products including their safe 
manufacture, controlled distribution and compliance with 
all relevant regulations. Oxford BioMedica is responsible 
for ensuring that each batch of product is ﬁt-for-purpose 
in terms of safety, quality, identity, strength, purity and 
expected efficacy. Oxford BioMedica continues to operate 
under GCP, GMP and GLP accreditations on an ongoing 
basis and has remained within compliance throughout 
2012.
Manufacturing
In February 2011, Oxford BioMedica invested in its 
specialist manufacturing processes by acquiring a UK 
manufacturing facility based in Cowley, Oxford. During 
the refurbishment and re-commissioning phase of the 
manufacturing facility, the Company took the opportunity 
to upgrade and replace old equipment with new energy 
efficient systems. The manufacturing facility complies 
with Oxford BioMedica’s general environmental policy.
Our environment
Health and safety
We are committed to protecting the health, safety  
and welfare of our employees and strive to maintain an 
effective health and safety culture within the organisation. 
Our Health and Safety Management System covers all 
work activities such as the usage of biological, chemical 
and radioactive materials, and the operation of laboratory 
equipment. The Health and Safety Management System  
is reviewed and updated in order to improve current 
systems and procedures, adapt to variations in scientiﬁc 
work and reﬂect changes in legislation. Oxford BioMedica 
continues to have a strong safety record. All health  
and safety issues are represented at board level by  
the Chief Scientiﬁc Officer.
Environmental policies
We fully recognise our responsibility to protect the 
environment and we review our environmental policy, 
objectives and guidelines regularly. The Company 
complies with all regulations that cover the processing 
and disposal of laboratory waste; using qualiﬁed licensed 
contractors for the collection and disposal of chemical 
and radioactive waste and decontaminated biological 
materials. No laboratory waste goes to landﬁll sites. As 
part of our commitment to the environment, our policies 
are designed to motivate our staff to be energy conscious 
and environmentally friendly. The Company’s recycling 
program continues to function effectively and the 
majority of our cardboard and office paper is recycled. 
Environmental issues are represented at board level  
by the Chief Executive Officer.
Charitable giving
For the third consecutive year we have continued  
to recycle our coffee disks in order to raise money  
for MacMillan Cancer Support. In June 2012 Oxford 
BioMedica donated £1,200 to the Sue Kingsman Memorial 
Scholarship Fund which, via the Carriacou Children’s 
Education Fund (CCEF), will fund a student’s two year 
college course. Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral  
part of Oxford BioMedica’s planning. Many of the 
Group’s risks and uncertainties are common to all 
development-stage biopharmaceutical companies. 
Where possible, the Group’s strategy is designed  
to manage and mitigate these risks. The Board has  
overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control. The management 
structure of the Group allows the Executive Directors 
to be personally involved in all material aspects of risk 
assessment, management and mitigation. Some risk is 
difficult to mitigate, in particular that related to gene 
therapy and its efficacy. For other risks, management’s 
experience, planning and vigilance can mitigate the 
risks to a greater extent, for example those associated 
with intellectual property and ﬁnancial risk. The Board 
members have relevant qualiﬁcation and experience, 
and they have access to external resources where 
required. The Board meets regularly and frequently 
enough to ensure that it is fully informed to oversee 
this activity in a timely manner. The following are the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the business. 
Intellectual property and patent protection risk
The Group’s success depends, amongst other things,  
on maintaining proprietary rights to its products and 
technologies and the Board gives high priority to  
the strategic management of the Group’s intellectual 
property portfolio. There can be no guarantee that Oxford 
BioMedica’s products and technologies are adequately 
protected by intellectual property. Furthermore, if the 
Group’s patents are challenged, the defence of such rights 
could involve substantial costs and an uncertain outcome. 
Third-party patents may emerge containing claims  
that impact the Group’s freedom to operate. There can  
be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain 
licences to these patents at reasonable cost, if at all,  
or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. 
Where copyright, design right and/or “know how” protect 
the Group’s products or technology, there can be no 
assurance that a competitor or potential competitor  
will not independently develop the same or similar 
products or technology. 
Rights of ownership over, and rights to license and use, 
intellectual property depend on a number of factors, 
including the circumstances under which the intellectual 
property was created and the provisions of any agreements 
covering such intellectual property. There can be no 
assurance that changes to the terms within licence 
agreements will not affect the entitlement of the Group  
to the relevant intellectual property or to license the 
relevant intellectual property from others.
Gene therapy risk
The commercial success of Oxford BioMedica’s gene 
therapy products will depend, in part, on their acceptance 
by the medical community and the public for the 
prevention and/or treatment of diseases. To date only  
one gene therapy product has been approved in Europe, 
and none in the USA. Furthermore, speciﬁc regulatory 
requirements, over and above those imposed on other 
products, apply to gene therapy and there can be no 
assurance that additional requirements will not be 
imposed in the future. This may increase the cost  
and time required for successful development of the 
Group’s products.
Development risks
To develop a pharmaceutical product it is necessary  
to conduct pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials 
for product candidates to demonstrate safety and efficacy. 
The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials  
that will be required varies depending on the product 
candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results 
and the regulations applicable to the particular product 
candidate. In addition, the Group or its partners will need 
to obtain regulatory approvals to conduct clinical trials 
and manufacture drugs before they can be marketed.  
This development process takes many years. The Group 
may fail to develop successfully a product candidate  
for many reasons, including:
—  Failure to demonstrate long-term safety
—  Failure to demonstrate efficacy
—  Failure to develop technical solutions to achieve 
necessary dosing levels or acceptable delivery 
mechanisms
—  Failure to establish robust manufacturing processes
—  Failure to ﬁnd a development partner or  
alternative funding
—  Failure to obtain regulatory approvals to conduct 
clinical studies or, ultimately, to market the product
—  Failure to recruit sufficient patients into clinical studies
The failure of the Group to develop successfully a product 
candidate could adversely affect the future proﬁtability of 
the group. There is a risk that the failure of any one product 
candidate could have a signiﬁcant and sustained adverse 
impact on the Company’s share price. There is also the 
risk that the failure of one product candidate in clinical 
development could have an adverse effect on the 
development of other product candidates, or on the 
Group’s ability to enter into collaborations in respect  
of product candidates.  Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
Safety risks
Safety issues may arise at any stage of the drug 
development process. An independent data safety 
monitoring board, the relevant regulatory authorities  
or the Group itself may suspend or terminate clinical  
trials at any time. There can be no assurances that any  
of the Group’s product candidates will ultimately prove  
to be safe for human use. Adverse or inconclusive results  
from pre-clinical testing or clinical trials may substantially 
delay, or halt, the development of product candidates, 
consequently affecting the Group’s timeline for proﬁtability. 
The continuation of a particular study after review by  
an independent data safety monitoring board or review 
body does not necessarily indicate that all clinical trials 
will ultimately be successfully completed.
Efficacy risks
Human clinical studies are required to demonstrate 
efficacy in humans when compared against placebo  
and/or existing alternative therapies. The results of  
pre-clinical studies and initial clinical trials of the  
Group’s product candidates do not necessarily predict  
the results of later stage clinical trials. Unapproved 
product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may  
fail to show the desired efficacy despite having progressed 
through initial clinical trials. There can be no assurance 
that the efficacy data collected from the pre-clinical 
studies and clinical trials of the Group’s product 
candidates will be sufficient to satisfy the relevant 
regulatory authorities that the product should be  
given a marketing license.
Technical risks
During the course of a product’s development, further 
technical development may be required to improve the 
product’s characteristics such as the delivery mechanism 
or the manufacturing process. There is no certainty  
that such technical improvements or solutions can  
be identiﬁed.
Manufacturing risk
There can be no assurance that the Group’s product 
candidates will be capable of being produced in 
commercial quantities at acceptable cost. The Group’s 
LentiVector
®
 platform product candidates use specialised 
manufacturing processes for which there are only a few 
suitable manufacturers including the Group’s own facility. 
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able  
to manufacture the Group’s product candidates at 
economic cost or that contractors who are currently  
able to manufacture the Group’s product candidates will 
continue to make capacity available at economic prices, 
or that suitable new contractors will enter the market. 
Manufacturing processes that are effective and practical  
at the small scale required by the early stages of clinical 
development may not be appropriate at the higher scale 
required for later stages of clinical development or for 
commercial supply. There can be no assurance that the 
Group will be able to adapt current processes or develop 
new processes suitable for the scale required by later 
stages of clinical development or commercial supply  
in a timely or cost-effective manner, nor that contract 
manufacturers will be able to provide sufficient 
manufacturing capacity when required.
Collaboration and funding risk
Collaborations and licensing are an important component 
of the Group’s strategy to realise value and manage risk. 
The Group is dependent on collaborative relationships 
with third parties to facilitate and fund the research, 
development, manufacture, commercialisation and marketing 
of products. There is no guarantee that such collaborations 
and funding will continue to be found. There can also be 
no assurance that the Group’s existing relationships will 
not be terminated or require re-negotiation for reasons 
that may be unrelated to the potential of the programme. 
Circumstances may also arise where the failure  
by collaborators and third parties, such as contract 
manufacturers, to perform their obligations in accordance 
with our agreements could delay, or halt entirely, 
development, production or commercialisation of our 
products, or adversely impact our cash ﬂows. Currently, 
the Group’s most important collaborators are Sanoﬁ  
and Pﬁzer. If the relationship with either of these parties 
were to deteriorate, Oxford BioMedica’s development 
programme could be adversely impacted.  Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34
Principal risks and uncertainties
Regulatory risk
The clinical development and marketing approval of 
Oxford BioMedica’s product candidates, and the Group’s 
manufacturing facility, are regulated by healthcare 
regulatory agencies, such as the FDA (USA), EMA  
(Europe), and MHRA (UK). During the development  
stage, regulatory reviews of clinical trial applications  
or amendments can prolong development timelines. 
Similarly, there can be no assurance of gaining the 
necessary marketing approvals to commercialise products 
in development. Regulatory authorities may impose 
restrictions on a product’s use or may require additional 
data before granting approval. If regulatory approval is 
obtained, the product and manufacturer will be subject  
to continual review and there can be no assurance that 
such an approval will not be withdrawn or restricted.  
The Group’s laboratories and manufacturing facility are 
also subject to regular audits by the MHRA to ensure  
that they comply with Good Laboratory Practice and 
Good Manufacturing Practice standards. Failure to meet 
such standards could result in the laboratories or the 
manufacturing site being closed until corrective actions 
have been implemented and accepted by the regulator.
Failure to recruit sufficient patients into clinical studies
Clinical trials are established under speciﬁc protocols 
which specify how the trials should be conducted. 
Protocols specify the number of patients to be recruited 
into the study and the characteristics of patients who can 
and cannot be accepted into the study. The risk exists that 
it proves very difficult in practice to recruit the number  
of patients with the speciﬁed characteristics. This could  
be caused by a variety of reasons such as the speciﬁed 
characteristics being too tightly deﬁned resulting in a very 
small population of suitable patients, or the emergence  
of a competing drug, either one that is approved or 
another drug in the clinical stage of development.
Longer-term commercialisation risks
In the longer term, the success of the Group’s  
products will depend on the regulatory and commercial 
environment several years into the future. Future 
commercialisation risks include:
—  The emergence of new and/or unexpected  
competitor products or technologies. The 
biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries  
are subject to rapid technological change which  
could affect the success of the Group’s product 
candidates or make them obsolete.
—  Regulatory authorities becoming increasingly 
demanding regarding efficacy standards or risk  
averse regarding safety
—  Governments or other payers being unwilling to  
pay/reimburse gene therapy products at a level which 
would justify the investment. Based on clinical studies 
to date, the Group’s LentiVector
®
 platform product 
candidates have the unique potential to provide 
permanent therapeutic beneﬁt from a single 
administration. The pricing of these therapies will 
depend on assessments of their cost-beneﬁt and  
cost effectiveness.
—  The willingness of physicians and/or healthcare 
systems to adopt new treatment regimes
Any or all of these risks could result in the Group’s  
future proﬁtability being adversely affected as future 
royalties and milestones from commercial partners  
could be reduced. 
Attraction and retention of key employees
Whilst the Group has entered into employment 
arrangements with each of its key personnel with  
the aim of securing their services, the retention of  
their services cannot be guaranteed. Oxford BioMedica  
is signiﬁcantly dependent on certain scientiﬁc and 
management personnel. Incentivisation of key employees 
to remain with the Group remains critical to the Group’s 
success. The loss of those employees could weaken the 
Group’s scientiﬁc and management capabilities, resulting 
in delays in the development of its drugs and impacting 
negatively on the Group’s business. The biotechnology 
industry has a highly competitive market for qualiﬁed 
scientiﬁc and managerial employees. Competitors may 
try to recruit some of the Group’s important employees. 
Recruiting and retaining management and scientiﬁc 
personnel as the Group develops will be critical to  
the Group’s success.
Financial risks
The Group is exposed to several ﬁnancial risks:
—  Product liability and insurance risk
—  Foreign currency exposure
—  Continuing losses Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
Product liability and insurance risk
In carrying out its activities the Group potentially faces 
contractual and statutory claims, or other types of claim 
from customers, suppliers and/or investors. In addition, 
the Group is exposed to potential product liability risks 
that are inherent in the research, pre-clinical and clinical 
evaluation, manufacturing, marketing and use of 
pharmaceutical products. While the Group is currently 
able to obtain insurance cover, there can be no assurance 
that any future necessary insurance cover will be available 
to the Group at an acceptable cost, if at all, or that, in  
the event of any claim, the level of insurance carried by 
the Group now or in the future will be adequate or that a 
product liability or other claim would not have a material 
and adverse effect on the Group’s future proﬁtability  
and ﬁnancial condition.
Foreign currency exposure
The Group records its transactions and prepares its 
ﬁnancial statements in pounds sterling, but currently  
the majority of the Group’s income from collaborative 
agreements and patent licences is received in US dollars. 
Furthermore the Group incurs a proportion of its 
expenditure in US dollars and other currencies, especially 
the Euro, relating primarily to pre-clinical and clinical 
development that it conducts in the US and other 
countries outside the UK. The Group’s cash balances are 
predominantly held in pounds sterling. In the short to 
medium term, covering a period that is at least 12 months 
from the date of this document, expenditure denominated 
in foreign currency is matched to a signiﬁcant degree  
by income denominated in US dollars such that the risk  
of material losses or gains on one is hedged by the other.  
To the extent that the Group’s foreign currency assets  
and liabilities in the longer term are not so well matched, 
ﬂuctuations in exchange rates between pounds sterling, 
the US dollar and the Euro may result in realised and 
unrealised gains and losses on translation of the 
underlying currency into pounds sterling that may 
increase or decrease the Group’s results of operations  
and may adversely affect the Group’s ﬁnancial condition, 
each stated in pounds sterling. In addition if the 
currencies in which the Group earns its revenues and/ 
or holds its cash balances weaken against the currencies 
in which it incurs its expenses, this could adversely affect 
the Group’s future proﬁtability.
Continuing losses
The Group expects to incur signiﬁcant further costs as  
it continues to develop its portfolio of candidate products, 
manufacturing capability and related technology. The 
Directors estimate that the current cash and available for 
sale investments held by the Group will be sufficient to 
support the current level of activities into the ﬁrst quarter 
of 2014, without any additional revenue streams. Based 
on anticipated progress in the business in 2013, the 
Directors also expect to secure additional collaborative 
and/or commercial manufacturing income, or ﬁnancing 
sufficient for the future needs of the business beyond the 
ﬁrst quarter of next year. However, there is no certainty 
that adequate resources will be available on a timely basis, 
and in the event that further funding is not achieved, then 
the Group would have to curtail or suspend the existing 
programme development in order to conserve cash  
and extend the cash runway. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36
1. Nick Rodgers (54)
Non-Executive Chairman
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in March 
2004 and became Chairman  
in May 2011. 
Committee membership:
—  Chairman of Nomination  
and Audit Committees 
Mr Rodgers is a former investment 
banker with considerable experience 
in the life sciences sector. He is 
currently Chairman of SEHTA 
Enterprises Limited, the commercial 
arm of South East Health Technologies 
Alliance and a Director of Productiv 
Limited, an automotive technology 
enabler. Until January 2013 he was 
Chief Executive of Ipso Ventures plc 
having been Head of Life Sciences 
and joint-Head of Corporate Finance 
at Evolution Beeson Gregory until 
December 2003. Mr Rodgers joined 
Beeson Gregory in 1989 from 
accountants Ernst & Young, and had 
also worked in the listing department 
of the London Stock Exchange.
2. John Dawson (53)
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in August 
2008 and became Chief Executive 
Officer in October 2008 
Committee membership:
—  None 
From 1996 to 2007, Mr Dawson held 
senior management positions in the 
European operations of Cephalon Inc. 
including, from 2005, a management 
board position as Chief Financial 
Officer and Head of Business 
Development, Europe. In his time at 
Cephalon he led many of the deals 
that built the European business to 
over 1,000 people, taking the business 
from having no sales in 1998 to 
revenue of several hundred million  
US dollars. In 2005, Mr Dawson led 
the US$360 million acquisition of 
Zeneus by Cephalon. Between 1991 
and 1996 he was Director of Finance 
and Administration of Serono 
Laboratories (UK) Limited.
The Board of Directors
5
3
6
4
1
2
7
8 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
3. Tim Watts (55)
Chief Financial Officer
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director and Chief 
Financial Officer in February 2012  
Committee membership:
—  None 
Mr Watts has over 20 years’ 
experience in the pharmaceutical  
and biotechnology sectors. In 1985  
he joined ICI, initially in the corporate 
headquarters and from 1990 in the 
pharmaceuticals division, eventually 
becoming Finance Director of the 
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals business. 
Following the merger of Astra and 
Zeneca, Mr Watts became Group 
Financial Controller of AstraZeneca 
PLC in 2001. In 2007 he left 
AstraZeneca to become Chief 
Financial Officer at Archimedes 
Pharma. Mr Watts is a member  
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales.
4. Dr Stuart Naylor (49)
Chief Scientiﬁc Officer
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in July 2008 
Committee membership:
—  None 
Dr Naylor joined Oxford BioMedica  
in 1997. His career has covered many 
aspects of tumour biology from  
its molecular basis to the clinic  
and he established an international 
reputation at two world class cancer 
institutes – the Imperial Cancer 
Research Fund and the Institute of 
Cancer Research. He has published 
numerous primary and review  
articles notably in the ﬁeld of cytokine 
research and gene therapy and has  
an extensive network of collaborators 
in many aspects of basic and 
translational research, clinical 
oncology and ophthalmology.
5. Peter Nolan (60)
Senior Vice President, 
Commercial Development
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in May 2002 
Committee membership:
—  None 
Peter Nolan was appointed to the 
Board in May 2002 having been  
a senior member of the Company  
since its foundation. He is currently  
a Director of the UK BioIndustry 
Association and is a past Chairman  
of the Oxfordshire Bioscience 
Network. Prior to joining Oxford 
BioMedica, Mr Nolan served as Head 
of the Biotechnology Unit at the  
UK Department of Trade & Industry 
for eight years. In that role he was 
responsible for establishing and 
managing complex collaborative 
research programmes involving 
industry, research councils and  
other government departments. 
6. Dr Andrew Heath (64)
Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in January 
2010 and became Deputy 
Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director in May 2011 
Committee membership:
—  Audit Committee, Remuneration 
Committee, Nomination 
Committee 
Dr Heath is a biopharmaceutical 
executive with in-depth knowledge  
of US and UK capital markets and 
international experience in marketing 
and sales, R&D and business 
development. He was Chief Executive 
Officer of Protherics plc from 1997  
to 2008, taking the Company from  
to 350 staff and managing its eventual 
acquisition by BTG for £220 million. 
Prior to this, Dr Heath held senior 
positions at Astra AB and Astra USA, 
including Vice President Marketing 
and Sales, and at Glaxo Sweden  
as Associate Medical Director.  
He is currently Chairman of Anew 
Inc, a non-Executive Director of XL 
TechGroup Inc, Pioneer Technology 
Inc, and a Director of the BioIndustry 
Association.
7 . Dr Paul Blake (65)
Non-Executive Director
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in  
January 2010 
Committee membership:
—  Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee, Nomination 
Committee 
Dr. Blake has over 30 years 
international pharmaceutical/biotech 
experience, and is currently Senior 
Vice President and Chief Medical 
Officer of Æterna Zentaris Inc., a 
global biopharmaceutical company 
focused on oncology and endrocrine 
therapy. From 2001 to 2006, he held 
senior management positions at 
Cephalon Inc, including Executive 
Vice President, Worldwide Medical 
and Regulatory Operations from 
2005. Dr Blake’s previous positions 
include Senior Vice President and 
Medical Director, Clinical Research 
and Development at SmithKline 
Beecham Pharmaceuticals. He gained 
his medical degree from the London 
University, Royal Free Hospital. 
8. Martin Diggle (50)
Non-Executive Director
 
Appointment:
—  Appointed a Director in October 
2012  
Committee membership:
— None 
Mr Diggle is a founder of Vulpes 
Investment Management, a Cayman 
Fund Manager which currently 
manages ﬁve funds including the 
Vulpes Life Sciences Fund which  
is the Group’s largest shareholder.  
An investment professional with over  
29 years’ experience in investment 
banking and fund management,  
Mr Diggle has extensive, ﬁrst-hand 
knowledge of the global ﬁnancial 
markets and is an expert in emerging 
markets and Russia, in particular, 
where he was a Partner and Director 
of UBS Brunswick between 1994 and 
2003. He has been an investor in life 
sciences and biotechnology since 
1999 and has developed a passionate 
interest in the sector having worked 
closely with several companies as  
a stakeholder over the past decade. 
Mr Diggle holds a master’s degree  
in Philosophy, Politics and Economics 
from University of Oxford.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38
Corporate governance
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the 
success of the Group by directing and supervising the 
Group’s activities to create shareholder value. In doing  
so it ensures there are robust corporate governance  
and risk management processes in place.
The Board considers that it has complied throughout  
the year with the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the “Code”) except where indicated below in this report. 
The Board’s powers and responsibilities are set out in  
the Company’s articles of association and it has a formal 
schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s approval 
which include:
—  The Group’s strategy
—  The ﬁnancial statements and accounting policies
—  Acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
—  Financing and capital structure
—  Corporate governance
—  Internal control and risk management
—  Board membership and remuneration
—  Appointment and remuneration of auditors
Each Director is provided with an appropriate induction 
on appointment, and is supplied on a timely basis with 
ﬁnancial and operational information sufficient for the 
Board to discharge its duties. Certain responsibilities  
are delegated to three board committees – the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. These 
committees operate under clearly deﬁned terms of 
reference. Reports from these committees are included  
on pages 39 to 46.
From January 2012 to October 2012 the Board comprised 
the non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors  
and two other non-Executive Directors. On 9 February 
2012 Andrew Wood stepped down from the Board and 
was replaced on that date as Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary by Tim Watts. On 4 October 2012 
Martin Diggle was appointed as a non-Executive Director 
so that there are now four Executive Directors and  
four non-Executive Directors. The Chairman met the 
independence criteria recommended by the Code when 
he was appointed in May 2011. Andrew Heath, the Senior 
Independent Director, and Paul Blake are considered  
to be independent. Martin Diggle, is a founder of Vulpes 
Investment Management which, through its Vulpes Life 
Sciences Fund, is the Group’s largest investor and as such 
he is not considered independent under the Code. The 
Group therefore complies with provision B.1.2 of the Code 
which recommends that a small company should have  
at least two independent non-Executive Directors. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. All Directors and 
the Board and its committees have access to advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, and also to external 
professional advisers as required. The appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole to consider. The Chairman’s other 
commitments do not adversely impact the time he  
can devote to the Group.
Board meetings
The Board meets regularly with meeting dates agreed  
for each year in advance. During 2012 there were 12 
board meetings including one called at short notice  
on 28 June 2012 to approve the placing and open offer. 
The attendance of individual Directors at board and 
committee meetings was as follows: 
    Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
    Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended
Paul Blake 12 11   4 4 2 2
John Dawson 12 12      
Martin Diggle
1
 3 3      
Andrew Heath 12 12 2 2 4 4 2 2
Stuart Naylor 12 12      
Peter Nolan 12 10      
Nick Rodgers 12 12 2 2   2 2
Tim Watts
2
 10 10      
1. Martin Diggle was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2012
2. Tim Watts was appointed to the Board on 9 February 2012 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
The Chairman holds meetings from time to time with 
non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
in attendance. 
Retirement of Directors
In accordance with the articles of association, at each 
annual meeting any Director who was appointed after  
the last Annual General Meeting or has served for three 
years, and one third of the other Directors retire from 
office by rotation. 
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting the following 
Directors will retire from the Board and stand for  
re-election in accordance with article 38 of the 
Company’s articles of association:
—  Martin Diggle
—  Paul Blake
—  Nick Rodgers
Review of performance
During November 2012 the Board carried out a 
comprehensive self-assessment of its performance during 
the year. Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director separately and conﬁdentially sought the input of 
individual Directors, and the Company Secretary prepared 
an analysis of the Company’s governance performance as 
compared with the requirements of the Code. The Board 
collectively reviewed and discussed these inputs in 
December and concluded that the Board’s composition, 
modus operandi and dynamics are appropriate for  
the Company and have worked well during 2012. 
Communication with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective 
communication with shareholders and endeavours to 
achieve this using a variety of channels. These include:
—  Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
meetings with institutional shareholders – there were 
a substantial number of these meetings in 2012, 
particularly during May and June leading up to the 
placing and open offer announced on 29 June 2012.
—  Chairman and Senior Independent Director meetings 
with shareholders – the Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director have meetings, as required, with 
major shareholders and the Senior Independent 
Director is available to shareholders if concerns cannot 
be resolved through normal channels.
—  Announcement of preliminary results  
(6 March 2012), interim results (31 August 2012)  
and interim management statements (11 May 2012 
and 14 November 2012) – the preliminary and interim 
results announcements are followed with an analyst 
brieﬁng and simultaneous conference call which  
can be accessed by all shareholders. 
—  Annual Report – the 2011 Annual Report was 
published on 27 April 2012
—  Annual General Meeting – this was held in London  
on 7 June 2012. A number of shareholders attended 
the meeting, the results of which were announced  
that afternoon.
—  Announcements of material developments through 
the London Stock Exchange and other news services 
—  The Company’s Investor Relations Manager works 
closely with the Company’s brokers and regularly 
discusses Company matters with current and potential 
investors
—  Group website – the website contains details of  
the Group’s activities as well as copies of regulatory 
announcements and press releases, and copies  
of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements.
Risk management
The Board is responsible for determining the nature  
and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving  
the objectives of the Group. The Executive Directors  
and other senior managers are accountable for identifying  
the risks and formulating risk mitigation plans. The  
active involvement of the Executive Directors in the 
management committees allows them to monitor and 
assess signiﬁcant business, operational, ﬁnancial, 
compliance and other risks. The Executive Directors 
provide reports to each board meeting covering, inter alia, 
ﬁnancing, investor relations, research and development, 
clinical development, ﬁnancial performance, commercial 
interactions and intellectual property management.
Management 
Management is conducted by the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Executive Directors who, together with other 
senior managers, form the senior management team.  
The Executive Directors participate actively in the 
functional and cross-functional activities of the Group 
such that a direct link exists between the determination  
of strategy by the Board and the execution of the 
Company’s policies by management and employees.
Board committee reports: 
Audit Committee report
The Audit Committee comprises two non-Executive 
Directors: Nick Rodgers (chairman) and Andrew Heath. 
The Board considers that both members of the Audit 
Committee possess recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience. Provision C.3.1 of the Code states that  
the company Chairman should not chair the Audit 
Committee. When the composition of the Board and its 
committees was re-organised in May 2011, Nick Rodgers 
became company Chairman, and retained on a pro tem 
basis the chair of the Audit Committee. The Board 
recognises that this arrangement is not in compliance 
with the Code and, when appropriate, the intention  
is to appoint an appropriately qualiﬁed independent 
non-Executive Director who could chair the  
Audit Committee. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40
Corporate governance
The primary duties of the Audit Committee, as set out  
in its written terms of reference, are to:
—  Keep under review the Group’s reporting and internal 
control policies and procedures
—  Oversee the relationship with the external auditors 
including their appointment, subject to approval  
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, 
remuneration, independence and the provision  
of non-audit services
—  Review and recommend to the Board the ﬁnancial 
statements and associated announcements
Provision C.3.5 of the Code states that the Audit 
Committee should review the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit function. The Audit Committee 
considers that, given the size of the Company, it is 
unnecessary for it to have an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee met twice in 2012, shortly before 
the announcements of the 2011 preliminary results in 
March 2012 and the 2012 interim results in August 2012. 
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors 
attended both meetings at the Committee’s invitation.  
In March the Committee considered the auditors’ Audit 
Clearance Memorandum for the year ended 31 December 
2011 and in August the Committee reviewed the audit 
strategy for 2012.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) have been auditors  
to the Company and the Group since 1997. The Audit 
Committee has reviewed the relationship with the 
auditors and is satisﬁed with their effectiveness and  
that they remain independent. The review also included 
the terms of engagement and audit fees. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the Company’s choice 
of external auditor. Following this assessment, the Audit 
Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC 
should be reappointed for the 2013 audit and this will  
be recommended to shareholders at the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting. At the end of the 2012 audit Miles 
Saunders will step down as the Group’s Senior Statutory 
Auditor in accordance with PwC’s rotation policy.  
He will be replaced as Senior Statutory Auditor for  
the 2013 audit by Stuart Newman. 
Under the Group’s policy on non-audit services, the  
Audit Committee is advised of and approves all non-audit 
services provided by the auditors. As part of this approval 
process, the Audit Committee ensures that the provision 
of non-audit services will not impact the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence. During 2012, non-audit 
services provided by PwC included corporate ﬁnance 
services connected with the placing and open offer,  
tax compliance and advisory services, and advice to  
the Remuneration Committee relating to the Company’s 
Share Option and Long Term Incentive Plans. The fees 
payable to PwC in respect of services provided during 
2012 are set out in Note 8.
Internal control
The Directors are responsible for Oxford BioMedica’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system is designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
In addition the Board annually reviews the effectiveness 
of all signiﬁcant aspects of internal control, including 
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management. The review for 2012 was conducted by the 
Audit Committee, which reported it’s ﬁndings to the 
Board, and did not highlight any matters that require 
reporting to shareholders.
Nomination Committee report
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making 
appointments to the Board, and comprises the non-
Executive Directors and the Company Chairman, who is 
chairman of the Nomination Committee. During 2012 the 
Nomination Committee met formally on two occasions, 
resulting in the appointments of Tim Watts and Martin 
Diggle to the Board. For the appointment of Tim Watts the 
Committee engaged the services of a search agency and 
the search was undertaken against a speciﬁc job 
description. For the appointment of Martin Diggle a 
search agency was not used as this appointment was 
made speciﬁcally to give Vulpes Life Sciences Fund a seat 
on the Board given the size of its investment in the Group.
Share capital
The information about the share capital required by the 
takeover directive is in the Directors’ report on page 48. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report
Only paragraphs marked with ‘*’ within this report have been audited.
The Remuneration Committee members are Paul Blake (chairman) and Andrew Heath who are both independent 
non-Executive Directors. At the invitation of the Committee chairman and on an agenda-driven basis, other Directors 
have been invited to attend meetings. During 2012 the Committee met four times.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
—  Recommending to the Board the policy and framework for the remuneration of the Executive Directors  
and senior management. The remuneration of the non-Executive Directors are a matter for the chairman
—  Approval of individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors
—  Approval of annual performance incentive plans and bonuses payable under such plans
—  Approval of the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan for Executive Directors and senior management,  
and awards granted under such plans
—  Approval of options granted to all employees under the Company’s share option plan
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company as required. During 2012  
the Committee received advice on the Company’s 2007 Share Option Plan and 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). PwC were used for this purpose for continuity of advice because the 2007 
Share Option Plan and LTIP were designed by Halliwell Consulting which was acquired by PwC in 2009.
The key activities of the Committee during 2012 have been to 
—  approve the LTIP awards granted under the LTIP to Executive Directors in June 2012 
—  approve the overall total of share options granted in 2012 to staff who do not participate in the LTIP
—  approve the 2012 bonus payments made to the Executive Directors
The 2011 Remuneration Report was approved at the 2012 Annual General Meeting with 86.4% of the votes cast  
in favour of the resolution.
Remuneration policy and framework
The Group’s policy on remuneration is to provide competitive remuneration for the delivery of target performance 
with additional incentives to deliver outstanding personal and Group performance. In determining the framework,  
the Committee refers to independent remuneration surveys and industry trends in remuneration. The current 
framework provides Executive Directors with 
—  base salary 
—  company contributions of 10% of base salary to a deﬁned contribution personal pension scheme, 
—  discretionary non-pensionable annual incentive plan of up to 60% of base salary
—  beneﬁts principally comprising healthcare insurance
—  discretionary Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Directors’ service contracts
Executive Directors’ service contracts are for an initial term of 12 months and thereafter are subject to 12 months’ 
notice. Contractual termination payments do not exceed the Director’s current salary and beneﬁts for the notice 
period. Non-Executive Directors’ service contracts are for an initial term of three years. 
The details of service contracts of those who served as Directors during the year are:
     Unexpired term  Contractual 
    Contract date at 31 December 2012 Notice period termination payments
Paul Blake 9 December 2009 0 months
3
 3 months Notice period only
John Dawson 10 October 2008 NA  12 months Notice period only
Martin Diggle
1
 4 October 2012 2 years 9 months 3 months Notice period only
Andrew Heath 9 December 2009 0 months
3
 3 months Notice period only
Stuart Naylor 1 July 2008 NA  12 months Notice period only
Peter Nolan 1 May 2002 NA  12 months Notice period only
Nick Rodgers 5 May 2011 1 years 4 months 12 months Notice period only
Tim Watts 9 February 2012 NA  12 months Notice period only
Andrew Wood
2
 31 October 1996 Nil
2
 12 months Notice period only
1. Martin Diggle was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2012
2. Andrew Wood resigned from the Board on 9 February 2012
3.  The initial contracts for Paul Blake and Andrew Heath were for 3 year terms expiring on 31 December 2012. Their contracts have been renewed for a further 3 year term 
Andrew Heath was re-elected at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. Paul Blake will stand for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report
Chairman and non-Executive Directors
The Chairman’s fees are set by the independent non-Executive Directors in consultation with the Chief Executive 
Officer. The non-Executive Directors’ fees are set by the chairman. The Chairman and non-Executive Directors do not 
receive pension contributions or a bonus and do not participate in the Company’s share option schemes. 
Executive Directors
Base salary
Executive Directors’ base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee and by reference to remuneration surveys 
for comparable companies and to the speciﬁc experience and performance of the individual. With one exception,  
there have been no increases to Executive Directors’ base salaries in the last three years.
Annual incentive plan
Under the annual incentive plan Executive Directors may, at the discretion of the Committee and subject to achieving 
corporate and personal performance targets, be awarded non-pensionable cash bonuses of up to 60% of base salary. 
For the Chief Executive Officer the corporate:personal split is 75:25; for the other Executive Directors the split is 60:40.
For 2012 the Group performance measures related to the following goals:
—  Secure funding to at least end of 2013
—  Achieve MHRA licence for manufacturing site
—  TroVax
®
/ProSavin
®
 – satisfactory progression of clinical and pre-clinical studies
—  Ocular products – satisfactory progression of ocular product clinical studies and relationship with Sanoﬁ
—  Other targets
Critically, management was successful in securing further funding and the Committee decided to reward this 
performance with bonuses of between 5% and 10% of base annual salary. However, although several of the other 
objectives were delivered in 2012, in light of the share price performance throughout the year, the Committee  
decided that no further bonuses would be paid to the Executive Directors in respect of 2012. 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Directors and senior managers participate in a share-based LTIP. Awards under the LTIP are options exercisable at par. 
The vesting period is 3 years and vesting is conditional on the achievement of performance criteria which are 
established at the date of the award.
On 25 March 2012 the LTIP award made on 25 March 2009 was tested against its performance condition which was  
to achieve at least median Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance as measured on the third anniversary against  
a peer group of 20 companies. Since the Company’s TSR performance fell below the median level in the peer group,  
all of the awards granted to Directors on 25 March 2009 have lapsed.
The LTIP awards granted in 2010 and 2011 were subject to the same performance condition as the 2009 LTIP, i.e.  
TSR performance at least at the median level of the peer group, but a second set of performance conditions was added 
relating to the delivery of company objectives. Based on the share price on 31 December 2012, it is unlikely that any  
of the LTIP awards granted in 2010 or 2011 will vest when the performance criteria are tested in 2013 and 2014 
respectively.
A further tranche of LTIP awards were granted on 30 June 2012. The performance metric for the 2012 award is  
Absolute Total Shareholder Return (TSR). This is a change from previous LTIP awards for which the performance 
condition was relative TSR compared with a peer group. The Committee considers relative TSR performance to be 
unsatisfactory as options could potentially vest despite a decline in the share price. The 2012 awards will only vest  
if TSR growth is achieved over the period of the award. Since the Company is unlikely to pay a dividend in the 
foreseeable future, TSR growth is essentially represented by the share price. By rewarding growth in TSR, the plan  
will ensure that pay-outs are only achieved if signiﬁcant returns are made to shareholders through share price 
appreciation. The vesting schedule is as follows:
      TSR growth over 3 year period  % of award vesting
Below threshold   <100% (i.e. <2 times baseline share price)   0%
Threshold*   100% (i.e. =2 times baseline share price)   25%
Upper level*   200% (i.e. =3.0 times baseline share price)  100%
* Straight line vesting between these points Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
The baseline share price for the 2012 LTIP awards is 2.50p, being the price used for the ﬁrm placing and open  
offer fund raising announced on 29 June 2012. The awards are nominal cost options exercisable at par and  
are subject to a three year holding period. They are exercisable from the third anniversary of the award, subject  
to the achievement of the above performance condition. Although no award can be exercised until the end of the  
three year vesting period, Directors will be able to “bank” a fraction of the appropriate vesting percentage on each 
anniversary of the date of grant, should the target have been met at those dates. This will be limited to 25% of the 
potential vesting amount after one year, 50% after two years and 100% after three years. Banked awards will not 
actually vest until the third anniversary of award.
Following the introduction of the LTIP in 2007, Executive Directors and certain senior managers who participate in the 
LTIP no longer receive awards under the Company’s share option scheme. Prior to 2007, options were awarded under 
the share option scheme to Executive Directors. However during 2012 the last tranche of ordinary share options 
granted to Directors has lapsed so no Directors now have an interest in ordinary share options.
Directors’ remuneration* 
Details of individual Directors’ emoluments for the year are as follows:
       Compensation  2012 total    2011 total    
    Salary and   for loss (excluding  2012  (excluding 2011  
    fees Bonus Beneﬁts
 8
 of office pension) pension pension) pension 
Name of Director £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman
Nick Rodgers
 1,2
 75,000 – – – 75,000 – 81,388 –
Executive
John Dawson  330,000 33,000 5,480 – 368,480 33,000 335,408 33,000
Stuart Naylor  187,500 9,375 2,183 – 199,058 18,750 189,741 18,750
Peter Nolan 173,565 8,678 3,259 – 185,502 17,356 176,861 17,357
Andrew Wood
 3
 68,213 – 2,072 213,663 283,948 25,661 222,054 21,995
Tim Watts
 4
 184,102 20,000 – – 204,102 18,410 – –
Non–Executive
Paul Blake  38,500 – – – 38,500 – 37,333 –
Andrew Heath
 2
 45,500 – – – 45,500 – 42,000 –
Martin Diggle
 5
 – – – – – – – –
Former Directors
Alan Kingsman
 6
 – – – – – – 181,062 –
Alex Lewis
 7
 – – – – – – 17,500 –
    1,102,380 71,053 12,994 213,663 1,400,090 113,177 1,283,347 91,102
1. Nick Rodgers was appointed as Chairman on 5 May 2011. £32,078 of his fee for 2011 relates to the period prior to 5 May 2011
2. These amounts represent amounts payable to controlled companies for the services of non-Executive Directors
3. Andrew Wood resigned from the Board on 9 February 2012
4. Tim Watts was appointed to the Board on 9 February 2012
5. Martin Diggle was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2012 but receives no remuneration for his services
6. Alan Kingsman resigned from the Board on 5 May 2011
7 . Alex Lewis resigned from the Board on 24 May 2011
8. Beneﬁts comprises medical insurance
During 2012, retirement beneﬁts accrued to ﬁve Directors (2011: four) under Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited’s deﬁned 
contribution pension scheme.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44
Directors’ interests
Interest in shares
The interests of the Directors (including persons connected with the Directors) in the shares of the Company  
at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 are shown below. 
           31 December 31 December 
The Company – ordinary shares of 1p each      2012
 2
 2011
 3
Paul Blake      420,000  200,000
John Dawson      2,000,000  1,700,000
Martin Diggle
 1
     361,841,956  353,512,545
 4
Andrew Heath      320,000  200,000
Stuart Naylor      288,921  88,921
Peter Nolan      563,638  363,638
Nick Rodgers      352,000  152,000
Tim Watts      3,000,000  –
4
1.  Includes interests of Vulpes Life Sciences Fund and other parties connected to Martin Diggle
2. There were no changes in the Directors’ shareholdings between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report
3. Andrew Wood, who resigned from the Board on 9 February 2012, held 305,067 shares at 31 December 2011
4. At date of appointment as a Director
Interests in share options*
The interests of the Directors in options over the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows:
          Date from 
    1 January    31 December Exercise which Expiry 
    2012 Granted Exercised Lapsed  2012  Price exercisable Date
Dr Stuart Naylor  120,750 – – 120,750 – 29.0p 15.12.08 15.12.12
Peter Nolan  153,000 – – 153,000 – 29.0p 15.12.08 15.12.12
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
Long-term incentive plan*
Awards have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP as follows
 1
: 
    1 January    31 December  Award Vesting 
    2012 Granted Exercised Lapsed  2012   Date Date
 
John Dawson  1,000,000 – – – 1,000,000  13.10.08 13.10.11
John Dawson
 2,4
 2,500,000 – – (2,500,000) –  25.03.09 25.03.12
John Dawson
 2
  1,692,000 – – – 1,692,000  15.06.10 15.06.13
John Dawson
 2
 1,704,000 – – – 1,704,000  13.04.11 13.04.14
John Dawson
 3
 – 6,600,000   6,600,000  30.06.12 30.06.15
    6,896,000 6,600,000 – (2,500,000) 10,996,000
 
Stuart Naylor
 2,4
 811,000 – – (811,000) –  25.03.09 25.03.12
Stuart Naylor
 2
 897,000 – – – 897,000  15.06.10 15.06.13
Stuart Naylor
 2
 968,000 – – – 968,000  13.04.11 13.04.14
Stuart Naylor
 3
 – 3,760,000   3,760,000  30.06.12 30.06.15
    2,676,000 3,760,000 – (811,000) 5,625,000  
 
Peter Nolan
 2,4
 854,000 – – (854,000) –  25.03.09 25.03.12
Peter Nolan
 2
 890,000 – – – 890,000  15.06.10 15.06.13
Peter Nolan
 2
  896,000 – – – 896,000  13.04.11 13.04.14
Peter Nolan
 3
 – 3,480,000   3,480,000  30.06.12 30.06.15
    2,640,000 3,480,000 – (854,000) 5,266,000  
 
Tim Watts
 3
 – 6,000,000 – – 6,000,000  30.06.12 30.06.15
 
Andrew Wood
 2,4,5
 1,082,000 – – (1,082,000) –  25.03.09 25.03.12
Andrew Wood
 2,4,5
 1,128,000 – – – 1,128,000  15.06.10 15.06.13
Andrew Wood
 2,4,5
 1,136,000 – – – 1,136,000  13.04.11 13.04.14
    3,346,000 – – (1,082,000) 2,264,000  
1.  All awards made under the LTIP have been nominal-cost share options (options exercisable at par value). Subject to performance conditions, these options vest on the 
third anniversary of the date of grant and, if vested may be exercised until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant
2.  The performance condition for these awards compares the Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) to the TSR of a chosen group of healthcare and biotechnology 
companies over a three year period. A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the award vests (25% of the award) and an upper quartile ranking must be 
achieved for the award to vest in full. For the LTIP awards in 2010 and 2011, a secondary performance test, based on events that are expected to be signiﬁcant drivers of 
value for the Company, will be applied if TSR is above median but below the upper quartile. In these circumstances, up to 50% of the LTIP award will be released on the 
achievement of the speciﬁed milestone events
3.  For the 2012 LTIP awards the performance condition is that the share price must reach 5.0p as a minimum before any awards vest (25%) and need to reach 7 .5p for 100% 
vesting of the awards 
4.  On 25 March 2012 the TSR performance test was applied to the LTIP award made on 25 March 2009. The Company’s TSR over the 3 year period was below the median of 
the comparator group and consequently none of the awards vested 
5.  Andrew Wood resigned on 9 February 2012. The Company agreed that the LTIP awards held by Mr Wood at 9 February 2012 should not lapse as a consequence of the 
termination of his employment with the Company, but should continue as if he had remained an Eligible Employee and Participant (both terms as deﬁned in the LTIP Rules) 
until the expiry date of the last of such LTIP awards
Except as detailed above, no Directors had interests in shares or share options of the Company or any other group 
company at 31 December 2012. There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in office at the date  
of this report in the ordinary shares of the Company between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report. 
The market value of ordinary shares as at 31 December 2012 was 2.3p (31 December 2011: 3.5p). The market value  
of ordinary shares during the year ranged from 2.05p to 5.8p. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report
Comparison of ﬁve year total shareholder return 
The chart below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance over the last ﬁve years relative to the FTSE all-share  
index and the FTSE techMARK MediScience index. The FTSE all-share index has been selected because it represents  
a broad-based, objective measure of investment return from equities. The FTSE techMARK mediScience index, 
comprising biotech companies, provides a second benchmark that is a more speciﬁc comparator.
The sharp fall in the share price and relative TSR in 2008 was due to the failure of the TroVax
®
 “TRIST” study to meet  
its primary end point. The decline at the end of 2010 was prompted by the announcement of a fundraising, and  
in December 2011 there was a further decline following the announcement of interim update on the ProSavin
®
  
Phase I/II study in Parkinson’s Disease.
Dr Paul Blake
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Key:
Oxford BioMedica plc
FTSE techMARK mediscience index
FTSE all-share index 
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
January 2008 January 2009 January 2010 January 2011 January 2012 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
The Directors present their annual report and audited 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2012 as set out on pages 51 to 77. This 
report should be read in conjunction with the 
Governance reports on pages 36 to 46.
Principal activity
Oxford BioMedica (LSE: OXB) is a biopharmaceutical 
company developing innovative gene-based medicines 
and therapeutic vaccines that aim to improve the lives  
of patients with high unmet medical needs. The Group’s 
technology platform includes a highly efficient 
LentiVector
®
 gene delivery system, which has speciﬁc 
advantages for targeting diseases of the central nervous 
system and the eye; and a unique tumour antigen (5T4), 
which is an ideal target for anti-cancer therapy. The 
Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
More detail on the principal activity is contained in  
the operational review on pages 13 to 27.
Business review and future developments
A review of the Group’s activities and future developments 
is contained within the introduction pages 1 to 3, 6 and 7, 
the Chairman’s message page 4, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s review page 8, the operational review on pages 
13 to 27, and the ﬁnancial review on pages 28 to 29. The 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income for  
the year is set out on page 51.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Key performance indicators are outlined in the ﬁnancial 
review on pages 28 to 29.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance is 
included in the corporate governance report on pages  
38 to 40 of these ﬁnancial statements.
Risk management
The Group’s risk management objectives and exposure  
to risks is set out on pages 32 to 35 (principal risks and 
uncertainties) and pages 60 to 61 (note 3: ﬁnancial risk 
management).
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend 
(2011: £nil).
Directors
The current Directors of the Company and their 
biographical details are given on pages 36 to 37. As 
previously announced, Andrew Wood resigned from the 
Board on 9 February 2012 and Tim Watts was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary from  
that date. Martin Diggle was appointed to the Board as a 
non-Executive Director on 4 October 2012. The contracts 
of employment of the Executive Directors are subject  
to twelve months’ notice. The Directors’ remuneration 
and their interests in the share capital of the Company  
at 31 December 2012 are disclosed in the Remuneration 
Committee report on pages 41 to 46.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution  
at any general meeting of shareholders, or may be 
appointed by the existing directors, provided that any 
director so appointed shall retire at the next following 
annual general meeting and may offer himself for  
re-election. At each annual general meeting any director 
who has served for three years, and one third of the  
other directors must retire, and may offer themselves for 
re-election. A director may be removed in the following 
ways: by an ordinary resolution at a general meeting;  
if he is prohibited by law from being a director; in the 
event of bankruptcy; if he is suffering from speciﬁed 
mental disorders; if he is absent without consent for more 
than six months; or by request in writing by all the other 
directors. Any director may appoint another director  
or another person approved by the other directors  
as an alternate director.
Directors’ third party indemnity provision
The Company maintains a qualifying third party 
indemnity insurance policy to provide cover for legal 
action against its Directors. This was in force throughout 
2012 and at the date of approval of the ﬁnancial 
statements.
 
Share capital
 
Structure of the Company’s capital
The Company’s share capital comprises a single class of 
1p ordinary shares, each carrying one vote and all ranking 
equally with each other. Following the adoption of new 
articles of association in 2010, the authorised share capital 
of the Company is unlimited. On 26 July 2012 the 
Company issued 463,362,652 new ordinary shares at 2.5p 
per share in a placing and open offer raising £11.6 million 
before expenses. On 14 November 2012 the Company 
issued 7,910,796 new ordinary shares at 2.47p per share  
to licensors of patent rights. At 31 December 2012 the 
Company had 1,416,149,005 shares in issue, all allotted 
and fully paid. There are no restrictions on the transfer  
of shares in the Company or on voting rights. All shares 
are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Rights to issue and buy back shares
Each year at the Annual General Meeting the Directors 
seek rights to allot shares. The authority, when granted 
lasts for 15 months or until the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting if sooner. At the last Annual 
General Meeting held on 7 June 2012, authority was given 
to allot up to 314,958,519 shares (that number being one 
third of total issued share capital of the Company at the 
time), subject to the normal pre-emption rights reserved 
to shareholders contained in the Companies Act 2006, 
and to allot up to a further 314,958,500 shares, solely in  
a rights issue. Authority was also given, subject to certain 
conditions, to waive pre-emption rights over up to 
47,243,700 shares, being 5% of the shares then in issue.  
No rights have been granted to the Directors to buy  
back shares. 
Substantial shareholdings
At 14 February 2013, the latest practical date prior to 
approval of the Directors’ report, the Company had been 
notiﬁed of the following shareholdings amounting to  
3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
     Number of Percentage of issued 
Shareholder ordinary shares share capital
Vulpes Life Sciences Fund 361,829,411 25.6%
M&G Investment  
Management Limited 257,435,087 18.2%
JP Morgan Asset
Management 78,909,732 5.6%
Barclays Stockbrokers 61,236,891 4.3%
TD Waterhouse  
Stockbrokers 56,892,519 4.0%
GAM London Limited 43,389,470 3.1%
No other person has reported an interest in the ordinary 
shares of the Company required to be notiﬁed to the 
Company. No person holds shares carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company. 
Group research and development activities
During 2012 the Group incurred non-exceptional research 
and development expenditure of £14,015,000 (2011: 
£14,710,000). In 2011, the Group also incurred exceptional 
research and development costs of £3,136,000. These 
costs were expensed in the statement of comprehensive 
income. Further information is given in the operational 
review pages 13 to 27 and ﬁnancial review pages 28 to 29.
Charitable donations
In 2012 the Board agreed to make a charitable donation  
of £1,200 to the Sue Kingsman scholarship fund (Carriacou 
Childrens’ Education Fund) which will allow it to fund one 
student for a two-year course. This donation was made  
in memory of Dr Susan Kingsman, a former Director, who 
died in 2011. No charitable donations were made in 2011.
Employees
The Group communicates and consults regularly with 
employees throughout the year. Employees’ involvement 
in the Group’s performance is encouraged, with all 
employees eligible to participate in the share option 
scheme or the long term incentive plan. Certain 
employees participate in discretionary bonus schemes.
The Group’s aim for all members of staff and applicants for 
employment is to ﬁt the qualiﬁcations, aptitude and ability 
of each individual to the appropriate job, and to provide 
equal opportunity regardless of sex, religion or ethnic 
origin. The Group does all that is practicable to meet its 
responsibility towards the employment and training of 
disabled people. 
Further details on employees, health and safety, 
environmental matters and corporate social responsibility 
are in the corporate social responsibility statement on 
pages 30 to 31. 
Employee share schemes
The Company has a share incentive plan under which 
shares may be held in trust for employees. The trustees 
may only exercise the voting rights in respect of such 
shares in accordance with the employees’ instructions. 
Currently there are no such shares held in trust.
Agreements that take effect, alter or terminate because 
of a takeover bid or on change of control
There are no such agreements that the Directors consider 
are material. There are no agreements providing for 
compensation for loss of office for Directors or employees 
in the event of a takeover bid.
Supplier payment policy
The Group pays its suppliers in accordance with the terms 
and conditions agreed in advance with each supplier. The 
Group’s average creditor payment period at 31 December 
2012 was 27 days (2011: 27 days). The Company has no 
trade payables (2011: nil). Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
—  make judgements and accounting estimates that  
are reasonable and prudent; and
—  state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the 
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that 
the ﬁnancial statements and the Directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Group’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are 
listed in this section conﬁrm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
—  the Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
ﬁnancial position and loss of the Group; and
—  the Directors’ report contained in this section includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
In accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006,  
so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, 
and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware  
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated 
their willingness to continue in office and a resolution 
concerning their reappointment will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Tim Watts
Company secretary 
26 February 2013
Going concern
Oxford BioMedica plc is a research and development 
based business with no currently marketed products.  
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the introduction pages 1 to 3, 6 and 
7, the Chairman’s message page 4, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s review page 8, the operational review on pages 
13 to 21 and the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 
32 to 35. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, including its 
cash ﬂows, is described in the ﬁnancial review on pages 
28 to 29. In addition, note 3 to the ﬁnancial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes  
for managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives; and its exposure to cash ﬂow and liquidity risk.
The Group expects to incur signiﬁcant further costs as it 
continues to develop its portfolio of candidate products, 
manufacturing capability and related technology. The 
Directors estimate that the current cash and available for 
sale investments held by the Group will be sufficient to 
support the current level of activities into the ﬁrst quarter 
of 2014, without any additional revenue streams. Based 
on anticipated progress in the business in 2013, the 
Directors also expect to secure additional collaborative 
and/or commercial manufacturing income, or ﬁnancing 
sufficient for the future needs of the business beyond the 
ﬁrst quarter of next year. However, there is no certainty 
that adequate resources will be available on a timely basis, 
and in the event that further funding is not achieved, then 
the Group would have to curtail or suspend the existing 
programme development in order to conserve cash  
and extend the cash runway.
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern 
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Amendment of the Company’s articles of association
Amendment of the Company’s articles may be made by 
special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and parent company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless they are 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the proﬁt 
or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these 
ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
—  select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Oxford BioMedica plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Oxford 
BioMedica plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 
which comprise the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the Balance sheets, the 
Statements of cash ﬂows, the Statements of changes  
in equity attributable to owners of the parent company 
and the related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable  
law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the parent company ﬁnancial statements, as applied  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies  
Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 49, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements 
and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared  
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s  
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial 
and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report and 
accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements 
In our opinion: 
—  the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2012 and of the Group’s loss and 
the Group’s and parent company’s cash ﬂows for the 
year then ended;
—  the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union; 
—  the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union and as applied in accordance  
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
—  the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies  
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, 
article 4 of the IAS regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
—  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006;
—  the information given in the Directors’ report for the 
ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements; and
—   the information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 38 to 40 with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems and  
about share capital structures is consistant with the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
—  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
—  the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
—  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed  
by law are not made; or 
—  we have not received all the information and  
explanations we require for our audit; or
—   a corporate governance statement has not been prepared  
by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
—  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 49 in relation  
to going concern;
—  the parts of the corporate governance statement relating  
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our 
review; and
—  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the 
Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Miles Saunders (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
 
Reading 
26 February 2013 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2012
 2012 2011
         Pre- Exceptional 
         exceptional items 
        Total items (note 6) Total 
    Notes    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 4    7,756 7,718 – 7,718
Cost of sales      (667) (555) – (555)
Gross proﬁt     7,089 7,163 – 7,163
Research and development costs 8    (14,015) (14,710) (3,136) (17,846) 
Administrative expenses 8    (3,619) (3,811) – (3,811) 
Other operating income: grants receivable     58 56 – 56
Operating loss     (10,487) (11,302) (3,136) (14,438)
Finance income 7    141 144 – 144 
Finance costs 7    (3) (8) – (8)
Loss before tax     (10,349) (11,166) (3,136) (14,302)
Taxation 9    1,619 1,671 – 1,671
Loss for the year 26    (8,730) (9,495) (3,136) (12,631)
       
Other comprehensive income
Exchange adjustments     – (2) – (2)
Total recognised comprehensive  
expense for the year  
attributable to owners of the parent     (8,730) (9,497) (3,136) (12,633)
Basic loss and diluted loss  
per ordinary share 10    (0.76p)   (1.35p)
  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52
Balance sheets 
as at 31 December 2012
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
      Notes  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets     
Non–current assets     
Intangible assets   12  2,931 3,106 – –
Property, plant and equipment    13  3,902 4,213 – –
Financial assets: Investments in subsidiaries   14  – – 31,841 33,115
        6,833 7,319 31,841 33,115
Current assets
Trade and other receivables   15  1,705 2,800 11 1
Current tax assets     1,824 1,641 – –
Financial assets: Available for sale investments   16  5,105 7,500 – –
Cash and cash equivalents   16  8,956 6,835 743 –
        17 ,590 18,776 754 1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables   17  2,702 3,226 23 46
Deferred income   18  1,568 4,386 – –
Provisions   19  – 41 – –
        4,270 7,653 23 46
Net current assets/(liabilities)     13,320 11,123 731 (45)
Non–current liabilities
Deferred income   18  – 170 – –
Provisions   19  510 501 – –
        510 671 – –
Net assets     19,643 17 ,771 32,572 33,070
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Ordinary shares    22  14,162 9,449 14,162 9,449
Share premium    23  130,304 124,755 130,304 124,755
Merger reserve   27  14,310 14,310 13,599 13,599
Other reserves   27  (682) (682) 4,642 4,302
Accumulated losses   26  (138,451) (130,061) (130,135) (119,035)
Total equity     19,643 17 ,771 32,572 33,070
 
The Company’s registered number is 03252665. 
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 51 to 77 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2013  
and were signed on its behalf by: 
John Dawson 
Chief Executive Officer Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Statements of cash ﬂows
for the year ended 31 December 2012
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
      Notes  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash used in operations   28  (11,470) (14,323) (293) (139)
Interest paid     (3) – – –
Tax credit received     1,500 1,418 – –
Overseas tax paid     (64) (78) – –
Net cash used in operating activities     (10,037) (12,983) (293) (139)
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Loan to subsidiary     – – (9,226) (18,433)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment      (476) (3,640) – –
Purchases of intangible assets     (195) (9) – –
Net maturity/(purchase) of available for sale investments    2,395 (1,897) – –
Interest received     172 144 – –
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities    1,896 (5,402) (9,226) (18,433)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital     11,779 20,000 11,779 20,000
Costs of share issues     (1,517) (1,430) (1,517) (1,430)
Net cash generated from ﬁnancing activities     10,262 18,570 10,262 18,570
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    2,121 185 743 (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January     6,835 6,653 – 2
Effects of exchange rate changes     – (3) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   16  8,956 6,835 743 – Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54
Statements of changes in equity attributable to owners of the parent
for the year ended 31 December 2012
      Share  Share Merger Other Accumulated 
      capital premium reserve reserves losses Total 
Group Notes  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2011   5,449 110,387 14,310 (680) (117,861) 11,605
Year ended 31 December 2011:
Exchange adjustments   – – – (2) – (2)
Loss for the year   – – – – (12,631) (12,631)
Total comprehensive expense for the year   – – – (2) (12,631) (12,633)
Transactions with owners:
Share options 
 Value of employee services 25  – – – – 431 431
Issue of shares excluding options 22, 23  4,000 16,000 – – – 20,000
Costs of share issues 23  – (1,632) – – – (1,632)
At 31 December 2011   9,449 124,755 14,310 (682) (130,061) 17 ,771
Year ended 31 December 2012:       
Exchange adjustments   – – – – – –
Loss for the year   – – – – (8,730) (8,730)
Total comprehensive expense for the year   – – –  (8,730) (8,730)
Transactions with owners:
Share options 
 Value of employee services 25  – – – – 340 340
Issue of shares excluding options 22, 23  4,713 7,066 – – – 11,779
Costs of share issues 23  – (1,517) – – – (1,517)
At 31 December 2012   14,162 130,304 14,310 (682) (138,451) 19,643
      Share  Share Merger Other Accumulated 
      capital premium reserve reserve losses Total 
Company Notes  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2011   5,449 110,387 13,599 3,871 (103,174) 30,132
Year ended 31 December 2011:       
Loss for the year   – – – – (15,861) (15,861)
Total comprehensive expense for the year 11  – – – – (15,861) (15,861)
Transactions with owners:
Share options 
 Credit in relation to  
 employee share schemes 25  – – – 431 – 431
Issue of shares excluding options 22, 23  4,000 16,000 – – – 20,000
Costs of share issues 23  – (1,632) – – – (1,632)
At 31 December 2011   9,449 124,755 13,599 4,302 (119,035) 33,070
Year ended 31 December 2012:
Loss for the year   – – – – (11,100) (11,100)
Total comprehensive expense for the year 11  – – – – (11,100) (11,100)
Transactions with owners:
Share options 
 Credit in relation to  
 employee share schemes 25  – – – 340 – 340
Issue of shares excluding options 22, 23  4,713 7,066 – – – 11,779
Costs of share issues 23  – (1,517) – – – (1,517)
At 31 December 2012   14,162 130,304 13,599 4,642 (130,135) 32,572 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1, Accounting policies 
Oxford BioMedica plc (the Company) is a company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 
comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings (together referred to as the Group).  
The Company’s principal subsidiary is Oxford BioMedica 
UK Limited.
The Group is a gene therapy research and development 
based business with no currently marketed products.
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation 
of these ﬁnancial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied to all the ﬁnancial 
years presented, unless otherwise stated. The ﬁnancial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as 
adopted by the European Union and with the Companies 
Act 2006. 
As fully explained in the Directors’ report on pages 47 to 
49 the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements. 
A summary of the more important Group accounting 
policies are set out in Note 1 below.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity 
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires management to exercise  
its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree 
of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions  
and estimates are signiﬁcant to the ﬁnancial statements, 
are disclosed in Note 2.
Going concern
Oxford BioMedica plc is a research and development 
based business with no currently marketed products.  
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the introduction pages 1 to 3, 6  
and 7, the Chairman’s message page 4, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s review page 8, the operational review on pages 
13 to 27, and the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 
32 to 35. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, including its 
cash ﬂows, is described in the ﬁnancial review on pages 
28 to 29. In addition, note 3 to the ﬁnancial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes  
for managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives; and its exposure to cash ﬂow and liquidity risk.
The Group expects to incur signiﬁcant further costs as it 
continues to develop its portfolio of candidate products, 
manufacturing capability and related technology. The 
Directors estimate that the current cash and available for 
sale investments held by the Group will be sufficient to 
support the current level of activities into the ﬁrst quarter 
of 2014, without any additional revenue streams. Based 
on anticipated progress in the business in 2013, the 
Directors also expect to secure additional collaborative 
and/or commercial manufacturing income, or ﬁnancing 
sufficient for the future needs of the business beyond the 
ﬁrst quarter of next year. However, there is no certainty 
that adequate resources will be available on a timely basis, 
and in the event that further funding is not achieved, then 
the Group would have to curtail or suspend the existing 
programme development in order to conserve cash and 
extend the cash runway.
After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern 
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Accounting developments
The following new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations are mandatory for the ﬁrst time for the 
ﬁnancial year beginning 1 January 2012, but are not 
currently relevant for the Group.
—  Amendments to IFRS 7,  
‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ 
—  Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption’,  
on ﬁxed dates and hyperinﬂation. 
—  Amendment to IAS 12, ‘Income taxes’, on deferred tax. 
The new standards, new interpretations and amendments 
to standards and interpretations listed below have been 
issued but are not effective for the ﬁnancial year beginning 
1 January 2012 and have not been adopted early. 
The following standards are not expected to have  
a signiﬁcant impact on the Group:
—  IAS 19, ‘Employee beneﬁts’, amended in June 2011. 
—  IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated ﬁnancial statements’. 
—  IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’, issued in May 2011. 
—  IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’.
—  IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’.
—  IFRIC 20, ‘Stripping costs in the production phase  
of a surface mine’
—  Amendment to IAS 27, ‘Separate Financial statements’. 
—  Amendment to IAS 28, ‘Associates and joint ventures’. 
—  Amendment to IFRS 7 , ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’. 
—  Amendment to IAS32, ‘Financial instruments: 
Presentation’.
—  Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption’,  
on government loans. 
—  Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of ﬁnancial 
statements’.
—  Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12,  
‘Transitional Guidance’. 
—  Annual improvements 2011. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 56
The Group is assessing whether the following standard 
will have any impact on the accounting for ﬁnancial 
instruments:
—  IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, issued in December 
2009. This addresses the classiﬁcation and 
measurement of ﬁnancial assets. The standard is  
not applicable until 1 January 2015 but is available  
for early adoption.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements comprise the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year  
to 31 December each year. Subsidiaries are entities  
that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date at which 
control is transferred to the Group. Control exists where 
the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and 
operating policies of the entity so as to obtain beneﬁts 
from its activities. The Group does not currently have  
any associates.
All intragroup transactions and balances are eliminated  
on consolidation. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments 
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of 
exchange. Identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination 
are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. 
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair 
value of the Group’s share of the identiﬁable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition 
is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary 
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the 
statement of comprehensive income. Where necessary, 
adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line 
with those of the Group.
The Group and Company have elected not to apply  
IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ retrospectively to business 
combinations which took place prior to 1 January 2004, 
namely the acquisition in 1996 of 100% of the issued 
share capital of Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited that has 
been accounted for by the merger accounting method.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into 
sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the transaction 
date. Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are 
retranslated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling  
at the balance sheet date. Differences arising due to 
exchange rate ﬂuctuations are taken to the statement of 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including 
goodwill, intangible assets and fair value adjustments 
arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues  
and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an 
average rate for the period where this rate approximates 
to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the 
transactions. Exchange differences arising from this 
translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying 
hedges, are taken directly to the translation reserve. They 
are released into the statement of comprehensive income 
upon disposal.
Revenue
Revenue comprises income from product and technology 
licence transactions, funded research and development 
programmes, and fees charged for providing short-term 
scientiﬁc services to third parties. 
Product licence transactions typically have an initial 
upfront non-refundable payment on execution of the 
licence, and the potential for further payments conditional 
on achieving speciﬁc milestones, plus royalties on product 
sales. Technology licence transactions typically have an 
initial upfront non-refundable payment on execution  
of the licence and the potential for further annual 
maintenance payments for the term speciﬁed in the 
licence. Where the initial fee paid is non-refundable and 
there are no ongoing commitments from the Group and 
the licence has no ﬁxed end date, the Group recognises 
the element received upfront as a payment in 
consideration of the granting of the licence on execution 
of the contract. Amounts receivable in respect of 
milestone payments are recognised as revenue when the 
speciﬁc conditions stipulated in the licence agreement 
have been met. Payments linked to “success” such as 
regulatory ﬁling or approval, achievement of speciﬁed 
sales volumes, are recognised in full when the relevant 
event has occurred. Maintenance fees within the contracts 
are spread over the period to which they relate, usually  
a year. Otherwise, amounts receivable are recognised  
in the period in which related costs are incurred, or over  
the estimated period to completion of the relevant phase 
of development or associated clinical trials. 
Research and development funding is recognised  
as revenue over a period that corresponds with the 
performance of the funded research and development 
services. Where the Group incurs pass-through expenses 
in relation to collaborative partners’ own research and 
development programmes, such costs are included in the 
Group’s ﬁnancial statements as operating expenses net  
of collaborator reimbursement, and the reimbursement 
received does not form part of the Group’s revenue. 
Amounts recognised exclude value added tax. Differences 
between cash received and amounts recognised are 
included as deferred income where cash received exceeds 
revenue recognised and as accrued income where 
revenue has yet to be billed to the customer.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
Cost of sales
The Group’s products and technologies include 
technology elements that are licensed from third parties. 
Cost of sales is the royalty arising on such third party 
licenses. Where royalty due on revenue has not been paid 
it is included in accruals. Where revenue is spread over  
a number of accounting periods, the royalty attributable 
to the deferred revenue is included in prepayments. 
Pass-through costs reimbursed by collaborative partners 
do not form part of cost of sales.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to  
the statement of comprehensive income in the period  
in which it is incurred. 
Expenditure incurred on development projects (relating  
to the design and testing of new or improved products)  
is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable  
that the project will generate future economic beneﬁt, 
considering factors including its commercial and 
technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval,  
and the ability to measure costs reliably. Development 
expenditure which has been capitalised and has a ﬁnite 
useful life is amortised from the commencement of the 
commercial production of the product on a straight-line 
basis over the period of its expected beneﬁt. No such 
costs have been capitalised to date. Other development 
expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Employee beneﬁt costs
Employee beneﬁt costs, notably holiday pay and 
contributions to the Group’s deﬁned contribution pension 
plan, are charged to the income statement on an accruals 
basis. The assets of the pension scheme are held 
separately from those of the Group in independently 
administered funds. The Group does not offer any other 
post-retirement beneﬁts.
Share based payments
The Group’s share option scheme and Long Term 
Incentive Plans allow Group employees to acquire shares 
of the Company, subject to certain criteria. The fair  
value of options granted is recognised as an expense  
of employment in the income statement with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is 
measured at the date of grant and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options. The fair value of options granted 
under the share option scheme is measured using the 
Black-Scholes model. The fair value of options granted 
under the LTIP scheme, which includes performance 
criteria, is measured using a Monte Carlo model taking 
into account the conditions under which the options 
were granted. At each ﬁnancial year end, the Group 
revises its estimate of the number of options that are 
expected to become exercisable based on forfeiture such 
that at the end of the vesting period the cumulative 
charge reﬂects the actual options that have vested, with 
no charge for those options which were forfeit prior to 
vesting. When share options are exercised the proceeds 
received are credited to equity.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms 
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee. No leases have been classiﬁed 
as ﬁnance leases. All other leases are classiﬁed as 
operating leases. Costs in respect of operating leases  
are charged to the statement of comprehensive income 
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Grants
Income from government and other grants is recognised 
over the period necessary to match them with the related 
costs which they are intended to compensate, on a 
systematic basis. This grant income is included as other 
operating income within the statement of comprehensive 
income, and the related costs are included within 
research and development costs and administrative 
expenses. The difference between grant income receivable 
and income recognised is included in deferred income.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items represent signiﬁcant items of income 
and expense which due to their nature or the expected 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are 
presented separately on the face of the statement of 
comprehensive income to give a better understanding  
to shareholders of the elements of ﬁnancial performance 
in the period, so as to facilitate comparison with prior 
periods and to better assess trends in ﬁnancial 
performance. 
Finance income and costs
Finance income and costs comprise interest income  
and interest payable during the year, calculated using the 
effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 58
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Taxation 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, 
is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted,  
or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary 
differences identiﬁed at the balance sheet date. Temporary 
differences are differences between the carrying amount 
of the Group’s assets and liabilities and their tax base. 
Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax 
assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local 
tax group. Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised 
only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can  
be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable 
proﬁts, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable 
future against which the deductible temporary difference 
can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that  
are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset  
is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws  
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the 
balance sheet date. Measurement of deferred tax liabilities 
and assets reﬂects the tax consequence expected to  
fall from the manner in which the asset or liability is 
recovered or settled.
Intangible assets
Initial recognition
Intellectual property and in-process research and 
development acquired through business combinations 
are recognised as intangible assets at fair value. Other 
acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. 
Amortisation
Where the intangible asset has a ﬁnite life amortisation is 
charged on a straight line basis over the remaining useful 
economic life from the time they become available for 
use. Where the useful life of the intangible asset cannot be 
determined, the asset is carried at cost but tested annually 
for impairment. Intangible assets are amortised over  
the length of the patent life; current lives range from  
5 to 19 years.
Impairment
The carrying value of non-ﬁnancial assets with indeﬁnite 
lives is reviewed annually for impairment or earlier if an 
indication of impairment occurs and provision made 
where appropriate. Charges or credits for impairment are 
passed through the statement of comprehensive income.
For the purposes of assessing impairments, assets are 
grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identiﬁable cash ﬂows or cash-generating units. Impairment 
losses are recognised for the amount by which each 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. Where the asset  
is no longer being developed by the Company sales  
value less cost to sell is used as the recoverable amount. 
Value in use is calculated using estimated discounted 
future cash ﬂows. Key assumptions in the discounted  
cash ﬂow calculations are:
—  The product is developed by a collaborative partner 
who funds all future development costs and markets 
the product.
—  The group receives an initial licence fee, milestone 
payments and royalties on sales.
—  The cash ﬂow projections include estimates for selling 
price, royalty rates, population growth, disease 
incidence and market penetration. 
—  The resulting cash receipts are discounted at an 
appropriate discount rate.
—  The cash ﬂow projections are a long-term view,  
based on the expected patent life. Due to the length  
of the development cycle for innovative medicines, 
this period is signiﬁcantly longer than 5 years. 
The key assumptions are management estimates,  
based where possible on available information for similar 
products. Due to the novelty and early stage of development 
of the group’s products, it is not possible to benchmark 
these assumptions against past experience. 
Impairment and amortisation charges are included within 
research and development costs in the statement of 
comprehensive income. 
Intellectual property rights comprise third party patent 
rights that have been purchased by the group. No  
in-house research and development or patent costs  
are included in intangible assets. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, 
together with any incidental expenses of acquisition,  
less depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and any costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost  
of property, plant and equipment less their estimated 
residual values on a straight line basis over the expected 
useful economic lives of the assets concerned. 
Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available  
for use. The principal annual rates used for this  
purpose are:
Freehold property 10%
Short leasehold improvements 20%
(or the remaining lease  
term if shorter)
Office equipment and computers 20–33%
Manufacturing and laboratory equipment 10–20%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed 
annually.
The manufacturing plant is reviewed annually for 
impairment triggers and, where necessary, a full 
impairment review is performed.
Financial assets: investments
Investments are carried at cost less any provision made 
for impairment. Options over the Company’s shares have 
been awarded to employees of subsidiary companies.  
In accordance with UITF44, the Company treats the  
value of these awards as a capital contribution to the 
subsidiaries, resulting in an increase in the cost of 
investment. Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
including shares and loans are carried at cost less any 
impairment provision. Such investments are subject to 
review, and any impairment is charged to the statement 
of comprehensive income. At each year end the Directors 
review the carrying value of the Company’s investment in 
subsidiaries. Where there is a material and sustained 
shortfall in the market capitalisation, or a signiﬁcant and 
sustained change in the business resulting in a decrease 
in market capitalisation, the Directors consider this to  
be a trigger of an impairment review as set out in IAS 36, 
and the carrying value of the Company’s investments  
in subsidiaries is adjusted. The Directors consider that 
reference to the market capitalisation of the Group is an 
appropriate external measure of the value of the Group 
for this purpose.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value  
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less provision for impairment.  
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that  
the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the receivables.
Financial assets: available for sale investments
Bank deposits with original maturities between three 
months and twelve months are included in current assets 
and are classiﬁed as available for sale ﬁnancial assets.  
After initial recognition, available for sale investments  
are measured at their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank 
deposits repayable on demand, and other short term 
highly liquid investments with original maturities of  
three months or less. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Trade payables are classiﬁed  
as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or 
less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Deferred income
Deferred income is the excess of cash received under 
license transactions, funded research and development, 
and fees for services provided to third parties and grants 
over the amounts recognised as revenue. 
Provisions
Provisions for dilapidation costs, onerous lease costs and 
other potential liabilities are recognised when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
past events, it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation and the amount has 
been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for 
future operating losses. Provisions are measured at the 
present value of the expenditure expected to be required 
to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reﬂects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks speciﬁc to the obligations. The increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised  
as interest expense.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Costs of share 
issues are charged to the share premium account.
Merger reserve
A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the 
shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration 
includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby 
attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange 
differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial 
statements of foreign operations that are not integral  
to the operations of the Group. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 60
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2, Critical accounting judgements and estimates 
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
is required to make judgements and assumptions 
concerning the future in a number of areas. Actual  
results may be different from those estimated using  
these judgements and assumptions. The key sources of 
estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements 
that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within  
the next ﬁnancial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition
In 2009 the Group received an upfront non-refundable 
payment of US$26.0 million (£16.6 million) from Sanoﬁ 
under the ocular product collaboration. This is being 
recognised as revenue on a straight line basis over the 
expected duration of the initial stage of the collaboration 
for each of the four products. During 2012, the recognition 
period has been varied to recognise that i) Sanoﬁ has 
exercised its options over StarGen™ and UshStat
®
  
and will take over these studies before June 2013, ii)  
the RetinoStat
®
 study will complete during 2013, and iii)  
the utilisation of EncorStat
®
 funding on the other three 
products. As at December 2012 revenue of £15.9 million 
has been recognised under this collaboration, of which 
£3.4 million was recognised in 2012. The remaining  
£0.7 million is expected to be recognised as income in  
the next 12 months and is classiﬁed as current deferred 
income, with £nil classiﬁed as non-current.
If the revenue recognition periods had been three months 
longer, the amount of revenue recognised in 2012 would 
have been reduced by £0.6 million (2011: £0.6 million)  
and the amount of deferred income carried forward  
at 31 December 2012 increased by £0.6 million  
(2011: £0.6 million). 
Over the term of the ocular product collaboration with 
Sanoﬁ, Oxford BioMedica may recover up to US$24.0 
million in research and development funding and 
recognise this as revenue. Project costs in excess of 
US$24.0 million will be borne by Oxford BioMedica.  
The amount of research and development funding  
that is recognised as revenue is based on an estimate  
of the amount of project costs expected to be borne  
by the Group by the end of the collaboration. Up to  
31 December 2012 £13.3 million (2011: £11.4 million)  
had been recognised as revenue and £0.6 million  
(2011: £0.4 million) had been classiﬁed as current  
deferred income. If the estimated total project expenditure  
had been 5% higher, the amount of revenue recognised  
up to 31 December 2012 would have been £0.6 million  
(2011: £0.6 million) lower and the amount of deferred 
income higher by the same amounts. 
Intangible asset impairment
The Group has signiﬁcant intangible assets arising from 
purchases of intellectual property rights and in-process 
R&D. Amortisation is charged over the assets’ patent  
life on a straight line basis from the date that the asset 
becomes available for use. When there is an indicator  
of a signiﬁcant and permanent reduction in the value  
of intangible assets, an impairment review is carried out.  
The impairment analysis is principally based on estimated 
discounted future cash ﬂows. Actual outcomes could vary 
signiﬁcantly from such estimates of discounted future 
cash ﬂows, due to the sensitivity of the assessment to the 
assumptions used. The determination of the assumptions 
is subjective and requires the exercise of considerable 
judgement. Any changes in key assumptions about the 
Group’s business and prospects or changes in market 
conditions affecting the Group or its development partners 
could materially affect whether an impairment exists.  
This risk is now concentrated on purchased patent rights 
which have been sublicensed to collaborative partners.  
At 31 December 2012 the book value of intangible assets 
was £2.9 million of which £1.9 million related to PrimeBoost 
technology. In respect of intellectual property rights  
and in-process R&D relating to Hi8
®
-MEL, following a 
marketing initiative that did not result in securing a partner, 
an impairment charge of £3.1 million was recognised  
in 2011, writing the Hi8
®
-MEL asset down to £nil. 
3, Financial risk management 
The Group does not have any committed borrowing 
facilities. Current operations are ﬁnanced from its own 
cash resources. Cash balances are mainly held on short 
and medium term deposits with ﬁnancial institutions with 
a credit rating of at least A, in line with the Group’s policy 
to minimise the risk of loss. The main risks associated with 
the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments relate to interest rate  
risk and foreign currency risk. The Group’s policy in relation 
to interest rate risk is to monitor short and medium term 
interest rates and to place cash on deposit for periods that 
optimise the amount of interest earned while maintaining 
access to sufficient funds to meet day to day cash 
requirements. In relation to foreign currency risk, the 
Group’s policy is to hold the majority of its funds in 
Sterling. No other hedging of foreign currency cash  
ﬂows is undertaken. 
Financial risk factors
The Group’s relatively simple structure, principally 
operating in the United Kingdom, and the lack of debt 
ﬁnancing reduces the range of ﬁnancial risks to which  
it is exposed. Monitoring of ﬁnancial risk is part of the 
Board’s ongoing risk management, the effectiveness of 
which is reviewed annually. The Group’s agreed policies 
are implemented by the Chief Financial Officer, who 
submits reports at each board meeting. The Group does 
not use ﬁnancial derivatives, and it is the Group’s policy 
not to undertake any trading in ﬁnancial instruments. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
(a) Foreign exchange risk
At the current time the Group’s revenues are mostly 
receivable in United States Dollars, and certain of its 
expenditures are payable in Euros and United States 
Dollars. The majority of operating costs are denominated 
in Sterling. In 2012, the level of US Dollar-denominated 
receipts was to some extent matched by US-Dollar 
denominated payments, such that a 10% difference in  
the £/$ exchange rate would have had an impact of 
approximately £66,000 over the year. In the future if this 
degree of matching was not present, it could present a 
possible source of foreign exchange risk. The Company 
had a slightly greater exposure to the £/€ exchange rate 
due to the need to fund expenditure denominated in 
Euros. Had the pound been 10% weaker in relation to  
the Euro, the increased cost in 2012 would have been 
approximately £178,000. 
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group does not have any committed borrowing 
facilities. Current operations are ﬁnanced from its own 
cash resources. The Group’s policy is to maximise interest 
receivable on deposits, subject to maintaining access  
to sufficient liquid funds to meet day to day operational 
requirements, and preserving the security of invested 
funds. With the current low level of bank interest rates, 
interest receivable on bank deposits in 2012 was just 
£141,000 (2011: £144,000). 
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher/lower in 
2012 the impact on net loss would have been a decrease/
increase of £73,000 (2011: £111,000) due to changes in the 
amount of interest receivable.
(c) Credit risks
The Group’s policy is to place funds with ﬁnancial 
institutions rated at least A and to distribute deposits 
between several banks. 
Currently the majority of the Group’s revenue and a 
signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s trade and other 
receivables derive from a single trading relationship. 
Although the counter-party is a proﬁtable, well-capitalised 
multinational organisation, there is a theoretical credit  
risk associated with this concentration of revenue. 
(d) Cash ﬂow and Liquidity risk
At present the Group’s operations are funded from  
its cash and short-term investments. The maturity proﬁle 
of investments is structured to ensure that sufficient  
liquid funds are available to meet planned operating 
requirements. To date the Group’s funding has been 
provided mainly by the issue of shares and from 
commercial collaborations. Most recently the parent 
company raised £11.6 million before costs from a placing 
and open offer which closed on 26 July 2012. Future 
working capital is expected to be provided by commercial 
collaborations. Such collaborations typically provide 
funding from milestone-based payments, which are 
signiﬁcant in size but infrequent. There can be no 
certainty that this source of funding will be sufficient,  
and that additional funding from other sources, including 
the issue of further shares, will not be required. In 
planning the Group’s activities and its ﬁnancial resources, 
the Directors take account of the probability of receiving 
income from commercial collaborations, and of the likely 
availability of other sources of funding. The Company’s 
spending plans are set to achieve a balance between 
adding value to the key development programmes while 
seeking to maximise the operating window provided by 
current funds. The Directors’ current ﬁnancial projections 
provide a reasonable basis from which they have 
concluded that the Group’s ﬁnancial resources are 
sufficient for the foreseeable future, and that there  
is presently no material cash ﬂow or liquidity risk.
(e) Pricing risk
Currently the Group’s revenue derives from collaboration 
milestones and reimbursement of funded research and 
development, which should not be sensitive to pricing 
risk. The ocular research and development collaboration 
with Sanoﬁ is subject to an overall cap of US$24 million, 
which means that if the relevant costs escalate from the 
levels currently anticipated, the Group would suffer future 
losses equal to the amount of cost escalation. 
(f) Capital management
The Group manages its cash, cash equivalents and 
available for sale investments in order to ensure it has 
working capital to meet its day to day needs. This is 
achieved through frequent re-forecasting of the cash  
ﬂow position so as to provide the Board with a clear  
view on when further cash injections may be required.  
As discussed in the ﬁnancial review, the cash balance and  
the cash burn are part of the Group’s Key Performance 
Indicators. Further information on cash ﬂow and liquidity 
risk is given in section (d) above. The Group is not  
subject to any regulation requiring any speciﬁc capital 
management.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging
There were no derivatives at 31 December 2012  
or 31 December 2011, and hedge accounting has  
not been used.
Fair value estimates
The fair value of short term deposits with a maturity  
of one year or less is assumed to be the book value. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 62
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
4, Segmental analysis
Segmental reporting
The chief operating decision-maker has been identiﬁed as the Senior Management Group (SMG), comprising the 
Executive Directors and other senior managers. The SMG considers that the business comprises a single activity, which 
is biotechnology research and development. The SMG reviews the Group’s proﬁt or loss and its cash ﬂows, assets and 
liabilities on a whole-company, consolidated basis in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Therefore  
the segment ﬁnancial information is the same as that set out in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows and the consolidated statement of changes  
in equity.
The Group’s revenue derives wholly from assets located in the United Kingdom. Analysed by location of customers, 
revenue derives predominantly from the European Union. No revenue is derived from the United Kingdom.
          2012 2011 
Revenue by customer location       £’000 £’000
Europe       7,376 7,379
Rest of world       380 339
Total revenue       7,756 7,718
Revenue attributable to the ocular collaboration with Sanoﬁ was £7,259,000 (2011: £7,316,000).
5, Employees and Directors
The average number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was:
          2012 2011 
By activity       Number Number
Office and management       10 10
Research and development       73 76
Total        83 86
          2012 2011 
Employee beneﬁt costs       £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries       4,446 4,436
Social security costs       561 519
Post-employment beneﬁts (note 29)       342 329
Termination beneﬁts       398 47
Share based payments (note 25)       340 431
Total employee beneﬁt costs       6,087 5,762
          2012 2011 
Key management compensation       £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries       1,812 2,037
Social security costs       208 227
Post-employment beneﬁts        152 150
Termination beneﬁts       266 –
Share based payments       230 326
Total        2,668 2,740
The key management ﬁgures above include Executive and non-Executive Directors, as well as the rest of the Senior 
Management Group . Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 46, which forms part of these ﬁnancial statements.
The Company had no employees during the year (2011: none). Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
6, Exceptional items 
Exceptional items represent signiﬁcant items of income or expense which due to their nature or the expected 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the statement of comprehensive 
income to give a better understanding to shareholders of the elements of ﬁnancial performance in the year, so as  
to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in ﬁnancial performance.
          2012 2011 
Group       £’000 £’000
Exceptional research and development costs       – 3,136
In 2011, at the conclusion of a divestment process which did not secure a partner for Hi8
®
-Mel, the residual carrying 
value of £3,136,000 was impaired.
7 , Finance income and costs
          2012 2011 
Group       £’000 £’000
Finance income:
Bank interest receivable       141 144
Total ﬁnance income       141 144
Finance costs:
Unwinding of discount in provisions (note 19)       (3) (8)
Total ﬁnance costs       (3) (8)
Net ﬁnance income       138 136
8, Expenses by nature
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
      Notes  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Excluding exceptional items:
Employee beneﬁt costs    5  6,087 5,762 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   13  601 336 – –
Amortisation   12  370 450 – –
Impairment of investment    14  – – 10,840 15,725
Research and development     14,015 14,710 – –
Operating lease payments      523 1,123 – –
Net loss/(gain) on foreign exchange     74 (21) – –
Exceptional items:
Impairment of intangible assets     – 3,136 – –
During the year the Group (including its subsidiaries) obtained services from the Group’s auditor and its associates  
as detailed below:
  Group
          2012 2011 
Services provided by the Group’s auditors       £’000 £’000
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated ﬁnancial statements   23 44
Fees payable for other services:
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries       68 38
 Additional fees related to the prior year audit       10 –
 Tax advisory services       85 23
 Tax compliance services       15 11
 Services relating to completed company ﬁnance transactions     229 –
Total        430 116 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 64
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
9, Taxation 
The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development expenditure.  
The amount included in the statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprises  
the credit receivable by the Group for the year less overseas tax paid in the year. The United Kingdom corporation  
tax research and development credit is paid in arrears once tax returns have been ﬁled and agreed. The tax credit 
recognised in the ﬁnancial statements but not yet received is included in current tax assets in the balance sheet.  
The amounts for 2012 have not yet been agreed with the relevant tax authorities. 
  Group
          2012 2011 
          £’000 £’000
Current tax 
United Kingdom corporation tax research and development credit     (1,497) (1,641)
Overseas taxation       1 58
          (1,496) (1,583)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods
United Kingdom corporation tax research and development credit     (120) (87)
Overseas taxation       (3) (1)
Taxation credit       (1,619) (1,671)
The Company has no tax liability, nor is it entitled to tax credits (2011: £nil).
The tax credit for the year is lower (2011: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are 
explained below:
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Loss on ordinary activities before tax     (10,349) (14,302) (11,100) (15,861)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax multiplied  
by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%)  (2,536) (3,790) (2,720) (4,203)
Effects of:
Tax depreciation and other timing differences     66 979 – –
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  
(includes impairment of investments in subsidiaries)    93 45 2,656 4,167
R&D relief mark–up on expenses     (1,977) (1,949) – –
Difference in rate relating to R&D tax credits     1,743 1,766 – –
Tax deduction for share options less than share option accounting charge  101 174 – –
Overseas tax     – 5 – –
Tax losses carried forward to future periods     1,026 1,207 64 36
Overseas tax difference in rate     (12) (20) – –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods     (123) (88) – –
Current tax credit for the year     (1,619) (1,671) – –
At 31 December 2012, the Group had tax losses to be carried forward of approximately £90.9 million  
(2011: £87.3 million). Of the Group tax losses, £90.9 million (2011: £87.3 million) arose in the United Kingdom. 
There is no deferred tax recognised (see note 21).
10, Basic loss and diluted loss per ordinary share
The basic loss per share has been calculated by dividing the loss for the year by the weighted average number  
of shares in issue during the year ended 31 December 2012 (1,146,473,109; 2011: 935,012,543). 
As the Group is loss-making, there were no potentially dilutive options in either year. There is therefore  
no difference between the basic loss per ordinary share and the diluted loss per ordinary share.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
11, Loss for the ﬁnancial year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s statement of comprehensive income has  
not been included in these ﬁnancial statements. The Company’s loss for the year was £11,100,000 (2011: £15,861,000). 
The loss includes a charge of £10,840,000 (2011: £15,725,000) for impairment of investments in subsidiaries. 
12, Intangible assets
          Intellectual 
         In-process  property 
         R&D  rights  Total 
Group      £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012      10,400 5,298 15,698
Additions       – 195 195
At 31 December 2012      10,400 5,493 15,893
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2012      10,400 2,192 12,592
Amortisation charge for the year      – 370 370
At 31 December 2012      10,400 2,562 12,962
Net book amount at 31 December 2012      – 2,931 2,931
Cost
At 1 January 2011      10,400 5,289 15,689
Additions       – 9 9
At 31 December 2011      10,400 5,298 15,698
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2011      7,238 1,768 9,006
Amortisation charge for the year      114 336 450
Impairment provided in the year      3,048 88 3,136
At 31 December 2011      10,400 2,192 12,592
Net book amount at 31 December 2011      – 3,106 3,106
For intangible assets regarded as having a ﬁnite useful life amortisation commences when products underpinned  
by the intellectual property rights become available for use. Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis over  
the remaining patent life of the asset. 
An intangible asset is regarded as having an indeﬁnite useful life when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant 
factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inﬂows  
for the entity. There are currently no assets with indeﬁnite useful lives.
In-process R&D relates to the product Hi8
®
-MEL acquired as part of the acquisition of Oxxon Therapeutics Limited  
in 2007. During 2011 a process to divest Hi8
®
-MEL was concluded without securing a partner. The asset was fully 
impaired in 2011 with a charge of £3,136,000. 
The Company had no intangibles at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
13, Property, plant and equipment
        Short Office Manufacturing 
        leasehold equipment and 
       Freehold improve- and Laboratory 
       property ments computers equipment Total 
Group    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012    3,115 3,011 606 3,316 10,048
Additions at cost    15 17 30 254 316
Disposals    – (424) (45) – (469)
At 31 December 2012     3,130 2,604 591 3,570 9,895
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012    45 2,810 388 2,592 5,835
Charge for the year    213 63 98 227 601
Disposals    – (424) (19) – (443)
At 31 December 2012    258 2,449 467 2,819 5,993
Net book amount at 31 December 2012    2,872 155 124 751 3,902
        Short Office Manufacturing 
        leasehold equipment and 
       Freehold improve- and Laboratory 
       Property ments computers equipment Total 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011    – 2,966 441 2,913 6,320
Exchange adjustments    – 1 – – 1
Additions at cost    3,115 44 214 596 3,969
Disposals    – – (49) (193) (242)
At 31 December 2011     3,115 3,011 606 3,316 10,048
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011    – 2,716 351 2,673 5,740
Exchange adjustments    – 1 – – 1
Charge for the year    45 93 86 112 336
Disposals    – – (49) (193) (242)
At 31 December 2011     45 2,810 388 2,592 5,835
Net book amount at 31 December 2011    3,070 201 218 724 4,213
The Company had no property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
14, Investment in subsidiaries
          2012 2011 
Fixed asset investments: company       £’000 £’000
Shares in group undertakings
At 1 January and 31 December       17 ,158 17,158
Loans to group undertakings
At 1 January       128,856 110,423
Loan advanced in the year       9,031 18,433
Subsidiary debt settled by issue of parent shares       195 –
At 31 December       138,082 128,856
Total investments in shares and loans to group undertakings      155,240 146,014
Impairment 
At 1 January        117 ,201 101,476
Impairment charge in the year       10,840 15,725
At 31 December       128,041 117 ,201
Net book amount at 31 December       27 ,199 28,813
Capital contribution in respect of  
employee share schemes (see note 26)
At 1 January       4,302 3,871
Additions in the year       340 431
At 31 December       4,642 4,302
Total investments       31,841 33,115
The Group had no investments at 31 December 2012 (2011: nil). 
Interests in subsidiary undertakings
      Proportion of nominal 
      value of issued shares 
    Country of Description of held by the Group 
Name of undertaking incorporation  shares held and Company Nature of business
Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited Great Britain 1p ordinary shares 100% Gene therapy  
       research and  
       development
BioMedica Inc United States of America $0.001 100% Gene therapy  
     common stock  research and  
       development
Oxxon Therapeutics Limited  Great Britain 1p ordinary shares 100% Dormant
All of the above subsidiaries have been consolidated in these ﬁnancial statements.
At each year end the Directors review the carrying value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries. Where there  
is a material and sustained shortfall in the market capitalisation, or a signiﬁcant and sustained change in the business 
resulting in a decrease in market capitalisation, the Directors consider this to be a trigger of an impairment review  
as set out in IAS 36, and the carrying value of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries is adjusted. The Directors 
consider that reference to the market capitalisation of the Group is an appropriate external measure of the value  
of the Group for this purpose. Following an impairment review at 31 December 2012 a £10.8m impairment charge  
was recognised. Cumulative impairment of £128.0m has been recognised to 31 December 2012.
During 2012 the employees of BioMedica Inc. were made redundant and the office lease reached the end of its term. 
The intention is to make the company dormant in 2013. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
15, Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Trade receivables     315 154 – –
Accrued income     400 33 – –
Other receivables     184 256 – –
Other tax receivable     140 858 – –
Prepayments     666 1,499 11 1
Total trade and other receivables     1,705 2,800 11 1
The fair value of trade and other receivables are the current book values.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £204,000 (2011: £nil) which are 
past due at the reporting date. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. No provision for impairment 
of receivables has been recognised as £131,000 has been received after the year end in relation to these debts; the 
Directors do not believe there has been a signiﬁcant change in credit quality and consider the remaining amounts  
to be recoverable in full.
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables:
         2012  2011 
         £’000  £’000
0–30 days      40  –
30–60 days      –  –
60+ days      164  –
         204  –
Accrued income of £400,000 (2011: £33,000) relates to R&D funding receivable from Sanoﬁ.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
         2012  2011 
         £’000  £’000
Sterling      968  1,841
US Dollar      737  959
         1,705  2,800
The Company’s receivables are all denominated in Sterling.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable above.  
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
16, Cash and cash equivalents
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand     8,956 6,835 743 –
In addition to the cash and cash equivalents described above, the Group held Sterling bank deposits of £5,105,000 
(2011: £7,500,000) with a maturity of between three and twelve months classiﬁed as available for sale investments. 
None of these deposits are past due or impaired. 
The Company held no available for sale investments in 2012 or 2011. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
17 , Trade and other payables – current
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables     881 1,200 – –
Other taxation and social security     157 161 – –
Accruals     1,664 1,865 23 46
Total trade and other payables     2,702 3,226 23 46
18, Deferred income
          2012 2011 
Group       £’000 £’000
Current        1,568 4,386
Non-current       – 170
Total deferred income       1,568 4,556
On 28 April 2009 the Company entered into a collaborative programme with Sanoﬁ to develop gene therapy  
products to treat ocular diseases. An initial non-refundable sum of US$26 million (£16,641,000) was received.  
Prior to 2012 this was being recognised as revenue on a straight line basis over 42 to 51 months, being the expected 
duration of the initial stage of the collaboration for each of the four products. In 2012, the period has been varied to 
recognise that i) Sanoﬁ has exercised its options over StarGen™ and UshStat
®
 and will take over these studies before 
June 2013, ii) the RetinoStat
®
 study will complete during 2013, and iii) the utilisation of EncorStat
®
 funding on the other 
three products. Revenue to date of £15,854,000 has been recognised under this collaboration, of which £3,414,000  
was recognised in 2012 (2011: £4,665,000). The remaining £787,000 (2011: £4,031,000) is expected to be recognised  
as revenue in the next 12 months and is classiﬁed as current deferred income, with £nil (2011: £170,000) classiﬁed  
as non-current.
Over the term of the ocular gene therapy collaboration, Oxford BioMedica may recover from Sanoﬁ up to US$24 million 
in research and development funding. Project costs in excess of US$24 million will be borne by Oxford BioMedica.  
To date, £13,319,000 ($21,091,000) has been recognised as revenue, of which £1,932,000 was recognised in 2012. 
£621,000 (2011: £355,000) has been classiﬁed as current deferred income.
The Company had no deferred income in 2012 or 2011.
19, Provisions
          Onerous 
         Dilapidations lease Total 
Group        £’000 £’000  £’000
At 1 January 2012      501 41 542
Exchange adjustments      – – –
Utilised in the year      – (41) (41)
Unwinding of discount      3 – 3
Change of discount rate – adjustment to recognised property, plant and equipment  6 – 6
At 31 December 2012       510 – 510
At 1 January 2011      457 124 581
Exchange adjustments      – (2) (2)
Utilised in the year      – (82) (82)
Unwinding of discount      7 1 8
Change of discount rate – adjustment to recognised property, plant and equipment  37 – 37
At 31 December 2011       501 41 542 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
          2012 2011 
          £’000 £’000
Current       – 41
Non-current       510 501
Total provisions       510 542
The dilapidations provision relates to anticipated costs of restoring the leasehold property in Oxford, UK to its original 
condition at the end of the present leases in 2016, discounted using the rate per the Bank of England nominal yield 
curve. The equivalent rate was used in 2011. The provision will be utilised at the end of the leases if they are not 
renewed. 
The onerous lease provision related to the estimated rental shortfall in respect of a redundant property in San Diego, 
USA which was sub-let for the remainder of the lease term until June 2012, discounted using the rate per the Bank  
of England nominal yield curve. The equivalent rate was used in 2011. The provision was fully utilised in 2012.
The Company had no provisions at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.
20, Financial instruments
The Group’s and company’s ﬁnancial instruments comprise investments in subsidiaries, cash and cash equivalents, 
together with available for sale investments, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables. Additional 
disclosures are set out in the corporate governance statement and in note 3 relating to risk management.
The Group had the following ﬁnancial instruments at 31 December each year:
 Assets Liabilities
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16)     8,956 6,835 – –
Available for sale investments     5,105 7,500 – –
Trade receivables and other receivables (note 15)    499 410 – –
Trade and other payables excluding tax (note 17)    – – 2,545 3,065
        14,560 14,745 2,545 3,065
All the available for sale investments held at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 were denominated in Sterling. 
The weighted average interest rates and average deposit terms for ﬁxed rate deposits are shown below. Floating rate 
instant access deposits earned interest at prevailing bank rates. 
 2012 2011
      Year end deposits Yr. average Year end deposits Yr. average
      Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted  
      average rate average term average rate average rate average term average rate
Sterling   1.64% 93 days 1.70% 1.48% 225 days 0.75%
Euro    0.65% 262 days 1.15% 1.25% 31 days 0.55%
US Dollars   0.65% 262 days 0.65% 0.65% 31 days 0.66%
In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’ the Group has reviewed all contracts 
for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements  
set out in the standard. There were no such derivatives identiﬁed at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
Fair value
The Directors consider that the fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments do not differ signiﬁcantly from  
their book values. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies:
          2012 2011 
          £’000 £’000
Sterling       6,133 6,692
Euro        – 4
US Dollar       2,823 139
          8,956 6,835
21, Deferred taxation
Neither the Company nor the Group had any recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at 31 December 2012  
(2011: £nil). In light of the Group’s continuing losses, recovery of the deferred tax asset is not sufficiently certain,  
and therefore no asset has been recognised.
During the year, as a result of the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% that was substantively enacted 
on 3 July 2012 and that will be effective from 1 April 2013, the relevant unrecognised deferred tax balances have been 
re-measured. Deferred tax expected to reverse in the year to 31 December 2013 has been measured using the effective 
rate that will apply in the UK for the period (23%).
Further changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the Autumn Statement 2012. This includes a 
further reduction to the main rate to reduce the rate to 21% from 1 April 2014. This change had not been substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is not included in these ﬁnancial statements. The overall effect of this 
further change, if it applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the unrecognised 
deferred tax asset by an additional £1.9m.
       Tax   Share 
Group    depreciation Provisions Tax losses options Total 
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) – not recognised    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012    (696) (343) (21,828) (60) (22,927)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences   (45) 219 916 22 1,112
At 31 December 2012    (741) (124) (20,912) (38) (21,815)
At 1 January 2011    295 (338) (22,439) (125) (22,607)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences   (991) (5) 611 65 (320)
At 31 December 2011    (696) (343) (21,828) (60) (22,927)
22, Called-up share capital
Group and Company        2012 2011 
Issued and fully paid       £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 January – 944,875,557 (2011: 544,875,557) shares      9,449 5,449
Allotted for cash in placing and open offer – 463,362,652 (2011: 400,000,000) shares   4,634 4,000
Allotted for cash to licensors of patent rights – 7,910,796 (2011: nil) shares    79 –
At 31 December – 1,416,149,005 (2011: 944,875,557) shares     14,162 9,449
On 26 July 2012 the Company issued 463,362,652 new ordinary shares of 1p each in a placing and open offer at 2.5p 
per share, raising £11.6 million before costs. Costs of this share issue, including commission payable on completion, 
were £1.5m. 
On 14 November 2012 to two licensors of patent rights subscribed for 7,910,796 new ordinary shares of 1p each under 
an agreement signed in 2008. The shares were offered at 2.47p per share. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
23, Share premium account
          2012 2011 
Group and Company       £’000 £’000
At 1 January        124,755 110,387
Premium on shares issued for cash in placing and open offer     6,950 16,000
Premium on shares issued to licensors of patent rights      116 –
Costs associated with the issue of shares        (1,517) (1,632)
At 31 December       130,304 124,755
24, Options over shares of Oxford BioMedica plc
The Company has outstanding share options that were issued under the following schemes:
—  the Oxford BioMedica 1996 (No.1) Share Option Scheme (closed October 2006)
—  the Oxford BioMedica 2007 Share Option Scheme (approved February 2007)
—  the long term incentive plan (LTIP) for Executive Directors and senior executives (approved February 2007)
Eligible employees are awarded either share options or long term incentive plan (LTIP) awards at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. Executive Directors and other senior managers are awarded options under the LTIP and  
not under the 2007 Scheme. 
Options granted under the 1996 and 2007 Schemes have ﬁxed exercise prices based on the market price at the date  
of grant. They are not subject to market condition performance criteria and the lives of the options are seven years 
(1996 Scheme) and ten years (2007 Scheme), after which the options expire. Options granted prior to 2012 cannot 
normally be exercised before the third anniversary of the date of grant. Options granted under the 2007 Scheme during 
2012 vest in tranches of 25% from the ﬁrst to fourth anniversaries of the grant dates.
Options granted under the LTIP to Directors and other senior managers are subject to market condition performance 
criteria and will vest only if, at the third anniversary of the grant, the performance criteria have been met. Failure  
to meet the minimum performance criteria by the third anniversary results in all the granted options lapsing. The 
performance criteria are described in the Directors’ remuneration report. LTIP awards made to date are exercisable  
at par on the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
The total number of options over ordinary shares of 1p each that had been granted and had not been exercised  
or lapsed at 31 December 2012 was as follows: 
Options granted to employees under the Oxford BioMedica 1996 (No. 1) Share Option Scheme
 2012 2011 
 Number Number Exercise price Date from which 
 of shares of shares  per share exercisable Expiry date
 – 1,853,999 20.25p to 43.25p 01/04/08 to 15/12/08 01/04/12 to 15/12/12
 623,693 966,904 28.25p to 31.0p 21/03/09 to 06/09/09 21/03/13 to 06/09/13
 623,693 2,820,903
Options granted to employees under the Oxford BioMedica 2007 Share Option Scheme
 2012 2011 
 Number Number Exercise price Date from which 
 of shares of shares  per share exercisable Expiry date
 722,017 972,411 22.0p to 49.25p 08/03/10 to 14/12/10 08/03/17 to 14/12/17
 1,025,221 1,422,107 5.75p to 22.5p 13/03/11 to 13/10/11 13/03/18 to 13/10/18
 1,587,554 2,160,236 6.10p to 11.25p 25/03/12 to 08/10/12 25/03/19 to 08/10/19
 1,693,408 2,566,803 9.50p to 9.69p 01/04/13 to 13/09/13 01/04/20 to 13/09/20
 2,625,381 3,759,097 5.40p to 5.82p 15/03/14 to 04/10/14 15/03/21 to 04/10/21
 5,322,945 – 2.28p to 3.10p 08/05/13 to 21/12/13 08/05/22 to 21/12/22
 12,976,526 10,880,654 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
Options granted under the Oxford BioMedica Long Term Incentive Plan
 2012 2011 
 Number Number Exercise price Date from which 
 of shares of shares  per share exercisable Expiry date
 1,150,000 1,150,000 1p 13/10/11 13/10/18
 – 5,524,000 1p 25/03/12 25/03/19
 5,568,000 5,568,000 1p 15/06/13 15/06/20
 6,537 ,000 6,537,000 1p 13/04/14 to 07/09/14 13/04/21 to 07/09/21
 25,590,000 – 1p 30/06/15 30/06/22
 38,845,000 18,779,000
 52,445,219 32,480,557
Options granted to UK employees could give rise to a national insurance (NI) liability on exercise. For options granted 
up to October 2006 under the 1996 scheme, the Company obtained undertakings from the holders of the relevant 
options to pay any NI on exercise, so there is no NI liability in respect of these options. In respect of options (including 
LTIP awards) granted from February 2007 there are no such employee undertakings, so a NI liability could arise on the 
exercise of the options. A provision of £2,000 (2011: £4,000) is included in accruals for the potential NI liability accrued 
to 31 December on relevant options that were above water, based on the year-end share price of 2.3p (2011: 3.5p)  
per share. 
25, Share based payments
Options, other than LTIP awards, have been valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. For each  
relevant option grant, individual valuation assumptions were assessed based upon conditions at the date of grant.  
The assumptions in the calculation of fair values in 2012 were as follows: 
    Share options Share options Share options Share options 
    granted 25.03.09 granted 01.04.10 granted 15.03.11 granted 08.05.12 
Share options to 08.10.09 to 13.09.10 to 04.10.11 to 21.12.12
Share price at grant date 6.08p to 11.75p  9.10p to 9.50p  4.76p to 5.38p  2.3p to 3.8p
Exercise price 6.10p to 11.25p 9.50p to 9.69p 5.40p to 5.82p 2.28p to 3.10p
Vesting period (years) 3.00 3.00 3.00 25% tranches
Total number of shares under option 2,726,789 2,923,421 3,759,097 5,322,945
Expected volatility (weighted average) 75.2% 76.0% 74.7% 76.1%
Expected life (years, weighted average) 5.77 5.76 5.98 5.50
Risk free rate (weighted average) 2.71% 2.41% 1.79% 1.82%
Expected rate of forfeit before vesting  
(weighted average) 26.4% 16.7% 16.2% 12.5%
Fair value per option 3.94p to 7.93p 6.00p to 6.28p 2.99p to 3.47p 1.31p to 2.85p
      LTIP awards  
    LTIP award LTIP award 13.04.11 LTIP award 
LTIP awards 25.03.09 15.06.10 and 07.09.11 30.06.12
Share price at grant date 6.08p 10.25p 5.60p to 5.61p 2.34p
Exercise price 1.00p 1.00p 1.00p 1.00p
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0 3.00 3.00
Total number of shares under option 7,296,000 6,106,000 6,537,000 25,590,000
Expected volatility (weighted average) 60.0% 89.1% 83.8% 52.5%
Expected life (years) 3.0 3.0 3.00 3.00
Risk free rate (weighted average) 2.11% 1.55% 1.73% 0.38%
Expected rate of forfeit before vesting  
(weighted average) 24.3% 8.8% 0.0% 0.0%
Expectation of meeting performance criteria  
(weighted average) 74% 83% 84% 10%
Fair value per option 3.90p 7.40p 3.93p to 4.05p  0.63p  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Excluding the LTIP awards, which are exercisable at par subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions,  
the weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year was 3.07p (2011: 5.5p). No options were 
exercised in 2012 or 2011. The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £340,000 
(2011: £431,000), all of which related to equity-settled share based payment transactions. The movements in options  
in the year to 31 December 2012 and an analysis of options outstanding at the year end are shown below.
 2012 2011
        Weighted  Weighted 
        average  average 
        exercise  exercise 
Share options excluding LTIP    Number price Number price
Outstanding at 1 January    13,701,557 15.1p 16,840,509 25.9p
Granted    5,826,902 3.07p 3,759,097 5.5p
Expired    (1,853,999) 29.2p (6,134,941) 39.3p
Forfeited    (4,074,241) 40.3p (763,108) 9.7p
Exercised    – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December    13,600,219 9.1p 13,701,557 15.1p
Exercisable at 31 December    3,958,485 19.5p 5,215,421 27.0p
Exercisable and where market price exceeds exercise price at 31 December – N/a – N/a
         2012  2011 
LTIP awards (options exercisable at par value 1p)     Number  Number
Outstanding at 1 January    18,779,000 18,756,088
Granted    25,590,000 6,537,000
Expired    (5,524,000) (5,077,088)
Forfeited    – (1,437,000)
Outstanding at 31 December    38,845,000 18,779,000
Exercisable at 31 December    1,150,000 1,150,000
 2012 2011
        Weighted   Weighted  
      Weighted  average Weighted  average 
      average  remaining average  remaining 
      exercise Number life (years) exercise Number life (years) 
Range of exercise prices   price of shares Contractual price of shares Contractual
LTIP:
Exercisable at par   1.0p 38,845,000 8.9 1.0p 18,779,000 1.35
Options:
Under 10p   4.9p 10,461,617 8.6 6.9p 7,393,832 8.90
10p to 20p   10.6p 1,562,446 6.6 10.6p 2,160,522 7.58
20p to 30p   26.2p 604,669 4.1 26.0p 2,403,463 1.73
30p to 40p   33.6p 468,616 4.1 33.5p 780,115 3.30
40p to 50p   48.2p 502,871 4.2 46.3p 963,625 3.55
       52,445,219   32,480,557  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
26, Accumulated losses
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January      (130,061) (117,861) (119,035) (103,174)
Loss for the year     (8,730) (12,631) (11,100) (15,861)
Share based payments (note 25)     340 431 – –
At 31 December      (138,451) (130,061) (130,135) (119,035)
Neither the Company nor its subsidiary undertakings had reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2012  
or 31 December 2011.
27 , Other reserves
         Translation Merger 
         reserve  reserve Total 
Group      £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012      (682) 14,310 13,628
Exchange adjustments      – – –
At 31 December 2012      (682) 14,310 13,628
At 1 January 2011      (680) 14,310 13,630
Exchange adjustments      (2) – (2)
At 31 December 2011      (682) 14,310 13,628
The Group merger reserve at 31 December 2012 and 2011 comprised £711,000 arising from consolidation of  
Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited using the merger method of accounting in 1996 and £13,599,000 from the application  
of merger relief to the purchase of Oxxon Therapeutics Limited in 2007.
           Share 
          Merger scheme 
          reserve reserve 
Company       £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012       13,599 4,302
Credit in relation to employee share schemes       – 340
At 31 December 2012       13,599 4,642
At 1 January 2011       13,599 3,871
Credit in relation to employee share schemes       – 431
At 31 December 2011       13,599 4,302
Options over the Company’s shares have been awarded to employees of subsidiary companies. In accordance  
with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ the expense in respect of these awards is recognised in the subsidiaries’ ﬁnancial 
statements (see note 25). In accordance with IFRIC 11, the Company has treated the awards as a capital contribution  
to the subsidiaries, resulting in an increase in the cost of investment of £340,000 (2011: £431,000) (see note 14)  
and a corresponding credit to reserves.  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012
28, Cash ﬂows from operating activities
 Reconciliation of loss before tax to net cash used in operations
 Group Company
        2012 2011 2012 2011 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Loss before tax     (10,349) (14,302) (11,100) (15,861)
Adjustment for:
Depreciation     601 336 – –
Amortisation of intangible assets     370 450 – –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    26 – – –
Charge for impairment     – 3,136 10,840 15,725
Finance income     (141) (144) – –
Finance expense     3 8 – –
Charge in relation to employee share schemes     340 431 – –
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables    1,224 1,229 (10) 14
Decrease in trade and other payables     (524) (539) (23) (17)
Decrease in deferred income     (2,988) (4,846) – –
Decrease in provisions     (32) (82) – –
Net cash used in operations     (11,470) (14,323) (293) (139)
29, Pension commitments
The Group operates a deﬁned contribution pension scheme for its Directors and employees. The assets of the scheme 
are held in independently administered funds. The pension cost charge of £342,000 (2011: £329,000) represents 
amounts payable by the Group to the scheme. Contributions of £8,000 (2011: £40,000), included in accruals, were 
payable to the scheme at the year-end. 
30, Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
           2012 2011 
Group       £’000 £’000
Not later than one year       583 953
Later than one year and not later than ﬁve years       1,298 2,031
Total lease commitments       1,881 2,984
Total future minimum sublease payments receivable      – 255
The Group leases equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The Group also leases its laboratories 
and offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and 
renewal rights. In 2011 the ﬁgures for property leases included a redundant building in San Diego, USA which had been 
sub-let. A provision of £nil (2011: £41,000) had been made for the expected rental shortfall under this lease as the lease 
ended in 2012 (see note 19).
The Company had no operating lease commitments during the year (2011: none). Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
31, Contingent liabilities and capital commitments
The Group had commitments of £148,000 for capital expenditure for leasehold improvements, plant and equipment 
not provided in the ﬁnancial statements at 31 December 2012 (2011: £112,000).
32, Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group consists of a parent, Oxford BioMedica plc, two wholly-owned trading subsidiaries (Oxford BioMedica (UK) 
Limited, the principal trading company, and BioMedica Inc.), and one subsidiary (Oxxon Therapeutics Limited) which 
was acquired and became dormant in 2007 when its assets and trade were transferred to Oxford BioMedica (UK) 
Limited. BioMedica Inc provides services in the USA to Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited under a transfer pricing 
agreement. 
The parent company is responsible for ﬁnancing and setting group strategy. Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited carries out 
the Group strategy, employs all the UK staff including the Directors, and owns and manages all of the Group’s 
intellectual property. The proceeds of the issue of shares by the parent are passed from Oxford BioMedica plc to Oxford 
BioMedica (UK) Limited as a loan, and Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited manages group funds and makes payments, 
including the expenses of the parent company. 
           2012 2011 
Company: transactions with subsidiaries       £’000 £’000
Purchases:
Parent company expenses paid by subsidiary       (969) (1,501)
  
Transactions involving Parent Company shares:
Subsidiary royalty liability settled by issue of parent company shares     195 –
  
Cash management:
Cash loaned by parent to subsidiary       10,000 19,934
The loan from Oxford BioMedica plc to Oxford BioMedica (UK) Limited is unsecured and interest free. The loan is not 
due for repayment within 12 months of the year end. The year end balance on the loan was: 
           2012 2011 
Company: year end balance of loan       £’000 £’000
Loan to subsidiary       138,082 128,856
In addition to the transactions above, options over the Company’s shares have been awarded to employees of 
subsidiary companies. In accordance with IFRIC 11, the Company has treated the awards as a capital contribution  
to the subsidiaries, resulting in a cumulative increase in the cost of investment of £4,642,000 (2011: £4,302,000).
There were no transactions (2011: none) with Oxxon Therapeutics Limited.
Transactions with Directors and connected persons
In addition to his fees as a Director up to the date of his resignation, Dr Alan Kingsman (former group chairman)  
was paid a consultancy fee of £77,083 in 2011. 
Martin Diggle, a non-Executive Director of the Company, is a founder of Vulpes Investment Management which  
is a shareholder of the Company. In the July 2012 placing and open offer, Vulpes subscribed for 200,000,000 shares  
at a cost of 2.5p per share. Further details of the shareholding at 31 December 2012 can be found in the Corporate 
Governance section on page 44.
There were no outstanding balances in respect of transactions with Directors and connected persons at 31 December 
2012 (2011: none). 
Key person remuneration can be seen in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 46. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78
LentiVector
®
 platform
Oxford BioMedica’s LentiVector
®
 platform technology is
an advanced lentiviral vector based gene delivery system
which is designed to overcome the safety and delivery
problems associated with earlier generations of vector
systems. The technology can stably deliver genes into
cells with up to 100% efficiency and can integrate genes
into non-dividing cells including neurons in the brain and
retinal cells in the eye. In such cell types, studies suggest
that gene expression could be maintained indeﬁnitely.
The LentiVector
®
 platform technology also has a larger
capacity than most other vector systems and can
accommodate multiple therapeutic genes.
ProSavin
®
: Parkinson’s disease
ProSavin
®
 is a gene-based treatment for Parkinson’s 
disease, a progressive movement disorder caused by  
the degeneration of dopamine producing nerve cells  
in the brain. ProSavin
®
 uses the Company’s LentiVector
®
 
platform technology to deliver the genes for three 
enzymes that are required for the synthesis of dopamine. 
The product is administered locally to the region  
of the brain called the striatum, converting cells into  
a replacement dopamine factory within the brain,  
thus replacing the patient’s own lost source of 
the neurotransmitter.
RetinoStat
®
: “wet” age-related macular degeneration
RetinoStat
®
 is a gene-based treatment for neovascular 
“wet” age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and 
diabetic retinopathy (DR). RetinoStat
®
 aims to preserve 
and improve the vision of patients through anti-
angiogenesis; blocking the formation of new blood 
vessels. The product uses the Company’s LentiVector
®
 
platform technology to deliver two anti-angiogenic 
genes, endostatin and angiostatin, directly to the retina.
StarGen
™
: Stargardt disease
StarGen™ is a gene-based therapy for the treatment  
of Stargardt disease. The disease is caused by a mutation 
of the ABCR gene which leads to the degeneration of 
photoreceptors in the retina and vision loss. StarGen™ 
uses the Company’s LentiVector
®
 platform technology  
to deliver a corrected version of the ABCR gene. A single 
administration of the product directly to the retina could 
provide long-term or potentially permanent correction.
UshStat
®
: Usher syndrome type 1B
UshStat
®
 is a gene-based therapy for the treatment of 
Usher syndrome 1B. The disease is caused by a mutation 
of the gene encoding myosin VIIA (MY07A), which leads 
to progressive retinitis pigmentosa combined with a 
congenital hearing defect. UshStat
®
 intends to address 
vision loss due to retinitis pigmentosa by using the 
Company’s LentiVector
®
 platform technology to deliver  
a corrected version of the MYO7A gene. A single 
administration of the product could provide long-term  
or potentially permanent correction.
EncorStat
®
: corneal graft rejection
EncorStat
®
 is a gene-based treatment for the prevention 
of corneal graft rejection. Corneal grafting arises from  
a need to remove and replace pathology arising in the 
cornea causing ‘clouding’. Although one of the most 
successfully transplanted tissues, a signiﬁcant number  
of grafts are rejected due to vascularisation. EncorStat
®
 
uses the Company’s LentiVector
®
 platform technology  
to deliver endostatin and angiostatin ex vivo to donor 
corneas prior to transplant in order to block 
vascularisation and to prevent graft rejection.
Glaucoma-GT: chronic glaucoma
Glaucoma-GT is a gene based treatment for the treatment 
of chronic glaucoma. Chronic glaucoma results from a 
partial blockage within trabecular meshwork of the eye, 
the tissue mainly responsible for draining the internal ﬂuid 
of the eye (aqueous humour). As the aqueous humour 
builds up, it causes increased intraocular pressure which 
can damage the optic nerve and lead to premature 
patches of vision loss or, in some LentiVector
®
 platform 
technology expressing a COX-2 gene and a PGF-2  
receptor gene in order to reduce intraocular pressure  
and minimise the risk of disease progression.
MoNuDin
®
: motor neuron disease
MoNuDin
®
 is a gene-based treatment for motor neuron 
disease. This progressive, usually fatal, neurodegenerative 
disease is caused by the degeneration of motor neurons, 
the nerve cells in the central nervous system that control 
voluntary muscle movement. MoNuDin
®
 uses the 
Company’s LentiVector
®
 platform technology to deliver  
a neuroprotective gene, vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), to prevent further degeneration of the 
motor neurons and potentially restore motor function.
Technology and product glossary
Key:
Platform technology
Product  Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
5T4 tumour antigen
The 5T4 tumour antigen is a unique protein found on
most common types of solid cancer. It is potentially a
valuable target for novel anti-cancer interventions given
its restricted expression in normal tissues and its high
prevalence on the surface of both primary and metastatic
cancerous cells. The 5T4 tumour antigen was identiﬁed
through research into the similarities between the
development of the placenta during pregnancy and 
the progression of cancer. 5T4 is produced by both
cancerous cells and also by placental and foetal cells,
suggesting that the process of immunological escape in
pregnancy and cancer is based on similar mechanisms.
TroVax
®
 (MVA-5T4): cancer
TroVax
®
 is a therapeutic vaccine that stimulates the 
immune system to destroy cancerous cells expressing 
the 5T4 tumour antigen which is present on most  
solid tumours. The product comprises a modiﬁed 
vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) vector, encoding the 5T4 
antigen. Vaccinia viruses are commonly used as delivery 
systems for the development of antigen-speciﬁc 
vaccines. MVA is the vaccinia strain of choice  
because of its excellent safety proﬁle.
Targeted antibody therapy: cancer
The 5T4-targeted antibody therapy is a humanised 
monoclonal antibody linked to a potent anti-cancer agent. 
The product binds to the 5T4 antigen on the surface of 
cancerous cells. Once bound, the complex is internalised 
by the tumour cell, the anti-cancer agent is released from 
the antibody, and the free drug kills the cancerous cell.
Anti-angiogenisis
The creation of new blood vessels, known as
angiogenesis, is a critical element in tumour formation
and growth. Endostatin and angiostatin were discovered
by one of the best known researchers in the ﬁeld of
angiogenesis, Dr Judah Folkman of Children’s Hospital
and the Harvard Medical School in Boston. The proteins
have shown potent anti-cancer activity in preclinical
models and a potentially additive effect when used in
combination.
PrimeBoost
Heterologous prime-boost immunotherapy involves
priming the immune system to target an antigen 
using one vector and then boosting the response 
by administration of the same antigen using a different
vector. In many cases this can elicit immune responses 
of greater magnitude and breadth than can be achieved
by priming and boosting with the same vector. Oxford
BioMedica’s PrimeBoost technology can stimulate
potentially potent and speciﬁc cellular immune responses
against diseased cells, even those expressing very low
levels of the antigen. Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80
Financial adviser and broker
N+1 Singer 
One Bartholomew Lane 
London EC2N 2AX
Financial and corporate  
communications
M:Communications
1 Ropemaker Street
11th Floor, CityPoint
London EC2Y 9AW
Registered auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
9 Greyfriars Road
Reading RG1 1JG
Solicitors
Covington & Burling LLP
265 Strand
London WC2R 1BH
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Company Secretary  
and registered office
Tim Watts
Oxford BioMedica plc
Medawar Centre
Robert Robinson Avenue
The Oxford Science Park
Oxford OX4 4GA
Advisers
Oxford BioMedica plc
Medawar Centre
Robert Robinson Avenue
The Oxford Science Park
Oxford OX4 4GA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 783 000
Fax: +44 (0) 1865 783 001
Manufacturing facility
Oxford BioMedica (UK) Ltd
Harrow House
County Trading Estate
Transport Way
Cowley
Oxford OX4 6LX
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 785 300
Fax: +44 (0) 1865 785 301
enquiries@oxfordbiomedica.co.uk
www.oxfordbiomedica.co.uk
Contact details Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2010
HI-8
®
 MEL: melanoma
The two completed clinical trials of Hi-8
®
 MEL showed 
encouraging proof of concept in metastatic melanoma, 
demonstrating good safety and dose-dependent efficacy. 
These results support further evaluation in randomised 
Phase II trials, and we aim to advance the programme 
with a suitable partner. We are increasing our partnering 
activities on Hi-8
®
 MEL in 2010 to realise the investment 
made in this programme to date.
Market opportunity
More than 100,000 people are diagnosed with melanoma 
each year in the seven major pharmaceutical markets. 
Existing therapies for Stage III/IV metastatic melanoma 
offer limited efficacy and often have serious side-effects. 
Worldwide sales of treatments for melanoma are expected 
to exceed US$775 million in 2010 (source: Datamonitor).
ENDOANGIO-GT: cancer
We have identiﬁed a potentially optimal gene delivery 
system for our anti-cancer EndoAngio-GT programme. 
With further preclinical development, we believe that the 
product could be a potentially valuable clinical candidate.
Market opportunity
There is substantial interest within the industry for novel 
anti-angiogenic approaches for the treatment of cancer. 
The market leader in the ﬁeld, Avastin
®
 (Roche/Genen-
tech) generated sales in excess of US$4 billion in 2008. 
EndoAngio-GT could have competitive advantages in 
terms of safety and potency.
ENDOANGIO-GT: cancer
We are ﬁnalising the clinical study report for the com-
pleted Phase I/II trial of MetXia in 35 patients with non-
resectable pancreatic cancer. In this trial, we identiﬁed the 
optimal dose of MetXia and the prodrug for evaluation 
randomised studies. Median survival for evaluable pa-
tients, who received at least one dose of MetXia and three 
doses of cyclophosphamide, was 27 weeks. Increased cy-
cles of cyclophosphamide appeared to be associated with 
longer survival. Our objective is to partner this product for 
further development.
Market opportunity
Pancreatic cancer is the ﬁfth leading cause of cancer-
related mortality in the USA with over 30,000 deaths 
attributable to this disease annually. It is one of the most 
aggressive forms of cancer with a ﬁve-year survival rate 
in the low single percentage digits. The US pancreatic 
cancer drug market is expected to reach US$1.1 billion by 
2013 (source: EPiQ Market Intelligence).
This report has been designed  
and produced by thinker/doer  
using the thought processing
®
 
proprietary brand and message  
focus tools.
www.thinkerdoer.co.uk
Credits:
Feature, portrait and location 
photography by Philip Gatward.
www.philipgatward.com
Upper photograph on page  
15, the two lower photographs  
on pages 22-23, and the left hand  
side photograph on page 24  
by Lee Mawdsley.
www.leemawdsley.co.uk  Oxford BioMedica plc
Medawar Centre
Robert Robinson Avenue
The Oxford Science Park
Oxford OX4 4GA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 783000
Fax: +44 (0) 1865 783001
Oxford BioMedica  
Manufacturing Facility
Harrow House
County Trading Estate
Transport Way, Cowley
Oxford OX4 6LX 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1865 785300
Fax: +44 (0) 1865 785301
www.oxfordbiomedica.co.uk
enquiries@oxfordbiomedica.co.uk
