 ’08
PACE PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 
& ACCOUNTS 02 Highlights
03 Letter from the Chairman
04 Chief Executive Officer’s 
Review
07 Chief Financial Officer’s 
Review
09 Report of the Directors
20 Remuneration Report
29 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
30 Independent Auditors’ 
Report
33 Financial Statements
39 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
65 Directors, Secretary 
and Advisers
66 Five Year Record and 
Shareholder Information
REPORT
CONTENTS
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 01 • Record revenues of £745.5m (7 mths ended 31 Dec 2007: £249.9m).
• Group profit before tax, amortisation of other intangibles and 
exceptional items increased significantly to £28.5m (7 mths ended
31 Dec 2007: £15.4m). Profit before tax was £13.8m (seven months
ended 31 December 2007: £15.4m) 
• Organic growth saw revenues increase to £452.6m and
profit before tax, amortisation of other intangibles and 
exceptional items to £20.1m. 
• Pace France delivered a strong contribution with revenues 
of £292.9m and profit before tax, amortisation of other 
intangibles and exceptional items of £8.4m (for the period 
21 April to 31 December 2008). 
• Strong balance sheet with net cash of £37.7m (7 mths ended 31 Dec
2007: net borrowings £12.1m) and new banking facilities. 
• Gross margin 18.1% (7 mths ended 31 Dec 2007: 20.3%), 
reflecting the increased diversification of the enlarged Group 
product mix.
• Basic earnings per share of 4.0p (7 mths ended 31 Dec 2007: 6.3p),
with adjusted earnings per share of 7.8p.
• Exceptional charges of £11.0m including £2m costs relating to the
successful Pace France integration which will deliver future 
ongoing savings.
• Initiation of dividend, with full-year dividend of 0.6p recommended.
Pace is the leading independent 
developer of digital TV technologies 
for the payTV industry
OPERATING 
HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 02
• Record operating performance
• Volume shipments increased substantially to 13.1m set-top
boxes (seven months ended 31 December 2007: 2.4m), 
including nearly 6 million from Pace France.
• Increased market share through the Pace France acquisition 
and organic growth, becoming a top three global player . 
• A series of high profile products launched 
• Over 20 new HDPVR products for markets worldwide, 
unmatched by any competitor.
• A digital to analogue converter (DTA) for the US cable 
market ahead of all major competitors.
• Winner of a 2008 Queen’s Award for International Trade. When management set out their strategy for 2008 they promised to deliver on a number of milestones and 
I am very happy to report that they have delivered all these and more.
In 2008, despite the extraordinary macro economic environment, Pace achieved excellent growth and met all
of the management team’s targets with record revenues and shipments, a significant increase in profits and
a strong cash position with no debt. Last time I reported I outlined a margin target of 20% for 2008, with the
business achieving just over 18% due to a more diversified product mix. Going forwards we intend to use ‘return
on sales’ as the measure of overall performance as we believe we have achieved the cost consciousness across
the organisation expected from a pure margin target. 
During the year Pace acquired the Royal Philips Electronics set-top box business, and executed a swift, efficient
integration plan that delivered profitability even sooner than we expected. For the financial year 2008 we have
reported the headline results of two businesses separately so shareholders can see how the Pace France
business has performed, as well as the original Pace business. Going forwards you will see us report Pace
Group as one entity.
Pace’s success during 2008 was recognised by the business world. The Company was awarded the Queen’s
Award for International Trade, was Yorkshire Exporter of the Year and regional winner of the International
Trade Awards. 
One of the economic challenges for many companies in 2008, particularly in the electronics sector, has been
very volatile currency exchange rates: the dollar strengthened dramatically, as did the Euro. The management
team dealt quickly and efficiently with this issue when it arose in the fourth quarter, and implemented a series
of measures including an enhanced hedging policy. It is a measure of the new Group’s agility that it coped so
quickly and well with this challenge.
The Board welcomed two new non-executive directors; Mike Inglis and John Grant. Mike is executive Vice
President and General Manager of the processor division of ARM Holdings and John has held senior financial
roles in the automotive industry and other engineering businesses. I would like to take this opportunity to
thank Rob Fleming and Marten Fraser who both stood down from the Board during 2008. Rob was a Pace
founder and has made an immense contribution to the business over many years.
The Board is pleased to have seen the performance of Pace this year, and our belief in the management team,
the fundamentals of the business and the opportunities for growth give us great confidence for 2009 and
beyond. Your Board is therefore delighted to be recommending the initiation of an annual dividend, with a 
full-year dividend of 0.6p per share proposed.
If you have comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted
to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at mike.mctighe@pace.com.
Yours sincerely
Mike McTighe
Chairman
3 March 2009
Mike McTighe
LETTER FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN
I am delighted to be reporting back to you after a year 
of great progress at Pace, in which we have seen this
business become a true world leader in digital TV.
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 03 PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 04
In 2008 we shaped our business for global leader-
ship, with Pace ending the year a much stronger
business with twice the geographic reach and scale,
delivering excellent results.
Our Vision is to deliver ‘Great products to our
customers every time’ and become a renowned
leader in creating the technologies and products that
enable digital TV. We have said that we will establish
Pace at the heart of entertainment convergence in
the digital TV household, delivering on the enormous
global demand for high definition and PVR products
as well as solutions that deliver digital TV into hard 
to reach places such as apartment blocks and hotels.
We have promised that all of our work will be
underpinned by strong environmental design values. 
Pace works primarily with payTV operators, organi-
sations that own entertainment content consumers
want to watch. These payTV operators have driven
every major change in how we watch TV as they
compete to win subscribers and increase their
revenue generating opportunities, which for many is
now based on the concept of triple-play. The payTV
market has the highest barriers to entry and
demands specialist skills. Over the past 25 years Pace
has built the know-how and relationships to succeed
in this highly competitive environment. In the last
three years, following a major structural and strategic
review, we have delivered uninterrupted growth in
profits, consistently exceeding market expectations. 
Strategy delivery
Our strategy has two key themes around industry
leadership and convergence in the digital home.
PayTV offers excellent value home entertainment 
and it is delivered by operators that understand the
consumer desire for high quality, yet easy to use
content and services. The set-top box makes this
possible in the home. We are now experiencing the
positive output from our leadership strategy as payTV
operators work with Pace to seek out new services
that will allow them to retain and expand their
subscriber base and revenues. 
This theme and market focus plays to Pace’s
strengths in digital TV engineering and our ability to
launch new products ahead of the competition. 
We demonstrated our leadership in 2008 when we
delivered over 20 high definition PVR designs for
payTV operators around the world and were first 
to market with a revolutionary low-cost digital to
analogue converter for US cable. None of our compet-
itors could match these achievements. 
In April 2008 we acquired the set-top box business 
of Royal Philips Electronics and immediately renamed
the business Pace France. We rapidly integrated the
new business operations, teams and customers into
the Pace Group and we were very pleased to gene-
rate profits ahead of our original plan. This result
demonstrated the extent to which the Pace busi-
ness methodology is scalable and it showed the
effectiveness of our systems and processes, which
have successfully transformed both our core business
and Pace France. It is also thanks to the commitment
of our teams around the world to create the new Pace
business. Pace is now a global top three company 
in our sector and we have more payTV operator
customers and a wider product reach than any of our
major competitors. 
Trading performance
The Pace Group, including Pace France, continued to
win new customers and expand market share with
existing operators. This has enabled us to grow while
maintaining a balance of revenues from a wide range
of payTV operators across all geographic markets,
reducing risk and dependencies with the business.
In 2008 we achieved record revenues of £745.5m and
delivered a significant increase in our profit before 
tax, exceptional items and amortisation of other
intangibles at £28.5m. We have now delivered seven
periods of uninterrupted profit growth. In making this
happen we shipped a record number of set-top boxes,
13.1m, our highest ever annual total. That we were
able to double the size of our business, revenues and
shipments during 2008 has shown how we have
created a resilient business. Customers are at the
heart of our business and we have created a model
that enables us to respond with the flexibility and
speed they demand whilst being able to grow and
acquire with minimum disruption.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Neil Gaydon PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 05
Our results are also an indicator of the import-
ance consumers place on high quality home
entertainment, particularly when they are facing
unprecedented economic times and are being forced
to make difficult decisions on discretionary spend. For
many, the most popular entertainment spend is TV as
few alternatives offer the same value for money. 
The resilience of our business is further exemplified
by the strength of our balance sheet. We have no debt,
we are running the business from our own cash and
will do so going forwards after closing the year with a
positive net cash balance of over £37m. We are also
seeing the benefits of the acquisition in terms of the
added scale and associated cost savings, which we
will continue to drive.
Despite this backdrop of increased interest in home
entertainment Pace is not completely immune to
wider economic developments and along side the rest
of the electronics industry, we have contended with
issues around foreign exchange since the majority of
our components are bought in US dollars, with many
finished products being sold in other currencies. Our
existing hedging policy protected us for most of 2008
and a new hedging programme will enable us to
manage volatility during 2009.
Going forwards we are introducing return on sales
(ROS) as a new performance indicator after
concentrating on gross margin for the last few years.
Now as our product mix changes, as we target high
and low-end opportunities and start to rollout
infrastructure products from our Networks group,
margin is no longer the best overall measure of
success. Refocusing our business around ROS is
helping establish a new mindset as we take Pace to
the next level. 
Market Insight
Our strategy recognises it is the payTV industry,
rather than the free to air market, that has
consistently driven the landmark changes in how we
watch TV: operators have the content, the protection,
distribution, customer relationships and the brand.
They understand how to deliver an entertainment
service to the consumer. PayTV was born during the
transition from four channels to multichannel TV and
operators were first to introduce programme guides,
interactive services, PVR and invest in the delivery of
high definition TV. Each new innovation, large or small
demands a new set-top box development, at a speed
and rate of change that cannot be delivered through
the TV. 
We have built our leadership position by having the
right products to fuel the digital TV revolution and are
now a global top three set-top box business. We are
primarily focused on payTV and by 2012 revenues in
this market are forecast to reach $182bn, in an overall
market for digital TV that will see annual set-top box
shipments reach 200 million units per year. 
Growth during this period will be characterised 
by waves of digital upgrades as more countries 
move to digital through payTV operator launches 
and government mandated analogue switch off
programmes. Pace will capitalise by working with
payTV operators and in targeted retail markets on
PVR and high definition products as well as digital
converter devices that accelerate digital transition
and free up operator bandwidth for expanding high
definition services. A great example of this is the
Digital-to-Analogue converter (DTA) that we launched
last year for Comcast in the US. Advancements in 
flat screen technology have created a significant
embedded base of homes that now require a set-top
box to access the majority of HD content. 
Each payTV product we create is unique, designed for
the specific requirements of an operator’s services
and network. It takes between 12 and 18 months from
project initiation to product delivery and most designs
are updated within 18 months to incorporate new
features, technology upgrades and cost-down design
improvements. In addition we play an important role
managing our set-top boxes post-deployment, for
example making ‘over the air’ software upgrades, due
to our ownership of the product’s source code.
Consequently our customer relationships are typically
close and long-term. 
These opportunities, within the context of a conser-
vative and measured view of the market and the
economy, do, when combined with our marketposi-
tion and diversified blue-chip customer base, give
management increasing confidence in the medium to
long-term potential for the business to outperform. 
Environmental leadership
In 2008 we established our goal to be the world leader
in low environmental impact set-top boxes and set a
standard for our industry. 
Product development is where we have the greatest
impact on the environment. The growing demand for
our products, which increasingly include more
advanced and power hungry applications, has made
this an essential part of our strategy. We are targeting
three key areas where set-top box products have the
highest impact: power consumption, packaging and
hazardous substances. We are addressing all three in
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 06
our ‘Design for Environment’ criteria, now being used
on all new product developments. We are working
with our partners and customers to minimise energy
demands through innovative product design so
together we can significantly reduce the amount of
power consumed worldwide.
Digital convergence
Five years ago the technology debate in the industry
was centred on the “fight for the living room”. The set-
top box won against competition from the TV, games
consoles and the PC. Today the battle is for control of
the in-home entertainment network, and the set-top
box is ideally positioned to win this battle as it 
won the last. 
Therefore our second strategy theme is to put Pace
at the heart of convergence in the digital home,
enabling our customers to deliver whole home
networking strategies. In the triple-play convergence
model it is relatively easy to move data and voice
around the home, but very few companies have the
technological capability to add networked encrypted
TV to create a whole home solution. We are working
on wired and wireless solutions that will combine the
best of PVR and high definition and enable consumers
to watch their favourite content, wherever they are in
the home. Our technology teams are at the forefront
of this work and will continue to create opportunities
for Pace.
As with any other innovation in this market digital
convergence will be led by the payTV operator and 
its delivery into the home will evolve through the 
set-top box. Not all homes will demand this level 
of sophistication, but the market will create new
opportunities for Pace, alongside the mass market for
PVR and high definition products and the inevitable
introduction of 3-D payTV.
In the immediate short-term we are working with
customers on what have been termed ‘hybrid’ boxes
to combine the benefits of delivery technology such
as satellite with broadband IP. There has been much
discussion on how broadband will overtake broadcast,
but the economics for broadband mass market TV 
is still some way away. Hybrid products combine the
worlds of broadcast and broadband, delivering an
even richer service to consumers. Last year we 
were delighted to work with Canal+ on Le Cube,
Europe’s first Satellite/IP hybrid set-top box to use
the ethernet port for VOD services. 
Pace’s MultiDweller™, which opens up a new market
for Pace in the infrastructure sector for higher 
value, higher margin equipment, is now moving into
commercial deployment with its first operator
customer. The product makes it possible for payTV
and other entertainment operators to sell their
convergent triple play services in places such as
apartment blocks and hotels that are today diffi-
cult and expensive to access. In Europe alone, over 
50% of households are in multi-dwelling units. 
Pace engineers have been working on MultiDweller™
for over three years and this product includes our 
own silicon design. To date we have taken a cautious
approach to the potential impact this new line of
business may have, but as commercial deployments
are closer our confidence in the product and its
market is growing. 
As CEO of Pace I have had the pleasure of working in
this amazing industry for over 15 years and have
heard commentators and potential technology
competitors predict the demise of the set-top box.
Common theories have been that the set-top box will
be built into the TV or that disruptive technologies
such as broadband will make the set-top box
redundant. This hasn’t happened, and won’t happen,
because the set-top box is the most effective platform
for innovation, making it possible for consumers to
benefit from developments in technology via an
accessible and easy to use device. For the operator a
box is the most convenient, fast and flexible plat-
form for the provision of a payTV service. Finally and
most importantly the set-top box contains the security
to protect operator content in the home, its most
valuable asset. 
Outlook
As we enter 2009, Pace is in a strong position to
capture new opportunities in the global shift to digital
TV. We have seen little impact on demand for our
products but we do continue to take a prudent and
cautious view of the market, in particular, monitoring
trends for any impact of the global economic climate.
However, due to new business wins, customary 
good order visibility, foreign exchange management
and global operational synergies, we are now able 
to significantly raise expectations for Pace’s 2009
performance and pay a dividend.
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2009 In 2008 we delivered an excellent set of results during
a complex reporting period.
Our financial statements were transformed through
the successful acquisition of Pace France and we
achieved new records in the level of our revenues and
shipments, with strong profit contribution from the
organic Pace business and Pace France.
Trading and results
Our overall 2008 results include eight and half
months of Pace France reporting, with the prior
period comparisons for the previous seven month
reporting period as we moved our reporting year-end.
We achieved record growth in revenues and ship-
ments of £745.5m and 13.1m set-top boxes respect-
ively and significantly increased profit before tax,
exceptional items and amortisation of other
intangibles to £28.5m (seven months ended 31
December 2007: £15.4m). Profit before tax was
£13.8m (seven months ended 31 December 2007:
£15.4m). Amortisation of other intangibles was £3.7m
(seven months ended 31 December 2007 £nil).
Organic revenues increased to £452.6m and profit
before tax, amortisation of other intangibles and
exceptionals to £20.1m with Pace France contrib-
uting revenues of £292.9m and profit before tax,
amortization of other intangibles and exceptional
items of £8.4m (for the period 21 April to 31 December
2008). 
Following the Pace France acquisition we now
operate from three main geographic bases; UK,
France and the Americas. Each team has continued to
win new customers and expand market share with
many of their existing payTV operator customers,
enabling us to maintain a balance of revenues 
from a wide range of customers around the world.
Geographically, we delivered 4.7m set-top boxes into
the EMEA region (seven months ended 31 December
2007: 1.3m), 1.1m into APAC (seven months ended 31
December 2007: 0.2m) and 7.3m into the Americas
(seven months ended 31 December 2007: 0.9m).
As anticipated our gross margin moved to 18.1% 
from 20.3%, due to a changing mix of high and low
specification products, where average selling prices
moved from £102 to £57, and includes some impact
from products acquired through Pace France. We
are now setting return on sales (ROS) targets for
overall company performance as this measure
reflects the benefit of volume impact rather than just
margin and all new product launches must pass an
internally defined ROS benchmark before moving 
into development.
The interest charge was £0.7m (seven months ended
31 December 2007: £0.5m) reflecting a net borrow-
ings position during part of the period. A tax charge 
of £2.8m (seven months ended 31 December 2007: 
tax charge £0.9m) relates to overseas tax charges of
£2.9m and a deferred tax credit of £0.1m. From 2009
onwards, we expect the tax charge to return to a 
more normal tax rate. Retained profit for the period
was £11.1m (seven months ended 31 December 2007:
£14.4m).
Pace France
We acquired Pace France from Royal Philips
Electronics on 21 April 2008 for a consideration of
£65.6m. The team made excellent progress in the
integration programme and this business became
profitable within three months, ahead of schedule. We
are now experiencing the expected additional benefits
of the acquisition through scale of the new business
and associated cost savings, which we will cont-
inue to build on. A series of operational efficiencies 
has been delivered, helping to bring together the 
two businesses to function efficiently and save
significant costs for the whole Group. These include
consolidating the supply chain, which has reduced
management complexity and increased economies 
of scale. The volume of components we purchase 
has brought its own immediate impact in terms of 
price and negotiation, and in addition the diversity of
components between the two businesses has been
reduced to drive further purchasing economies of
scale and reduce bill of material maintenance.
Foreign Exchange
Following the Pace France acquisition, by currency
our revenues were broadly equal in US$ and, Euros
CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Stuart Hall
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 07 PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 08
with other currencies accounting for 40%. The
majority of the Group’s costs are dollar denominated
reflecting electronics component purchasing which
has traditionally been US$ denominated. In Q4 2008
we experienced significant volatility in foreign exch-
ange rates, which whilst having minimal impact in
2008, did impact the outlook at that time for 2009. We
reacted quickly to minimise this issue, enhancing the
Group’s foreign exchange policy and de-risking its
foreign exchange exposure through a review of costs,
projects and expenditure, as well as working with the
value chain to better align the balance of exposure
between purchases and sales in different currencies.
As a result, around three quarters of expected 2009
revenues are now hedged and managed to match
foreign exchange exposures.
Overheads 
Overheads, which include Pace France and excluding
the impact of IAS38, amortisation of other intangi-
bles and exceptionals, were £105.1m (seven months
ended 31 December 2007: £37.2m). R&D spend
before capitalisation of development expenditure in
line with IAS38 was £59.6m (seven months ended 
31 December 2007: £21.5m) as we continued to invest
in higher specification products such as HD PVR and
new technologies and incorporated the overhead 
base from Pace France. An amortisation charge in
relation to capitalised development expenditure of
£0.9m (seven months ended 31 December 2007:
credit £2.2m) is reflected in the income statement.
Exceptionals 
There was an exceptional charge of £11.0m, which
includes the previously advised £2m cost of the Pace
France integration programme, a £4.2m cost for the
planned closure of an existing Pace office in Grenoble
and for costs due to synergies identified in the newly
enlarged Pace business. These exceptional costs will
deliver future ongoing savings. 
Cash flow, balance sheet and banking
The Group finished the period with a net cash posi-
tion of £37.7m (31 December 2007: net borrowings
£12.1m). We secured a new £35m revolving credit
facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland. 
The balance sheet at 31 December 2008 reflects 
the impact of the assets and liabilities relating to 
the acquisition of Pace France. The main working
capital items acquired at 21 April 2008 consisted of
inventories of £9.4m, trade and other receivables 
of £61.6m and trade and other payables of £71.7m. 
Dividend 
Following this strong performance the Board is
delighted to announce the initiation of a dividend, the
first such payment to shareholders of a full year
dividend of 0.6p per share. Going forward the Board
intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy paying
in the region of a one third, two thirds split between
interim and final dividends.
Basis of preparation
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the
Group, including those referred to in note 1 to these
financial statements, have not changed from those
set out in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
In 2008 we closed the year having generated a net
cash inflow of £50m and we have a globally diversified
customer base, which has improved our quality of
earnings. Both factors enhance our position as we
work through 2009. At the same time we will continue
to keep a close watch on our markets and suppliers
for signs of any macro economic impact on our 2009
deliverables as we continue our work as one of the
world's leading developers of digital set-top box
technology.
Stuart Hall
Chief Financial Officer
3 March 2009 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 09
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Group’s principal activities are the development, design and distribution of digital receivers and receiver
decoders for the reception of digital television and the reception/transmission of interactive services, telephony
and high-speed data. The Group also provides engineering design, support services and software applications
to its set-top box customers. Each of these services may be delivered over satellite, cable, terrestrial and IP
network transmission systems.
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review and Management Report, including a
review of the Group’s activities, developments and the financial results for the year, and the key financial
performance indicators relevant to the business of the Company (principally revenue, gross margin %, profit
before tax and cash), can be found in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s
Review on pages 4 to 8. The aforementioned information is incorporated in this report by reference. There is
no information which falls to be disclosed pursuant to s. 417 (5) (c) of the Companies Act 2006.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The following are the key risks and uncertainties  relevant to the business of the Group:
Customers and Markets
Orders placed by the Group’s payTV customers are typically large one-off orders for delivery over a number of
months with supplemental orders for additional volumes. As the eventual deployment of the set-top boxes can
be unpredictable, revenues can be volatile. The difficulty in predicting the Group’s business flow and its risks
can be exacerbated by a number of other factors including, for example, the development process for an
advanced set-top box, which can take over 12 months. The Group works on long lead times (eg four months or
more) for component supply and manufacture, typical of the Industry. In the US market, in particular, customers’
firm order lead times may be less than the component lead times. There are third party delivery risks, for
example, difficulties in the delivery of components or software code, and the final go ahead for manufacture and
firm contractual commitments is usually dependent on product approvals and acceptance both from the
operator and sometimes from third parties. The Group is also exposed to the industry wide inherent risk of
supply chain failure. The Group has put in place procedures to monitor the financial and operating strength of
key suppliers. In addition, it utilises dual or multi source where appropriate to mitigate this risk.
Product Liability Claims
In common with many companies in the Industry, the Group is exposed to the risk of product liability claims
made by customers or affected third parties, should the Group’s products not fulfil the terms of the contracts
under which they are sold. The Group has in place quality control and other operational procedures to mitigate
this risk.
Credit Risk
The central Finance function of the Group obtains reports from third party sources in respect of the credit
worthiness of key customers and suppliers and sets individual credit limits as appropriate. A credit insurance
policy is maintained, which provides cover over certain debtors, subject to excesses, and the exposure to credit
risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Deposit investments are generally undertaken only in liquid securities
and with counterparties that have appropriate credit ratings.
The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 9 to 19 together
with the audited financial statements for the year (“year”) ended 31 Decem-
ber 2008 (prior financial period 7 months ended 31 December 2007).
REPORT OF
THE DIRECTORS PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 10
Royalties
The Group’s products incorporate third party technology, usually under licence. Inadvertent actions may expose
the Group to the risk of infringing third party intellectual property rights. Potential claims can be submitted
many years after a product has been deployed.
Regulatory
The Group remains exposed to changes in the regulatory environment, including potential modifications to
import duty regimes, and legislation relevant to the Group’s products.
Currency Risks
The standard ‘industry currency’ is the US dollar, with the majority of components and manufacturing capacity
purchased in this currency. However, due to part of the Group’s revenues being in Sterling and Euros, the
Group is exposed to the risk of foreign currency movements. To manage this risk, the Group’s treasury policy
is progressively to cover cash flows when these are sufficiently certain and to seek price variations through
contractual mechanisms where significant currency movements occur.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short term borrowing facilities and available
cash balances and it manages its borrowing commitments accordingly. The Group does not currently take out
any interest rate swaps.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page 32. The profit before tax was £13.8m 
(7 months ended 31 December 2007: £15.4m) and the profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of
other intangibles was £28.5 million (7 months ended 31 December 2007: £15.4 million).
DIVIDEND
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 0.6p per ordinary share (7 months ended 31
December 2007: nil) to be paid on 3 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 June
2009. No interim dividend was paid during the year.
SHARE CAPITAL
Changes in the Company’s share capital during the year are set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS 
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings as at 2 March 2009.
Number % of issued
of shares share capital
Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. 50,701,049 16.96
David Hood and related family trusts 44,486,957 14.88
Gartmore Investment Management 24,788,595 8.29
UBS AG 15,000,410 5.02
Barclays Investors 11,736,882 3.93
Pace Micro Technology Employee Benefit Trust 11,615,707 3.88
Legal & General Group plc 11,483,528 3.84 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 11
DIRECTORS 
The names of the current directors of the Company are shown below. Other than as described all those listed
held office throughout the period.
Mike McTighe
Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in June 2001 and became Chairman on 1 May 2006. He is currently
Chairman of Volex Group plc, a member of the board of Ofcom and Chairman of a number of private equity-
backed companies. Previously he was Chairman & CEO of Carrier1 International SA, and before that Executive
Director & Chief Executive, Global Operations of Cable & Wireless plc. Prior to these experiences, Mike spent
5 years with Philips, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years with GE.
Neil Gaydon
Neil was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006. He was appointed to the Board in June 2002 as
Worldwide Sales and Marketing Director. He has been with the Company since 1995 and as President, Pace
Americas spearheaded the development of the Company’s US business between 1999 and December 2003.
Prior to this he was Regional Sales Director EMEA and head of New Business Development and Product
Marketing for the Company. He is a board member of Bradford City of Film.
Pat Chapman-Pincher 
Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director in February 2005 and became Senior Independent Director in May
2006. She has over 30 years’ experience in the communications industry from senior roles in multinational
Internet and telecoms companies to participating in technology company start-ups. A founding partner of the
Cavell Group, which specialises in operational consultancy IP and wireless technologies, she is a non-executive
director of Stepstone ASA, Omniplug Ltd. a non-executive director of Friends of the Earth, and of Groundwork
East London. Pat is also a member of the Advisory Board of Bradford School of Management. 
John Grant
John was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 August 2008. John has spent his executive career in a variety
of senior international roles within the automotive industry and other engineering businesses. In 2000 John led
a successful management buy-out of four specialist engineering businesses from Ascot Plc to form Hasgo
Group Ltd and Peter Stubs Ltd. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Ascot Plc between 1997 and 2000. 
John also worked as Group Finance Director for Lucas Industries Plc (subsequently Lucas Varity Plc) between
1992 and 1996 and held a number of senior positions within Ford Motor Company in Europe and the USA. John
is Non-Executive Chairman of Hasgo Group Limited and Torotrak Plc, and Non-Executive Director of Melrose
Plc, MHP S.A. and Royal Automobile Club Ltd.
Stuart Hall
Stuart was appointed Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board in April 2007. Before joining the Company he
was Group Finance Director of IQE plc and prior to that Finance Director of Energis Squared Limited and
Director of Performance Management for Energis Goup plc. He has also been Finance Director at WBF Ltd, part
of the Adare Printing Group plc, Carnography plc and Race Electronics. He qualified as a Chartered Accountant
with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Mike Inglis
Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director on 25 July 2008. He is currently EVP and General Manager of the
Processor Division of ARM Holdings having previously been EVP, Sales and Marketing. Before joining ARM, he
worked in management consultancy with A.T. Kearney and held a number of senior operational and marketing
positions at Motorola. He previously worked in semiconductor sales, marketing, design and consultancy with
Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC
Telecommunications. He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
David McKinney
David was appointed Chief Operating Officer in April 2006 and joined the Board in October 2006. He has been
with the Company since November 2005, joining as Director of Engineering and Operations with responsibility
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 12
for operations, engineering, test and quality strategy. Previously David held a number of senior management
and operational roles in technology and telecoms companies including Motorola and Philips.
During the year the following persons also held office as directors:  Robert Fleming:  retired 30 September
2008; Marten Fraser: retired 31 December 2008.
Stuart Hall and David McKinney will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting of the Company and offer
themselves for re-election. John Grant and Mike Inglis, having been appointed by the Board subsequent to
the date of the last Annual General Meeting, will hold office until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
and will then offer themselves for election at that meeting. Details of the executive directors’ service contracts
and the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are disclosed on pages 23 and 24.
PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS 
It is the policy of the Group to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers, which
are varied from time to time. Payment is made in accordance with those terms, subject to the other terms and
conditions being met by the supplier. The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
Creditor days at the end of the period for the Group were 63 days (31 December 2007: 64 days) and for the
Company were 63 days (31 December 2007: 64 days).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The directors regard it as fundamental to the future success of the Group to engage in a substantial ongoing
programme of research and development of new products, spending £59.6 million in the year (7 months ended
31 December 2007: £21.5m) and charging £60.5 million (7 months ended 31 December 2007: £19.3m) to the
income statement during the year following the treatment under IAS38.
DONATIONS 
During the period the Group donated £40,000 (7 months ended 31 December 2007: £25,000) to charitable
causes. No political donations were made. Further details of the charitable and community-related activities
of the Group are given on page 16. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The directors believe that, save in respect of the performance evaluation of the Board and its committees as
indicated below, the Company has complied throughout the period with the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance, as revised and adopted by the Financial Reporting Council. The Board confirms that it has
established the necessary procedures designed to maintain a sound system of internal control and that there
is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises three executive and four non-
executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board. Biographical details of all
directors are to be found on pages 11 and 12. The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is mainly responsible for the
running of the Board ensuring, together with the Company Secretary, that it receives timely and clear
information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer,
Neil Gaydon, focus on running the Group’s business and implementing Group strategy. The Chief Executive
Officer is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day basis by the Executive Committee as further
described below. All the non-executive directors are deemed by the Board to be independent. In addition, the
Board has designated Pat Chapman-Pincher as the Senior Independent Director . All directors have access to
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary. All directors, in accordance with the
Combined Code, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years. New directors receive a
programme of tailored induction on joining the Board and all directors are offered the opportunity to continually
update their skills and knowledge by attending external training events.  PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 13
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and normally meets at least nine times
each year. It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major
capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters. It reviews the strategic direction
of the Group and conducts formal strategy reviews together with other senior executives within the Group at
least once a year . The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors
being present at least twice during the year. 
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a formal review and evaluation of its performance including the
performance of its committees and individual directors on an annual basis. This is conducted by written
feedback in standardised form from each director to the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director in the
case of appraisal of the Chairman.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference specifying
its authority and duties and copies of which are publicly available on the Company’s website: www.pace.com. 
The Audit Committee is comprised of independent designated non-executive directors, Pat Chapman-Pincher
and John Grant, who is the Chairman of the Committee. Marten Fraser served on and was Chairman of the
Committee before resigning in December 2008. The Committee has primary responsibility for making
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the auditors and receives and reviews
reports from management and from the auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the control
systems in use throughout the Group. Meetings are held by the Committee with the auditors without executive
management being present at least once a year and the Committee reviews arrangements by which staff may,
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties, including review of the Group whistleblowing policy. 
The Executive Committee is chaired by Neil Gaydon as Chief Executive Officer . The Committee generally meets
once a month and ensures that the strategy, plans and policies previously agreed or delegated by the Board are
implemented.
The Executive Committee comprises the three executive directors together with the following senior executives:
Anthony Dixon General Counsel 
Jill Ezard Director of Human Resources 
Mathias Hautefort President, Pace France
Helen Kettleborough Director of Corporate Communications 
Michael Pulli President, Pace Americas 
Richard Slee President, Pace UK
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Mike McTighe and independent designated non-executive
directors John Grant and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is the Chairman of the Committee. Marten Fraser served
on the Committee before resigning in December 2008. The Committee is responsible for setting the
remuneration of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee including making
recommendations regarding the grant of share options. The members of the Committee have no personal
interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from
cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business. 
The Nominations Committee is comprised of non-executive directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, John Grant and
Mike Inglis, together with Chief Executive Officer, Neil Gaydon, and is chaired by Mike McTighe. Its purpose is
to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of new directors.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 14
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Committee Committee Committee
Total Meetings 94 5 1
Pat Chapman-Pincher 94 5 1
Robert Fleming 6- - 1
Marten Fraser 94 4 1
Neil Gaydon 9- - 1
John Grant* 31 1 -
Stuart Hall 8 - - -                          
Mike Inglis* 3- - -
David McKinney 8- - -
Mike McTighe 7- 4 1
*director appointed during the year
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of the executive directors and other members of the
Executive Committee as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and award of
share options to the Board for final determination. The final determinations are made by the Board as a whole
but no director plays a part in any discussions concerning their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report of the Directors to shareholders is set out on pages 20 to 28 and includes the
remuneration policy of the Company and details of directors’ incentive payments and the related performance
criteria.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES 
At the Annual General Meeting in 2008 the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to
23,371,758 of its own ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of its issued share capital as at February 2008.
The Company did not utilise this authority during the year . The authority for the Company to purchase its own
shares expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2009 and a resolution to renew it will be
proposed at that meeting.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 
A detailed review of the performance of the Group’s business is contained in the Chief Executive Officer’s
Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s Review. These statements, together with the Letter from the Chairman
and the Report of the Directors, are intended to present a balanced assessment of the Group’s position and
prospects. The directors’ responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 29 and the
responsibilities of the auditors are described on page 30.
INTERNAL CONTROLS 
Overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control rests with the Board of Directors. The Board
has delegated certain of its powers to the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the systems of control
and to receive reports from the auditors and from the management relating to the interim and annual accounts
and the control systems in use throughout the Group. 
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board carried out reviews of the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal controls. The reviews were undertaken in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s
guidance under the following headings and were aimed at clearly identifying the systems already in place and
the action plans necessary to improve areas of control weakness.  PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 15
The control environment Subject to those powers and limits of authority reserved by the Board, and to the
Group policies and guidelines they have established, the conduct of the business of the Group is delegated
within a clearly defined organisational structure and approved level of authority. The Board has also adopted a
Code of Business Ethics, which has been incorporated into the Employee Handbook issued to all employees. 
Risk assessment The directors and senior managers are responsible for identifying and monitoring sources
of potential business risk and financial risk, and for taking such preventative and protective actions as they
consider necessary to manage such risks effectively. During the year a risk assessment review of the Group’s
business has been conducted in conjunction with the Executive Committee. The Board has received and
considered this review as part of an annual risk and control assessment. 
The Group’s systems are designed to identify and manage rather than eliminate significant business risks,
including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Business risks are identified, evaluated and managed through
functional line management reporting to divisional meetings, Executive Committee meetings and Board
meetings as appropriate. Each member of the Executive Committee is required to highlight and report on any
significant business risks identified within their sphere of responsibility. 
The key business risks associated with the timely completion of long-term development projects and on-going
business risks, including alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, are managed by cross-
functional teams of senior employees. Business continuity plans addressing physical risks to the Group’s
development sites are reviewed and updated at least annually. The Group has adopted Customer Account Teams
(CATs) so as to focus the business on customer needs. The senior managers within the CATs also monitor
the financial and business risks, including competitor risks, associated with the delivery of agreed plans,
reviewing such matters at Business Review Meetings held on a regular basis and attended by members of the
Executive Committee.
Financial control and information systems The Group’s strategic direction is reviewed regularly by the Board
and plans, budgets and performance targets are reviewed and approved at least annually. Directors receive
monthly summaries of financial results which compare actual performance with targets, together with detailed
management reports that identify the reasons for variances and the progress achieved. Business planning
documents are revised on a regular basis in line with actual and expected performance.
Control procedures Financial control procedures have been developed for all of the main business functions
and have been documented in a procedures manual. Authorisation limits for purchases and capital expenditure
are specified and procedures are in place for minimising exposure to potential weaknesses in the 
receipt, handling and despatch of goods. The Group’s main premises have received accreditation for BSI ISO
9001: 2000. 
Monitoring systems Monitoring of the internal control systems is carried out by the centralised Group 
Finance Function.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need to appoint a dedicated internal auditor and
during the year determined that, having regard to the size of the Group and the control and monitoring systems
referred to above, there was no current business requirement for such an appointment. In respect of 2009 the
Committee has recommended that the Group implements a series of internal audits utilising external
consultant resources.
Although no system of internal financial control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss, the Group’s systems are designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that transactions
are authorised and completely and accurately recorded, that assets are safeguarded and that material errors,
irregularities and actions contrary to Group policies and directions are either prevented or promptly discovered. 
GOING CONCERN 
The directors, having taken account of the Group’s available bank facilities and cash resources and having
reviewed the Group’s budget and forecasts for the period to 31 March 2010, consider that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 16
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES 
The directors recognise the importance of the Group’s employees to its success and future development and
are committed to providing an environment that will attract, motivate and reward high quality employees. The
Group continues to invest in a range of internal and external initiatives to promote employee development.
This commitment has been acknowledged by Investors in People (IIP) recognition. 
Employees are kept informed of matters affecting them as employees and factors affecting the performance
of the Group through monthly employee meetings/briefings and a Company newsletter, “Pacesetter”. In the
UK, meetings of the Employee Partnership, an elected forum for the discussion of work related issues, are held
with members of the Executive Committee at least four times per year. 
The Group welcomes applications for employment from all sectors of the community and is striving to promote
equality of opportunity in employment regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, disability or ethnic origin. It
is the Group’s policy that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all
employees. In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the Group makes reasonable adjustments where
any aspect of premises or working practices puts such a disabled employee at a substantial disadvantage
compared with a non-disabled employee. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The Group has an established Health and Safety Committee made up of health and safety representatives, the
health and safety officer and other persons with expert knowledge who review health and safety issues relevant
to the Group's business. Other safety-related committees also conduct periodic reviews of specific work
practices. These actions complement the Health and Safety Executive's "Working Well Together" initiatives
adopted and implemented by the Company. 
In the UK the health and safety adviser continues to carry on ergonomic risk assessments and developing
ergonomic strategies whilst safety representatives and fire wardens conduct site inspections. These activities
along with others contribute to the further advancement of local workplace health and safety awareness and
improvement. Generic and detailed risk assessments, chemical assessments and safe systems of work
guidance are maintained for the benefit of employees on the Company's Intranet site. 
The importance of ongoing health and safety awareness training for managers and safety representatives is
recognised. As part of this process a number of health and safety "tool-box talks" have been designed to
replace the IOSH Managing Safely courses previously provided.
The number of UK workplace accidents during the year was 15 and, as in previous years, none of these were
reportable under RIDDOR. A report concerning health and safety aspects of the Group's business and copies
of specific Group safety policy documents can be obtained from the Company Secretary. 
CHARITABLE AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT 
The Group has an established Charitable Donations Committee comprising employees based at the Group's
premises in the UK, the USA and France. The committee, which meets once a month, considers all requests
for charitable and community project assistance within a financial budget and criteria approved by the Board
on an annual basis. 
The Group's support through the committee is focused on the local geographical area of Pace's premises in
Saltaire, Paris and Boca Raton in Florida, as well as the charitable and community initiatives of Group
employees. The corporate charity policy focus is to support local charities of benefit to the local area and
people living close to each Group site. 
During the year 126 requests for support were considered by the committee, 108 of these satisfying the criteria
and receiving financial support amounting to £40,000. The participation of employees of the Group in
community and charitable activities outside work hours has been encouraged by the provision of funds to
match individual sponsorship raised. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 17
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
The Company has maintained certification to the international management standard ISO 14001 at its Saltaire,
and Florida sites and the Group Environmental Policy has been applied to all Pace sites worldwide. 
The Company is a signatory to the European Code of Conduct on Energy Efficiency of Digital TV Service Systems
(EU Code of Conduct), ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Set-top Boxes and MEPS (Minimum Energy
Performance Standard). Pace is committed to ensure that products are designed to minimise energy
consumption. 
The Company continues to monitor its environmental activities/impacts, details of which are available from the
Company Secretary, or the Company’s website.
This year saw the Company develop an executive driven strategy to improve its environmental performance. 
The strategy focuses on three core areas: Site Operations, Product and Supply Chain environmental
improvements.
Pace is also targeting the three key areas where its products have the highest environmental impact. These are:
1) Power consumption – the hardware design of every Pace product from this point onwards will comply with
or exceed the EU Code of Conduct, EnergyStar and MEPS guidelines . In regions where no guidelines exist,
Pace will apply the closest guidelines to these areas. Pace will work with its key partners to drive compliance
across all aspects of the final product, including software.
2) Packaging – all materials used in the packaging of Pace products will be 100% recyclable. Pace is setting
a minimum standard of 50% of all materials used in packaging to be sourced from recycled materials.
3) Hazardous substances – Pace is going beyond current legislation with its own extensive ‘Restricted
Substances’ list. Pace will phase out these additional potentially hazardous substances from all future
products going forwards. 
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 18
During the year the Company set environmental targets and achieved the following outcomes in respect of its
chosen measures of environmental impact:
ACTIVITY/IMPACT OBJECTIVE TARGET STATUS COMMENT
Pace Environmental
strategy
Develop a supply chain
based strategy for
environmental performance
improvement
Engage all of our
priority suppliers by
Dec 2008
Ongoing Roll out in 2009
Set-top box (STB)
Power
consumption
Develop ‘design for
environment’ criteria for
inclusion in the product
creation process
Developed and
implemented
by March 2008
Complete Design for
environment
incorporated in the
Pace Product
Creation Process
(PCP)
STB environmental
impact
Minimise STB energy
consumption
Design and develop 
a low
environmental
impact (LEI) STB
by Dec 2008
Complete Demonstrated at
IBC’08
Reduction of 
STB power
consumption
Minimise power
consumption of the STB to
align with EU code of
conduct
75% of products
destined for EU
market EU Code of
Conduct compliant
Ongoing Results will be
published in 2009
Electricity Use Minimise site energy use
wherever technically and
commercially practical
Introduce individual
lab electrical
consumption
mechanism by
March 2008
Complete Individual lab
mechanisms in
place and access
available to all Pace
employees
Volunteer activity Improve local environment Conduct one
Volunteer activity
Complete Completed in
association with
Forest of Bradford 
Employee
Awareness
Increase employee
awareness
Implement an
awareness
programme focusing
on individual
employee energy
consumption by July
2008
Complete Engagement
activity complete
IT Equipment Reduce the IT server
equipment Energy
consumption
Implement a server
virtualisation
strategy with a view
to reducing IT power
consumption by
June’08.
Complete Servers in place
The Company commissioned its eighth independent Environmental Report prepared by consultants, Atkins plc. A copy of the Group’s
Environmental Policy Statement and the Environmental Report for the year can be obtained from the Company Secretary and is available on
the Company’s website: www.pace.com PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 19
AUDITORS 
KPMG Audit Plc held office as auditors during the year . A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering whether, taken as
a whole, the various relationships (if any) between the Group and the auditors impairs, or appears to impair,
the auditors’ judgement or independence.
Each of the directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirms that, so far
as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and the
directors have each taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Board has continued to establish and maintain relationships with institutional shareholders and
communicates with investors through the Group’s web site (www.pace.com). A programme of meetings with
institutional shareholders is in place (at which institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet
with non-executive directors) and analyst presentations are made following announcement of the interim and
annual results. Shareholders are welcome to participate at the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will
be available for questions. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 22 April 2009 at the offices of the Company at
Salts Mill, Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire, BD18 3LF. Full details of the business to be transacted at the
meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS
The directors whose names appear on pages 11 and 12 confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and
the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board 
Anthony J Dixon 
Company Secretary
3 March 2009
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 20
The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 20 to 28 regarding remuneration matters in respect
of the year ended 31 December 2008. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) is responsible for setting the individual remuneration of the
executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee within the framework of the remuneration
policy described below, which is set by the Board. 
The Directors who were members of the Committee at any time during the year ending 31 December 2008 were
Pat Chapman-Pincher (Chairman of the Committee), Marten Fraser (who resigned on 31 December 2008),
Mike McTighe and John Grant (who was appointed in August 2008). For guidance, the Committee makes use
of surveys of executive pay and knowledge of market rates. The CEO and Director of HR also attended
Remuneration Committee meetings during the year by invitation and provided advice to the Committee to
enable it to reach informed decisions. No director was present when their remuneration was being discussed.
The Committee was assisted in its consideration of remuneration matters by New Bridge Street Consultants,
who were sole remuneration advisors prior to September 2008 and Kepler Associates, who were appointed as
sole remuneration advisers in September 2008. Kepler Associates assisted the Committee in its 2008 review
of the Company’s executive remuneration policy and consultation with significant shareholders. New Bridge
Street Consultants and Kepler Associates provided no other services to the Group in the year . Pinsent Masons,
legal advisers to the Company, also advised the Committee regarding certain share option related issues. 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
The Board believes that it is necessary to ensure that the remuneration packages of the executive directors
remain competitive in order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and senior managers of a 
high calibre and to reward them for performance. The policy is for a significant proportion of executive 
directors’ total remuneration to be capable of being earned from variable, performance-based incentives,
through annual bonuses and share based incentives. The objective of this policy is to provide rewards and
incentives that reflect corporate and individual performance and align management’s objectives directly with
those of the Shareholders. Around half of an executive director’s remuneration is  variable and is linked to 
corporate performance. 
The Board’s policy in relation to non-executive directors continues to be to pay fees that are competitive with
the fees paid by comparable quoted companies. Non-executive directors’ fees are determined by the Board as
a whole within the limits set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Non-executive directors are not
eligible for performance bonuses or pension contributions and do not participate in the share option schemes.
Non-executive remuneration is generally reviewed annually and such a review took place in October 2008.
SALARY 
Basic salary for each executive director is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance
of the individual and information from independent sources on external market salary levels for comparable
jobs with a view to salaries being set around the median level for comparable companies. In setting senior
executives’ salaries, the Committee also takes into account pay and employment conditions in the Group as a
whole. Salary is generally reviewed around the time of commencement of each financial year and such a review
took place in January 2008. The Committee sought advice from remuneration consultants with regard to the
salary review and took into account the enlarged size of the Group following the acquisition of the Philips 
set-top box and connectivity solutions business. A further review of salary took place in January 2009 and as
a result 2009 salaries of members of the Executive Committee (including executive directors) have been frozen
at 2008 levels.
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION REPORT PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 21
PERFORMANCE BONUS 
The Company established a non-pensionable performance-related bonus plan for the executive directors and
other key members of management for the year ended 31 December 2008, which was based on the successful
achievement of corporate and individual objectives. The corporate objectives were linked to the the key drivers
of value creation for shareholders and the key measure therefore was the profitability of the Group for the full
financial year. Achievement of the 2008 bonus was dependent on the Group’s pre-tax profits (before certain
exceptional items) exceeding £17 million with the capacity to earn additional bonus increments upon
achievement of higher profit targets up to a ceiling of £25 million. In addition, a number of individual personal
objectives were set for each director and manager, which were aligned with the objectives of the Group for the
year. The maximum bonus achievable by the executive directors in the event that all corporate and individual
targets were met was 150% of basic annual salary with one third of any bonus earned being deferred into
shares in the Company for a period of two years under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan. The Committee
having regard to the performance during the period, determined to award maximum bonus to each of the
executive directors under the 2008 annual performance bonus.
In addition, during 2008 an additional one-off performance related bonus scheme for approximately 50
executives and managers (including the executive directors but excluding Neil Gaydon) was introduced to reward
achievement of objectives linked to the integration of the Philips set-top box and connectivity solutions business.
The maximum individual bonus opportunity awarded under this Special Integration Bonus Scheme was £25,000.
In respect of the 2009 financial year the Committee has reviewed the executive bonus structure with its
remuneration advisers and whilst it proposes that the annual bonus will continue to be based primarily on the
achievement of Group PBT, the Committee will retain discretion to reduce the bonus otherwise payable to
executive directors by up to 20% based on their assessment of the executive directors’ management of the
Company’s cash position during 2009. One third of any earned bonus will continue to be deferred into Pace
shares under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
In addition whilst the normal ceiling for such bonus payments remains at 150% of annual salary, the Committee
intends (subject to consultation with major Shareholders) to allow members of the Executive Committee
(including executive directors) to have the opportunity to earn an “exceptional” bonus of up to 100% of annual
salary, at the discretion of the Committee, payable only in the event of exceptional Group and individual
performance which has secured the delivery of very significant benefit to shareholders. The Committee intends
that such exceptional bonus would be earned only for performance significantly in excess of that already
rewarded through the annual bonus and would normally expect the exceptional bonus (or a proportion there
of) to be earned no more than once every three to five years. Any such exceptional bonus would be paid in its
entirety in shares deferred for two years under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan and normally be subject
to forfeiture if the executive leaves the Group.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
As a result of the review of remuneration referred to above, the Committee is proposing to introduce a new
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) with all Group employees (including executive directors) eligible to participate.
The introduction of the PSP is subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting on
22 April 2009 and material details of the terms of the PSP will be contained in a circular to shareholders
accompanying the Notice of AGM.
BENEFITS IN KIND 
Each executive director is entitled to benefits such as the provision of a fully expensed company car plus fuel
(or cash alternative), private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance and where
applicable relocation assistance.
PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS 
In the year ending 31 December 2008, contributions were paid into the executive directors’ pension schemes
at rates determined by the Board. Contributions have continued to be paid during the current year at the rate
of 15% of each director’s basic salary. The Group does not operate any defined benefit schemes. 
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 22
SHARE OPTION PLANS 
The Board believes that share ownership encourages employees to contribute further towards improvements
in the Group’s performance. To this end, the following share option plans have been established by 
the Company. 
A regular savings plan (the “Sharesave Plan”), which is open to executive directors and employees of the Group
and under which options, granted at an initial discount of up to 20% against the quoted market price, are
normally exercisable on completion of a three-year SAYE contract. 
An HMRC Approved Discretionary Plan (the “Approved Pan”) under which all employees, including full-time
directors of the Company or any subsidiary, who do not have and have not had within the previous twelve
months a material interest in the Company, are eligible to participate. Participation is at the discretion of the
Board, acting in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. Under the Approved Plan, options
are granted at the prevailing quoted market price and may usually be exercised between three and ten years
from the date of the grant. The maximum award of options to any employee pursuant to the Approved Plan is
£30,000. The Company adopted its first Approved Plan in 1996 and a new Approved Plan at the AGM in
September 2005. 
An Unapproved Discretionary Plan (“Unapproved Plan”), which is similar to the Approved Plan, although certain
rules of the Approved Plan are not included e.g. the exclusion of employees who have a material interest in the
Company. The Company adopted its first Unapproved Plan in 1996 and a new Unapproved Plan at the AGM in
September 2005. The maximum award of options under the Unapproved Plan to any employee in each year is
200% of salary or in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee 400% of salary.
A Discretionary Unapproved Scheme 2000 (“2000 Unapproved Scheme”) which was discontinued in August
2005. Under the 2000 Unapproved Scheme options were granted at the prevailing quoted market price and
become exercisable (“vest”) as to 25% each anniversary after the grant over a four-year period. Under this
scheme Basic Options were granted up to a limit such that unvested options may not exceed four times annual
remuneration. For a category of up to 55 key employees there was the ability to award options (“Super Options”)
above the limit for Basic Options. Although the 2000 Unapproved Scheme has been discontinued outstanding
options previously granted survive until exercise or lapse.
In granting options under the Approved Plans and the Unapproved Plans, the Board may include objective
performance targets or other conditions as it thinks fit and has included such performance conditions based
on growth in earnings per share (EPS) of 15-18% above the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) over a three-year period
in all grants under the 1996 Approved Plan and 1996 Unapproved Plan prior to 2005. Under the 2000
Unapproved Scheme performance conditions of 6% per annum and 20% per annum compound above RPI
were applied to the grant of Basic Options and Super Options respectively thereunder. Initial performance
targets for the 2005 Approved and 2005 Unapproved Plans set in 2005 required a minimum growth in EPS of
a compound 3% per annum above growth in inflation over a three year period at which level there is 25%
vesting. Compound growth of 6% per annum above inflation is required for 100% vesting, with vesting on a
sliding scale between these two target thresholds.
In setting targets for option grants during 2006, the Committee was mindful of the need for targets to reflect
a return to profitability and significant improvements in earnings. Accordingly, during the financial year ending
2 June 2007 all options granted were subject to performance conditions based on growth in the pre-tax profits
of the Group (“PBT”) over a period of three financial years with 25% of options vesting at £6.9 million PBT in
the third financial year and 100% of options vesting at £17.2 million PBT in the third financial year, with vesting
on a sliding scale between these two target thresholds. These target thresholds were approved after
adjustment by decision of the Committee (having taken external advice) to take account of the shortened
financial year ending 31 December 2007. During the 7-month period ending 31 December 2007, the Committee
continued to adopt performance conditions based on PBT and options granted to employees during the period
were subject to conditions such that 25% of options will vest at £20 million PBT in the third financial year and
100% of options vesting at £30 million PBT in the third financial year ending 31 December 2009.
During the year ending 31 December 2008 the Committee adopted performance conditions based on
cumulative growth in EPS requiring a minimum growth in EPS of  4% per annum above inflation over a three- PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 23
year period at which level there is 25% vesting. Cumulative growth of 8% per annum above inflation is required
for 100% vesting. The Committee believes EPS to be appropriate to help enhance alignment of the senior
executive with shareholder interests whilst still maintaining focus on profitability across the senior management
team. The Committee considered these targets to be stretching for the Company, reflecting its stage of growth
at the time of the award. These options remain exercisable only after 3 years from the date of grant. In order
to assess whether the performance conditions have been met, the Committee will utilise the earnings figures
derived from the audited financial statements of the Group. 
As a result of the proposed introduction of the Performance Share Plan as the Company’s primary long-term
incentive, it is intended that option awards in 2009 and in subsequent years will be targeted at the Company’s
most senior executives and be based on a fixed number of options (rather than value) related to an individual’s
performance and contribution. Furthermore, the Committee proposes to adopt a similar approach regarding
the setting of cumulative EPS performance targets as in 2008 but proposes increasing the EPS growth required
for maximum vesting from RPI +8% to RPI +15% per annum.
A separate share option plan has been established for the benefit of the Group’s US employees. Such plan
operates within the overall limit on issue of new shares of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital 
applicable to all the Group’s employee share schemes. The Pace Americas Sharesave Plan is based on the
Pace Sharesave Plan rules and is designed to satisfy the US Internal Revenue Service requirements for such
saving-for-shares plans. 
MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING
Following the review of the Group’s remuneration policies completed in February 2009 the Committee has
introduced individual shareholding target requirements for members of the Executive Committee in the region
of 1 x salary with a requirement (subject to a discretion of the Committee) for such executives to retain a portion
of any net awards (ie after tax and exercise cost) of new vested share-based incentives until the target
shareholding level is reached.
SERVICE CONTRACTS 
Company policy is that in normal circumstances executive directors’ notice periods should not exceed one year .
Each of the executive directors has a service contract with the Company. Each of these agreements is
terminable by the Company on twelve months’ prior written notice or by the relevant director on not less than
six months’ prior written notice at the option of the Company, each agreement may be terminated forthwith
subject to the Company paying a sum equivalent to 12 months’ salary, benefits and pension contributions. The
Remuneration Committee considers that compensation payments on termination of employment should
depend on individual circumstances. 
It is the Company’s policy to honour its obligations with regard to directors’ service agreements and where the
employment of a director is terminated in accordance with the aforementioned contractual process the
Company will pay the sum specified in the relevant service agreement as payable or otherwise pay fair and
reasonable compensation. 
The service agreement of Neil Gaydon was entered into on 4 May 2006 and was amended on 16 April 2007 and
21 January 2008. The service agreement of David McKinney was entered into on 14 November 2005 and was
subsequently amended on 7 December 2006, 1 June 2007 and 21 January 2008. The service agreement of
Stuart Hall became effective on 2 April 2007 and was subsequently amended on 21 January 2008. Save for the
notice periods referred to in the above paragraph, these contracts have no unexpired term. 
Each of the non-executive directors is appointed under a letter of appointment which is terminable at any time
by the Company without contractual notice. Each of the directors has a letter of indemnity issued by the
Company which provides an indemnity in respect of liabilities incurred in the course of their office to the extent
permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association and the provisions of the Companies Acts. 
Copies of the service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of appointment of the non-executive
directors, together with the letters of indemnity referred to above, are available for inspection during normal
business hours (Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays excepted) at the registered office of the Company. 
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 24
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of senior employees including
the directors. The consent of the Board is required in the event that an executive director wishes to accept an
external appointment. It has been the practice of the Company to permit a director to retain non-executive
fees arising from any such appointment but during the year none of the current executive directors held such
external appointments.
The auditors are required to report on the information disclosed below and on pages 25 to 27.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Total directors’ remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 
as follows:
12 m 7 m *
31 Dec 31 Dec
2008 2007
£000 £000
Fees 237 116
Salaries, benefits in kind and termination payments 918 487
Performance-related bonuses 935 710
Pension contributions 119 62
2,209 1,375 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 25
The remuneration of individual directors in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2008
is set out in the table below:
Salaries Performance Benefits Total Pension
and fees bonus in kind remuneration contributions
*** 12m 7 m* 12m 7m*
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
2008 2007 2008 2007
Executive Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Neil Gaydon 404 400 – 804 525 50 28
David McKinney 240 265 – 505 302 34 16
Stuart Hall 252 270 – 522 370 35 18
896 935 – 1,831 1,197 119 62
Non-executive Directors
Mike McTighe 106 – – 106 58 – –
Pat Chapman-Pincher 38 – – 38 20 – –
Robert Fleming** 28 – 22 50 18 – –
Marten Fraser 38 – – 38 20 – – 
John Grant** 13 – – 13 – – – 
Mike Inglis** 14 – – 14 – – – 
1,133 935 22 2,090 1,313 119 62
* 7 Months to December 2007, reflecting the shortened financial year as Pace moved to a December financial
year end from a May year end in 2007.
** Remuneration referable only to the financial year since appointment to the Board or up to date of retirement
from the Board. Robert Fleming retired from the Board on 30 September 2008. Mike Inglis joined the Board on
25 July 2008 and John Grant joined on 1 August 2008.
*** Figures relate to the cash element of annual performance related bonus plus payment under the one-
off integration bonus. The following additional amounts were awarded to executive directors under the terms
of the annual performance related bonus plan but will be deferred into shares in the Company for a period of
two years under the terms of the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan. Neil Gaydon: £200,000; David McKinney:
£120,000; and Stuart Hall: £127,500.
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 26
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND SHARE OPTIONS
The interests of directors holding office at the year-end, and those of their immediate families, in the ordinary
share capital of the Company at 31 December 2008 and at the beginning of the period are set out below:
31 December 2008 Shares 1 January 2008 Shares
Non Under Non Under
BeneficialBeneficial option BeneficialBeneficial option
Pat Chapman-Pincher 15,000 – – –– –
John Grant –– – –– –
Mike Inglis 20,000 – – –– –
Marten Fraser 40,000 – – 20,000 – –
Neil Gaydon 41,684 – 2,335,257 41,684 – 1,983,652
Stuart Hall 12,739 – 855,844 12,739 – 557,599 
David McKinney 15,000 – 1,058,008 15,000 – 777,307
Mike McTighe 75,000 – – 75,000 – – 
There were no changes in the directors’ interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company between 31
December 2008 and 2 March 2009. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 27
DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
DIRECTOR SHARE OPTIONS
Details of the options over the ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company held by the directors who held office
during the period were as follows:
At Number of options At Exercise 
31 Dec 31 Dec Exercise Period
2007 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2008 Price From To
Neil Gaydon
Approved Plan         3,498 – – – 3,498 857.5p 17.07.03 16.07.10
1996 Unapproved 
Plan 75,000 – ––75,000200.0p07.07.0206.07.09
1996 Unapproved 
Plan 250,000 – – – 250,000 74.25p 02.08.08 01.08.15
2000 Unapproved 
Scheme      20,000 – – – 20,000 51.0p 17.08.05 16.08.14
2000 Super Option 123,245 – – 123,245 – 20.0p 21.01.04 20.01.13
2005 Unapproved 
Plan 600,000 – – – 600,000 63.5p 18.04.09 17.04.16
2005 Unapproved 
Plan 902,127 – – – 902,127 58.75p 02.10.09 01.10.16
2005 Unapproved
Plan – 467,836 – – 467,836 85.5p 02.10.09 01.10.16
Sharesave Plan          9,782 – – – 9,782 46.00p 01.12.09 30.05.10
Sharesave Plan          – 7,014 – – 7,014 67.00p 01.10.11 30.03.12
David McKinney
2005 Approved 
Plan         47,430 – – – 47,430 63.25p 22.01.09 21.01.16
2005 Unapproved 
Plan 202,570 – – – 202,570 63.25p 22.01.09 21.01.16
2005 Unapproved 
Plan 510,638 – – – 510,638 58.75p 02.10.09 01.10.16
2005 Unapproved 
Plan – 280,701 – – 280,701 85.5p 02.10.09 01.10.16
Sharesave Plan 12,521 – – – 12,521 46.00p 01.12.09 30.05.10
Sharesave Plan          4,148 – – – 4,148 82.00p 01.10.10 31.03.11
Stuart Hall
2005 Approved 
Plan         40,955 – – – 40,955 73.25p 02.04.10 01.04.17
2005 Unapproved 
Plan 505,120 – – – 505,120 73.25p 02.04.10 01.04.17
2005 Unapproved 
Plan – 298,245 – – 298,245 85.5p 02.10.09 01.10.16
Sharesave Plan          11,524 – – – 11,524 82.00p 01.10.10 31.03.11
The mid-market price of shares in the Company on 31 December 2008 was 54.75p. The lowest and highest
closing mid-market prices of shares in the Company during the year were 34.50p and 97.50p respectively. 
Information concerning the performance conditions attached to the above options is contained on page 22. PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 28
EMPLOYEE TRUSTS 
The Company has established the Pace Micro Technology plc Employee Benefits Trust, which is capable of
acquiring shares in the Company in the market and using them for the purposes of satisfying new awards
granted under the Company’s Share Option Plans, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the proposed PSP.
During the year the Trust acquired 7.7 million shares in the Company at a cost of £3.2 million.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
Set out below is a performance graph showing the total shareholder return of the Company for the five financial
years ended 31 December 2008 compared to the total shareholder return of the FTSE Electronics and Electrical
Equipment sector index which is considered by the Board to be an appropriate benchmark index against which
to compare the Company’s performance having regard to the principal activities of the Group.
By order of the Board 
Anthony J Dixon 
Company Secretary
3 March 2009
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Pace FTSE Electronics & Electrical Equipment PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 29
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the group and parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable laws and have elected to prepare the parent company financial
statements on the same basis. 
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to
present fairly the financial position of the group and the parent company and the performance for the financial
year; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair
presentation. 
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
group and the parent company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors’ report,
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those
regulations. 
A copy of the accounts of the Company is posted on the Pace plc website (www.pace.com). 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 30
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PACE  PLC
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements (the ‘‘financial statements’’) of Pace plc
for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated
and parent company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and parent company Cash Flow Statements, the
Consolidated and parent company Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and the related notes. These
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 29. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4
of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report
is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific
information presented in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and Chief Financial Officer’s Review that is cross
referred from the Business Review and Financial Results section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures and its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Report and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with
the audited financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 31
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONTINUED
Basis of audit opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates 
and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we 
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements and the part of the Director’s Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Director’s
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion  
In our opinion:  
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of
the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended;  
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2008;  
• the financial statements and the part of the Director’s Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditors
3 March 2009 PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 00
33 Financial Statements
39 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
65 Directors, Secretary 
and Advisers
66 Five Year Record and 
Shareholder Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTENTS
PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 32 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 33
Year ended 7 months ended
31 December 31 December
2008 2007
Note £000 £000
Revenue 3 745,475 249,875
Cost of sales (610,268) (199,040)
Gross profit 135,207 50,835
Administrative expenses:
Research and Development expenditure (60,480) (19,293)
Other administrative expenses:
Before exceptional costs (45,553) (15,656)
Exceptional costs (10,962) -
Amortisation of other intangibles (3,715) -
Total Administrative expenses (120,710) (34,949)
Operating profit 14,497 15,886
Financial income – interest receivable 6 202 53
Financial expenses – interest payable 6 (871) (589) 
Profit before tax 13,828 15,350
Tax charge 8 (2,774) (935)
Profit after tax 11,054 14,415
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 11,054 14,415
Basic earnings per ordinary share 9 4.0p 6.3p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 9 3.9p 6.1p CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2008
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 34
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Note £000 £000
Assets
Non Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 14,702 8,621
Intangible assets – goodwill 10 76,337 9,436
Intangible assets – other intangibles 22,744 -
Intangible assets – development expenditure 10 26,490 15,882
Available for sale financial assets 11 349 349
Deferred tax assets 12 7,119 5,059
Total Non Current Assets 147,741 39,347
Current Assets
Inventories 13 57,229 28,668
Trade and other receivables 14 231,009 102,382
Cash and cash equivalents 37,717 -
Current tax assets 204 -
Total Current Assets 326,159 131,050
Total Assets 473,900 170,397
Equity
Issued capital 19 14,949 11,684
Share premium 20 37,023 36,885
Merger reserve 21 55,490 -
Hedging reserve (3,783) -
Translation reserve 13,005 425
Retained earnings 22 27,245 18,608
Total Equity 143,929 67,602
Liabilities
Non Current Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 12 15,733 -
Provisions 18 17,566 12,487
Total Non Current Liabilities 33,299 12,487
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 278,718 72,625
Current tax liabilities - 460
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 - 12,094
Provisions 18 17,954 5,129
Total Current Liabilities 296,672 90,308
Total Liabilities 329,971 102,795
Total Equity and Liabilities 473,900 170,397
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Neil Gaydon Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Hall Chief Financial Officer COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2008
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 35
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Note £000 £000
Assets
Non Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 8,268 7,335
Intangible assets – development expenditure 10 14,982 15,882
Investments in group and other companies 11 74,649 9,749
Deferred tax assets 12 4,016 5,059
Total Non Current Assets 101,915 38,025
Current Assets
Inventories 13 8,005 28,668
Trade and other receivables 14 187,985 102,052
Cash and cash equivalents 15,799 -
Total Current Assets 211,789 130,720
Total Assets 313,704 168,745
Equity
Issued capital 19 14,949 11,684
Share premium 20 37,023 36,885
Merger reserve 21 55,490 -
Hedging reserve (4,086) -
Retained earnings 22 20,858 13,964
Total Equity 124,234 62,533
Liabilities
Non Current Liabilities
Provisions 18 8,811 12,487
Total Non Current Liabilities 8,811 12,487
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 173,732 74,976
Current tax liabilities (7) 474
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 - 13,146
Provisions 18 6,934 5,129
Total Current Liabilities 180,659 93,725
Total Liabilities 189,470 106,212
Total Equity and Liabilities 313,704 168,745
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Neil Gaydon Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Hall Chief Financial Officer CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 36
Share Share Merger Hedging Translation Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 2 June 2007 11,659 36,751 - - 227 2,300 50,937
Profit for the period - - - - - 14,415 14,415
Currency translation adjustments - - - - 198 - 198
Total income and expense for the period - - - - 198 14,415 14,613
Deferred tax adjustments - - - - - 606 606
Employee share incentive charges - - - - - 570 570
Movement in employee share trusts - - - - - 717 717
Issue of shares 25 134 - - - - 159
Balance at 31 December 2007 11,684 36,885 - - 425 18,608 67,602
Profit for the period - - - - - 11,054 11,054
Net change in fair value of cash flow
hedges transferred to profit or loss
net of tax - - - [588] - - [588]
Effective portion of changes in fair value
of cash flow hedges net of tax - - - [3,195] - - [3,195]
Currency translation adjustments - - - - 12,580 - 12,580
Total income and expense for the period - - - [3,783] 12,580 11,054 19,851
Deferred tax adjustments - - - - - (606) (606)
Employee share incentive charges - - - - - 1,011 1,011
Movement in employee share trusts - - - - - [2,822] [2,822]
Issue of shares 3,265 138 55,490 - - - 58,893
Balance at 31 December 2008 14,949 37,023 55,490 (3,783) 13,005 27,245 143,929
Company
Balance at 2 June 2007 11,659 36,751 - - - (2,401) 46,009
Profit for the period - - - - - 14,472 14,472
Deferred tax adjustments - - - - - 606 606
Employee share incentive charges - - - - - 570 570
Movement in employee share trusts - - - - - 717 717
Issue of shares 25 134 - - - - 159
Balance at 31 December 2007 11,684 36,885 - - - 13,964 62,533
Profit for the period - - - - - 9,311 9,311
Net change in fair value of cash flow
hedges transferred to profit or loss
net of tax - - - 577 - - 577
Effective portion of changes in fair value
of cash flow hedges net of tax - - - (4,663] - - (4,663]
Employee share incentive charges - - - - - 1,011 1,011
Movement in employee share trusts - - - - - (2,822) (2,822)
Issue of shares 3,265 138 55,490 - - - 58,893
Deferred tax adjustments - - - - - (606) (606)
Balance at 31 December 2008 14,949 37,023 55,490 (4,086) - 20,858 124,234 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 37
Year 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 13,828 15,350
Adjustments for:
Share based payments charge 1,011 570
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,504 2,483
Amortisation and impairment of development expenditure 21,895 9,958
Amortisation of other intangibles 3,715 -
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment - 136
Net financial charges 669 536
Movement in trade and other receivables (67,810) (49,874)
Movement in trade and other payables 124,572 12,828
Movement in inventories (19,188) (3,400)
Movement in provisions 4,098 3,551
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 87,294 (7,862)
Interest paid (993) (468)
Tax paid (3,584) (242)
Net cash generated/(used in) from operating activities 82,717 (8,572)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (3,134) -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6,584) (4,258)
Development expenditure (20,995) (12,170)
Interest received 200 53
Net cash used in investing activities (30,513) (16,375)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 376 159
Proceeds from exercise of employee share options 407 717
Repayment of loans - (159)
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust (3,229) -
Net cash generated from financing activities (2,446) 717
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 49,758 (24,230)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period (12,094) 12,049
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 53 87
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 37,717 (12,094) COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 38
Year 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 8,689 15,032
Adjustments for:
Share based payments charge 1,011 570
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,883 2,217
Amortisation of development expenditure 21,895 9,958
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 12 96
Net financial income 669 534
Movement in trade and other receivables (85,933) (49,907)
Movement in trade and other payables 92,177 12,612
Movement in inventories 20,663 (3,400)
Movement in provisions (1,871) 3,551
Cash generated/(used in) from operations 61,195 (8,737)
Interest paid (953) (468)
Tax paid (44) -
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 60,198 (9,205)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (3,134) -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,816) (3,979)
Development expenditure (20,995) (12,170)
Interest received 143 56
Net cash used in investing activities (28,802) (16,093)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 376 159
Proceeds from exercise of employee share options 407 717
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust (3,229) -
Net cash generated from financing activities (2,446) 876
Net change in cash and cash equivalents 28,950 (24,442)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period (13,146) 11,275
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (5) 21
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 15,799 (13,146) NOTES
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 39
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in
relation to the financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical
cost convention as modified by the revaluation of derivative instruments.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
as endorsed by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations
and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company’s Financial
statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, no income
statement is presented for the Company.
Financial Year End
The current year’s financial statements are for the year ended 31 December 2008 and the previous year’s financial statements
are for the 7 months ended 31 December 2007 reflecting a change in the Company’s accounting reference date from 31 May.
Basis of Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings (note 11) drawn up to
31 December 2008. The results of subsidiaries acquired in the period are included in the income statement from the date they
are acquired. On acquisition, all of the subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at
their fair values reflecting their condition at that date. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists
when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to
obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are
taken into account. Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on the
Group consolidation. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss in the financial statements of
the Company.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimation uncertainty
The Group’s main accounting policies affecting its results of operations and financial condition are set out on pages 40 to 43.
Judgements and assumptions have been required by management in applying the Group’s accounting policies in many areas.
Actual results may differ from the estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions. Key areas of estimation
uncertainty and critical accounting judgements are as follows:
Warranties
Pace provides product warranties for its set-top boxes. Although it is difficult to make accurate predictions of potential failure
rates or the possibility of an epidemic failure, as a warranty estimate must be calculated at the outset of a product before
field deployment data is available, these estimates improve during the lifetime of the product in the field.
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty
data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. The level of warranty provision required
is reviewed on a product by product basis and provisions adjusted accordingly in the light of actual performance.
Royalties
Pace’s products incorporate third party technology, usually under licence. Inadvertent actions may expose Pace to the risk
of infringing third party intellectual property rights. Potential claims can still be submitted many years after a product has
been deployed. Any such claims are always vigorously defended.
A provision for royalties is recognised where the owners of patents covering technology allegedly used by the Group have
indicated claims for royalties relating to the Group’s use (including past usage) of that technology. Having taken legal advice,
the board considers that there are defences available that should mitigate the amounts being sought. The Group will
vigorously negotiate or defend all claims but, in the absence of agreement, the amounts provided may prove to be different
from the amounts at which the potential liabilities are finally settled. The provision is based on the latest information available. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 40
EU Import duty classification
Pace, along with other set top box manufacturers and broadcasters, has continued to monitor the re-interpretation by
European Union customs authorities of customs regulations that could result in the extension of import duties to interactive
set-top boxes with a hard drive manufactured outside, but imported into, the EU.  On 7th May 2008 the Nomenclature
Committee of the European Commission issued an Explanatory Note “EN” (0590/2007) to the Combined Nomenclature setting
out their view that set-top boxes with a hard drive should be classified under Customs Tariff heading 8521 90 00 and so
subject to a 13.9% ad valorem duty on importation to the European Union.  As a consequence, Pace is potentially exposed to
a retrospective Customs Duty liability in respect of such set-top boxes it has imported.
Having previously obtained Binding Tariff Information (“BTI”) rulings from HMRC, which provide protection in respect of much
of the potential period of retrospective application of duty on relevant products and having taken legal advice, Management’s
opinion is that the retrospective application of the Explanatory Note would not be supportable in law.  Accordingly Pace is in
common with other affected importers, appealing any retrospective assessment made and will defend its position on this
matter.
An assessment has been received from HMRC in an amount of £7.7m representing import duty relating to imports prior to
7 May 2008. Having taken advice, management’s best estimate is that no material outflow of economic benefit would be
required to discharge this obligation.  As such, at 31 December 2008 any potential liability should be considered contingent.
Writ Issued against Company
A writ has been issued against the Company by a former customer relating to the supply of set-top boxes in 2000/2001. The
amount claimed is $7.2m. The Directors believe that they have good defences to the claim and that, in the absence of any
liability, no provision has been made. In addition on 15 July 2007 Pace filed a counter claim for circa $10m against this former
customer and a related third party.
Going concern
The Group has put in place new borrowing facilities to December 2011 to a maximum of £35m. These facilities are subject
to financial performance covenants.
The Board has prepared a working capital forecast based upon assumptions as to trading and the realisation of inventory,
and the matters above, as well as building in the other circumstances noted in the Business Environment section within the
Directors’ Report. The Board has also modelled a number of alternative business scenarios. Based upon these the Board has
concluded that the Group has adequate working capital, will meet the financial performance covenants and that therefore it
is appropriate to use the going concern basis of preparation for this financial information.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value
of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified
and liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of
completion, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon the extent to which the directors believe performance
conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
As permitted by IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions before 29 May 2004 (date of transition to Adopted IFRS) has been
frozen at the UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment annually. The Group performs its annual impairment
review at the cash-generating unit level.
Other intangibles
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group, which have finite useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Research and Development Expenditure
All on-going research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Where a product is technically feasible,
production and sales are intended, a market exists, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development
costs are capitalised and subsequently amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the product
concerned from commercial launch. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an
appropriate proportion of overheads. Where these conditions are not met development expenditure is recognised as an
expense in the period in which it is incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment losses. The estimated useful lives for development expenditure are estimated to be in a range
of between 6 and 18 months. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 41
Capitalised development expenditure is not treated as a realised loss for the purpose of determining the Company’s
distributable profits as the costs meet the conditions required to be treated as an asset in accordance with IAS 38.
The amortisation of capitalised development expenditure is charged to the Income Statement in research and development
expenditure within Administrative expenses category. 
Impairment Charges
The Company considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that non-current assets are impaired. If there
is such an indication, the Company carries out an impairment test by measuring an asset’s recoverable amount, which is the
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (effectively the expected cash to be generated from using the asset
in the business). If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised, and the asset
is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer
exist and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying value does not exceed the amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Exceptional Items
Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature and which are considered non-recurring are classified as
exceptional operating items. Such items, which include for instance the costs of opening or closing premises, costs of
significant restructurings and profits and losses made on the disposal of properties are included within the appropriate
consolidated income statement category but are highlighted separately in the notes to the financial statements. Exceptional
operating items are excluded from the profit measures used by the Board to monitor underlying performance.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue comprises the value of sales of goods and services to third party customers occurring in the period, stated exclusive
of value added tax and net of trade discounts and rebates.
Revenue on the sale of goods is recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards in the product have passed to the
customer, and substantially all of the Group’s work is completed which is usually upon delivery to the customer, or his agent.
Revenue in respect of services rendered, including engineering consultancy and support and software services, is recognised
over the period over which they are performed, in relation to the level of work undertaken, project milestones achieved and
any future obligations remaining.
The Company does not enter into contracts that cover both the provision of hardware and services in combination.
Government Grants
Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are credited to research and development costs within the
income statement or against the capitalised development expenditure as appropriate to match to the project’s related
expenditure.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. The Company considers all highly liquid investments
with original maturity dates of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management system are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents
for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Allowance for Doubtful Debts
Trade receivables are assessed individually for impairment, or collectively where the receivables are not individually significant.
Where necessary, provisions for doubtful debts are recorded in the income statement. 
Inventory
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes
appropriate transport and handling costs but excludes royalties due only on ultimate sale. Where necessary, provision is
made for obolete, slow-moving and defective inventory. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 42
Property, Plant and Equipment
The cost of items of property, plant and equipment is its purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition. 
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the asset
concerned, the cost of property, plant and equipment, less any estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate,
at each balance sheet date. The principal economic lives used for this purpose are:
• Long Leasehold properties Period of lease
• Short Leasehold properties Period of lease
• Plant and machinery One to ten years
• Motor vehicles Four years 
Provision is made against the carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is
deemed to have occurred. 
Leased Assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance
leases. Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated
over their expected useful lives. The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital
balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the income statement
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Currency Translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences of a trading nature are dealt with in the income statement. The assets and liabilities of foreign
operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated at foreign exchange rates
ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate
approximate to the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transactions. 
Exchange differences from the above are taken directly to the translation reserve. They are released to the income statement
on disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, usually forward foreign exchange contracts, to hedge its exposure to foreign
exchange risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Following enhancements in the Group’s hedging policy and changes in the Group’s currency profiles following the acquisition
of Pace France (see note 29) the directors have determined that the instruments qualify for cash flow hedge accounting.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash-flow hedges when they hedge the Group’s exposure to variability in cash
flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable
forecast transaction.
Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness. Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the
variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain
or loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement within finance
income/costs. If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the
associated cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the income statement when
the transaction occurs.
Taxes
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing where relevant for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and
are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled. 
A net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the foreseeable
future from which the reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.  NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 43
Share-based Payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are
measured by the Company and the Group at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes
pricing model. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement of the Company and the Group over the remainder of the vesting
period to reflect expected and actual levels of option vesting, with the corresponding adjustment made in equity.
The Company has applied the exemption available under IFRS 2, to apply its provisions only to those options granted after 7
November 2002 and which were outstanding at 1 January 2005.
Employee Share Ownership Plans
The material assets, liabilities, income and costs of the Pace Micro Technology plc Employee Benefits Trust are treated as
being those of the Company. Until such time as the Company’s own shares vest unconditionally with employees, the
consideration paid for the shares is deducted in arriving at equity.
Employee Benefits
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement
as incurred. The Group has no defined benefit arrangements in place.
Available for Sale Financial Assets
Available for sale financial assets are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their
carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Finance Income
Finance income relates to interest income, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and
at the effective interest rate applicable.
Equity Instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Dividends Payable
Distributions to equity holders are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders’ equity. A liability is recorded
for a final dividend when the dividend is declared by the Company’s shareholders, and, for an interim dividend, when the
dividend is paid.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a
past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
(a) Royalties
A provision for royalties is recognised where the owners of patents covering technology allegedly used by the Group
have indicated claims for royalties relating to the Group’s use (including past usage) of that technology. The provision
is based on the latest information available. 
(b) Warranties
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based
on historical warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. The level
of warranty provision required is reviewed on a product by product basis and provisions adjusted accordingly in the
light of actual performance.
(c) Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan,
and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. Provisions are not recognised for
future operating losses. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 44
(d) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Accounting Standards Issued but not Adopted
No impact is expected upon the result or net assets of the Group or Company from any standards that are available for early
adoption, but have not been early adopted.
3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The Group’s principal activities are the development, design and distribution of digital receivers and receiver decoders, for
the reception of digital television and the reception/transmission of interactive services, telephony and high speed data (“set-
top boxes”). The Group also provides engineering design, software applications and support services to Multiple Service
Operators, broadcasters, telecommunications companies and retail markets worldwide. Each of these services may be
delivered over satellite, cable, terrestrial and IP network transmission systems.
The Directors have undertaken a review of the Group’s business risks and consider that the continuing operations represent
one product offering with similar risks and rewards and should be reported as a single business segment in line with the
Group’s internal reporting framework.
The geographical analysis of revenue which arises from the sale of goods and the provision of software, hardware and other
consultancy services to third party customers is as follows:
12 months 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Revenue by destination £000 £000
United Kingdom 110,251 48,451
Continental Europe 239,109 41,107
Far East and Australasia 81,883 15,586
North America 264,114 144,731
Rest of the World 50,118 -
745,475 249,875
4 EXPENSES AND AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
12 months 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of:
Company’s annual accounts 155 130
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services to the Group:
audit of the Company’s subsidiaries financial statements pursuant to legislation 106 8
other services pursuant to interim reporting legislation 40 20
other services relating to taxation 43 28
services relating to corporate finance 372 -
Services relating to information technology 45 -
Other services 21 -
Depreciation of plant, property and equipment
owned 4,504 2,483
Other operating lease rental
land and buildings 3,605 808
motor vehicles 6 15
Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment - 136
Net foreign exchange gains recognised within operating profit/loss 1,718 198 NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 45
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
12 months 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8,946 -
Integration costs 2,016 -
10,962 -
The restructuring and reorganisation costs relate to a restructuring programme within the Group and represent incremental
costs to the business in relation to employee costs which either have been incurred or will be incurred in the next twelve
months. The integration costs relate to the integration of the acquired set top box business of Royal Philips Electronics.
6 FINANCE INCOME/COSTS
12 months 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Finance income - Interest on bank deposits 202 53
Finance costs 871 589
7 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of persons (including directors) employed by the Group and Company during the year, analysed by
category were as follows:
Group Company
Year 7 months Year 7 months
ended ended ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Research and development 531 411 293 294
Administration 133 129 82 99
Sales and marketing 25 22 18 19
Manufacturing and operations 73 29 40 24
762 591 433 436 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 46
7 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS continued
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Group Company
Year 7 months Year 7 months
ended ended ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Wages and salaries 32,573 12,974 17,747 9,729
Social security costs 8,073 1,666 2,271 1,357
Other pension costs 1,412 580 1,005 565
Share based payments (see note 25) 1,011 570 1,011 570
Redundancy costs 8,023 99 175 99
51,092 15,889 22,209 12,320
Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration, share options and pension entitlements of the directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on
pages 21 to 26.
8 TAX CHARGE
Year 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and comprises: £000 £000
Current tax:
Adjustments in respect of previous periods -
Overseas tax charge (2,921) (420)
Total current tax charge (2,921) (420)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (note 12) 1,097 (1,367)
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (950) 1,169
Effect of change in tax rate - (317)
Total deferred tax credit/(charge) 147 (515)
Tax charge in Consolidated Income Statement (2,774) (935) NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 47
8 TAX CHARGE continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate:
Year 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Profit before tax 13,828 15,350
Tax using domestic corporation tax rate at 28% (2007: 30%) 3,872 4,605
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,614 391
Effect of abolition of industrial building allowances 371 -
Brought forward unrecognised tax losses recognised in the period (3,142) (2,256)
Research and development tax credit (1,523) (547)
Overseas tax not at 30% 398 105
Effect of tax relief on exercise of share options 296 (511)
Effect of change in tax rate (62) 317
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 950 (1,169)
Total tax charge 2,774 935
9 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on a profit after tax of £11,054,000 (7 months ended 31 December 2007:
£14,415,000) divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue of 274,757,069 (7 months ended 31 December
2007: 229,141,578), excluding shares held by the Employee Benefits Trust.
Year 7 months
ended ended
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Number of shares m m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 274.8 229.1
Dilutive effect of options outstanding 3.0 5.5
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 277.8 234.6
Diluted earnings per ordinary share varies from basic earnings per ordinary share due to the effect of the notional exercise
of outstanding share options.
To better reflect underlying performance, adjusted earnings per share is shown below. This measure makes adjustments to
statutory profit after tax to remove the impact of the amortisation of intangibles relating to the acquistion in the period
(£2,451,000 after tax) and the exceptional charges in the period (£7,892,640 after tax).
Adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share 7.8p
Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share 7.7p PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 48
10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
OtherDevelopment Long Short Plant, Total
Goodwill Intangibles Expenditure Leasehold Leasehold machinery property,
Buildings land and and Motor plant and
Buildings Vehicles equipment
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 2 June 2007 9,436 - 23,087 616 4,811 20,803 26,230
Exchange adjustments - - - 31 (2) 46 75
Additions - - 12,170 - 2,014 2,683 4,697
Retirement of Assets - - (4,198) ----
Disposals - - - (234) (211) (1,252) (1,697)
At 31 December 2007 9,436 - 31,059 413 6,612 22,280 29,305
Exchange adjustments 13,339 4,819 1,899 124 265 4,272 4,661
Additions - - 20,995 - 1,907 4,677 6,584
Acquisitions 53,562 21,640 9,609 - - 14,280 14,280
Retirement of Assets - - (3,721) ----
Disposals - - - - - (664) (664)
At 31 December 2008 76,337 26,459 59,841 537 8,784 44,845 54,166
Amortisation/depreciation
At 2 June 2007 - - 9,417 286 3,909 15,527 19,722
Exchange adjustments - - - 16 (1) 25 40
Provided in the period - - 7,811 12 269 2,202 2,483
Retirement of Assets - - (4,198) ----
Impairment -- 2,147 ----
Disposals - - - (195) (143) (1,223) (1,561)
At 31 December 2007 - - 15,177 119 4,034 16,531 20,684
Exchange adjustments - - - 37 105 2,730 2,872
Provided in the year - 3,715 15,185 - - 12,068 12,068
Acquisitions - - - 17 664 3,823 4,504
Retirement of Assets - - (3,721) ----
Impairment -- 6,710 ----
Disposals - - - - - (664) (664)
At 31 December 2008 - 3,715 33,351 173 4,803 34,488 39,464
Net book amount at
2 June 2007 9,436 - 13,670 330 902 5,276 6,508
Net book amount at 
31 December 2007 9,436 - 15,882 294 2,578 5,749 8,621
Net book amount at
31 December 2008 76,337 22,744 26,490 364 3,981 10,357 14,702
Other intangibles
Other intangibles relate to balances relating to trademarks  and licence agreements, customer contracts and relationships
recognised as part of the acquisition of the Pace France business (see note 29).
All the goodwill at 31 December 2007 related to know-how acquired with the purchase of Xcom Multimedia Communications
SA in February 2001. These assets are used as an integral part of the development of products which, to date, have been sold
mainly into Pace Continental European markets. Accordingly, for impairment testing purposes the goodwill has been allocated
to a cash generating unit comprising the Group’s Continental European business. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 49
10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued
Goodwill additions in the year relates to expected synergies, future revenue streams and know-how acquired with the
purchase of Pace France in April 2008. The directors also consider that this business is an integral part of the development
of products which will, in future be sold into Pace Continental European markets. Accordingly, for impairment testing
purposes the goodwill has also been allocated to a cash generating unit comprising the Group’s Continental European
business.
The recoverable amount of the above unit including the goodwill is based upon a value in use calculation and is higher than
the carrying value of the assets and goodwill allocated to this unit. The calculations use cash-flow projections based on
actual operating results, budgets and 3 year forecasts, reflecting known purchase orders, sales contracts and the net result
from planned product launches. Therefore the key assumptions are a growth rate of 1% on sales and 2% on overheads which
has been used to extrapolate results. A discount rate of 12% has been used.
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment
Short Total
leasehold property,
Development and Plant and Motor plant and
Expenditure buildings machinery vehicles equipment
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 2 June 2007 23,087 4,469 16,667 30 21,166
Additions 12,170 2,007 2,403 8 4,418
Disposals (4,198) (210) (1,250) - (1,460)
At 31 December 2007 31,059 6,266 17,820 38 24,124
Additions 20,995 710 4,100 6 4,816
Disposals (3,721) - (623) - (623)
At 31 December 2008 48,333 6,976 21,297 44 28,317
Amortisation/depreciation
At 2 June 2007 9,417 3,596 12,311 30 15,937
Provided in the period 7,811 265 1,951 1 2,217
Retirement of Assets (4,198) - - - -
Impairment 2,147 - - - -
Disposals - (143) (1,222) - (1,365)
At 31 December 2007 15,177 3,718 13,040 31 16,789
Provided in the year 15,185 656 3,224 3 3,883
Retirement of Assets (3,721) - - - -
Impairment 6,710 - - - -
Disposals - - (623) - (623)
At 31 December 2008 33,351 4,374 15,641 34 20,049
Net book amount at 2 June 2007 13,670 873 4,356 - 5,229
Net book amount at 31 December 2007 15,882 2,548 4,780 7 7,335
Net book amount at 31 December 2008 14,982 2,602 5,656 10 8,268 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 50
11 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP AND OTHER COMPANIES
Available for
sale financial
assets
Group £000
Cost at 2 June 2007, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 1,479
Provision at 2 June 2007, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 (1,130)
Net book value at 2 June 2007, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 349
Intra- Shares Available for
group in group sale financial
loans undertakings assets Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost at 2 June 2007 and 31 December 2007 65,945 6,038 899 72,882
Additions in the year - 64,900 - 64,900
Cost at 31 December 2008 65,945 70,938 899 137,782
Provision at 2 June 2007 and 31 December 2007 (62,583) - (550) (63,133)
Net book value at 2 June 2007 and 31 December 2007 3,362 6,038 349 9,749
Net book value at 31 December 2008 3,362 70,938 349 74,649 NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 51
11 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP AND OTHER COMPANIES continued
At 31 December 2008 the Company had a beneficial interest in the equity of the following subsidiary undertakings:
Nature of Percentage Country of Class of share
operations holding incorporation capital held
EURL New Com Immobilier** Holding Company 100% France Ordinary
Pace Advanced Consumer Electronics Limited Dormant 100% UK Ordinary
Pace Asia Pacific Limited*** Administrative/
development support 100% Hong Kong Ordinary
Pace Distribution GmbH Dormant 100% Germany Ordinary
Pace Distribution (Overseas) Limited Holding Company 100% UK Ordinary/
Preference
Pace Micro Technology (HK) Limited Holding Company 100% Hong Kong Ordinary
Pace Micro Technology (Australia) Pty Limited Administrative/
development support 100% Australia Ordinary
Pace Americas Limited*** Administrative/
development support 100% UK Ordinary
Pace Americas, Inc Trading 100% USA Ordinary
Pace Micro Technology (Asia Pacific) Limited* Dormant 100% Hong Kong Ordinary
SCI Les 9 Tilleuls** Property Company 100% France Ordinary
Pace Europe SAS*** Administrative/
development support 100% France Ordinary
Pace Micro Technology GmbH Administrative/
development support 100% Germany Ordinary
Pace Micro Technology (India) Private Ltd*** Development support 100% India Ordinary
Pace Overseas Distribution Limited*** Trading 100% UK Ordinary
Pace France SAS Trading 100% France Ordinary
Pace USA Inc**** Trading 100% USA Ordinary
Pace Belgium NV $ Trading 100% Belgium Ordinary
Pace Asia Home Networks Sdn BHD $ Trading 100% Malaysia Ordinary
Pace Networks Limited $ Trading 100% UK Ordinary
Pace Brasil – Industria Electronica e Comercio Ltda $ Trading 100% Brazil Ordinary
Pace Iberia SL $ Trading 100% Spain Ordinary
STB Anchor Mexicana SA DE CV $ Trading 100% Mexico Ordinary
Pace China Operations # Administrative 100% China Ordinary
* Denotes company owned by Pace Micro Technology (HK) Limited
** Denotes company owned by Pace Europe SAS
*** Denotes company owned by Pace Distribution (Overseas) Limited
**** Denotes company owned by Pace Americas Limited
$ Denotes company owned by Pace France SAS
# Denotes company owned by Pace Asia Pacific Limited
Each of the subsidiary undertakings listed above has been consolidated in the Group’s financial statements. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 52
12 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of differences between accounting and tax carrying values and trading
losses where it is probable that these assets will be recovered. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below:
Short term
Property, plant Trading Timing Foreign
& equipment losses Intangibles Differences Exchange Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Recognised asset/(liabilities) 
At 31 December 2007 2,539 4,154 (2,717) 1,083 - 5,059
Arising on acquisition - - (11,910) - - (11,910)
Credited/(charged) to
income statement (1,220) (829) (1,106) 458 - (2,697)
Credited/(charged) to
equity/reserves - - - (606) 1,540 934
At 31 December 2008 1,319 3,325 (15,733) 935 1,540 (8,614)
Shown as deferred
tax assets 1,319 3,325 - 935 1,540 7,119
Shown as deferred
tax liabilities - - (15,733) - - (15,733)
Short term
Property, plant Trading Timing Foreign
& equipment losses Intangibles Differences Exchange Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Recognised asset 
At 31 December 2007 2,539 4,154 (2,717) 1,083 - 5,059
Credited/(charged) to
income statement (1,220) (829) 488 (416) - (1,977)
Credited/(charged) to
equity/reserves - - - (606) 1,540 934
At 31 December 2008 1,319 3,325 (2,229) 61 1,540 4,016
There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets at the period end in respect of unutilised trading losses.
13 INVENTORIES
Group Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Raw materials and consumable stores 3,686 3,589 2,306 3,589
Finished goods 53,543 25,079 5,699 25,079
57,229 28,668 8,005 28,668 NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 53
14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 225,192 99,508 154,171 99,475
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings - - 32,142 -
Other receivables 3,772 1,651 - 1,563
Prepayments and accrued income 2,045 1,223 1,672 1,014
231,009 102,382 187,985 102,052
15 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables 231,632 59,620 156,300 59,435
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - - - 4,231
Social security and other taxes 943 586 613 437
Other payables 234 853 1,161 481
Accruals 45,909 11,566 15,658 10,392
278,718 72,625 173,732 74,976
16 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Borrowings consist mainly of bank loans
and overdrafts falling due:
Within one year - (12,094) - (13,146)
Banking facilities of £35 million are available until December 2011 and consist of a revolving credit facility secured by a fixed
and floating charge over the assets of Pace plc and its subsidiary undertakings. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 54
17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Short term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability respectively have been excluded from
all the following analysis, other than the currency risk exposures. 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group and Company’s interest bearing loans and borrowings
(note 16). For more information about the Group and Company’s exposure to interest rate, credit risk and foreign currency
risk, see pages 9 and 10 of the Report of the Directors.
(a) Interest rate risk profile of cash/bank overdrafts
Floating rate Interest free Total
Currency £000 £000 £000
At 31 December 2008:
Sterling 15,717 9 15,726
US Dollar 10,279 1 10,280
Euro 4,402 1 4,403
Other 7,308 - 7,308
Total 37,706 11 37,717
At 31 December 2007:
Sterling 3,344 3 3,347
US Dollar (7,791) - (7,791)
Euro (8,068) 97 (7,971)
Other 321 - 321
Total (12,194) 100 (12,094)
The interest rates on Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and other floating rate financial assets are linked to the relevant bank base
rates.
(b) Currency exposures
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the
income statement. Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group which are not
denominated in the operating or functional currency of the operating unit involved.
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
Functional currency of £STL US Dollar Euro Other Total
group operation £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 December 2008:
Sterling (102,555) 7,542 137 (94,876)
Euro (3,543) (44,928) - (271) (48,742)
Other - - - -
Total (3,543) (147,483) 7,542 (134) (143,618)
At 31 December 2007:
Sterling 2,229 15,897 74 18,200
Total 2,229 15,897 74 18,200
(c) Gains and losses on currency derivatives
The majority of the Group’s production costs are denominated in US Dollars. The Group endeavours to obtain as much of its
income as possible in US Dollars but a significant proportion of income is currently received in Sterling or Euros. The Group’s
policy is to hedge forward progressively against movements in the value of foreign currencies, in respect of cash receipts and
payments expected from transactions over the next 12 months. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 55
17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Outstanding currency derivatives:
Sell Buy Principal Average
Currency Currency Amount Rate Maturity
At 31 December 2008: Euro US Dollar $198.7m 1.39 Jan 09-Dec 09
At 31 December 2007: Euro US Dollar $64.8m 1.40 Jan 08-Apr 08
The Group’s derivatives contracts qualify for hedge accounting and have a fair value at the balance sheet date of £5.0m
(31 December 2007: £1.7m).
(d) Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade debtors. Credit risk is managed by monitoring the aggregate
amount and duration of exposure to any one customer depending upon their credit rating. The Group does not require
collateral in respect of financial assets. There were no significant impairments in the periods under review.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because counterparties are banks with high credit ratings. At each balance sheet
date there was no significant concentration of credit risk.
Of the trade receivables at 31 December 2008 93% was within terms (31 December 2007: 85%). The balance was less than
30 days past due (31 December 2007: 15%).
(e) Liquidity risk
Cash resources are largely and normally generated through operations. Short term flexibility is achieved by the asset based
lending facilities in place (note 16).
(f) Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short term fluctuations on the Group’s
earnings. Over the long term, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consoli-
dated earnings. The Directors consider that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates at any period end would not have
a material impact on cash flows.
The Group’s key foreign exchange exposures are in respect of the Euro and US Dollar. A 1% strengthening in Sterling against
these would have a favourable impact of £1,355,000 on the profit reported in the year ended 31 December 2008 (seven month
period ended 31 December 2007: £401,000) and an adverse impact of £925,000 on equity (seven month period ended 31
December 2007: £10,000).
(g) Capital management
In line with the disclosure requirements of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, the Company regards its capital as
being the issued share capital together with its asset based lending facilities, used to manage short term working capital 
requirements.
Note 19 to the Financial Statements provides details regarding the Company’s share capital and movements in the period.
There were no breaches of any requirements with regard to any relevant conditions imposed by either the UKLA or the 
Company’s Articles of Association during the periods under review.
Details of the Company’s working capital facilities are given in Note 16. Such facilities are subject to certain financial 
performance covenants. There have been no breaches of these covenants in the period under review. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 56
18 PROVISIONS
Royalties
under 
negotiation Warranties Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Group
At 31 December 2007 9,208 8,408 - 17,616
Acquisitions - 9,783 1,438 11,221
Net charge for the year 206 13,903 3,456 17,565
Utilised (603) (13,139) - (13,742)
Exchange adjustments - 2,493 367 2,860
At 31 December 2008 8,811 21,448 5,261 35,520
Due within one year - 12,693 5,261 17,954
Due after one year 8,811 8,755 - 17,566
Royalties
under 
negotiation Warranties Total
£000 £000 £000
Company
At 31 December 2007 9,208 8,408 17,616
Net charge for the year 206 7,433 7,639
Utilised (603) (8,907) (9,510)
At 31 December 2008 8,811 6,934 15,745
Due within one year - 6,934 6,934
Due after one year 8,811 - 8,811
Royalties under negotiation
The owners of patents covering technology allegedly used by the Group have indicated claims for royalties relating to the
Group’s use (including past usage) of that technology. Negotiations over these liabilities continue for long periods of time. The
directors have made provision for the potential royalties payable based on the latest information available. Having taken legal
advice, the Board considers that there are defences available that should mitigate the amounts being sought. The Group will
vigorously negotiate or defend all claims but, in the absence of agreement, the amounts provided may prove to be different
from the amounts at which the potential liabilities are finally settled.
Given the nature of the claims it is not possible to be more specific with regard to the timing of outflows.
The directors consider that to disclose the amounts unused following the negotiation of royalty claims during the year would
be seriously prejudicial to other royalty claims under negotiation, in litigation or dispute. Accordingly the directors have
aggregated amounts released unused with additional provisions made in order to arrive at the net charge for the year shown
above.
Other provisions
Other provisions relate to onerous leases and restructuring provisions in relation to the restructuring of the Pace Europe
business.
Warranties
Pace provides product warranties for its set-top boxes from the point of sale and a provision for warranties is recognised when
the underlying products are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty data, principally historical failure rates and
related cost of repair information, and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. The level
of warranty provision required is reviewed on a product by product basis and provisions adjusted accordingly in the light of
actual performance.
Although it is difficult to make accurate predictions of potential failure rates or the possibility of an epidemic failure, as a
warranty estimate must be calculated at the outset of product shipment before field deployment data is available, these
estimates improve during the lifetime of the product in the field.
It is expected that the expenditure with regard to warranties will be incurred within three years of the balance sheet date. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 57
19 SHARE CAPITAL
31 December 2008 31 December 2007  
Number £000 Number £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p each 300,000,000 15,000 300,000,000 15,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 298,970,953 14,949 233,682,856 11,684
On 21 April 2008 the Company alloted 64,481,049 ordinary shares at their market value at the date as part of its consideration
for the purchase of the set-top box and connectivity solutions business of Royal Philips Electronics (“Pace France”). The
shares had a nominal value of £3,224,052 and a total market value of £58,517,000.
During the year, the Company also allotted ordinary shares as follows:
Nominal
value Consideration
Number £000 £000
Employee share option scheme (32 pence) 314,417 16 100
Employee share option scheme (48 pence) 33,770 2 16
Employee share option scheme (59.5 pence) 218,994 11 130
Employee share option scheme (49 pence) 4,928 - 2
Employee share option scheme (46 pence) 3,097 - 1
Employee share option scheme (15.75 pence) 20,000 1 3
Employee share option scheme (58 pence) 211,842 10 123
807,048 40 375 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 58
19 SHARE CAPITAL continued
The Company has granted options which are subsisting (including directors’ options) in respect of the following presently
unissued ordinary shares of 5p each.
Number of ordinary Price per share
shares subject to option Exercise period pence
89,370 1 October 2008 to 31 March 2009 59.5
336,857 1 April 2009 to 30 September 2009 49.0
894,831 1 December 2009 to 30 May 2010 46.0
532,812 1 October 2010 to 31 March 2011 82.0
841,121 1 October 201 to 31 March 2012 67.0
206,470 11 May 2009 to  7 August 2009 73.0
175,000 7 July 2002 to 6 July 2009 200.0
231,935 11 January 2003 to 10 January 2010 599.5
68,169 17 July 2003 to 16 July 2010 857.5
13,137 29 January 2004 to 28 January 2011 610.0
105,000 24 July 2005 to 23 July 2011 375.0
144,623 24 July 2004 to 23 July 2011 375.0
22,337 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2012 357.0
231,250 22 October 2003 to 21 October 2012 15.75
60,000 26 August 2004 to 25 August 2013 51.0
100,000 3 February 2005 to 2 February 2014 75.0
25,000 17 August 2008 to 16 August 2014 51.0
115,000 17 August 2005 to 16 August 2014 51.0
250,000 23 January 2009 to 22 January 2016 63.25
425,000 2 August 2008 to 1 August 2015 74.25
2,891,513 2 October 2009 to 1 October 2016 58.75
75,000 28 November 2009 to 27 November 2016 61.25
50,000 19 February 2010 to 18 February 2017 69.5
75,000 16 March 2010 to 15 March 2017 66.5
588,746 1 November 2012 to 31 October 2017 97.75
1,988,424 24 June 2011 to 23 June 2013 85.5
1,605,889 24 June 2011 to 23 June 2018 85.5
715,581 24 June 2012 to 23 June 2014 85.5
227,354 24 June 2012 to 23 June 2014 85.5
300,000 18 December 2012 to 17 December 2018 47.0
82,560 18 December 2011 to 17 December 2018 47.0
13,468,279
The Pace Micro Technology plc Employee Benefits Trust has granted options over existing shares to satisfy certain options.
Details of these additional options are shown in note 25. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 59
20 SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
Group and Company £000
At 31 December 2007 36,885
Premium on allotments 138
At 31 December 2008 37,023
The shares allotted during the year are listed in note 19.
21 MERGER RESERVE
Group and Company £000
At 31 December 2007 -
Acquisition 55,490
At 31 December 2008 55,490
The merger reserve was created upon the acquisition of the set-top box and connectivity solutions business of Royal Philips
Electronics (note 29).
22 RETAINED EARNINGS
Group £000
At 31 December 2007 18,608
Retained profit for the year 11,054
Deferred tax adjustments (606)
Employee share incentive charges 1,011
Purchase of own shares (2,822)
At 31 December 2008 27,245
Company £000
At 31 December 2007 13,964
Retained profit for the year 9,311
Deferred tax adjustments (606)
Employee share incentive charges 1,011
Purchase of own shares (2,822)
At 31 December 2008 20,858
Own shares held
The following amounts have been deducted from the retained reserves of the Group and Company.
At 31 December 2008 the Pace Micro Technology plc Employee Benefits held 11,615,707 (31 December 2007: 4,535,955)
shares in the Company which cost £21,442,225  (31 December 2007: £18,996,738). These shares are held to satisfy options
granted to employees.
The amounts arising on settlement of share options from the employee share trusts represents cash receipts from the
exercise of relevant share options. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 60
22 RETAINED EARNINGS continued
The Pace Micro Technology plc Employee Benefits Trust has granted options to employees (including directors’ options) over
ordinary shares of 5p each as follows:
Number of ordinary Price per share
shares subject to option Exercise period pence
360,919 26 January 2002 to 25 January 2009 84.5
172,500 7 July 2002 to 6 July 2009 200.0
11,098 17 July 2001 to 16 July 2010 857.5
106,343 29 January 2002 to 28 January 2011 610.0
545,037 26 August 2004 to 25 August 2013 51.0
357,500 17 August 2005 to 16 August 2014 51.0
625,000 2 August 2008 to 16 August 2015 74.25
600,000 18 April 2009 to 17 April 2016 63.5
2,557,237 2 October 2009 to 1 October 2016 58.75
546,075 3 April 2010 to 2 April 2017 73.25
5,881,709
23 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
The parent Company has taken advantage of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not included its own income
statement in these financial statements. The Group profit includes a parent Company profit after tax of £9,311,000 (seven
months ended 31 December 2007: profit after tax of £14,472,000).
24 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group and Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000
Contracted but not provided for 1,713 1,058 NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 61
25 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension plans
The Group contributes to several defined contribution Group Personal Pension Plans, which all executive directors and
employees are entitled to join. The total expenses relating to these plans in the current year was £1,412,000 (seven months
ended 31 December 2007: £580,000). At 31 December 2008 contributions of £Nil (31 December 2007: £Nil) were outstanding.
Share based payments 
Details of the Company’s share option schemes are included in notes 19 and 22 and the Remuneration Report. The number
and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
Average Weighted Average Weighted
Exercise Number Exercise Number
Price of Options Price of Options
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2007 
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 91.7p 16,478,998 91p 18,492,508 
Granted during the period 80p 6,031,377 89p 1,335,787
Forfeited during the period 128p (1,733,588) 140p (1,454,189)
Exercised during the period 54p (1,456,799) 45p (1,895,108)
Outstanding at the end of the period 87.6 19,319,988 91.7p 16,478,998
Exercisable at the end of the period 149p 3,939,381 168p 3,836,317
Outstanding options were as follows:
Weighted
average Weighted
remaining average
Number contractual exercise
Range of exercise prices (pence) at 31 Dec 2008 life months price
15.75p to 49p 1,845,498 39 43p
51p to 75p 10,434,323 81 62p
78p to 97.75p 5,990,025 106 86p
200p to 375p 619,460 17 276p
599.5p to 857.5p 430,682 17 650p
19,319,988 81
The weighted average exercise price of options granted in the period was 80p (year ended 31 December 2007: 89p).
The weighted average fair value at the measurement date of options granted in the year was 37p (year ended 31 December
2007: 37p).
The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for options exercised in the year was 54p (year ended 31 December
2007: 45p).
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share
options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-Scholes model. The
following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown. Expectations of early
exercise are incorporated into the model, where appropriate. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 62
25 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
Average share price (pence) 78.5 97.0
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 87.6 91.7
Expected volatility (%) 50% 50%
Option life (years) 10 10
Dividend yield (%) 1.4 1.4
Risk free interest rate (%) 5.0% 5.0%
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share
options), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The charge for share based payments in respect of share options is £1,011,000  (seven months ended 31 December 2007:
£570,000) which is comprised entirely of equity settled transactions. 
26 LEASING COMMITMENTS
Total amounts payable under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are as follows:
Group Company
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Land and buildings
Within one year 5,524 1,097 756 812
Between two and five years 9,840 3,306 2,776 2,774
In five years or more 2,082 2,712 2,082 2,712
17,446 7,115 5,614 6,298
Other
Within one year - 4 - 4
Between two and five years - - - -
- 4 - 4
17,446 7,119 5,614 6,302
27 CONTINGENCIES
A writ has been issued against the Company by a former customer relating to the supply of set-top boxes in 2000/2001. The
amount claimed is circa $7.2m. The Directors believe that they have good defences to the claim and that, in the absence of
any liability, no provision has been made. In addition on 15 July 2007 Pace filed a counter claim for circa $10m against this
former customer and a related third party.
EU Import duty classification
Pace, along with other set top box manufacturers and broadcasters, has continued to monitor the re-interpretation by
European Union customs authorities of customs regulations that could result in the extension of import duties to interactive
set-top boxes with hard drives manufactured outside, but imported into, the EU.  On 7th May 2008 the Nomenclature
Committee of the European Commission issued an Explanatory Note “EN” (0590/2007) to the Combined Nomenclature setting
out their view that set-top boxes with a hard drive should be classified under Customs Tariff heading 8521 90 00 and so
subject to a 13.9% ad valorem duty on importation to the European Union.  As a consequence, Pace is potentially exposed to
a retrospective Customs Duty liability in respect of such set-top boxes it has imported.
Having previously obtained Binding Tariff Information (“BTI”) rulings from HMRC, which provide protection in respect of much
of the potential period of retrospective application of duty on relevant products and having taken legal advice, Management’s
opinion is that the retrospective application of the Explanatory Note would not be supportable in law.  Accordingly Pace is in
common with other affected importers, appealing any retrospective assessment made and will defend its position on 
this matter.
As of the date of this announcement, an assessment has been received from HMRC in an amount of £7.7m representing
import duty relating to imports prior to 7 May 2008.  Having taken advice, management’s best estimate is that no material
outflow of economic benefit would be required to discharge this obligation.  As such, at 31 December 2008 any potential
liability should be considered contingent. NOTES
CONTINUED
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 63
28 RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties 
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its Directors.
Transactions with subsidiaries 
The main transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries consist mainly of payments by the Company for distribution
engineering and administrative support services provided by Pace Americas Inc., Pace Europe SAS and Pace Micro Technology
(India) Private Ltd . Total transactions of £215.1m were made in the year. 
The amounts due to and from these subsidiaries are shown within notes 14 and 15. 
Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management of the Group is through the executive directors of the Company. The main transactions with these individuals
are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 26. 
Of the share option charge of £1,011,000 made in the period, 33% relates to options granted to the executive directors. 
29 ACQUISITION IN THE PERIOD
The acquired business in the year relates to the set-top box and connectivity solutions business of Royal Philips Electronics
(“Pace France”).  Pace France employs approximately 335 staff predominantly based in France and is a leading designer and
supplier of a range of digital TV products including satellite, cable, terrestrial and IPTV set-top box products.  A 100% interest
was purchased on 21st April 2008.
The consideration payable is made up of:
£000
Shares issued (64,481,049) at market value 58,517
Deferred and contingent consideration 3,937
Acquisition fees 3,134
Acquisition consideration payable 65,588
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method as required by IFRS 3. 
The integration exercise has concentrated to date on maximising the profitability and operating efficiency of Pace France. 
The acquisition date fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired and goodwill and intangible assets arising was as follows:
Fair value
of net assets/
Book value Fair value (liabilities)
prior to acquisition adjustments acquired
£000 £000 £000
Intangible fixed assets – development expenditure 16,450 (6,841) 9,609
Intangible fixed assets - other - 21,640 21,640
Tangible fixed assets 2,212 - 2,212
Deferred tax liability (5,758) (3,733) (9,491)
Current assets 70,964 - 70,964
Current liabilities (70,516) (1,171) (71,687)
Non-current liabilities (9,658) (1,563) (11,221)
Total net assets acquired 3,694 8,332 12,026
Goodwill recognised 53,562
Total investment cost 65,588
The fair value adjustments include an adjustment to capitalised development expenditure to align accounting methodologies
and the establishment of provision for onerous lease and warranty costs. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 64
29 ACQUISITION IN THE PERIOD continued
The other intangible assets consist of balances relating to trademarks and licence agreements, and customer contracts and
relationships.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition is attributable to the skills and talent of the acquired business workforce, and the
synergies expected to be achieved from integrating the business into the existing business.
From the date of acquisition (21 April 2008) to 31 December 2008, the contribution of Pace France to the Group results was
as follows:
£000
Revenue 292,909
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items 8,400
Proforma results for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008, on the basis that the acquisition had been made at
the beginning of the period, are as follows:
£000
Revenue 865,020
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items 27,077
The above figures do not include the amortisation of the separately identified intangibles, which consists of a £3,715,000
charge in the period to 31 December 2008. The intangible assets are being amortised over various periods ranging from one
year to five years.
30 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 
There are no significant or disclosable post balance sheet events. PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 65
DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY
all of Victoria Road  Saltaire  BD18 3LF  England Anthony John Dixon
Robert Michael McTighe Non-executive Chairman
Neil Gaydon Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Andrew Hall Chief Financial Officer
David Alyn McKinney Chief Operating Officer
Patricia Chapman-Pincher Non-executive Director
John Grant Non-executive Director
Michael Inglis Non-executive Director
FINANCIAL ADVISERS AUDITORS REGISTRARS STOCKBROKERS
NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd KPMG Audit Plc Capita Registrars Ltd RBS Hoare Govett Limited
1 Park Row 1 The Embankment Northern House 250 Bishopsgate
Leeds Neville Street Woodsome Park London
LS1 5NR Leeds Fenay Bridge EC2M 4AA
LS1 4DW Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
DIRECTORS, SECRETARY AND ADVISERS
REGISTERED AND HEAD OFFICE
Victoria Road
Saltaire
BD18 3LF
England
Registered Number 1672847 PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 66
Year 7 months Year Year Year
ended ended ended ended ended
31 Dec 31 Dec 2 June 3 June 4 June
2008 2007 2007 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 745,475 249,875 386,513 178,095 253,326
Profit/(loss) before tax 13,828 15,350 4,925 (27,450) 8,963
Profit/(loss) before exceptional items
amortisation and tax 28,505 15,350 6,133 (15,562) 9,108
Profit/(loss) after tax 11,054 14,415 6,766 (28,784) 13,680
Diluted EPS/(LPS) 3.9p 6.1p 3.0p (13.0)p 6.2p
Diluted EPS/(LPS) before exceptional 
items and goodwill amortisation 7.8p 6.1p 3.0p (7.6)p 6.1p
Total equity attributable to equity   
holders of the parent excluding
goodwill 67,592 58,166 41,501 33,031 60,316
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 22 April 2009, at the Company’s head office, Victoria Road,
Saltaire, West Yorkshire BD18 3LF. 
Capita Registrars
Enquiries regarding shareholdings, change of address or other particulars should be directed in the first instance 
to the Company’s Registrars, Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA, 
or by telephone on 0870 162 3131. They also provide a range of online shareholder information services at
www.capitashareportal.com where shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring 
shares or updating their details. 
Multiple Accounts on the Shareholder Register
If you have received two or more copies of this document, this means that there is more than one account in your name on
the shareholder register . This may be caused by either your name or address appearing on each account in a slightly different
way. For security reasons, the Registrars will not amalgamate the accounts without your consent. If you would like any
multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Capita Registrars at the address given above. 
Unsolicited Mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations,
which may use it as a mailing list, resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. Shareholders wishing to limit the
receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS, or
call +44 (0) 20 7291 3310 for an application form or visit www.mps-online.org.uk 
Pace Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.pace.com, which has a wealth of information about the Company.
FIVE YEAR RECORD AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Pace plc, Victoria Road, Saltaire BD18 3LF UK
Tel: +44 (0) 1274 532000 Fax: +44 (0) 1274 532010
MKT-R&A08DE
