 Annual report and accounts 2010
We’ve come  
a long way...
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac Services Limited
117 Jermyn Street
London SW1Y 6HH
United Kingdom
T +44 20 7811 4900 
F +44 20 7811 4901
www.petrofac.com Designed and produced by
CONRAN DESIGN GROUP +44 (0)20 7284 5200
Photography by Sam Robinson. 
This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and Revive Pure  
White Uncoated paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the  
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
...but the journey 
is just beginning In 2011, Petrofac turns 30. In three decades  
we have grown from a Texas-based producer  
of modular plant to a leading FTSE 100 company, 
with 13,900 people in 26 countries, providing 
integrated facilities solutions across the life cycle  
of oil & gas assets.
We are planning to make the coming decades 
even better. By continuing to learn, evolve and 
innovate and by staying focused on execution 
and delivery, we will go on developing our 
capabilities and service offering – for the  
benefit of all our stakeholders.
1    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 2    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Five year summary
1
Information not subject to audit
2010 2009
Restated
2008 2007 2006
Revenues
2
4,354.2 3,655.4 3,329.5 2,440.3 1,863.9
EBITDA
2
759.4 549.7 419.0 301.3 198.3
Profit for the year
2,3
557.8 353.6 265.0 188.7 120.3
Diluted earnings per share (cents)
2
162.46 103.19 77 .11 54.61 34.87
Total assets 3,601.3 3,600.6 2,269.8 1,748.0 1,401.8
Total equity 779.1 897.5 559.0 523.0 324.9
Number of employees at year end
2
13,900 11 ,700 11 , 100 9,800 8,100
Backlog 11,699 8,071 3,997 4,441 4,1 73
1 In US$ millions unless otherwise stated. 2 On continuing operations. 3 Attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Financial highlights
Revenue 
US$4,354m 2009: US$3,655m
+ 19%
Backlog
US$11,699m 2009: US$8,071m
+45%
Earnings per share (diluted)
162.46 cents per share  
2009: 103.19 cents per share
+57 %
EBITDA 
US$759.4m 2009: US$549.7m
+38%
Net profit
3
 
US$557.8m 2009: US$353.6m
+58%
Return on capital employed
2009: 46.9%
65.2%
EPS (diluted)
Cents per share 
162.46
34.87
06 07 08 09 10
54.61
77.11
103.19
162.46
Backlog
US$ millions 
11,699
4,173
06 07 08 09 10
4,441
3,997
8,071
11,699
Revenue
US$ millions 
4,354
1,864
06 07 08 09 10
2,440
3,330
3,665
4,354
EBITDA
US$ millions 
759
198
06 07 08 09 10
301
419
550
759
Net profit
US$ millions
558
120
06 07 08 09 10
189
265
354
558 3    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac delivered another outstanding 
performance in 2010. The group achieved  
growth of 58% in net profit
1
 (26% on a  
like-for-like basis
2
) and revenue increased  
by 19% to US$4.4 billion.
We won significant new contracts across many 
countries. During the year our order intake has 
resulted in achieving a record year-end backlog  
of US$1 1.7 billion, providing outstanding visibility  
of revenue for well beyond the coming year.
Petrofac’s success – and our strategic goal  
of becoming the leading provider of facilities 
solutions to the oil & gas industry – is built on  
the following priorities:
Record-breaking results
Contents
maintaining and improving our  ■ ■
high safety and integrity standards 
wherever we work
providing a range of services across ■ ■
the life cycle of the energy asset
expanding our offering into new ■ ■
regions, prioritising areas with major 
hydrocarbon reserves and significant 
capital and operational expenditures
providing fully integrated services  ■ ■
for resource holders under flexible, 
tailored commercial models, which 
leverage our service capability and 
may include the provision of capital
training and hiring local resources ■ ■
where we operate, to help develop 
national workforces
attracting and retaining recognised ■ ■
specialists and key personnel
identifying, acquiring and growing ■ ■
complementary businesses where 
they expand our skill set and support 
our strategic goals 
 
 
 
 
Notes
1  Net profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
2  Like-for-like net profit growth excludes the gain of US$124.9 million on the EnQuest demerger  
and the trading net profit from Energy Developments’ demerged assets of US$12.7 million for  
the year ended 31 December 2009 and US$2.1 million for the year ending 31 December 2010.
 4  At a glance
 6  Our services
 8  Expansion into new regions...
 10  Building long-term relationships...
 12  Sustained investment...
 14  We seek the best and brightest people...
 16   Chairman’s statement
 18  Interview with the Group Chief Executive
 22 Operating review
 50 Senior management team
 52 Financial review
 68 Directors’ information 
 71 Corporate governance report
  79  Nominations Committee report
  80   Audit Committee report
  82  Risk Committee report
 84 Directors’ remuneration report
 96 Directors’ statements
 97 Independent auditors’ report
 99 Consolidated income statement
 100  Consolidated statement of
  comprehensive income
 101  Consolidated statement of
  financial position
 102 Consolidated statement of cash flows
 103  Consolidated statement of changes
  in equity
 104  Notes to the consolidated financial
  statements
 145  Independent auditors’ report 
(Petrofac Limited)
 146  Company financial statements, 
Petrofac Limited
 159  Oil & gas reserves (unaudited)
 160 Shareholder information
 56 Our CSR strategy...
 58 Marketplace
 60  Health, safety, security and 
  integrity assurance
 62 Environment
 64 Our people
 66 Community
Business review Group financial statements Company financial statements Corporate social responsibility Governance Overview 4    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Engineering & Construction
Highlights
Order intake of US$6.0 billion, including:
  Petrofac’s largest ever award, of 
US$3.4 billion, for the EPC phase of 
our contract with Turkmengas on the 
South Yoloten project in Turkmenistan
  a contract, for more than US$600 
million, for gas sweetening facilities  
for Qatar Petroleum
  two awards for Kuwait Oil Company 
(KOC): a US$400 million contract  
for the installation of gas and oil 
pipelines and a US$430 million  
award for effluent water and  
sea water injection facilities 
  a US$280 million award for the  
SEPAT offshore early production 
system for PETRONAS in Malaysia
Key capabilities
– design and engineering
–  procurement, including inspection  
and logistics of project materials  
and equipment
–  pre-fabrication and on-site 
construction
–  health, safety, security and 
environmental management in  
line with national and international 
regulations
–  quality and integrity assurance  
and control
– project management
–  commissioning and initial  
operations
5,400
  Engineering & 
Construction
  Engineering & 
Construction Ventures
Employees
% of group
% of group
% of group
% of group
Locations
Offshore Engineering & Operations
Highlights
Order intake was US$1.6 billion, including:
  a US$250 million Duty Holder contract 
with the Government of Sharjah to 
provide facilities management services 
for the Sajaa gas plant
  a £500 million award with Total for the 
development of a gas processing plant 
on the Shetland Islands, in our first 
predominantly lump-sum contract  
in the UK, supported by Engineering & 
Construction
  a £40 million contract for the provision 
of engineering services to the UK 
Continental Shelf (UKCS) assets of 
Maersk Oil 
  extensions of existing contracts, 
including a five-year agreement with 
BHP Billiton in the Irish Sea and a 
five-year extension to a contract with 
CNR International in the North Sea 
  two capacity-broadening acquisitions: 
oilfield pressure control equipment 
service and repair company Scotvalve 
Services and metering systems business 
Stephen Gillespie Consultants
 
Key capabilities
–  on and offshore facilities  
management, including the  
Duty Holder service offering
–   offshore engineering and  
construction
–  project management
–   maintenance management  
and support services
–   mechanical services and metering
–   supply of highly competent  
and experienced personnel
+
41%
Net profit US$373.0m
2009: US$265.1m
+
30%
Revenue US$3,254m
2009: US$2,509m
+
34%
Net profit US$17.2m
2009: US$12.8m
+
15%
Revenue US$722m
2009: US$627m
4,400
Employees
Locations
Growth was a key feature of our business in 2010. 
We grew our revenue and profits; extended  
our integrated service offering; moved into  
new countries, and expanded our workforce.  
We now have 13,900 employees and six strategically 
located operational centres: in Aberdeen, Abu Dhabi, 
Chennai, Mumbai, Sharjah and Woking, and a 
further 20 offices worldwide.
2010 performance,  
at a glance 5    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions
Energy Developments
Highlights
  the successful demerger of Petrofac’s 
UKCS assets to create EnQuest PLC, 
in the first demonstration of our  
‘build and harvest’ strategy
  good progress on operational  
assets – Cendor in Malaysia, Ohanet  
in Algeria, Chergui, in Tunisia, and the 
Kyrgyz Petroleum Company refinery,  
in Kyrgyzstan
  a 20% interest acquired in Gateway 
Storage Company to develop the 
Gateway Gas Storage project in the 
East Irish Sea
  acquisition of UK-based CO2DeepStore 
provides investment and services 
capability for CO2 storage projects
  in early 2011, a risk service contract to 
lead the development of the Berantai 
field, signed with PETRONAS,  
in Malaysia
Key capabilities
–  in conjunction with Production 
Solutions, Energy Developments 
provides integrated services for 
resource holders through technical, 
operational, commercial and asset 
management skills
–  projects cover upstream 
developments, both greenfield  
and brownfield, and related energy 
infrastructure projects, and this  
can include the provision of capital
+
2%
Revenue US$355m
2009: US$350m
-15%
Net profit US$27.6m
2009: US$32.4m
-24%
Revenue US$188m
2009: US$249m
+
238%
Net profit US$156.4m
2009: US$46.2m
3,400
Employees
Locations
600
Employees
Locations
Petrofac delivers its services through seven business 
units that make up our four reporting segments.  
In their individual development, they are enabling  
us to become active across the entire value chain 
of the oil & gas industry, to the benefit of our 
customers, our shareholders and our people.
Highlights
Engineering Services:
  utilisation rates rose across all three 
offices – Mumbai, Chennai and Woking
  the acquisition of renewable energy 
specialist TNEI marked our entry into 
the new energy sector
Training Services:
  refurbished and equipped a world-class 
Syrian training centre which we have 
donated to the Syrian Government
  strong growth from international 
markets, including our facilities  
in Russia and Azerbaijan
Production Solutions:
  awarded our first ‘production 
enhancement’ contract by Petrom  
of Romania, for the Ticleni oilfield
  entry into Nigeria, with a strategic 
alliance with, and investment in,  
Seven Energy
Key capabilities
Engineering Services: 
– field development planning 
–  conceptual engineering and  
front end engineering design
–  engineering and procurement  
services
Training Services: 
–  competence-led training in  
safety and technical disciplines 
consultancy and tailored  
management solutions
Production Solutions:
–  production enhancement with  
flexible remuneration options 
–  drilling and well engineering
–  reservoir management and field  
(re)development planning
–  development and delivery of pumping 
and separation technologies 
2010 performance, at a glance
  Engineering Services
 Training Services
 Production Solutions
% of group
% of group
% of group
% of group
Overview 6    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Our services
Petrofac’s range of services meets our customers’ 
needs across the full life cycle of assets. We design 
and build oil & gas facilities; operate, maintain and 
manage facilities and train personnel; enhance 
production; and, where we can leverage our service 
capability, develop and co-invest in upstream 
and infrastructure projects. 
Maintain
 Our people understand the critical issues 
associated with oil & gas infrastructure.  
We provide engineering and construction 
solutions for planned facility modifications 
and upgrades, as well as ongoing 
operations and maintenance support, 
including project management.
Manage
Petrofac has an intimate understanding  
of operations management, having 
pioneered the Duty Holder concept in the 
UK North Sea. We can provide a complete 
managed service, covering production  
and maintenance work, both offshore and 
onshore, to reduce the costs of operating 
and extend the life of the facilities.
Build
Based on our customers’ requirements  
we can deliver our integrated engineering, 
procurement and construction services 
through a variety of contracting models 
ranging from cost-reimbursable contracts  
to billion Dollar lump-sum turnkey projects.
Design
Petrofac’s design capabilities are founded  
on the combination of our extensive 
practical experience with our knowledge  
of the latest technical developments. Our 
skills in project management, conceptual 
engineering and front-end engineering  
and design and our in-depth knowledge  
of construction and production operations 
enable us to optimise development plans  
to better meet our customers’ needs.
Build
Manage
Maintain
Operate
Train
Enhance production
Develop and co-invest
Design
Drilling 
management
D
m
CO2 
sequestration/
capture
Oil & gas 
processing 
facilities
Wind farm
Pipelines
Storage
tanks
Gas 
transmission 
network
Onshore 
compression 
facility
Underground 
reservoir
Offshore 
substation
Off
Floating 
production
LNG liquefaction/
LNG re-gas facilities
Reﬁnery
Offshore 
production
facilities
ge ge
Reﬁnery
Onshore 
substation
Storage of natural 
gas and CO2 7    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Overview Overview
Operate
Petrofac’s breadth of skills and experience in 
production engineering, drilling management 
and operations are combined with our 
commercial flexibility to enable us to provide 
integrated services for oil & gas assets 
under a variety of commercial frameworks.
Train
Our global training operations, which  
include 15 facilities in six countries,  
train around 50,000 delegates annually.  
Our integrated approach enables our  
customers to build more competent, safe 
and efficient workforces to support their 
operations wherever they are in the world.
Enhance production
Petrofac aims to align itself with the interests 
of resource holders. We can do this through 
the creation of commercial structures where 
our remuneration is dependent upon our 
ability to improve production and reservoir 
recovery. This is achieved through the 
deployment of our extensive service 
capabilities and project management skills.
Develop and co-invest
We draw on the extensive capabilities of  
our wider group to provide a fully integrated 
service for resource holders. Our offering 
includes flexible commercial models that are 
aligned to specific customer requirements 
and can include the provision of capital.
Our services
Build
Manage
Maintain
Operate
Train
Enhance production
Develop and co-invest
Design
Drilling 
management
D
m
CO2 
sequestration/
capture
Oil & gas 
processing 
facilities
Wind farm
Pipelines
Storage
tanks
Gas 
transmission 
network
Onshore 
compression 
facility
Underground 
reservoir
Offshore 
substation
Off
Floating 
production
LNG liquefaction/
LNG re-gas facilities
Reﬁnery
Offshore 
production
facilities
ge ge
Reﬁnery
Onshore 
substation
Storage of natural 
gas and CO2 8    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Expansion into 
new regions...
Developing our marketplace
International expansion is core to Petrofac’s 
growth strategy. Moving into new countries 
does much more than boost our short-term 
income. New territories offer the opportunity 
to build new relationships, develop additional 
capabilities and establish new teams; all of 
which help to generate future growth.
In our geographical expansion, as in other 
areas of development, we are advancing in  
a measured and well-planned way. We are 
remaining focused on our core markets of  
the UK Continental Shelf, the Middle East and 
Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent 
States and the Asia Pacific region and, above 
all, quality of execution remains our key priority. 9    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
…opens up  
opportunities for  
future growth
Turkmenistan 
In December we began the 
US$3.4 billion EPC phase of  
the South Yoloten gas field 
development for Turkmengas 
in Turkmenistan.
Nigeria 
In November, we achieved  
a local presence in Nigeria  
by acquiring a 15% interest  
in Seven Energy, a Nigerian 
production and development 
company, whose production, 
processing and transportation 
assets we will help develop.
Iraq 
We established operations  
in Iraq in mid-2010 and began 
working for an international  
oil company to undertake the 
engineering, procurement, 
fabrication and construction 
management services for an 
early production system, which 
we hope will lead to a larger 
contract in the future.
Romania 
In July, we secured our first 
production enhancement 
contract, for the Petrom-owned 
Ticleni oilfield in Romania.  
Our offering includes: drilling 
management, production 
engineering, facilities upgrade 
and training and we are paid a 
tariff per barrel of oil produced 
including an enhanced tariff  
for incremental production.
Overview 10    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Building long-term  
relationships...
Generating value for all our stakeholders
Our broad range of competencies allow  
us to offer an integrated range of services 
across the entire life cycle of oil & gas assets; 
providing customers with the reassurance 
and consistency of having one trusted  
partner for many of their needs. We aim  
to demonstrate how the integrated delivery 
of our services can add significant value  
for resource holders, where they retain full 
ownership of their resources and our returns 
are linked to project delivery, to create perfect 
alignment with their objectives.
The value of our creative approach – to both 
customers and our shareholders – has been 
demonstrated in Malaysia, where we are 
working on a number of important projects 
with PETRONAS, the national oil company. 11    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...by delivering  
creative solutions  
to customers  
and partners
Creative relationships  
at Cendor
During 2010, we secured  
approval for our field development 
programme for the second phase 
of the development of the Cendor 
Block, offshore Peninsular 
Malaysia. Since 2004, Petrofac 
has been a partner, holding  
a 30% interest within a production 
sharing contract, with PETRONAS, 
Kuwait Foreign Petroleum 
Exploration Company (KUFPEC) 
and PetroVietnam.
In early 2011, we won a risk 
service contract to lead the 
development and operation  
of the Berantai field, offshore 
Peninsular Malaysia.  
Our payment is linked to 
performance against such 
measures as costs, timing  
to first gas and sustained  
gas delivery.
As a result Petrofac is now 
responsible for more than  
US$2 billion of offshore 
projects in Malaysia.
In December, PETRONAS 
awarded us a contract for the 
development of the SEPAT 
offshore early production 
system on the east coast of 
Peninsular Malaysia. The award 
marks our first major offshore 
engineering, procurement, 
construction, installation and 
commissioning contract.
Overview 12    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Sustained  
investment... 13    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Building strong foundations for growth
Petrofac is a progressive business focused  
on long-term sustainability. To ensure we  
have a robust foundation and consistent 
approach we are making significant structural 
investments across the organisation. In 2010, 
we began the phased roll out of our new 
Oracle enterprise resource planning  
(ERP) system, TEMPO (Technology to 
EMpower the Petrofac Organisation); 
launched a group-wide customer relationship 
management tool, and, in Saudi Arabia  
Investing in advanced 
technology for  
integrating systems
In November 2010, Petrofac 
began its phased roll out  
of Project TEMPO, our new  
ERP system, and our Indian  
and Malaysian offices were  
the first to ‘go live’.
The next stage will be  
the implementation in  
our UK businesses.
The new resource allows us  
to consolidate core business 
data and replaces more than  
20 existing legacy systems.  
By standardising many 
practices, it will make us  
more productive, efficient  
and responsive to customers. 
The system, which was  
in planning for 18 months,  
has the scalability and 
robustness to support 
Petrofac’s future needs.
...ensures our future  
systems are integrated 
and streamlined
and Abu Dhabi, introduced intranet-supported 
quality management systems. 
Group-wide systems enable us to implement 
unified processes across the Company 
– such as our new global performance 
management capability, which includes a 
common behavioural competence framework 
and clearer visibility of development needs. 
Such consistency helps bind our growing 
international business together and improves 
our customers’ service levels.
Overview 14    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
We seek the best  
and brightest people...
Our differentiating culture
Petrofac’s people are the key to 
our success. 
Our employees believe in and live our 
Company values. Petrofac people are:  
safe, ethical, innovative, cost-conscious, 
responsive to customers and focus 
relentlessly on delivering results. This is not 
just our view; our most recent employee 
survey (2009) showed 91% of participants 
support Petrofac’s values. This strong 
support reflects the high level of employee 
equity, with almost one third being members 
of our share incentive schemes. 
Our common values and purpose do not 
mean we are all the same. We embrace 
diversity: reflecting the international nature  
of our operations and customer base,  
our employees are drawn from more than  
70 nationalities.
As we grow, maintaining the unique 
‘DNA’ of our business and the strength 
of our people’s commitment will be  
central to our continuing success. 15    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
People in Petrofac
Developing our people is  
a business priority. It helps 
retain the best employees  
and ensures we have  
the right technical and 
managerial skills to deliver 
our projects and grow our 
Company. In 2010, our talent 
management programme 
supported every level of 
employee: we introduced 
systems to improve individual 
development plans for all  
staff; designed challenging 
programmes for recent 
graduate recruits; created  
a leadership development 
programme with the London 
Business School and held  
a leadership conference for 
around 70 senior managers.
...and invest  
in their future 
with us
Overview 16    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
2010 has been another very successful year for Petrofac. Our track 
record for delivery, our strategic focus on areas of sustained demand, 
our increasing capabilities and scale and our strong relationships have 
again contributed to record results. Revenue increased by 19% to 
US$4,354 million and net profits rose by 58% to US$557 .8 million. 17    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
The global marketplace
These results were achieved despite 
continuing worldwide economic uncertainty. 
Our performance was assisted by a healthy 
demand for energy during the year, from both 
established and developing economies. The fact 
that many of our customers are national oil 
companies, which have continued to press on 
with capital investment, was also beneficial in 
2010. Notwithstanding, it is important to remain 
very aware of the continuing weakness in the 
world economy. The threat of tightening trade 
barriers and of escalating tensions in volatile 
regions are potential risks to economic growth.
The tragic explosion on the Deepwater Horizon 
drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico last April 
underlined the risks in our industry. The 
resulting spill from the Macondo well and its 
environmental, commercial and political impacts 
are a reminder of the challenges we face every 
day – and the constant need for vigilance. This 
event has changed perceptions of our industry 
and the way it operates, highlighting the 
importance of the relationship between oil 
companies and the contracting industry. 
Our progress in 2010
Key milestones demonstrated the value of our 
clear and consistent strategy during the year. 
Major new business awards – including a 
US$600 million gas sweetening facilities 
contract for Qatar Petroleum and two projects 
for the Kuwait Oil Company, worth a total  
of US$830 million – indicated the strength  
of our service offering.
Other contracts fulfilled long-held strategic 
ambitions. Our contract with Petrom in Romania, 
covering the Ticleni oilfield and its satellite 
fields, for example, marked the first production 
enhancement services contract for our 
Production Solutions business, which has been 
assessing such opportunities for some time. 
During the year we made important step-outs 
into new markets. We began working on 
a new contract marking our entry into Iraq  
and completed the conversion of the second 
phase of the US$3.4 billion contract for  
the South Yoloten field in Turkmenistan. 
New investments supported our strategic 
ambitions. Our alliance with Seven Energy,  
a leading Nigerian production and development 
company, gives us the opportunity to develop 
a local presence in Nigeria. Our commitment 
to extending our service offering saw us buy 
two UK businesses in renewable energy 
(alongside two other complementary 
acquisitions in the year). 
The successful demerging of our UK 
Continental Shelf assets to a new company, 
EnQuest PLC, emphasised the validity of our 
Energy Developments business’ ‘build and 
harvest’ strategy. The demerger was of 
significant commercial benefit to Petrofac 
shareholders, who at the time of demerger 
received one EnQuest share for every  
Petrofac share owned, representing 45% 
ownership of EnQuest PLC at the time of  
its initial public offering.
Supporting our customers
We have continued our policy of maintaining  
a conservative balance sheet, with strong 
cash reserves and minimal debt. We believe 
that such financial strength acts to reassure 
customers that we are here for the long-term.
Our long-term contribution to customers is 
also apparent in our fundamental commitment 
to employing as many local people on our 
projects as we can. In addition, our ability  
to provide training programmes and facilities  
help our customers to create national 
workforces, with indigenous workers  
being equipped for a lifetime’s employment, 
providing economic benefit to individuals  
and their wider communities. 
Building a sustainable business
When a company grows as fast as Petrofac 
has, it is vital that internal processes and 
systems develop accordingly. In 2010 we  
took further steps to ensure that our business 
maintains the efficiency of its core systems.
To enable Petrofac to continue to be led and 
staffed by able and experienced men and 
women, we strengthened our recruitment, 
development and succession planning 
processes across the business.
Working in an exacting industry, in challenging 
conditions and geographies on increasingly 
complex projects, taking risk is an integral  
part of what we do. To manage such risk 
effectively, in 2010, Petrofac’s Board Risk 
Committee again deepened its oversight role 
while the wider business further embedded  
its risk management procedures and systems.
Dividends
The Company proposes a final dividend of 
30.00 cents per ordinary share for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 (2009: 25.10 cents), 
which, if approved, will be paid on 20 May 
2011 to eligible shareholders on the register  
at 26 April 2011. Shareholders who have not 
elected (before 4 March 2011) to receive 
dividends in US Dollars will receive a Sterling 
equivalent of 18.42 pence per ordinary share. 
Together with the interim dividend of 13.80 
cents (2009: 10.70 cents), equivalent to 8.91 
pence, this gives a total dividend for the year  
of 43.80 cents per ordinary share (2009: 35.80 
cents), an increase of 22.3%.
Our Board
Our customers and employees come from 
numerous geographies and cultures: it is 
essential that our Board reflects that diversity. 
In 2010, two new non-executive directors, 
Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao, 
brought valuable fresh experience and ideas to 
our Board. Having directors with a broad range 
of experiences and perspectives enables us to 
learn from each other and grow. This year, we 
complemented that learning with an external 
Board evaluation. One of the outcomes of this 
useful exercise was a commitment to a greater 
focus on strategy; consequently, the time 
devoted to strategic discussion has doubled.
The necessary reinvigoration of the Board has 
continued in 2011, with the addition of Andy 
Inglis, recently appointed Chief Executive of 
Energy Developments and Production 
Solutions and a former BP board director. 
Roxanne Decyk, whose long executive career 
included 11 years with The Royal Dutch Shell 
Group, has recently joined the Board as  
a non-executive director. Norman Murray, 
chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and co-founder 
and former chairman of Morgan Grenfell 
Private Equity Limited has also joined our 
Board and, subject to shareholder approval, 
will succeed me as Chairman following the 
conclusion of the AGM on 13 May. In line  
with Petrofac’s rotation policy, I am stepping 
down after six fascinating and highly enjoyable  
years. I have no doubt that Andy, Norman and 
Roxanne will each make a significant individual 
contribution to the Board and I wish them well.
In another change, Kjell Almskog will also retire 
from the Petrofac Board this year. I would like 
to thank Kjell for his significant contribution 
during his six years on our Board, most 
recently as Senior Independent Director.
Our people
In my time with Petrofac the business has 
changed and grown enormously. What has not 
changed has been the commitment, diligence 
and ownership displayed by our men and 
women. Such attributes may be due to the fact 
that, with more than 30% of employees being 
shareholders or participants in share schemes, 
many do literally ‘own’ the business. I would 
like to pay heartfelt tribute to our people and to 
the professional way they deliver high quality 
solutions to our customers in some of the most 
challenging locations in the world. They have 
created an absolutely exceptional firm.
Outlook
2010 has been an exceptional year for us,  
with a record intake of new orders, which gives 
us outstanding revenue visibility and brings 
exciting opportunities for us to develop our 
capability and to deliver it into new markets.
With this strong financial underpinning, our 
differentiated and competitive offering and  
our proven excellence in project execution,  
we are confident that we will continue to  
deliver superior value for our customers and 
sector-leading returns for our shareholders.
I thank our shareholders, customers and 
suppliers for their support in 2010 and for my 
entire time as Chairman. I am confident that 
Petrofac will continue to deliver outstanding 
performance in the years ahead.
Rodney Chase
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Business review 18    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac’s Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari,  
comments on the progress made by the Company  
during 2010 and its plans for the future.
Interview with the Group Chief Executive 19    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac has delivered another 
exceptional set of results.  
Why was 2010 such a good year?
Many factors played a part: significant 
contract wins, moves into new geographies 
and the successful completion of a number  
of projects. Fundamentally, however, we 
delivered record results once again because 
we remained focused on our customers,  
on attention to detail and on excellence in 
delivery and execution.
What were the highlights?
The year’s highlights, and they occurred  
right across the Petrofac group, were all 
characterised by us breaking new ground.
We reaped the first rewards of our ‘build  
and harvest’ strategy with the demerging  
of our UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) assets  
to EnQuest PLC where they were combined 
with the UKCS assets of Lundin Petroleum 
AB in a separate listed entity. This crystallised 
a significant gain for Petrofac, demonstrated 
the value of our investment model and also 
enabled Petrofac shareholders to participate 
as shareholders in a production and 
development company which has since  
gone on to create even more value as a  
public company.
Commencing work on the second phase  
of the South Yoloten gas processing plant 
construction project in Turkmenistan,  
a new and important market for Petrofac,  
was another milestone. The US$3.4 billion 
engineering, procurement and commissioning 
project is the largest lump-sum turnkey 
contract that we have ever signed. We are 
very pleased to be working with Turkmengas, 
the state-owned national gas company, on 
this project and our initial planning and set-up 
studies have given us confidence that we can 
maintain our high standards and first class 
project delivery for this world-scale project 
which is due to be completed in 2013. 
Our production enhancement services 
contract for the Ticleni oilfield in Romania 
was another breakthrough. The 15-year 
contract, which we estimate will be worth 
US$270 million in the first five years, involves 
us taking full operational responsibility  
for this mature field on behalf of Petrom, 
Romania’s largest oil & gas group. It marks 
both our first production enhancement 
services contract, something we had been 
targeting for some time, and our first project 
in Romania.
Another advance came with our 
appointment by Total to develop the  
Laggan Tormore gas processing plant  
on the Shetland Islands. The £500 million  
award is our first predominantly lump-sum 
engineering, procurement and construction 
contract in the UK, and is a significant award 
for our Offshore Engineering & Operations 
business which will also draw on the  
support of our established Engineering & 
Construction business to deliver the project.
Another great moment was the inauguration 
of Syria’s National Training Centre, the 
country’s first ever oil & gas training facility, 
which we designed, refurbished and 
equipped. The inauguration event coincided 
with our annual investor trip and around  
50 investors and financial analysts were 
present when the Syrian Prime Minister,  
His Excellency Mohammad Naji Ottri, 
inaugurated the facility. Our gift of the centre 
to the Syrian Government, in support of  
its drive to develop more skilled oil & gas 
personnel, was the most significant donation 
we have ever made and emphasised our 
commitment to the communities in which  
we work.
As well as these exciting new projects and 
awards we kept our focus on execution.  
We successfully completed the Ebla gas 
plant in Syria for PetroCanada, two months 
ahead of schedule and have substantially 
completed: the Jihar gas plant in Syria  
for the Hayan Petroleum Company, the 
Harweel cluster development for Petroleum 
Development Oman, the Mina Al-Ahmadi 
refinery pipelines project for Kuwait Oil 
Company and the In Salah Gas compression 
project for Sonatrach, BP and Statoil in Algeria.
Petrofac is changing as it grows.  
In 2010, for example, you extended 
your service offering and moved into 
new countries. What is your growth 
strategy?
Petrofac is still a focused oil & gas business 
operating mainly in the upstream sector.  
We are changing, but in an evolutionary way. 
Our growth strategy has two main elements: 
first, it will be built on deepening our 
competencies in order to become more 
active across the entire value chain. We will 
also continue to pursue opportunities in new 
countries, where we see potential for growth 
and development. 
How do you intend to operate across 
the ‘entire value chain’?
We want to deepen and extend our capability 
so that we can operate much more widely 
across the life cycle of an asset, from concept 
definition and drilling management to 
delivering a turnkey development. 
That process has been under way for some 
time. Our engineering and construction roots 
are now complemented by other strengths, 
such as our strong operations management, 
training and consulting businesses. In 2010, 
our appointment by the Malaysian national oil 
company, PETRONAS to develop the SEPAT 
offshore early production system and our 
move into the field development programme 
for the second phase of the Cendor project, 
also in Malaysia, significantly expanded our 
offshore engineering activity. 
Interview with the Group Chief Executive
Business review 20    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
We believe we can create additional  
value for our customers by integrating 
services and delivering them through a 
different, service-led approach. This will  
give customers the full capability they need  
while enabling them to retain full ownership  
of their resources. 
Our contract to lead the development of the 
Berantai field, which we signed just after the 
year-end, shows the potential for this type  
of integrated service contract and how it can 
generate additional value for both customers 
and for us. We will develop and operate the 
Berantai field offshore Malaysia, again for 
PETRONAS, for seven years after the first 
production of gas. Alongside two local 
partners, we will be responsible for providing 
and integrating a full range of services –  
from design and construction to subsurface 
technical services and operations.
The innovative commercial framework, 
whereby PETRONAS retains full ownership 
of its resources while our returns are linked  
to the delivery of the project, illustrates our 
commercial flexibility and commitment to 
creating true alignment with the objectives  
of resource holders.
Interview with the Group Chief Executive 
continued
How swiftly do you intend to expand 
geographically?
Building foundations in new markets, as we 
did in Turkmenistan, Nigeria and Iraq in 2010, 
is a major focus. To ensure that we get  
it absolutely right for our customers and 
shareholders, we are expanding in a very 
measured way geographically; aiming to  
add a selected number of markets each year. 
In 2010, you made a number  
of relatively small acquisitions.  
Are you actively looking for further 
acquisitions?
We are interested in making acquisitions,  
but only those that fulfil a strong strategic 
rationale or offer real synergies as we grow. 
Our new energy businesses, CO2DeepStore 
Limited, a leading developer of CO2 storage 
projects, and TNEI Services Limited, a 
renewable energy specialist, for instance, 
offer a platform for potential future growth  
in the emerging low carbon world.
As you evolve, how will you maintain 
the core qualities that have made 
Petrofac successful?
In the coming years we expect to recruit many 
thousands more staff. As our organisation 
expands, retaining our unique culture and 
being true to our values will be essential.
This culture or ‘DNA’ encompasses important 
things like taking ownership of problems, 
keeping a relentless focus on project  21    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
“ There is no doubt that in the last 30 years  
Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we stay 
focused on execution and delivery, as I am sure  
we will, we have a fantastic journey ahead.”
execution, being safe and responsive to  
our customers, and maintaining a focus on 
close management of costs. If we get these 
fundamental aspects of our business right 
then we have a strong foundation from which 
to grow.
While we are developing new capabilities  
and executing our differentiated business 
model, particularly in the areas of offshore 
engineering and providing integrated services 
for resource holders, we remain as committed 
to the core activities that have made us 
successful so far. We will go on growing  
our lump-sum turnkey and operations 
management activities in both existing  
and new markets.
You have invested in strengthening 
your internal systems this year with, 
for example, the first roll-out of 
Petrofac’s group-wide enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) system  
and new HR processes. Why was 
this necessary?
Petrofac has grown very fast. Within six years 
of our initial public offering, we have achieved 
more than a seven-fold increase in market 
capitalisation and have more than doubled 
our employee headcount. 
So, our systems must be robust. They must 
allow Petrofac to be consistent and scalable, 
support strong governance and effective risk 
management, and help us to ensure we have 
the right people, with the right skills, both now 
and in the future. 
The strengthening of our corporate functions 
and systems, so they serve as a stronger 
resource for the business, has been a 
continuing priority for a number of years. 
Throughout this process, we have identified 
what is already working well and have acted 
to enhance it and spread best practice 
throughout the organisation. Central to this 
development is the implementation of our 
new ERP system ‘TEMPO’ (Technology to 
EMpower the Petrofac Organisation), but  
this was not simply imposed on the business, 
instead we chose the very best processes 
from those already operating in the business 
and tailored the system around them. We  
are determined that our corporate functions 
should support our entrepreneurial business 
style, not just be a bureaucratic overlay to it.
Petrofac attracted major oil & gas 
executives to its Board this year,  
in both executive and non-executive 
roles (see page 70 for details). 
What do they bring to the Company?
They bring many things, not least a deep 
knowledge of the industry and a thorough 
understanding of customer needs, having 
come from international oil companies. 
More importantly, they bring experience of 
how some of the world’s most successful 
companies think and work. I am sure that 
they will provide invaluable insights that will 
help us as we continue to develop our own 
organisation.
Our new directors are building on strong 
foundations. I would like to thank our 
outgoing Chairman, Rodney Chase, who  
has led our Board very effectively for six  
years and in this time has made a significant 
contribution to our success. Also retiring from 
our Board at the AGM is Senior Independent 
Director, Kjell Almskog. Kjell has served on 
our Board for six years and I thank him for  
his valued contribution during this time. 
Why are major industry figures 
attracted to Petrofac?
I think we are becoming an increasingly 
attractive employer for staff at all levels. 
People see us as doing things differently  
to others in the industry. They are joining us 
because they want to be part of our success 
and to contribute to our future growth.
What do you believe has 
characterised Petrofac’s success  
to date?
Our success is rooted in our people and our 
culture. We have a great team of exceptional 
individuals who are very motivated and 
driven. They personify the Petrofac culture 
and values. 
The high level of employee share ownership 
also helps explain why we are different –  
and our success. Almost one in three of  
our people participate in one or more of  
our share schemes and I believe that this 
creates a huge degree of alignment between 
employees, the Company and our external 
shareholders: they all share one aspiration  
of building long-term sustainable value. 
Although we have continued to make great 
progress, we remain vigilant to complacency, 
and are focused on continually developing  
our people and evolving our business to  
stay at pace with the changing needs of  
our customers. 
2011 marks the 30th anniversary of 
the foundation of Petrofac and the 
20th anniversary of you joining the 
Company. Can Petrofac remain 
successful over the long-term?
Absolutely! The 2010 Annual Report theme 
– ‘We’ve come a long way but the journey is 
just beginning’ – is absolutely right. Before we 
look forward, I would like to briefly look back 
and thank everyone who contributed to our 
journey over the last three decades, especially 
Ralph Martin, who passed away in February 
this year. As one of Petrofac’s original 
founders Ralph was an inspiration to everyone 
that knew and worked with him. We all miss 
him a great deal. 
There is no doubt that in the last 30 years 
Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we 
stay focused on execution and delivery, as I 
am sure we will, we have a fantastic journey 
ahead. In the coming years, I am confident 
that we will continue to create value for  
our shareholders and maintain our strong 
growth trajectory. I am looking forward to 
participating in this next stage of our journey.
Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive
Interview with the Group Chief Executive
Business review 22    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac’s range of services meets our customers’ 
needs across the full life cycle of oil & gas facilities. 
Our successful track record spans 30 years and 
several hundred projects and is firmly based on  
a partnership approach, an absolute commitment 
to health and safety, and respect and responsibility  
for the communities in which we operate.
Operating review Business review
23    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
We have delivered against a consistent strategy. Our vision  
is for Petrofac to be the global oil & gas industry’s premier 
facilities and infrastructure provider, admired by customers 
and employees for delivering consistently and rewarding 
excellence.
Strategy
This means:
  working to world-class standards
  focusing always on customer satisfaction
  respecting the environment and being 
sensitive to the communities in which  
we work
  promoting and rewarding on merit
Safety and integrity
Services across the asset life cycle
New regions
Integrated services for resource holders
Training and hiring local resources
Attracting and retaining key personnel
Acquiring complementary businesses
We aim to achieve our vision by delivering 
against seven key strategic initiatives.  
Our progress during the year and some  
of our future plans are outlined in the  
following pages:
Our 
strategic 
initiatives
Operating review  24    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Our strategic initiatives
Providing a range of services 
across the life cycle of the 
energy asset
We aim to provide a range of services 
that meet our customers’ needs across 
the life cycle of oil & gas assets. Our 
services include the design and build  
of oil & gas facilities, the operation, 
maintenance and management of 
facilities and personnel training.
Developments during 2010
the award of a contract in October 2010  ■ ■
for the development of the Laggan Tormore 
gas processing plant on the Shetland 
Islands forms part of the strategic growth 
plan for the Offshore Engineering & 
Operations business, being our first 
predominantly lump-sum engineering, 
procurement and construction (EPC) 
contract in the UK Continental Shelf 
(UKCS). We are confident that the 
combination of our UKCS operations, 
maintenance and engineering experience 
and our Engineering & Construction  
EPC track record can deliver success  
in this market
in December 2010, we were awarded a ■ ■
contract for the development of the SEPAT 
offshore early production system on the 
east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. The 
contract represents our first major offshore 
engineering, procurement, construction, 
installation and commissioning (EPCIC) 
contract, and builds upon our  
offshore experience gained on Energy 
Developments’ Don and Cendor projects
through acquisition (see pages 45 and 48 ■ ■
for more detail), we have made the first 
steps to position ourselves in the renewable 
energy and low carbon sectors, which have 
the potential to be a material market for us 
over the long-term
Future milestones
our first major EPC award in the UKCS  ■ ■
and our first significant offshore EPCIC 
contract give us the opportunity to build 
our credentials in these areas
we will continue to review opportunities  ■ ■
to expand our service offering to meet  
our strategic goals
Maintaining and  
improving our high safety 
and integrity standards 
wherever we work
We operate in some difficult and hazardous 
environments and the safety of our people  
is paramount at all times. We aim to provide  
a safe working environment for all operations 
that are designed, constructed, operated, 
managed or supported by Petrofac.
Developments during 2010
we designated 2010 as the Year of Integrity ■ ■
and Quality across our engineering 
businesses and created the role of Director 
of Integrity to champion best practice. 
Technical integrity was also the theme  
of our annual safety seminar, which was 
attended by 90 senior managers, including 
our Group Chief Executive, Group Chief 
Operating Officer and our seven business 
unit managing directors
during the year, our employees and ■ ■
subcontractors completed 76 million 
man-hours (2009: 70 million) of activity.  
Our lost time injury and recordable injury 
frequency rates are key performance 
indicators and are reported on page 29  
and summarised as follows:
our recordable incident frequency rate  ■ ■
for 2010 fell considerably to 0.18 per 
200,000 man-hours (2009: 0.36), which 
compares well with industry published 
data. Our lost time injury frequency rate 
was slightly higher at 0.026 per 200,000 
man-hours (2009: 0.020), after four 
successive years of improvement to 2009
the 2010 lost time statistics above include ■ ■
one fatality, which is detailed on page 60
Future milestones
our health and safety performance is ■ ■
reviewed in full on pages 60 and 61 in  
the corporate social responsibility report. 
Through campaigns such as ‘horizon zero’, 
we are committed to improving our safety 
performance 25    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Developments during 2010
throughout 2010, we worked on  ■ ■
the US$100 million first phase of the  
South Yoloten project for Turkmengas  
in Turkmenistan. Following the successful 
completion of the first phase, we 
commenced the 31.5 month US$3.4 billion 
second phase in late December 2010. 
Turkmenistan is a market where we  
will be able to draw on our extensive 
experience of designing and constructing 
facilities to handle and process sour gas 
(see page 40 for more detail)
we began working on our first major project ■ ■
in Iraq for an international oil company in 
mid-2010, undertaking the engineering, 
procurement, fabrication and construction 
management services for the development 
of a new early production system
While remaining focused on our key markets 
of the UKCS, the Middle East and Africa,  
the Commonwealth of Independent States 
and the Asia Pacific region, we aim to expand 
into new countries and regions that offer 
exciting growth opportunities, particularly 
where they are in close proximity to our 
existing operations.
in November 2010, as well as acquiring a ■ ■
15% interest (12.6% on a fully diluted basis), 
the group entered into a strategic alliance 
agreement with Seven Energy, a Nigerian 
production and development company, to 
assist in the development of its production, 
processing and transportation assets.  
We have been examining how to establish 
an ongoing local presence in Nigeria, a 
high growth market, for a number of years 
and we believe that this partnership gives 
us a platform to do so (see page 45 for  
more detail)
Future milestones
we aim to build upon our positions in ■ ■
Turkmenistan, Iraq and Nigeria over the 
next few years, as we anticipate significant 
capital and operational expenditure in  
these markets
we will continue to look at measured ■ ■
expansion into new countries and regions, 
for example, central Africa
Expanding our offering into 
new regions, prioritising 
areas with major 
hydrocarbon reserves and 
significant capital and 
operational expenditures
Operating review 
Business review 26    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Our strategic initiatives 
continued
Providing fully integrated 
services for resource 
holders under flexible, 
tailored commercial 
models, which leverage 
our service capability and 
may include the provision 
of capital
Drawing on the extensive capabilities  
of the wider group, through our Energy 
Developments and Production Solutions 
business units, we seek to provide fully 
integrated services for resource holders 
under flexible commercial models that 
are aligned to their specific requirements. 
Developments during 2010
a key part of Energy Developments’ ■ ■
strategy is to consider divestment  
(or ‘harvest’) of assets once they have been 
developed. Following the commencement 
of oil production and significant progress 
on commissioning of the production 
infrastructure on the Don fields in the UKCS 
in 2009 and early 2010, we disposed of our 
interests through the EnQuest demerger  
in April 2010, thereby realising significant 
value for our shareholders (see page 46  
for more detail)
through Production Solutions, we secured ■ ■
our first production enhancement contract 
in July 2010 for the Ticleni oilfield and  
its eight satellite fields in Romania.  
Our services will cover a range of 
operations, drilling management, 
production engineering, facilities upgrade 
and training skills to increase production 
through improving recovery rates, 
optimising operational efficiencies  
and investing to upgrade the facilities  
(see page 44 for more detail)
in early 2011, we were awarded a risk ■ ■
service contract (RSC) for the development 
of the Berantai field, offshore Peninsular 
Malaysia. The RSC represents a departure 
from the established production sharing 
contract (PSC) framework in Malaysia.  
We aim to demonstrate how the  
integrated delivery of our services can  
add significant value for resource holders 
under this alternative commercial framework  
(see page 48 for more detail)
Future milestones
we plan to create significant growth in  ■ ■
the group and value for our shareholders 
through the provision of integrated services 
to resource holders
Training and hiring local 
resources where we operate 
to help develop national 
workforces
There is an increasing demand from 
resource holders to use and develop 
local workforces as they seek wider 
economic benefit from the development 
of their energy infrastructure. We  
believe that understanding how to 
harness local resources effectively 
is key to our success.
Developments during 2010
the use of local resources, through  ■ ■
direct employment and the use of local 
subcontractors, is becoming increasingly 
important in many of the countries in which 
we operate. Aided by our training capability, 
we have a long track record of working  
with local workforces and subcontractors
in Turkmenistan, for example, the  ■ ■
in-country team on the South Yoloten 
project has more than 70% local content, 
which represents a significant achievement  
in a country where the development of  
oil & gas reserves is in its early stages
in October, we opened a state-of-the-art ■ ■
technical training centre in Syria, which  
we designed, refurbished and equipped, 
and which we will operate for five years. 
The centre, part of the Syrian Government’s 
commitment to develop competent 
personnel for the growing oil & gas sector, 
has been donated by Petrofac as part of 
our long-term commitment to CSR and 
training (see page 66 for more details)
Future milestones
in late 2010, we commenced training ■ ■
operations at a facility in Hassi Messaoud, 
Algeria. In the years ahead we will  
look to train Algerian workers in piping, 
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation 
disciplines to support our activities in  
the country 27    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Identifying, acquiring and 
growing complementary 
businesses where they 
expand our skill set and 
support our strategic goals
We have acquired 12 businesses in the 
last ten years to broaden our capability. 
Acquisitions have been in the areas of 
training, operations and maintenance, 
well operations management, production 
enhancement and the renewable energy 
and low carbon sectors.
Developments during 2010
in January 2010, we acquired Scotvalve ■ ■
Services Limited (Scotvalve), which 
provides servicing and repair for oilfield 
pressure control equipment. Scotvalve  
is headquartered in Aberdeen, but its 
interests in the Middle East and North 
Africa enable Offshore Engineering  
& Operations to provide repair and 
maintenance services within a wider 
geographic footprint
in April 2010, we acquired Stephen ■ ■
Gillespie Consultants Limited (SGC),  
which designs and manufactures metering 
systems. SGC brings specialist capability 
and systems that will expand and 
differentiate Offshore Engineering & 
Operations’ offering in metering services 
and enable us to provide managed 
solutions for our customers
the acquisitions of TNEI Services Limited ■ ■
(TNEI), a specialist consultancy supporting 
the energy, power and renewable sectors, 
and CO2DeepStore, a company focused 
on the CO2 geological storage sector of  
the carbon capture and storage market, 
represent the first steps in positioning  
us in the renewable energy and low  
carbon sectors (see pages 45 and 48  
for more details)
Future milestones
we will continue to review acquisition ■ ■
targets which broaden and deepen  
the capability of the group
Attracting and retaining 
specialists and key personnel
We are a people business and skilled 
personnel remain in high demand. 
Policies to promote and reward on merit, 
targeted but extensive employee share 
ownership, a portfolio of world-class 
projects and exciting prospects are  
key to our continued success.
Developments during 2010
Petrofac has continued to be successful  ■ ■
in accessing international labour markets, 
including graduates, in particular in the 
Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. 
We grew our headcount from 11,700 at  
the beginning of the year to approximately 
13,900 at 31 December 2010
the capacity and capability of our  ■ ■
largest reporting segment, Engineering  
& Construction, has substantially  
increased over the year, with an increase  
in EPC headcount
1
 from 5,600 to 7 ,000
our share ownership plans play an ■ ■
important role in helping to attract and 
retain key personnel and in encouraging  
a culture of personal responsibility that is  
critical to our success. We extended the 
reach of our share plans during the year, 
and now have around 3,900 participants 
(31 December 2009: 3,000), representing 
around 30% (31 December 2009: 28%)  
of the eligible workforce
Future milestones
we plan to continue to broaden and ■ ■
strengthen our senior management team 
and to grow headcount, particularly in 
Engineering & Construction, through our 
existing operational centres, which will  
be supported by building a second tower 
adjacent to our largest operational centre  
in Sharjah, UAE, and by opening a third 
office in India, in Delhi
1  EPC headcount is defined as headcount of the Engineering & Construction reporting segment and the headcount 
of the Mumbai, Chennai and Jakarta offices that are managed through Engineering Services, but primarily support 
Engineering & Construction.
Operating review 
Business review 28    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Key performance indicators
To help the group assess its performance, the  
Board and executive management set annual  
KPI targets and monitor and assess performance 
against these benchmarks every month.  
Throughout this Business Review, performance  
is assessed against these KPIs, the annual  
measures of which are presented here.
Revenue
Measures the level of operating activity 
and growth of the business.
Revenue for the year as reported in  
the consolidated income statement.
EBITDA
(including the gain on  
the EnQuest demerger)
EBITDA means earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation, amortisation and 
impairment and provides a measure of 
the operating profitability of the business.
EBITDA is calculated as profit before  
tax and net finance income (as per  
the consolidated income statement) 
adjusted to add back charges for 
depreciation, amortisation and 
impairment charges (as per note 3  
to the financial statements).
Net profit  
(excluding the gain on  
the EnQuest demerger)
Provides a measure of the net 
profitability of the business, that is,  
profit for the year attributable to  
Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Profit for the year attributable  
to Petrofac Limited shareholders, 
excluding the gain on the EnQuest 
demerger, as reported in the 
consolidated income statement.
US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions 
08 09 10
3,330
3,655
4,354
08 09 10
419.0 
549.7
759.4
08 09 10
265.0
353.6
433.0 29    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Return on capital 
employed (ROCE)
ROCE is a measure of the efficiency 
with which the group is generating 
operating profits from its capital.
ROCE is calculated as EBITA (earnings 
before interest, tax, amortisation and 
impairment charges, calculated as 
EBITDA less depreciation per note 3  
to the financial statements) divided by 
average capital employed (being total 
equity and non-current liabilities per 
the consolidated balance sheet).
% Cents per share Cash generated  
from operations 
US$ millions
 
Cash conversion 
%
Earnings per share 
(diluted) (EPS)
EPS provides a measure of net 
profitability of the group taking  
into account changes in the capital 
structure, for example, the issuance  
of additional share capital.
As reported in the consolidated income 
statement and calculated in accordance 
with note 7 to the financial statements.
Cash generated from 
operations and cash 
conversion
These KPIs measure both the  
absolute amount of cash generated 
from operations and the conversion  
of EBITDA to cash.
Cash generated from operations is  
as per the consolidated cash flow 
statement; cash conversion is cash  
from operations divided by EBITDA 
(excluding the gain on the EnQuest 
demerger in 2010).
Lost time injury and 
recordable injury 
frequency rates
Provides a measure of the  
safety performance of the group, 
including partners.
Lost time injury (LTI) and recordable 
injury (RI) frequency rates are measured 
on the basis of reported LTI and RI 
statistics for all Petrofac companies, 
subcontractors and partners, expressed 
as a frequency rate per 200,000 
man-hours. We aim to continually 
improve our safety record, but our  
target for these measures is zero.
Backlog
The group uses this KPI as a measure  
of the visibility of future earnings. 
Backlog consists of the estimated 
revenue attributable to the uncompleted 
portion of lump-sum engineering, 
procurement and construction contracts 
and variation orders plus, with regard  
to engineering services and facilities 
management contracts, the estimated 
revenue attributable to the lesser of 
the remaining term of the contract  
and, in the case of life-of-field facilities 
management contracts, five years; 
backlog is not an audited measure; 
other companies in the oil & gas industry 
may calculate this measure differently.
Employee numbers
Provides an indication of the group’s 
service capacity.
For the purposes of the Annual Report, 
employee numbers include agency, 
contract staff and the group’s share  
of joint venture employees.
US$ millions Number of employees Recordable injury  
(rates per 200,000  
man-hours)
Lost time injury  
(rates per 200,000 
man-hours)
08 09 10
52.7
46.9
65.2
08 09 10
77 .11
103.19
162.46
08 09 10
586.6
1,276.3
207.3
08 09 10
140.0
228.3
32.7
08 09 10
0.033
0.020
0.026
08 09 10
3,997
8,071
11,699
08 09 10
11,100
11,700
13,900
08 09 10
0.32
0.36
0.18
Operating review 
Business review 30    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Enterprise risk management 
and key risks
The management of risk is critical to the achievement 
of our corporate objectives. Without a robust risk 
management framework we could not, for example, 
maintain our high safety and integrity standards or 
continue to grow and expand our range of services, 
both technically and geographically.
Over and above the achievement of our 
corporate objectives, the management of  
risk is a crucial element of our competitive 
advantage and the subsequent creation 
and preservation of shareholder value. Our 
commercially-innovative and flexible business 
model, which generates differentiated returns, 
can involve taking on additional risk where  
it can be quantified and managed. As a  
result, efforts to make our enterprise risk 
management system comprehensive and 
robust are given high priority within the group.
The group’s focus on risk was emphasised  
at our 2010 Leadership Conference, where 
senior management made a review of our  
risk management system one of the group’s 
top priorities for 2011. Recommendations  
for change will be presented to the Board  
and outlined in the 2011 Annual Report and 
Accounts. The coming review is especially 
relevant given the 2010 publication of the 
Financial Reporting Council’s new UK code, 
which introduced a number of changes, 
including a more explicit requirement on 
company boards to articulate risk appetite 
and identify the significant risks they are 
prepared to take.
Enterprise risk management system
Our enterprise risk management system is 
designed to ensure that all significant risks 
to our reputation and shareholder value are 
appropriately monitored and mitigated in line 
with the Board’s policy. These risks fall into 
three areas:
industry risks – the systemic exposure to ■ ■
fluctuations in core commodity prices and 
demand for our services. These risks are 
reviewed and managed directly by the 
Board and our senior management team
country risks – the exposure to external ■ ■
country factors that are inherent in  
the environments in which we operate, 
including security, political risk, legal risk 
and transparency, bribery and corruption, 
exchange rates and local infrastructure  
Project teams ensure these risks are 
reviewed and appropriate responses  
are built into the structure of the project 
execution and contracting model,  
wherever possible. Our corporate functions 
monitor this risk environment and the Risk 
Committee of the Board provides additional 
review and oversight. The Board retains 
approval authority for any significant new 
country entry
project-specific risks – pertaining to  ■ ■
the execution of projects including  
technical risk, budget and schedule risk, 
performance guarantee levels, safety risk 
and environmental risk. These risks are 
directly managed by our project teams. 
They are also considered during the risk 
review process, which reviews all new 
business proposals before any formal 
commitments are entered into. Our 
business unit managing directors and  
their management teams report on  
discrete execution risks to the executive 
management team, at the monthly 
Executive Committee (ExCom) meetings.  
A summary of the discrete risks reviewed 
are reported to the Board at each 
scheduled meeting. Through this review 
process, a constant focus on maintaining 
and improving our execution capability  
is ensured
Board level review
The Board has ultimate responsibility for 
managing risk. Its role is to ensure that the 
group defines its risk appetite; maintains  
a sound system of risk management and 
internal controls; and satisfies itself that 
appropriate systems are in place to identify, 
assess and manage key risks, in accordance 
with the terms of the new UK code. 31    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
In order to fulfil its responsibilities, the Board 
receives assurance from the following 
processes and committees:
Direct Board level risk review
The Board directly reviews risk reports from 
each Petrofac business at every scheduled 
Board meeting. These reports cover all areas 
of risk but focus on project execution risks. 
They provide the Board with an update on 
specific discrete risks to our interests and the 
management strategies deployed to mitigate 
them. More details about the risk matrices 
produced by each business and reviewed  
by the Board are found on page 77 .
Risk Committee and Audit Committee
These committees focus on the overall 
balance of risk and the risk management 
systems within the Company.
The Risk Committee is comprised of 
non-executive directors (though executive 
management are in attendance). Its principal 
task is to review and monitor non-financial 
risks and to set policy and review compliance 
of the business in mitigation of these risks. 
The Committee achieves this through the 
approval of policies which are further discussed 
on page 77. To date, the Committee has 
approved three group policies: a Sovereign 
and Financial Market Risk Policy, an Ethical, 
Social and Regulatory Risk Policy, and an 
Operational and Contractual Risk Policy.
The ongoing review of these policies, and  
the consideration of group performance in 
complying with them, represents the Board’s 
primary forum for assessing the effectiveness 
of our risk management framework. For 
example, during 2010 management made  
a number of changes to its commitments  
to monitor and mitigate risk in several areas 
throughout the group, including bribery and 
corruption, sovereign risk, counterparty risk 
and security risk. 
The Audit Committee is also comprised of 
non-executive directors and among other 
responsibilities, it reviews the effectiveness of 
the group’s financial and operational internal 
control systems. Our Internal Audit function 
receives all risk reports that are presented  
to the Board and the Risk Committee and 
shares its findings with the Audit Committee.
Enterprise Risk Committee and  
Group Risk Review Committee
The Enterprise Risk Committee and Group 
Risk Review Committee look at country  
and project-specific risks associated  
with entry into certain new geographies  
or contractual commitments. They are  
not formal committees of the Board, they  
are management committees which are  
chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer 
and the Group Chief Executive respectively. 
The Enterprise Risk Committee, which was 
formed in 2009, focused its efforts during 
2010 on country and third party-specific risks 
in high-risk territories. A list of such high-risk 
territories was defined by the Board in early 
2010, and periodic review of this list will take 
place. A review now takes place where the 
group wishes to conduct new business in  
any predefined high-risk territory, whether we 
have previously operated there or not. In such 
cases, approval is required from the Group 
Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Executive 
of Energy Developments and Production 
Solutions. In 2010, the Enterprise Risk 
Committee met on an ad hoc basis to 
consider country and third party risks  
in countries including Iraq and Nigeria  
(both of which are classified as high-risk).
Pre-award, new projects and investments  
are reviewed by the business unit-level Risk 
Review Committee. Based on the delegated 
authority matrix, if the new commitment is of 
significant value, it will be escalated from the 
business unit committee to the Group Risk 
Review Committee, which meets as often as 
is required. From there, approval to commit  
to the project or investment will be required 
from the Group Chief Operating Officer or the 
Board, primarily based on project size and/or 
duration. The remit of this Committee extends 
beyond the consideration of new projects  
and includes:
moving into new territories ■ ■
providing new services ■ ■
making capital investments ■ ■
entering lease commitments ■ ■
making acquisitions and/or establishing ■ ■
joint venture relationships
Business unit-level review
Significant responsibility for risk identification, 
review and mitigation exists at the business 
unit level, as operational teams are closest to 
the detail of our business. As a result, we have 
well-established procedures embedded in  
the organisation for the management of risk.
Business unit Risk Review Committee
Pre-award, all new projects and investments 
go through a robust risk review process at  
the business unit level. The first stage involves 
review at the project team level, involving bid 
risk analysis, cost and schedule risk analysis, 
commercial risk management plans and bid 
risk reporting. Subject to this review being 
completed satisfactorily, the potential  
award moves to review by the business  
unit Risk Review Committee. 
The delegated authority framework defines 
the levels of review that are required based  
on the level of risk. Potential projects are 
approved at the business or group level  
or escalated to Board level review.
Monthly Executive Committee
Post-award execution is managed by our 
project teams and continuously reviewed 
within business units by our executives on a 
weekly, monthly and quarterly basis. Issues 
arising from these sessions are picked up  
in the monthly Executive Committee, where 
the business unit managing directors meet 
with the Group Chief Executive and his direct 
reports to review both the performance  
of each business unit and its discrete risks. 
These meetings focus on strategies to 
address and mitigate the identified risks: 
these are reported to the Board (along with  
all discrete risks) at each scheduled Board 
meeting, as described above.
Monthly risk reporting
In late 2010, we established a requirement for 
each business unit to produce monthly reports 
measuring the health of risk management 
within their business. This achieves a 
bottom-up consideration of strategic risk 
issues in each business, rather than relying on 
Board level review. A combination of qualitative 
and quantitative measures are taken of the 
following seven factors:
the risk to achievement of the annual ■ ■
business plan and targets
the level of market risk and competition ■ ■
the level of customer relationship risk ■ ■
the level of commercial and contractual risk ■ ■
the level of execution risk ■ ■
the level of counterparty risk ■ ■
the level of resource risk ■ ■
The level of risk described in these reports will 
be incorporated into the risk report which is 
reviewed by the Board, as described above.
Key risks
The key risks that could lead to a significant 
loss of reputation or prevent us from 
executing our strategy and creating 
shareholder value are summarised here, 
along with our approach to mitigating  
these risks and our progress during 2010.
Operating review 
Business review 32    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Enterprise risk management and key risks 
continued
Industry risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Level of 
demand for  
the group’s 
services 
The demand for our services 
is linked to the level of capital 
and operational expenditure 
by the oil & gas industry.
As noted in the ‘Operating environment’ 
section, we expect the demand for our 
services to remain robust over the long-term. 
Our recent success in securing substantial 
new contract awards gives us outstanding 
visibility of revenues through 2011 and beyond.
Our continuing geographic and service 
expansion has helped to grow the size  
of the addressable market for our services.
For information about how we are 
incrementally growing our geographic 
footprint and expanding our service  
offering, see our strategic initiatives  
on pages 25 and 26.
Oil & gas 
commodity 
prices
Long-term expectations of  
the price of oil & gas may 
have an impact on the level  
of new investment in the 
industry and may therefore 
affect demand for our 
services.
The financial performance of 
Energy Developments is more 
leveraged to the price of oil & 
gas through its co-investment 
in upstream oil & gas assets, 
and its financial results may 
therefore be impacted.
As detailed in the ‘Operating environment’ 
section, demand for our services should  
not be significantly impacted by short-term 
fluctuations in oil & gas prices and has proven 
robust despite significant volatility in oil & gas 
prices over the recent economic downturn.
Our formal policy to hedge a proportion  
of our direct exposure to oil & gas prices 
provides us with a degree of protection 
against fluctuations in the sale price variations 
for oil & gas.
Under our hedging policy we aim to hedge 
75% of our forecast production levels for  
the next 12 months, using pre-defined 
hedging instruments and with pre-defined 
counterparties. We will not undertake hedging 
until a development has achieved steady-state 
production.
See note 33 to the financial statements for 
details of the oil & gas derivative instruments 
that were in place at 31 December 2010.
Availability  
of essential 
executive or 
project staff
The availability of skilled 
personnel remains one of the 
most significant challenges 
facing the oil & gas industry. 
We remain confident that our policies to 
promote and reward on merit, targeted,  
but extensive, employee share ownership, 
management and technical training 
programmes and access to international 
labour markets, in particular the Middle East, 
Indian subcontinent and Asia, a portfolio of 
world-class projects and exciting prospects 
for continued growth will enable us to attract 
and retain the necessary skilled personnel  
to undertake our projects in hand.
We have increased the number of employee 
shareholders or participants in employee 
share schemes to approximately 3,900 
(2009: 3,000).
We have decided to open a third Indian 
office, in Delhi, to tap another pool of 
resources, where the shortage of skilled 
engineers is less pronounced than in 
Western countries.
For more information about how we 
manage this risk, see our strategic  
initiatives on page 26.
Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Security We operate in a number of 
countries where the security 
risk is high.
Our Group Head of Security is responsible  
for undertaking reviews and establishing 
procedures for securing the safety of  
our personnel. We also use specialist 
consultancies and security services to  
advise us and to provide protection.
During 2010, we strengthened the resource 
dedicated to security management and 
invested in the development of sound 
security controls in key territories, 
particularly Iraq.
We redefined the use of the Enterprise  
Risk Committee, which now focuses on 
country and third party-risks in certain 
high-risk territories.
Business 
continuity
We are potentially exposed  
to, inter alia, natural hazards, 
acts of terrorism, war and civil 
unrest that could impact our 
infrastructure, either through 
the unavailability of physical 
assets or disrupted access  
to systems and data.
We have rigorous business continuity plans  
in place at each of our key operating centres, 
which are designed to ensure continued 
access to our critical business functions.
Of our six key operating centres, Woking  
and Aberdeen are fully certified and meet  
the BS 25999 certification standard. 
During 2010, our Aberdeen operational 
centre achieved certification of its business 
continuity system, the first among its peers 
to do so.
In addition, the business continuity strategy 
at our Sharjah, Mumbai, Chennai, Jakarta 
and Kuala Lumpur offices has been fully 
implemented and is currently undergoing 
extensive testing. The certification process 
at these offices (excluding Kuala Lumpur) 
has been initiated and we expect this 
process to be completed in 2011. 33    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Exchange 
rates
Significant movements in 
exchange rates could impact 
our financial performance.
While we operate in a number of diverse 
geographical locations, the majority of our 
revenues are denominated in US Dollars  
or currencies pegged to the US Dollar. In 
contracts priced in US Dollars (or currencies 
pegged to the US Dollar) where the group  
is procuring equipment or incurring costs  
in other currencies, we aim to fully hedge 
transactional exposures using forward 
currency contracts. 
Offshore Engineering & Operations’ revenues 
and costs are principally denominated in 
Sterling. The group’s policy is not to hedge  
the Sterling profits generated by these 
activities as they are substantially matched by 
the Sterling overhead costs of our corporate 
office and other UK-based businesses. 
While we report our results in US Dollars,  
our share price is quoted in Sterling. Our share 
price may therefore be impacted by changes 
to the US Dollar/Sterling exchange rate. 
See note 33 to the financial statements for 
details of our foreign currency exposures 
and how they are managed. 
Sovereign 
change of law 
and contract 
enforcement
We operate in a number of 
countries where our ability  
to rely upon our contracts  
for protection is potentially 
reduced by the opaqueness 
of the legal system.
Management carefully monitors this risk. 
Wherever it is perceived to be significant,  
we will take all reasonable measures to 
reduce and limit the exposure through the  
use of, for example, out of country arbitration, 
advanced payments and careful cash 
management. Specific consideration of  
this risk is a feature of all new business  
risk reviews and is a major focus of the  
Risk Committee and the Board.
During 2010, we commenced a process to 
review the viability of securing sovereign risk 
insurance; we aim to complete this in 2011.
In 2010, the Board also approved a new 
standard on sovereign risk. 
During 2011 the Board intends to define 
maximum sovereign risk exposures.
Breach of legal 
or regulatory 
code
We recognise the potential 
financial and reputational  
risk that could result from a 
breach of local or international 
laws, particularly in respect of 
behaviour relating to bribery 
and corruption.
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 71, we have well-established policies 
and procedures to address these risks, 
including a Code of Business Conduct which 
all employees are required to confirm that  
they have read and understood. During 2010 
we rolled out a Code of Business Conduct 
e-learning module.
Management takes a risk-based approach  
to due diligence and risk assessment and  
is increasing the level of due diligence 
undertaken in respect of new contracts in 
pre-defined high-risk countries, including 
commissioning independent investigation 
where appropriate. 
During 2010, the Board approved a set  
of new Company-wide risk management 
procedures designed to protect the 
Company from exposure to bribery  
and corruption. Implementation of these 
new risk management procedures has 
begun and a training and communication 
programme for our employees will be  
rolled out in 2011. 
During 2010, we increased our use of 
independent investigatory consultants  
in situations involving parties over which  
we have some influence, for example,  
joint venture partners, agents, subcontractors 
and, in some cases, our vendors. As a 
consequence of some of these investigations 
we took remedial action to reduce our risk.
During 2010, our Board made new 
commitments to review potential exposures 
to human rights issues in our operations.  
In 2011 we will review our systems for 
ensuring trade compliance with local laws 
and sanctions compliance, as well as 
refreshing our Code of Business Conduct.
Operating review 
Business review 34    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Political risk We are exposed to potential 
regime change and civil 
unrest that could affect  
our operations.
We monitor carefully the changing landscape 
of political risk, particularly for countries  
that are regarded as high political risk 
environments. This is also reviewed regularly 
by the Board and the Board Risk Committee.
For high-risk countries our management  
will also seek to limit political risk exposure  
in individual contracts, when agreeing  
terms and conditions with our customers.
During 2010, we redefined the use of the 
Enterprise Risk Committee, which now 
focuses on country and third party risks in 
certain high-risk territories prior to Petrofac 
committing to new projects or investments.
We intend to acquire sovereign risk 
insurance in 2011.
Project risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Contract 
performance
Our financial performance 
could be materially affected 
by the performance of a 
relatively small number of 
large contracts, particularly 
those which are lump-sum. 
Furthermore, our operational 
performance is important in 
maintaining our reputation  
for successful project delivery. 
We have a strong track-record of successful 
project execution which reflects our rigorous 
approach to risk identification and mitigation, 
from tender to project completion. 
Our assurance frameworks for technical risk 
reviews involve the progress made on key 
projects being formally reported to the Board 
and senior management on a regular basis. 
Our design integrity assurance process 
involves the robust challenge of design 
specifications, whether or not they are defined 
by the customer, including peer assessment. 
We undertake ongoing reviews of integrity risk 
throughout the life of a project.
Our subcontractor risk management  
strategy involves the retention of competent 
subcontractors with a track record of delivery, 
combined with the use of local companies as 
is often required by law. We have a number  
of strong subcontractor relationships with 
proven high quality companies that we seek 
to work with wherever possible.
As regards financial performance, we  
do not recognise profits in the early stages  
of lump-sum contracts and we maintain 
contingencies to cover unforeseen  
cost increases.
During 2010, we took steps to mitigate 
significant risk on new contracts:
in Turkmenistan, we structured our ■ ■
contract in two stages, so that we  
could measure and mitigate risk  
before committing ourselves to the  
larger EPC phase
in Iraq, we decided not to take lump-sum ■ ■
construction risk on our first major project 
in the country. Instead, we are working  
on a lump-sum engineering and 
procurement basis and a reimbursable 
construction management basis
our acquisition of a stake in Seven Energy ■ ■
has provided us with a lower risk entry 
into the Nigerian market, and the 
opportunity to gain experience in the 
operating environment before taking  
on an enlarged scope of work
Enterprise risk management and key risks 
continued 35    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Project risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010
Counterparty There is a risk of commercial 
counterparties defaulting on 
payment terms or financial 
counterparties defaulting  
on deposits that we hold  
with them.
In Engineering & Construction, we typically 
receive advance payments on contracts, 
which generally have positive cash flow 
profiles over the duration of the contract.
In Offshore Engineering & Operations, many 
contracts are neutrally-funded or have modest 
working capital requirements. Our services 
are often critical in ensuring that customers 
continue to produce oil & gas and, 
consequently, they are likely to honour 
contractual terms. In some cases we request 
a parent company guarantee or a letter of 
credit to further mitigate counterparty risk.  
In Energy Developments, remuneration is  
from oil & gas sales to a range of customers, 
including national oil companies, who are 
generally well-funded. Nonetheless, the group 
continues to regularly monitor its receivable 
balances and take appropriate action  
where necessary.
With respect to counterparty risk arising from 
other financial assets, we regularly monitor 
our exposure and ensure that our financial 
assets are spread across a large number  
of creditworthy financial institutions. Our 
sovereign and financial market risk policy has 
established limits on counterparty exposure.
Further analysis of credit risk and other 
financial risks associated with or managed 
through the use of financial instruments, such 
as interest rate and liquidity risk, are disclosed 
in note 33 to the financial statements.
At the end of 2010, we converted into  
the larger EPC phase of the South Yoloten 
contract in Turkmenistan. As this is our 
largest contract to date, we have secured  
a larger than normal cash advance from  
the customer as a way of mitigating 
counterparty risk.
Financial counterparty exposure is now 
reviewed on a monthly basis by the  
Treasury Management Committee and 
material exposures are monitored daily  
by group Treasury. 
During 2010, we redefined our financial 
counterparty limits and our risk management 
strategy of counterparty risk, both of which 
were approved by the Board.
Cost inflation Unexpected inflation in costs 
could adversely impact the 
financial performance of  
our contracts.
Our largest exposure to cost inflation is  
in the provision of lump-sum Engineering  
& Construction services. Our exposure  
to increases in capital expenditure costs 
associated with Energy Developments’ 
projects is managed in a similar manner  
to lump-sum Engineering & Construction 
projects.
The majority of the costs of our Offshore 
Engineering & Operations and Engineering, 
Training Services and Production Solutions 
contracts are reimbursed by customers,  
either on an actual cost basis or through  
a periodically revised schedule of rates.
During 2010, we managed cash before and 
after bid submissions in the following ways:
conditional on the award of a major ■ ■
contract, we typically negotiate 
agreements to procure equipment and/or 
arrangements with key subcontractors, 
on back-to-back terms where possible
expectations of wage inflation are ■ ■
factored into project costings for  
bid submissions and budgets
the group maintains contingencies  ■ ■
to cover unforeseen cost increases
Health,  
safety and 
environmental 
performance
A serious health, safety or 
environmental incident on  
any of our projects has the 
potential to cause significant 
commercial and reputational 
damage.
Our strong culture of health, safety and 
environmental (HSE) awareness is central  
to our operational and business activities,  
our system of business management  
and our delivery of quality and business 
excellence. As we enter new geographical 
markets, sometimes with new customers and 
partners, and assume responsibility for new 
infrastructure, it is particularly important that 
our focus on HSE is maintained. Our financial 
exposure to a significant HSE incident is 
generally mitigated through our commercial 
arrangements and insurance programme, 
although an incident may have a financial 
impact on our performance-based income.
During 2010, we appointed a Group Head 
of Environment to help raise standards 
across the Company and lead strategic 
environmental initiatives.
As of 31 December 2010, 95% of our 
facilities were accredited to ISO 14001 
requirements for the environmental 
management systems they have in place.
Recorded incident data demonstrates  
our ongoing improvement in managing 
health and safety risks (see pages  
60 and 61 for details).
 
The list above does not purport to be exhaustive. There may be other risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently 
deem to be less material, which could affect the performance of the business.
Operating review 
Business review 36    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating environment
In contrast to the decrease in global demand  
for oil & gas in 2009 as a result of the economic 
downturn, 2010 saw oil demand rise by 
approximately 3.2%
1
, leading to a sustained  
recovery in oil prices which averaged around  
US$80
2
 per barrel during the year.
While such short-term indicators are positive,  
it is the medium to long-term trends in global  
energy demand and supply that are most  
relevant in shaping our operating environment.
Overview
The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 
‘new policies’ scenario
3
 anticipates that  
global primary demand for energy will 
increase by approximately 36% from 2008  
to 2035, or around 1.2% per annum. Growth 
is driven by non-OECD demand, particularly 
in China (which is now the world’s largest 
energy consumer), India and the Middle East. 
Meanwhile, BP projects that world primary 
energy demand will rise by 39% over the  
next 20 years
4
, equivalent to 1.7% per annum, 
driven by growth in the global population, 
gross domestic product (GDP) and energy 
intensity per capita.
What is common to both studies is the 
conviction that fossil fuels will remain the 
predominant means of satisfying global 
energy demand over the long-term. Under  
the IEA’s more conservative projection (albeit 
based on different assumptions), demand  
for oil is expected to increase by 15%, an 
average of 0.5% per annum, to approximately 
99 million barrels per day by 2035. Global 
demand for gas is expected to increase 
considerably faster at 1.4% per annum, 
reaching approximately 4,500 billion cubic 
metres per annum (bcma) by 2035 (equivalent 
to approximately 75 million barrels of oil per day).
The natural decline of existing oil & gas 
production is of even greater significance  
than the anticipated growth in demand  
for oil & gas. Cambridge Energy Research 
Associates undertook a study of 1,000 
oilfields and, while only 40% of production 
came from fields in decline, the aggregate 
decline rate applied to all fields currently  
in production was estimated at 4.5% per 
annum
5
. Similarly, in 2009, the IEA estimated 
that less than one third of global gas 
production in 2030 will be met by existing 
production
6
. Large-scale investment in oil & 
gas projects is therefore required to both limit 
and compensate for decline rates (through 
enhanced oil recovery and investment in new 
developments to replace existing production) 
and satisfy the expected growth in demand.
1 International Energy Agency, ‘Oil Market Report’, 18 January 2011.
2 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$79.50 per barrel for 2010 (2009: US$61.67 per barrel).
3  In the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2010, the ‘reference’ scenario (which describes ‘what would happen if, among 
other things, governments were to take no new initiatives bearing on the energy sector’) is replaced by the ‘current 
policies’ scenario, but the ‘mid-case’ which is referred to here, is termed the ‘new policies’ scenario, which assumes 
that governments will implement the measures that they have already declared.
4  BP , ‘Energy Outlook 2030’, January 2011. BP’s projection is “not a ‘business as usual’ extrapolation, or an attempt  
at modelling policy targets. Instead it is built ‘to the best of our knowledge’, reflecting our judgement of the likely path 
of global energy markets to 2030”.
5  Cambridge Energy Research Associates, ‘The Future of Global Oil Supply: Understanding the Building Blocks’, 2009.
6 International Energy Agency, ‘World Energy Outlook 2009’, November 2009. 37    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Engineering & Construction and Engineering 
& Construction Ventures
Driven by the operating environment 
described on page 36, investment in oil & gas 
infrastructure is expected to be more than 
US$15 trillion in the period 2010 to 2035
1
. 
Approximately US$6 trillion (in excess of 
US$200 billion per annum) of this expenditure 
is expected to be in our core Engineering & 
Construction markets of the CIS, Middle East 
and Africa (although our current addressable 
market is a subset of the total market).  
We had a successful year for new contract 
awards for Engineering & Construction in 
2010, with an order intake of US$6 billion, 
however this represents a relatively small 
share of this large and growing market.  
Our strategy is to move incrementally into 
new geographies and expand our range 
of services so that our addressable market 
grows as a percentage of the overall global 
market. Consequently, we expect demand  
for the group’s services that rely on capital 
expenditure (predominantly the Engineering & 
Construction business units) to remain strong 
over the long-term.
Operational expenditures
Industry-wide operational expenditures  
are expected to increase. The average  
cost per barrel of developing, operating and 
maintaining new fields, which are increasingly 
in more remote or harsher environments, is 
likely to rise over time. The cost of maintaining 
and producing mature fields, which require 
greater ‘healthcare’ as they deplete, is also 
likely to increase. Increasing operational 
expenditures should benefit a number of  
our businesses; we look at the operating 
environment for each in more detail:
Offshore Engineering & Operations
Around 90% of Offshore Engineering & 
Operations’ revenues are generated from 
activities in the UKCS. The UKCS market  
is relatively concentrated and during the 
economic downturn many customers took 
the opportunity to retender contracts. We 
succeeded in retaining and extending many 
contracts where we were the incumbent 
contractor and have grown our market share 
by securing a number of new contracts  
(see page 43). Internationally, we have a small 
proportion of the available market and would 
like to grow our market share as we extend 
our geographic reach. As a result  
of securing new contracts and extensions, 
backlog has increased from US$1.6 billion  
to US$2.4 billion over the course of 2010.
Engineering Services
After a modest increase in 2010, capital 
expenditure on exploration and production 
spending is expected to increase more 
substantially in 2011
2
, which should see  
an increase in conceptual studies and  
FEED studies. This will hopefully lead to  
an increase in opportunities for external  
work for our Engineering Services business.
Training Services 
We believe that the long-term drivers for  
this business remain robust:
the industry will be required to recruit  ■ ■
and train many new skilled engineers  
and technicians to replace those set  
to retire over the next few years
there is an increasing focus on local ■ ■
content requirements, particularly as 
sovereign state resource holders try  
to extract more economic value from  
oil & gas developments. In this regard, 
Training Services supports not only our 
customers, but also the rest the group
following events in the Gulf of Mexico in ■ ■
2010, there is likely to be an increasing 
focus in some markets on critical incident 
management and emergency response 
training, as well as on quality assurance 
and technical training
We estimate our current market share 
to be around 2% of the global market  
for the training services that we provide.  
The above drivers should all increase the  
size of our potential market over the medium 
to long-term and we have ambitions to grow  
our relatively small market share in what is  
a highly fragmented market.
1 International Energy Agency, ‘World Energy Outlook 2010’, November 2010.
2 By around 16%, according to JP Morgan Cazenove, ‘Global E&P Spending Analysis’, 8 February 2011.
Energy Developments and  
Production Solutions
We believe that a strategic opportunity exists 
for the group to support some of the world’s 
major oil & gas resource holders.
Resource holders need to develop new 
opportunities and invest increasing levels  
of time, effort and capital in operating and 
maintaining their existing production. As 
many resource holders are well-funded, 
or have alternative sources of capital,  
and there is often political sensitivity  
around transferring ownership of reserves, 
we believe that resource holders’ key 
requirement is capability.
Drawing upon the extensive capabilities of  
the wider group, which include engineering, 
operations, training, well management  
and specialist petro-technical consulting 
businesses, we are seeking opportunities to 
provide a fully integrated service for resource 
holders. We are happy to work under a range 
of flexible commercial models that are aligned 
to specific customer requirements. Such 
projects may cover upstream developments, 
both greenfield and brownfield, and related 
energy infrastructure investments, and can 
include the provision of capital.
The recent awards to Petrofac of the Ticleni 
contract in Romania (see page 44 for more 
detail) and the Berantai project in Malaysia 
(see page 48) are interesting examples of 
what we believe are very exciting opportunities 
for the group.
In summary
We had an exceptional year in 2010, securing 
a number of new contracts across the group. 
As a result, our backlog finished the year  
at a record level of US$11.7 billion (2009: 
US$8.1 billion). We have continued that 
success as we move into 2011, having 
secured a contract in Algeria in January 2011 
for US$1.2 billion and a risk service contract 
for the Berantai field in Malaysia. Overall, we 
have outstanding visibility of revenues for 
2011 and beyond.
Notwithstanding that we still face significant 
competition in many of our established 
markets, the key drivers of capital and 
operational expenditures and our geographic 
focus should ensure that our medium  
to long-term prospects remain strong.
World oil production by type  
in the New Policies Scenario
Source: World Energy Outlook 2010, 
©
OECD/IEA,  
figure 3.19, page 122
0
100
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2035
mb/d
2030
20
40
60
80
Unconventional oil
Natural gas liquids
Crude oil: fields yet  
to be found
Crude oil: fields yet  
to be developed
Crude oil: currently 
producing fields
Operating review 
Business review 38    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of operations  39    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review 
Our operations are organised into seven business units, which report under four segments:
Reporting segment
Engineering & Construction 
Engineering & Construction Ventures
> Engineering & Construction
Offshore Engineering & Operations > Offshore Engineering & Operations
Engineering Services 
Training Services 
Production Solutions
> Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions
Energy Developments > Energy Developments
We present below an update on each of the group’s reporting segments:
Revenue Operating profit
1
Net profit
2
EBITDA
US$ millions 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Engineering & Construction 3,253.9 2,509.0 438.9 312.4 373.0 265.1 474.3 337.3
Offshore Engineering  
& Operations 721.9 626.7 24.5 1 7.8 17.2 12.8 27.3 19.7
Engineering, Training Services  
and Production Solutions 355.3 349.7 26.6 34.5 27.6 32.4 34.7 42.6
Energy Developments 188.2 248.7 191.2 77.4 156.4 46.2 241.0 160.9
Corporate, consolidation  
and elimination (165.1) (78.7) (17.7) (10.1) (16.4) (2.9) (17.9) (10.8)
Group 4,354.2 3,655.4 663.5 432.0 557.8 353.6 759.4 549.7
Revenue growth Operating margin Net margin EBITDA margin
Growth/margin analysis % 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Engineering & Construction 29.7 25.9 13.5 12.5 11.5 10.6 14.6 13.4
Offshore Engineering & Operations 15.2 (19.3) 3.4 2.8 2.4 2.0 3.8 3.1
Engineering, Training Services  
and Production Solutions 1.6 (31.5) 7.5 9.9 7.8 9.3 9.8 12.2
Energy Developments (24.3) 62.1 101.6 31 .1 83.1 18.6 128.0 64.7
Group 19.1 9.8 15.2 11 .8 12.8 9.7 17.4 15.0
1 Profit from operations before tax and finance costs.
2 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Business unit
Business review 40    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of operations 
continued
Engineering & Construction
Engineering & Construction generally 
undertakes engineering, procurement 
and construction projects on a lump-sum 
basis, with a typical duration of between 
two to four years, and is focused on 
markets in the Middle East, Africa,  
Asia Pacific and the Commonwealth  
of Independent States, particularly the 
Caspian region.
Order intake in 2010 exceeded US$6.0 
billion. This includes our largest ever 
award, of US$3.4 billion, for the second 
phase of our contract with Turkmengas 
on the South Yoloten project in 
Turkmenistan, as well as contracts 
in Qatar, Kuwait and Malaysia.
The Engineering & Construction reporting segment 
includes the group’s Sharjah-based Engineering & 
Construction business unit and Engineering & 
Construction Ventures, which has been established 
to target new markets, such as Abu Dhabi, Saudi 
Arabia, and Turkmenistan.
We have delivered good progress on our 
current portfolio of contracts including 
the handover or substantial completion  
of the following:
in Syria, we completed and commissioned ■ ■
the Ebla gas plant for PetroCanada in  
April 2010, two months ahead of schedule, 
earning an early completion bonus. We 
have also completed and commissioned 
the Jihar gas plant for the Hayan Petroleum 
Company (a joint venture between the 
state-owned Syrian Petroleum Company 
and INA Industrija Nafte d.d.-Naftaplin  
of Croatia)
in Oman, we completed the Harweel ■ ■
cluster development project for the 
Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), 
achieving the introduction of hydrocarbons 
in January 2011
in Kuwait, we substantially completed the ■ ■
Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery pipelines project 
for Kuwait Oil Company (KOC), which was 
awarded in November 2008
in Algeria, we made good progress on  ■ ■
the In Salah gas compression project for 
Sonatrach, BP and Statoil. Two of the  
three fields are now in operation and the 
compression facility and power generation 
on the Krechbah field were substantially 
completed by the end of the year
We were awarded the following principal 
contracts during the year, on which initial 
progress has been in line with our expectations:
Gas sweetening facilities, Qatar
In March 2010, we were successful in 
securing an award for gas sweetening 
facilities in Qatar from Qatar Petroleum.  
The contract, for more than US$600 million, 
includes the engineering, procurement, 
installation and commissioning of gas 
sweetening facilities in Qatar’s Messaieed 
and Dukhan industrial districts. The project 
includes a sulphur recovery upgrade in 
Messaieed and an acid gas recovery plant  
in Dukhan. Work on the projects is due for 
completion within 38 months.
Revenue
(US$ millions)
Net profit
(US$ millions)
Net profit margin
(%)
08 09 10
1,994
2,509
3,254
08 09 10
206.3
265.1
373.0
08 09 10
10.4
10.6
11.5
Pipelines from Mina Al-Ahmadi to 
power stations, Kuwait
In July 2010, we were awarded a US$400 
million contract by Kuwait Oil Company for 
EPC services for the installation of fuel gas 
and gas oil pipelines from Mina Al-Ahmadi  
to the Azzour and Shuaiba Power Stations  
in Kuwait. The project follows on from the 
pipelines contract referred to above and is 
expected to last approximately two years.
Water injection project, Kuwait
In August 2010, we were awarded a further 
EPC project by KOC for US$430 million for 
effluent water and sea water injection facilities. 
The project involves the installation of a  
new central injection pumping facility and 
modifications to three existing gathering 
centres and seawater treatment plant. When 
completed, both effluent water and sea water 
will be fed into a central injection pumping 
facility and injected into the wells with the 
objective of increasing oil recovery from the 
Raudhatain and Sabriyah fields. Completion 
is estimated within 36 months.
SEPAT offshore early production 
system, Malaysia
In December 2010, we secured an award for 
the engineering, procurement, construction, 
installation and commissioning of an 
offshore early production system on  
the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia.  
The contract, worth approximately US$280 
million, was awarded by Petronas Carigali 
Sdn Bhd. First oil is expected by the end  
of 2011 and the project is estimated to 
be completed by April 2012.
South Yoloten development, 
Turkmenistan
In December 2010, we commenced 
the second phase of the South Yoloten 
contract, worth US$3.4 billion, for 
Turkmengas, the state-owned national gas 
company of Turkmenistan. This followed the 
completion of the first phase of the project, 
which involved a front end engineering and 
design (FEED) study and early engineering 
work for the gas processing development.  41    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Commencing the 
second stage of 
engineering work 
of the South Yoloten,  
gas field development, 
T urkmenistan
The second phase of the contract is 
scheduled to last 31.5 months, during which 
time we will provide engineering, procurement 
and commissioning work on a lump-sum 
basis for a 10 bcma gas processing plant 
along with the infrastructure and pipelines  
for the entire 20 bcma development. The 
structuring of this contract in two phases  
was important for risk mitigation and the work 
completed in phase one gives us a higher 
level of confidence that we can execute the 
project in accordance with our high standards.
Results
High activity levels, due principally to  
projects won in 2009 and late 2008, resulted 
in Engineering & Construction growing 
revenues strongly by 29.7% to US$3,253.9 
million (2009: US$2,509.0 million). The main 
contributors to revenue were: the El Merk 
central processing facility in Algeria; the  
Asab project in Abu Dhabi; the Kauther  
gas compression project in Oman; the  
Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery pipelines project  
in Kuwait, and the Karan utilities package  
in Saudi Arabia.
Net profit increased by 40.7% to US$373.0 
million (2009: US$265.1 million), representing 
a net margin of 11.5% (2009: 10.6%). The 
increase in net margin is due to continued 
strong operational performance, including 
the delivery of a number of projects during 
the year, and first time profit recognition on  
a number of projects. A variation order on a 
project agreed in the first half of 2010 was not 
reflected in the interim results, leading to an 
understatement of revenue by US$35 million 
and net profit by US$32 million. These 
amounts have been recognised in the second 
half of 2010 and therefore there is no overall 
financial impact on the reported results for 
the year ended 31 December 2010.
Over the year, Engineering & Construction 
grew its headcount from 4,200 to 5,400, in 
response to the record intake in 2009 and  
in anticipation of our largest ever award, in 
Turkmenistan. In addition, headcount in our 
engineering offices in Mumbai and Chennai, 
which principally support our Engineering & 
Construction activities – although they are 
reported within our Engineering, Training 
Services and Production Solutions segment 
– also grew strongly. At 31 December 2010, 
we had approximately 1,600 employees in 
our Indian offices (2009: 1,300). 
At 31 December, the Engineering & 
Construction backlog stood at a record 
US$9.0 billion (2009: US$6.2 billion), 
reflecting the high level of order intake  
during the year.
Operating review 
Business review 42    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of operations
continued
Offshore Engineering & Operations
Offshore Engineering & Operations’ 
activities are primarily in the UKCS  
and are predominantly provided on  
a reimbursable basis, but often with 
incentive income linked to the successful 
delivery of performance targets. Many  
of our operations contracts are long-term 
(typically three to five years) and in the 
case of the provision of Duty Holder 
services
1
 are often open-ended.
Activity levels in Offshore Engineering  
& Operations improved in 2010 due to 
the commencement of work on major 
contracts awarded in 2009, good bidding 
success and a general improvement in 
market conditions. Our strong record of 
operational performance, company-wide 
capability and established presence in 
core markets helped us achieve an order 
intake of US$1.6 billion, taking backlog 
to record levels of US$2.4 billion.
Offshore Engineering & Operations provides 
engineering and construction services at all 
stages of greenfield and brownfield offshore 
projects. In addition, through the provision of 
operations management services, we deliver 
production and maintenance support and  
extend field life.
1  Contracts where the group takes full responsibility  
for managing a customer’s asset and is responsible 
for the safety case of the asset, reporting to the  
UK Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Providing Duty  
Holder services 
to Sajaa Gas Plant, 
Sharjah 43    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
The key awards secured were:
Sharjah Government Duty Holder 
contract, UAE
In October 2010, we secured a Duty 
Holder contract to provide a full range  
of facilities management services to the 
Government of Sharjah on the Sajaa Gas 
Plant and related assets. This contract, 
which furthers our aim to grow the 
Offshore Engineering & Operations 
business internationally, will run for  
five years and is worth more than 
US$250 million.
Laggan Tormore EPC contract, UK
In October 2010, we won an engineering, 
procurement, supply, construction, 
commissioning and start-up contract 
with Total for the development of a gas 
processing plant on the Shetland Islands. 
Offshore Engineering & Operations  
will develop this facility, supported by 
Engineering & Construction. This is  
the first time that we have secured a 
predominantly lump-sum EPC contract  
in the UK. The contract is worth more 
than £500 million, with first gas expected 
in Q2 2014.
Maersk Oil engineering services 
contract, UK
In November 2010, we were awarded  
a contract worth £40 million over three 
years for the provision of engineering 
services to the UKCS assets of Maersk 
Oil. The contract includes three one-year 
options for extension, and broadens 
Petrofac’s scope of services for these 
assets, building upon the offshore 
operations and support services we  
have been providing since 2000. 
In addition to securing these new 
awards, we have been successful in 
extending a number of our operations 
and maintenance contracts with both oil 
majors and independents. These include 
a five-year agreement with BHP Billiton  
to provide operations and maintenance 
personnel support for the Liverpool Bay 
Development in the Irish Sea and a 
five-year extension to our operations  
and maintenance support contract  
with CNR International in the North Sea. 
From October 2010, the technical 
services agreement with the Government 
of Dubai was reported through the 
Offshore Engineering & Operations 
reporting segment (having previously 
been reported through Engineering, 
Training Services and Production 
Solutions). The transition from having 
operational control over these assets  
to the new technical services agreement 
was effected smoothly.
Acquisitions
We successfully completed two small 
acquisitions in 2010 which broaden our 
capability: Scotvalve Services Limited, 
which provides servicing and repair for 
oilfield pressure control equipment, and 
Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited, 
which designs and manufactures 
metering systems (see note 10 to the 
financial statements).
Results
Reported revenue for the year increased 
by 15.2% to US$721.9 million (2009: 
US$626.7 million) and revenue excluding 
‘pass-through’ revenue
1
 increased  
by 20.6% to US$526.4 million (2009: 
US$436.4 million), reflecting the 
commencement of major contracts 
secured in the second half of 2009 and  
a general improvement in the operating 
environment. Approximately 90% of 
Offshore Engineering & Operations’ 
revenue is generated in the UKCS, with 
these revenues generally denominated in 
Sterling. The average US Dollar to Sterling 
exchange rate for 2010 was broadly 
similar to the rate for 2009.
Net profit increased by 34.5% to US$17.2 
million (2009: US$12.8 million), again 
reflecting increased activity levels.  
Net margin on revenue excluding 
pass-through revenue increased to  
3.3%, compared to 2.9% in 2009, 
driven by new higher margin contracts.
Over the year, Offshore Engineering & 
Operations grew its headcount from 
4,100 to 4,400, mostly attributable to the 
staff added on new contracts, including 
Laggan Tormore and the Sharjah 
Government Duty Holder contract.
Backlog for Offshore Engineering & 
Operations increased to a record high  
of US$2.4 billion at 31 December 2010 
(2009: US$1.6 billion). This includes 
approximately half of the backlog booked 
in relation to the Total EPC contract 
awarded in October 2010. The remainder 
of the backlog has been booked  
by Engineering & Construction, as it  
will support Offshore Engineering & 
Operations on the project.
Revenue
(US$ millions)
Net profit
(US$ millions)
08 09 10
777
627
722
Net profit margin*
(%)
* on revenue excluding 
pass-through revenue
08 09 10
3.0
2.9
3.3
08 09 10
16.4
12.8
17.2
1  Pass-through revenue refers to the revenue 
recognised from low or zero margin third-party 
procurement services provided to customers.
Operating review 
Business review 44    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of operations
continued
Engineering, Training Services  
and Production Solutions
Engineering Services provides early 
stage engineering studies, including 
conceptual studies and FEED studies, 
primarily on a reimbursable basis. 
Engineering Services has two offices  
in India – in Mumbai and Chennai – 
which primarily support Engineering & 
Construction and a UK office in Woking 
which is more externally focused. Activity 
levels were significantly higher at  
our Indian offices in 2010, reflecting 
Engineering & Construction’s increased 
demand for the unit’s services, resulting 
from the reporting segment’s record 
backlog entering into 2010 and its 
contract wins throughout the year.  
At our Woking office activity levels were 
marginally lower. Utilisation rates rose 
across all three offices throughout 2010.
Training Services provides competence-
led training services, consultancy and 
managed solutions which are designed 
to increase competence and minimise 
risk. Services are provided primarily on  
a reimbursable basis. Delegate numbers 
were slightly higher than in 2009, and  
we saw strong growth from international 
markets, including our facilities at 
Sakhalin Island, Russia, and Baku, 
Azerbaijan. In October 2010, our training 
centre located near Homs in Syria was 
opened at a ceremony attended by the 
Syrian Prime Minister. The facility, which 
Petrofac will operate for five years,  
will deliver operations and maintenance 
training for Syrian graduates joining the 
oil & gas industry.
Training Services remains focused  
on strategic business development 
opportunities, both in the UK and 
internationally. Demand for our Training 
Services business is driven by a number 
of factors, including the ‘nationalisation’ 
of government workforces, the ageing of 
the industry’s personnel and the potential 
increase in industry regulation in the 
wake of the Gulf of Mexico incident; 
these provide us with interesting medium 
to long-term opportunities.
Production Solutions provides customers 
with a wide range of services to  
help improve production, profitability, 
operational efficiency, asset integrity and 
the recovery of their reserves. In addition 
to providing these specialist services on 
a stand-alone basis, we are increasingly 
offering customers these services 
packaged together where we are 
remunerated on a tariff or quasi-equity 
basis. We were awarded our first such 
‘production enhancement’ contract by 
Petrom in early July 2010. Under the 
terms of the 15-year contract, which 
includes an option for extension by a 
further ten years, Petrofac will provide 
production enhancement services to 
Petrom as the concession holder for  
the Ticleni oilfield and its eight satellite 
fields in Romania. We will be paid a tariff 
per barrel of oil produced, including  
an enhanced tariff for incremental 
production. Petrofac successfully 
completed the transition to assume 
full operational responsibility for these 
fields in November 2010: average  
oil production volumes from the first 
two months of operation were around  
2.3% above baseline production.
Continued  
demand for our 
Training services
The Engineering Services, Training Services and 
Production Solutions business units are reported 
together in this segment. 45    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
In November 2010, Production Solutions 
entered into a strategic alliance with 
Seven Energy International Limited 
(‘Seven Energy’), a Nigerian production 
and development company. Under the 
terms of the agreement Petrofac agreed 
to invest US$100 million to acquire a  
15% interest in Seven Energy (12.6%  
on a fully diluted basis) and will assist 
Seven Energy with the development  
of its production, processing and 
transportation assets. Seven Energy  
has also issued warrants which, subject 
to the satisfaction of certain performance 
conditions and milestones in relation to 
project execution, will enable us to invest 
up to a further US$52 million, and take 
our interest to 19.2% on a fully diluted 
basis. Petrofac is providing experienced 
personnel to Seven Energy and is 
represented on its Board and 
management committees. The 
opportunity to co-invest and co-develop 
with Seven Energy, while deploying  
some of our own people, will give us the 
platform to establish a local presence  
in Nigeria, a high growth market where 
we have been seeking commercial 
opportunities for some years.
In October 2010, following a successful 
three and a half years of our service 
operator contract for Dubai Petroleum’s 
offshore oil & gas assets, we successfully 
completed the transition to a technical 
services agreement with the Government 
of Dubai. The technical services 
agreement will be reported through 
Offshore Engineering & Operations.
Acquisitions
Within Engineering Services, the 
acquisition of TNEI represents the  
first step in positioning Petrofac in  
the renewable energy sector. TNEI  
was acquired in June 2010 for a total 
consideration of £6.1 million (see note 10 
to the financial statements). TNEI is a 
specialist consultancy providing services 
in the areas of power transmission and 
distribution, particularly in relation to 
offshore wind projects, planning and 
environmental consent and energy 
management. TNEI has 50 staff in 
Newcastle and Manchester. The 
acquisition further broadens Petrofac’s 
technical consulting capacity.
Results
Reported revenue for the year was 
slightly higher at US$355.3 million  
(2009: US$349.7 million) as was revenue 
excluding ‘pass-through’ revenue at 
US$322.8 million (2009: US$309.7 
million), with an increase in revenues in 
both Engineering Services and Training 
Services being partially offset by lower 
revenues in Production Solutions as a 
consequence of the transition of our role 
on the Dubai Petroleum contract from 
service operator to a technical services 
agreement (and now accounted for in 
Offshore Engineering & Operations).
Net profit was 14.8% lower at US$27.6 
million (2009: US$32.4 million), principally 
reflecting the change in scope on the 
Dubai Petroleum contract. This was  
also the primary driver for net margin  
on revenue excluding pass-through 
revenue falling to 8.5% (2009: 10.4%).
At 31 December 2010, headcount – 
including long-term contractors –  
was higher at 3,400 (2009: 2,900). The 
addition of approximately 900 Romanian 
workers on the Ticleni oilfield more than 
offset the reduction in headcount that 
followed the transfer of Dubai Petroleum 
staff to the Government of Dubai. We 
also continued to grow our Mumbai and 
Chennai offices, which are reported 
through Engineering Services but 
predominantly support the businesses in 
our Engineering & Construction reporting 
segment. We have recently decided to 
open a third Indian office in Delhi, and 
expect to accomplish this during 2011.
Backlog for the Engineering, Training 
Services and Production Solutions 
reporting segment was unchanged  
at year-end, at US$0.3 billion (2009: 
US$0.3 billion). The main factors affecting 
backlog related to Production Solutions, 
which saw order intake – primarily arising 
from the Ticleni contract – offset by  
the change in scope on the Dubai 
Petroleum contract.
Revenue
(US$ millions)
Net profit
(US$ millions)
Net profit margin*
(%)
08 09 10
510
350 355
08 09 10
33.1
32.4
27.6
08 09 10
7.3
10.4
8.5
* on revenue excluding 
pass-through revenue
Dubai Petroleum
Operating review 
Business review 46    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Energy Developments
Where we can leverage our service capabilities  
to realise value, mitigate risks and reduce costs, 
Energy Developments provides a fully integrated 
service for resource holders under flexible 
commercial models that are aligned to their 
requirements. Projects cover upstream 
developments, both greenfield and brownfield,  
and related energy infrastructure projects,  
and can include the provision of capital.
The Cendor field had another year of good 
performance, producing an average of 13,300 
bpd of oil (2009: 14,400 bpd) and achieving 
production uptime of over 99%. Production  
is now in decline as a result of the natural 
decrease in field pressure. Energy 
Developments received approval for the  
Field Development Programme (FDP) for  
the second phase of development of Block 
PM304 in November 2010. This second 
phase will involve the replacement of the 
existing Mobile Offshore Production Unit 
(MOPU) and Floating Storage and Offloading 
(FSO) vessel with a Floating Production, 
Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel  
and fixed wellhead structures, designed  
to increase production capacity to 35,000 
bopd. Preparations for this second phase  
are progressing well with the aim of beginning 
work in the first half of 2011.
Ohanet, Algeria
Energy Developments, in a joint venture with 
BHP Billiton (as joint venture operator), Japan 
Ohanet Oil & Gas Co and Woodside Energy 
(Algeria), has invested more than US$100 
million for a 10% share in a RSC with 
Sonatrach, Algeria’s national oil company. 
Through Engineering & Construction, we 
undertook the EPC contract for the gas 
processing facilities in joint venture with  
ABB Lummus and were responsible for part 
of the on-site commissioning works. As part 
of the RSC, the joint venture contractors  
In the first demonstration of our ‘build 
and harvest’ strategy, we completed the 
demerger of Energy Developments’ UKCS 
assets, including its investments in the Don 
fields, in April 2010. These assets were 
demerged to create EnQuest PLC, an 
independent company which subsequently 
listed on the London and Stockholm stock 
exchanges. Our investment in the Don project 
generated a capital gain of US$124.9 million 
and an internal rate of return from inception  
to demerger of approximately 35%. We 
believe this transaction demonstrates the 
value of our ‘build and harvest’ strategy.
During the year, good progress was made on 
Energy Developments’ portfolio of operational 
assets (Cendor, Ohanet, Chergui and the 
Kyrgyz Petroleum Company (KPC) refinery), 
as explored below:
Cendor PM304, Malaysia
Energy Developments operates the Cendor 
field, in Block PM304, offshore Peninsular 
Malaysia, in which it holds a 30% interest. 
This interest was acquired in 2004 and is  
held by way of a production sharing contract 
(PSC). Energy Developments’ partners on  
this field are PETRONAS, Kuwait Foreign 
Petroleum Exploration Company (KUFPEC) 
and PetroVietnam, which hold interests  
of 30%, 25% and 15% respectively. 
are reimbursed for development costs and  
their share of the project’s operating costs. 
The joint venture contractors’ return for 
undertaking this investment is earned by way 
of remuneration equivalent to a percentage  
of the eligible development costs and our 
entitlement is paid from the monthly liquids 
production; hence any changes in production 
will vary the number of days over which the 
entitlement is earned. 
Overall production was slightly lower than in 
2009, averaging approximately 113,000 bpd 
of oil equivalent (2009: 123,100 bpd of oil 
equivalent). On average, we earned our share 
of the monthly liquids production by the  
11th day of the month (2009: 15th), reflecting 
higher average oil & gas prices, partly offset 
by slightly lower production rates. The  
RSC contract is due to expire at the end  
of October 2011; eight years from first gas,  
over which time we expect to have earned 
our defined return. 
Chergui field, Tunisia
In Tunisia, Energy Developments has a 45% 
operating interest in the Chergui gas plant. 
This interest was obtained in 2007 from 
Entreprise Tunisienne d’Activités Pétrolières 
(ETAP), the Tunisian national oil company, 
which holds the remaining 55% interest. 
Energy Developments’ interest is held through 
a Concession. The commercial export of gas 
commenced in August 2008. Produced gas 
is sold to the national gas company, Société 
Tunisienne de Lélectricité et du Gaz (STEG), 
under a gas pricing formula fixed by existing 
law, in which the price of gas is linked to 
free-on-board Mediterranean (FOB Med)  
fuel oil prices.
The Chergui gas plant produced an average 
of 27 .8 million standard cubic feet per day 
(mmscfd) of gas during the year (2009: 26.5 
mmscfd), above the original nameplate design 
capacity of 20 mmscfd. A third production 
well was tied into the plant in early July 2010 
to boost the production rate and increase  
gas recovery: production in December 2010 
was the highest recorded rate since the 
start-up of the gas plant in June 2008. The 
development programme for 2011 includes 
the commitment to drill two to three wells  
to increase reserves and to explore the 
production of oil, as well as gas, from the 
field. Following recent civil unrest in Tunisia, 
we have had some short unplanned shut-ins 
of production, but generally the plant is 
operating normally. We continue to keep  
the situation under review.
Review of operations
continued 47    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
KPC refinery, Kyrgyzstan
Energy Developments owns a 50% share in 
the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company (KPC) which 
is engaged in the refining of crude oil and the 
marketing of oil products from the 10,000 bpd 
capacity KPC refinery. KPC is jointly owned 
by Petrofac and Kyrgyzneftegaz, the 
state-owned oil & gas company in the Kyrgyz 
Republic. Petrofac has managed KPC’s 
facilities and operations since 1998.
During 2010, the refinery performed in line 
with expectations, producing an average of 
approximately 1,700 bpd (2009: 2,000 bpd), 
principally of gasoline, diesel and fuel oil. The 
decrease in throughput was primarily due to 
civil unrest in the country, which shut down 
operations and halted processing at the 
refinery in April and June 2010. On both 
occasions the demobilisation of expatriate 
and local staff was deemed necessary. 
FPF1 Floating Production Facility, 
undeployed
In July 2009, Energy Developments  
acquired a floating production facility, AH001 
(subsequently renamed the FPF1), from Hess 
and Endeavour Energy UK. The FPF1 had 
been deployed on the Hess-operated Ivanhoe 
and Rob Roy Fields, in the UK North Sea, 
from 1989, with the Renee and Rubie Fields 
produced over it since 1999. The vessel has 
a processing capacity of 45,000 bpd of oil 
and 56 mmscfd of gas with water injection 
capability of 90,000 bpd and water treatment 
of 40,000 bpd.
The vessel remains quayside at the McNulty 
offshore facility in Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  
while options for its redeployment on fields, 
including those where Energy Developments 
has or can take an interest, are considered. 
Several options for deployment, including  
in the UK North Sea, have been identified  
and are being pursued with conceptual 
engineering and proposal preparation  
work. We expect that a redeployment 
contract for the vessel will be secured in 
2011. We are currently completing general 
repair and upgrade work on the vessel,  
which will be followed by planned specific 
dry-dock work to satisfy external verification 
requirements to obtain a class certificate.  
This will enable the FPF1 continued operation 
in the harsh environment of the UK North Sea 
for ten years, without the need for a  
special survey.
 
Chergui gas plant  
produced an average  
of 27 .8 million standard 
cubic feet per day in 2010
Revenue
(US$ millions)
Net profit
(US$ millions)
08 09 10
153
249
188
08 09 10
21.9
46.2
156.4
08 09 10
89.1
160.9
241.0
EBITDA
(US$ millions)
Operating review 
Business review 48    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Gateway Storage Company  
Limited, UK
In December 2010, Energy Developments 
acquired a 20% interest in Gateway Storage 
Company Limited (Gateway), to progress and 
develop the Gateway Gas Storage project  
in the East Irish Sea. This project would  
add nearly 30% to the current gas storage 
capacity in the UK market, and has secured 
the first gas storage licence from the UK 
Department of Energy & Climate Change  
in February 2010. Petrofac joined Gateway  
as the technical project operator and is 
represented on Gateway’s board.
Berantai field development and  
East Fortune FPSO, Malaysia
In January 2011, Energy Developments 
signed a RSC to lead the development of the 
Berantai field, offshore Peninsular Malaysia, 
for PETRONAS, Malaysia’s national oil 
company. Petrofac has a 50% interest in  
the RSC, alongside our Malaysian partners 
Kencana Energy Sdn Bhd and Sapura Energy 
Ventures Sdn Bhd, both of which hold a 25% 
interest (together known as the ‘Berantai 
partners’). The Berantai partners will develop 
the field and will subsequently operate the 
field for a period of seven years after first  
gas production.
The capital budget for the full field 
development, excluding delivery of the  
FPSO, is approximately US$800 million,  
of which Petrofac’s share is 50%. Under the 
terms of the RSC, the Berantai partners are 
expected to receive a rate of return linked to 
their performance against an agreed incentive 
structure, including project costs, timing to first 
gas and sustained gas delivery measured  
six months after project completion, with 
an ongoing incentive structure based on 
operational uptime.
Acquisitions
Petrofac completed the acquisition of 
CO2DeepStore in April 2010, a UK-based 
CO2 storage company (see note 10 to the 
financial statements). The combination of 
CO2DeepStore and Petrofac establishes  
a leading development capability for CO2 
storage projects, providing a complete 
service for power generators and other  
CO2 emitters.
In October 2010, CO2DeepStore signed  
an agreement with Shell U.K. Limited (Shell) 
for the re-development of the Goldeneye  
gas field in the North Sea as a potential  
CO2 storage facility. The agreement will see 
CO2DeepStore and Shell work together to 
develop the potential CO2 storage solution  
for the ScottishPower Carbon Capture and 
Storage (CCS) project. Work on the initial 
design phase for the project is due to 
complete in the first half of 2011 and, subject 
to satisfactory contract negotiations, achieve 
contract award later in the year.
CO
2
DeepStore provides  
investment and service capability  
for the CCS market
Energy Developments
continued
Review of operations
continued 49    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
1 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$79.50 per barrel for 2010 (2009: US$61.67 per barrel).
Results
Energy Developments’ revenue was lower 
at US$188.2 million in 2010 (2009: US$248.7 
million), primarily due to the disposal of  
the Don assets following the April 2010 
demerger. On a like-for-like basis (excluding 
the contribution of the Don assets), Energy 
Developments’ revenue was marginally  
higher at US$172.8 million this year  
(2009: US$170.4 million).
Including the gain on the EnQuest demerger, 
net profit for Energy Developments rose by 
238% to US$156.4 million (2009: US$46.2 
million). Excluding this gain, despite the higher 
average oil price in 2010
1
 and notwithstanding 
the non-recurring NT/P68 write-off of US$3.7 
million in the prior year, the loss of contribution 
from the Don assets as well as lower 
production on Cendor meant that profit  
was lower at US$31.5 million (2009: US$46.2 
million). On a like-for-like basis (excluding the 
contribution of the Don assets and the gain 
on the EnQuest demerger), trading net profit 
for Energy Developments was US$29.4 
million in 2010 (2009: US$33.5 million).
At 31 December 2010, headcount had grown 
to 600 (2009: 500).
An analysis of Energy Developments’ oil & gas 
reserve entitlements is presented on page 159.
Asset
name
Country Asset
type
Investment 
commitment 
Customer Date of 
investment
Partners Partner  
interests
Licence 
Operator
Berantai Malaysia Oil & gas field Risk service  
contract
PETRONAS January 2011 Petrofac 
Kencana 
Sapura
50% 
25% 
25%
Petrofac (Energy 
Developments)
Kencana
Sapura
Cendor Malaysia Oil field Production  
sharing contract
PETRONAS May 2004 Petrofac
PETRONAS
KUFPEC
PetroVietnam
30%
30%
25%
15%
Petrofac (Energy 
Developments) 
Chergui Tunisia Gas field Concession ETAP February 2007 ETAP
Petrofac
55%
45%
ETAP
FPF1 Vessel currently 
located in the  
United Kingdom
Floating  
production  
facility
Owner of  
infrastructure
N/A July 2009 None 100% owned  
by Petrofac
N/A
Gateway United Kingdom Gas storage  
facility
Equity stake in a  
company developing  
the project
N/A December 2010 Various 20% owned  
by Petrofac
Petrofac
(Energy 
Developments)
KPC  
refinery
Kyrgyzstan Refinery Equity stake in a  
company which  
owns the infrastructure
Kyrgyzneftgaz January 2004 Petrofac
Kyrgyzneftgaz 
50%
50%
Petrofac
(Energy 
Developments)
Ohanet Algeria Gas field Risk service  
contract
Sonatrach July 2000 BHP Billiton 
Japan Ohanet  
Oil & Gas 
Woodside Energy 
Petrofac
45%
30%
 
15%
10%
BHP Billiton
 
Operating review 
Business review 50    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Senior management team
3 Marwan Chedid
Managing Director, Engineering & 
Construction Ventures 
Marwan joined Petrofac’s Engineering & 
Construction business as a project manager 
when the business was first established  
in Sharjah in 1992 and was subsequently 
promoted to regional director at the  
same time as becoming a member of the 
Engineering & Construction board. In 2007 , 
Marwan was appointed chief operating  
officer of the Engineering & Construction 
International business with day-to-day 
responsibility for the successful delivery of 
overall operations. In January 2009, he was 
appointed managing director of Engineering  
& Construction Ventures. Marwan previously 
worked for a major civil and mechanical 
construction business based in the Gulf and 
the Middle East for 12 years and has more 
than 28 years’ experience in the oil & gas 
sector. He holds a degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from the American University  
of Beirut. Age 50. 
4 Bill Dunnett
Managing Director, Offshore Engineering  
& Operations 
Bill has over 26 years’ experience in the 
oil & gas industry and now leads the Offshore 
Engineering & Operations business. Bill  
joined Petrofac Energy Developments in  
2007 with responsibility for asset development  
and production, which included leading the 
project management and operation of the 
greater Don Area Fields in the United Kingdom 
Continental Shelf, and the Chergui Field 
Development in Tunisia. Prior to joining 
Petrofac, Bill spent eight years at Halliburton 
and its subsidiary KBR, as a senior vice 
president and corporate officer and his 
responsibilities included membership of the 
KBR Executive Leadership Team, Global 
Operations and Maintenance. Bill spent his 
earlier career with Mobil North Sea and Shell. 
He is a chartered engineer and graduated 
with a first in Engineering from Heriot Watt 
University. Age 48.
5 Gordon East 
Managing Director, Production Solutions 
Gordon joined Petrofac in 2006 as managing 
director of Petrofac Facilities Management 
(now Offshore Engineering & Operations).  
He now leads the Production Solutions 
business which works with customers to 
increase production and improve reservoir 
recovery, covering specialist consultancy, 
technology applications and large scale 
production enhancement projects. Prior  
to joining Petrofac, Gordon spent more  
than 20 years with ConocoPhillips in various 
leadership and management roles throughout 
the upstream business worldwide. He has 
also held non-executive roles in the DTI  
and Cabinet Office. Gordon has an MA  
in Engineering from Cambridge University  
and an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from 
Imperial College London. Age 47 .
1 Robin Pinchbeck
Group Director of Strategy and Corporate 
Development
Robin joined Petrofac in 2002. After 23 years 
with BP , he moved to the oil services sector 
and from 1995 to 1998 was managing 
director of Atlantic Power & Gas, a leading 
North Sea operations services provider and 
pioneer of the contractor ‘Duty Holder’ model. 
Atlantic Power & Gas was sold in 1998 to 
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA, which was 
subsequently purchased by Petrofac in  
2002. Robin established Petrofac’s facilities 
management business now known as 
Offshore Engineering & Operations. Robin  
is a graduate of Imperial College, London  
and Stanford University, California. Age 58.
2 Richard Milne
Group Director of Legal  
and Commercial Affairs
Richard joined Petrofac in 2004 with overall 
responsibility for advising on the legal and 
commercial aspects of the group’s activities. 
Richard was heavily involved in Petrofac’s 
successful admission to listing on The 
London Stock Exchange in 2005 and in 
developing the group’s governance and 
compliance framework. As a member of the 
group’s senior management team, Richard 
participates in the group’s risk review process 
and advises on corporate matters as well as 
on all commercially significant issues affecting 
the group. Prior to joining Petrofac, Richard 
spent some 15 years in corporate finance 
after working in the insurance brokerage 
industry. Richard is a graduate of Oxford 
University and qualified as a solicitor. Age 55.
1 2 3 4 5 51    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
6 Paul Groves
Managing Director, Training Services 
Paul joined Petrofac in June 2009. As 
managing director of Petrofac’s Training 
Services business, Paul has overall 
responsibility for developing and running  
the group’s global training and consultancy 
activities. Paul previously worked with  
Shell from 2001, where he held a number  
of business development-led roles within  
the organisation. A Chartered Engineer  
and Scientist, Paul started his career as  
a lecturer of physics at Oxford University 
before moving into a number of management  
and development roles in organisations  
such as Alcan Aluminum Limited and  
British Gas/BG PLC. Age 50.
7 Rob Jewkes
Managing Director, Energy Developments
Rob joined Petrofac in 2004 with the objective 
of building Europe-based engineering 
services business at our Woking office,  
to complement the existing Engineering  
& Construction business in Sharjah. In 2009, 
Rob was appointed managing director  
of Petrofac Energy Developments. He  
has more than 30 years experience in  
the oil & gas industry, and prior to joining 
Petrofac, Rob served as chief executive 
officer of Clough Engineering, the main 
operating company of the Australian 
engineering group, Clough Limited. Rob  
holds a degree in Civil Engineering from  
the University of Western Australia. Age 55.
8 Subramanian Sarma
Managing Director, Engineering & 
Construction
Subramanian joined Petrofac’s Engineering  
& Construction business as a project 
manager in 1997 and has held various 
positions since then. In 2007, he was 
promoted to the position of executive vice 
president, projects & deputy chief operating 
officer of Petrofac International, with 
responsibility for the delivery of EPC projects 
in the Middle East, North Africa and Caspian 
regions. Subramanian now heads Petrofac’s 
Engineering & Construction business with 
overall responsibility for the current operation 
and its continued growth. Prior to joining 
Petrofac, Subramanian worked for Kvaerner 
and Jacobs in India and Oman and has more 
than 30 years’ experience in the oil & gas 
industry. He holds an MSc in Chemical 
Engineering from the Indian Institute of 
Technology. Age 52.
9 Rajesh Verma
Managing Director, Engineering Services 
Rajesh joined Petrofac Engineering & 
Construction in 1992 as a project manager 
when the business was first established  
in Sharjah. During his tenure he has been 
responsible for executing a number of EPC 
projects and subsequently been in charge  
of Technical Services for the E&C business. 
He has also been responsible for a number  
of strategic initiatives for the Company 
including setting up design offices in Mumbai 
& Chennai in India. Rajesh now leads the 
Engineering Services business which brings 
together Petrofac’s operations in Woking, 
Mumbai & Chennai. He has more than 
39 years’ experience in the oil & gas  
industry and holds a degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from the Birla Institute of 
Technology and Sciences in India. Age 61.
 
9 7 6 8
Senior management team
Business review 52    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial review
an increase in net margin due to excellent 
operational performance, with good progress 
on our portfolio of projects, including the 
completion or substantial completion of five 
large EPC projects during the year and first 
time profit recognition on a number of 
projects. The net margin for the group, 
excluding the gain on the EnQuest demerger, 
increased to 9.9% (2009: 9.7%), due to  
net margin improvement in Engineering & 
Construction and Offshore Engineering & 
Operations, offset by net margin reduction  
in the Engineering, Training Services  
and Production Solutions and Energy 
Developments reporting segments and an 
increase in net corporate and other costs. 
Net corporate and other costs increased  
due to a reduction in intra-group interest 
income earned as a result of Petrofac Limited 
capitalising a loan to Energy Developments  
as part of the EnQuest demerger, corporate 
support costs incurred in relation to  
the demerger and an increase in other 
shareholder related costs.
EBITDA
Reported EBITDA increased 38.1% to 
US$759.4 million (2009 restated: US$549.7 
million). Excluding the gain on the EnQuest 
demerger of US$124.9 million (2009: nil), 
EBITDA increased by 15.4% to US$634.5 
million (2009 restated: US$549.7 million), 
representing an EBITDA margin of 14.6% 
(2009 restated: 15.0%). Despite an increase  
in EBITDA margins in the Engineering & 
Construction and Offshore Engineering & 
Operations reporting segments, only partially 
offset by lower margins in the Engineering, 
Training Services and Production Solutions 
and Energy Developments reporting 
segments, the group EBITDA margin was 
lower due to a reduction in the share of group 
EBITDA, excluding the effect of corporate, 
consolidation and elimination adjustments, 
from the higher margin Energy Developments 
reporting segment following the EnQuest 
demerger (from 28.7% in 2009 (restated) to 
17.8% in 2010). Engineering & Construction’s 
share of group EBITDA, excluding the effect 
of corporate, consolidation and elimination 
adjustments, and the gain on the EnQuest 
demerger, increased to 72.7% (2009 restated: 
60.2%) due to strong revenue and margin 
growth in the Engineering & Construction 
reporting segment and the relative decrease 
in Energy Developments’ contribution.
Revenue
Group revenue increased by 19.1% to 
US$4,354.2 million (2009: US$3,655.4 million) 
due to strong growth in Engineering & 
Construction and Offshore Engineering & 
Operations, partly offset by a decrease in 
Energy Developments following the EnQuest 
demerger in April 2010. The strong growth  
in the Engineering & Construction reporting 
segment (up 29.7%), which accounted for 
approximately three-quarters of the group’s 
revenue, was as a result of high levels  
of activity on lump-sum EPC contracts, 
particularly on those contracts awarded in 
2009 and late 2008. The increase in revenues 
in Offshore Engineering & Operations (up 
15.2%) was as a result of activity on major 
contracts awarded in the second half of  
2009 and 2010 and a general improvement  
in market conditions.
Operating profit
Group operating profit for the year was 
US$663.5 million (2009 restated: US$432.0 
million), an increase of 53.6%. Excluding  
the gain on the EnQuest demerger, group 
operating profit increased by 24.7% to 
US$538.6 million (2009 restated: US$432.0 
million) and operating margins increased to 
12.4% (2009 restated: 11.8%). The increase  
in operating margin was predominantly due  
to an increase in the operating margin in 
Engineering & Construction, but also higher 
operating margins in Energy Developments 
and Offshore Engineering & Operations, 
partially offset by a reduction in operating 
margin in the Engineering, Training Services 
and Production Solutions reporting segment 
and a decrease in the proportion of group 
operating margin generated by the high 
margin Energy Developments reporting 
segment following the EnQuest demerger.
Net profit
Reported profit for the year attributable to 
Petrofac Limited shareholders increased 
57 .8% to US$557 .8 million (2009 restated: 
US$353.6 million). Excluding the gain on the 
EnQuest demerger of US$124.9 million (2009: 
nil), profit for the year attributable to Petrofac 
Limited shareholders increased to US$433.0 
million (2009: US$353.6 million), an increase 
of 26.4% on a like-for-like basis
1
. The increase 
was driven primarily by strong revenue growth 
in Engineering & Construction along with  
1   Like-for-like net profit growth excludes the trading net profit from Energy Developments’ demerged assets of 
US$12.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2009 and US$2.1 million for the year ending 31 December 2010.
+ 19%
Group revenue increased to 
US$4,354.2 million.
08 09 10
3,330
3,655
4,354
Revenue
(US$ millions)
08 09 10
419.0
549.7
759.4
EBITDA
(US$ millions)
08 09 10
265.0
353.6
557.8
Net profit
(US$ millions) 53    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Backlog
The group’s combined backlog at the end of 
2010 stood at record levels of US$11.7 billion 
(2009: US$8.1 billion), reflecting high levels  
of order intake during the year, both in 
Engineering & Construction (US$6.0 billion) 
and Offshore Engineering & Operations 
(US$1.6 billion).
Exchange rates
The group’s reporting currency is  
US Dollars. A significant proportion  
of Offshore Engineering & Operations’  
revenue is generated in the UKCS and those 
revenues and associated costs are generally 
denominated in Sterling; however, there was 
little change in the average exchange rate  
for the US Dollar against Sterling for the years 
ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 and 
therefore little exchange rate impact on our 
US Dollar reported results. The table below 
sets out the average and year-end exchange 
rates for the US Dollar and Sterling as used 
by the group for financial reporting purposes.
Interest 
Net finance income for the year was lower at 
US$5.1 million (2009: US$6.4 million) due to 
lower average net cash balances compared 
to the prior year (see ‘Operating cash flow 
and liquidity’). 
Taxation
An analysis of the income tax charge is  
set out in note 6 to the financial statements.  
The income tax charge for the year as  
a percentage of profit before tax was  
16.5%. Excluding the gain from the  
EnQuest demerger (upon which there  
was no chargeable gain for UK corporate 
tax purposes), the income tax charge for the 
year as a percentage of profit before tax was 
marginally higher than the prior year at 20.3% 
(2009 restated: 19.3%). The increase was  
due to Energy Developments’ effective tax 
rate (excluding the gain from the EnQuest 
demerger) which increased to 50.3%  
(2009: 30.8%) due to ring fence expenditure 
supplement no longer being available for 
claim following the EnQuest demerger. 
Notwithstanding the adjustments made in  
the prior year in respect of the applicability  
of the lower tax rate to the group’s projects 
in Oman, the Engineering & Construction 
effective tax rate decreased to 16.8%  
(2009 restated: 18.8%) due to material 
changes in the jurisdictions in which  
profits were earned.
Earnings per share
Fully diluted earnings per share increased to 
162.46 cents per share (2009: 103.19 cents), 
an increase of 57.4%, in line with the group’s 
increase in profit for the year attributable to 
Petrofac Limited shareholders. Excluding the 
gain on the EnQuest demerger, fully diluted 
earnings per share increased by 22.2% to 
126.09 cents per share (2009: 103.19 cents).
Operating cash flow and liquidity
The net cash generated from operations was 
US$207 .3 million (2009: US$1,276.3 million), 
representing 32.7% of EBITDA excluding  
the gain on the EnQuest demerger (2009: 
228.3%). The lower net cash inflow compared 
to the prior year was due principally to an 
unwinding of advance payments received 
from customers in relation to Engineering & 
Construction projects, with the 20% advance 
payment on our major award in Turkmenistan 
not being received until after the year-end, 
and a build up of in work in progress. Much  
of the increase in work in progress related  
to one Engineering & Construction project, 
where billing was delayed pending 
contractual amendments. The work in 
progress position on this project began  
to improve during the second half of 2010 
following finalisation of the contractual 
amendments and we expect it to normalise 
over the coming months. 
At 31 December 2010, the group’s net  
cash was lower at US$975.3 million  
(2009: US$1,300.1 million) as the net result  
of cash generated from operating profits  
before working capital and other non-current 
changes of US$667 million, less:
net working capital outflows of US$451 ■ ■
million, including a reduction in advance 
payments received from customers and  
an increase in work in progress in relation 
to Engineering & Construction projects, 
totalling US$491 million (in 2009 the group 
received net working capital inflows of 
US$714 million, including US$439 million  
of advance payments on Engineering & 
Construction projects)
investing activities of US$254 million, ■ ■
including:
the investment of US$100 million to  –
acquire a 15% stake in Seven Energy 
(12.6% on a fully diluted basis;  
see page 45 for details)
the acquisition of TNEI, CO – 2DeepStore, 
Scotvalve and Stephen Gillespie 
Consultants at a cost of US$15 million 
and the investment of an initial US$8 
million for a 20% stake in Gateway  
Gas Storage (see page 48)
capital expenditure of US$59 million   –
in relation to Energy Developments’ 
portfolio of assets, including US$26 
million on the Don fields prior to the 
EnQuest demerger and US$16 million on 
Cendor PM304 near field development
capital expenditure on other property,  –
plant and equipment of US$72 million, 
including temporary project camp 
facilities, office equipment and furniture 
and site-based vehicles, predominantly 
in Engineering & Construction
Financial reporting exchange rates 
US$/Sterling 2010 2009
Average rate for the year 1.54 1.56
Year-end rate 1.56 1.62
US$ 1 1 . 7 bn
The group’s backlog stood at record levels 
at 31 December 2010.
Financial review
Business review 54    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment was lower during the year ended 
31 December 2010 at US$116.2 million (2009: 
US$375.4 million), as almost three-quarters of 
the capital expenditure in the prior year was  
in relation to the now demerged Don assets. 
The principal elements of capital expenditure 
during the year were:
investment in temporary project camps, ■ ■
office improvements, equipment and 
furniture and vehicles in Engineering  
& Construction, reflecting the increase  
in activity levels and personnel,  
of US$60.1 million
additions to Energy Developments’  ■ ■
oil & gas assets, including:
development expenditure on the   –
Don assets prior to demerger  
of US$26.1 million
upgrade works on the FPF1 floating  –
production facility of US$7 .3 million
Capital expenditure on intangible oil & gas 
assets during the year was US$15.6 million 
(2009: US$29.2 million) in respect of 
capitalised expenditure on near field appraisal 
wells in relation to Energy Developments’ 
interest in Block PM304, offshore Malaysia.
Shareholders’ funds
Total equity at 31 December 2010 was 
US$779.1 million (2009 restated: US$897 .5 
million). The main elements of the net 
movement were: net profit for the year of 
US$557 .9 million, less dividends paid in the 
year of US$132.0 million, the distribution on 
the EnQuest demerger of US$544.5 million 
(see note 11 to the financial statements)  
and the purchase of treasury shares of 
US$36.5 million, which are held in the 
Petrofac Employees Benefit Trust for the 
purpose of making awards under the  
group’s share schemes (see note 23 
to the financial statements).
Return on capital employed
The group’s return on capital employed, 
including the gain on the EnQuest demerger, 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 
65.2% (2009: 46.9%).
Dividends and distribution
The Company proposes a final dividend of 
30.00 cents per share for the year ended  
31 December 2010 (2009: 25.10 cents), 
which, if approved, will be paid to 
shareholders on 20 May 2011 provided 
they were on the register on 26 April 2011. 
Shareholders who have not elected (before  
4 March 2011) to receive dividends in  
US Dollars will receive a Sterling equivalent  
of 18.42 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend of  
13.80 cents per share (2009: 10.70 cents), 
equivalent to 8.91 pence, this gives a total 
dividend for the year of 43.80 cents per share 
(2009: 35.80 cents), an increase of 22.3%.
In addition to the interim and final dividends, 
the Company made a non-cash distribution 
of one EnQuest share for every one Petrofac 
Limited share held immediately prior to the 
demerger, which for accounting purposes 
had a total fair value of US$553.3 million, 
equivalent to 160.08 cents per share.
Forward-looking statements
The Business Review (pages 16 to 54) 
contains forward-looking statements with 
respect to the financial condition, results, 
and operations of the group. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements involve a number 
of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that 
could cause actual results or events to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied  
by the forward-looking statements. These 
risks, uncertainties or assumptions could 
adversely affect the outcome and financial 
effects of the plans and events described 
herein. Forward-looking statements contained 
in the Business Review regarding past  
trends or activities should not be taken as 
representation that such trends or activities 
will continue in the future. Petrofac Limited 
undertakes no obligation to update the 
forward-looking statements contained in 
this review or any other forward-looking 
statements made.
financing activities of US$201 million, ■ ■
including:
payment of the 2009 final dividend   –
and 2010 interim dividend totalling 
US$132 million
repayment of interest-bearing loans   –
and borrowings of US$32 million
financing the purchase of treasury   –
shares for the purpose of making  
awards under the group’s share 
schemes of US$36 million
taxes paid of US$99 million ■ ■
The group reduced its levels of interest-
bearing loans and borrowings to US$87.7 
million (2009: US$117.3 million) following 
scheduled loan repayments in 2010. Despite 
a reduction in the net assets of the group as  
a result of the EnQuest demerger, the group’s 
gross gearing ratio fell to 11.3% (2009 
restated: 13.1%) reflecting the reduction 
in interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The group’s total gross borrowings before 
associated debt acquisition costs at the  
end of 2010 were US$91.8 million (2009: 
US$123.1 million), of which 39.5% was 
denominated in US Dollars (2009: 51.0%)  
and 60.5% was denominated in Sterling 
(2009: 49.0%).
As detailed in note 33 to the financial 
statements, the group maintained a balanced 
borrowing profile at 31 December 2010  
with 51.7% of borrowings maturing within  
one year and 48.3% maturing between  
one and five years (2009: 47 .2% and 52.8%). 
The borrowings repayable within one year  
include US$28.9 million of bank overdrafts 
(representing 31.5% of total gross borrowings), 
which are expected to be renewed during 
2011 in the normal course of business (2009: 
US$46.6 million and 37.9% of total gross 
borrowings repayable within one year, 
including US$20.0 million of revolving  
credit facilities).
None of the Company’s subsidiaries  
are subject to any material restrictions  
on their ability to transfer funds in the  
form of cash dividends, loans or advances  
to the Company.
Gearing ratio 
2010 2009
 
US$ millions (unless otherwise stated)  Restated
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (A) 87.7 117.3
Cash and short term deposits (B) 1,063.0 1,417.4
Net cash/(debt) (C = B – A) 975.3 1,300.1
Total net assets (D) 779.1 897.5
Gross gearing ratio (A/D) 11.3% 13.1%
Net gearing ratio (C/D) Net cash  Net cash 
 position position
Financial review
continued 55    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Business review 56    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Our CSR strategy... 
Health, safety, 
security and 
integrity assurance 
The safety of both our operations  
and our people is a strategic priority:  
in 2010, we took systematic steps to 
further protect both. Action included  
an international programme to assess 
and develop our oil spill response 
capability, comprehensive security 
arrangements in high-risk countries  
and a group-wide employee road safety 
awareness campaign. 
Turn to page 60 to find out more
...allows us to grow  
our reputation as a 
socially responsible 
company
Planning for  
a better future
Petrofac works in partnership with the 
communities in which we operate. From 
our strategic commitment to training local 
workers to our joint business ventures  
with customers and sponsorships of schools, 
we work hand-in-hand with our stakeholders.
Such close partnerships underpin our 
business strategy. Our relationships with 
customers reflect, and depend upon, our 
respect for their communities and to recruit 
and retain exceptional people, we must be a 
responsible employer. To remain successful, 
we need to make responsible business 
practices – which to us mean achieving 
commercial success in ways that respect 
people, communities and the natural 
environment – part of our culture. 
Due to our rapid growth our approach to 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) has not 
been as coherent as we would have wished, 
but this is something we are proactively 
addressing. In 2010, our Board committed  
to the development of a new CSR strategy, 
aligned to the ten principles of the UN Global 
Compact, to which we became a signatory  
in 2009. We also worked to strengthen the 
strategic focus, senior management and 
organisation of the areas that are particularly 
linked to the wider CSR arena: health, safety, 
security, environment and integrity assurance 
(HSSEIA), human resources (HR), compliance 
and community investment.
We are now embarking on a well-planned 
CSR journey: we still have a long way to  
go but believe recent activities have set us  
on the road to becoming the truly socially 
responsible company we want to be. 57    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Environment
Limiting carbon emissions, meeting 
exacting environmental management 
standards and monitoring customer 
discharges are just some of the ways  
we limit our impact on the environment. 
We also seek to enhance the natural 
world: in 2010, our third Planet Petrofac 
month mobilised thousands of staff,  
in environmental activities ranging from 
mangrove planting to litter collection.  
Turn to page 62 to find out more
Community
We want every community in which 
Petrofac works to feel included and 
respected and for our legacy there to  
be greater self-sufficiency, increased 
business opportunities and new, 
locally-developed skills. Our investment 
in education involves assisting young 
people at all levels, from primary school 
funding to scholarships in India and 
engineering fellowships in the UK. 
Turn to page 66 to find out more
Marketplace
Ethical behaviour is promoted and 
encouraged right across Petrofac. In 
2010, we commissioned Transparency 
International to review our bribery and 
corruption risk management strategy and 
emphasised our commitment to human 
rights. We sought guidance on how we 
could improve, manage and integrate 
CSR practices within our organisation 
and carried out a targeted survey of 
stakeholder perceptions of Petrofac. 
Turn to page 58 to find out more
Corporate social responsibility
Our people
Petrofac’s success is rooted in its 
exceptional people. In 2010, we acted  
to ensure our global workforce continued 
to have the right technical and leadership 
skills to serve our customers and grow 
our business. Group-wide HR initiatives 
included the launch of a global 
performance management capability 
and the introduction of a consistent 
employee grading system. 
Turn to page 64 to find out more
 Corporate social responsibility 58    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Marketplace
Our business ethics
Ethical conduct is one of Petrofac’s five  
core values. We strive to display the highest 
standards of transparency and integrity in  
the way we operate, and to deliver on our 
promises.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global 
Compact, we are committed to making 
continuous improvements in our approach  
to human rights, labour, environment and 
anti-corruption. In 2010, we submitted 
updates on our progress in the areas of  
the environment and anti-corruption which, 
as is customary, were posted on the Global 
Compact website.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out clear 
standards of behaviour for our entire group 
and highlights our Speaking Up process 
whereby employees can raise concerns  
in complete confidence. We ask all our 
employees, partners and sub-contractors 
to acknowledge the code. By the end of 
2010, around 6,000 employees have now 
completed a bespoke e-learning module  
on the code.
Combatting corruption
As our Code of Business Conduct states, 
Petrofac does not permit the giving or 
receiving of bribes. In 2010, in consultation 
with our businesses, we developed a risk 
management standard that covers the full 
remit of bribery and corruption in response  
to the UK Bribery Act 2010.
In 2011, we will deliver an extensive education 
programme across the group to implement 
our risk management standard and to 
help ensure that we have a consistent  
and effective risk management strategy for 
the prevention of bribery and corruption in  
our operations.
Other anti-corruption activities include:
commissioning Transparency International ■ ■
to review our bribery and corruption risk 
management system and attending a 
number of Transparency International 
sponsored events
being a signatory of the World Economic ■ ■
Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption 
Initiative and attending its annual 
conference in December 2010
Human rights
In 2010, Petrofac updated its ethical, social 
and regulatory risk policy (www.petrofac.com/
communities) to emphasise that it ‘does not 
engage in any business activities that could 
implicate the Company, directly or indirectly, 
in the abuse of human rights’. In 2011, we 
plan to undertake a review of our exposure to 
this risk in the countries in which we operate.
Engaging with our stakeholders
We are keen to learn from, and engage with, 
others to ensure that we pursue best practice 
and focus on the areas of most significance 
for our stakeholders.
During the year, we undertook our first 
stakeholder survey to gauge awareness of, 
and response to Petrofac. The survey was 
undertaken on our behalf by a specialist  
third party and around 100 of Petrofac’s 
stakeholders were surveyed on an 
unattributed basis, including: customers, 
partners, suppliers, shareholders, analysts, 
media, industry bodies, NGOs and 
community groups. The results were shared 
with the group’s leadership team at the 
annual leadership conference and will  
be used a benchmark for future surveys.
In 2010, we undertook a benchmarking 
exercise with Business in the Community 
(BITC) to assess our strengths and 
weaknesses across the four management 
areas: marketplace, workplace, community 
and environment. We have used the  
BITC framework to form the basis of  
our CSR reporting.  
As a result we have developed a CSR 
strategy that addresses the most important 
corporate responsibility issues for Petrofac, 
namely: climate change, local content, 
skills and education and road safety. 
In 2011, we plan to broaden the dialogue 
around our CSR strategy with the involvement 
of external audiences, as part of a 
stakeholder engagement programme.
Delivering... 
Stakeholder survey
 
 
 
stakeholders completed a reputation 
survey on Petrofac in 2010.
100
e-learning in Petrofac
 
 
The approximate number of employees 
who had completed COBC e-learning  
by the end of 2010.
6,000 59    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...the highest standards of 
transparency and integrity  
in the way we operate
Corporate social responsibility
 Corporate social responsibility 60    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Health, safety, security and  
integrity assurance 
Ensuring... 
The safety of our people, 
customers and operations 
is our highest priority.
In 2010, we continued to focus on two 
areas:
the technical integrity of the plants we ■ ■
design, build and operate, to minimise  
the risk of major accidents, such as fire  
and explosion
the prevention of occupational safety risks, ■ ■
to help prevent personal injury
Plant integrity
During the year, Petrofac reinforced  
the importance of robust asset integrity 
management with an internal education  
and awareness-raising programme. We 
designated 2010 as the Year of Integrity and 
Quality across our engineering businesses, 
and created supporting e-learning modules, 
DVDs of case studies and customised 
presentations. Technical integrity was  
the theme of our annual safety seminar, 
which was attended by 90 senior managers, 
including our Group Chief Executive, Group 
Chief Operating Officer and Petrofac’s seven 
business unit managing directors. We also 
created the role of Director of Integrity to 
champion best practice. 
The circumstances were also separately 
reviewed by the executive management team. 
Notwithstanding this deeply regrettable 
incident, our safety performance – which we 
measure according to Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration rules – was 
maintained at a similar level to 2009. Our 
recordable incident frequency rate was  
0.18 per 200,000 man-hours (2009: 0.36) 
and our lost time injury frequency rate was 
0.026 (2009: 0.020). There were 13 ‘major 
potential incidents’ (2009: 23). ‘Potential’ is 
the key word here – the criteria for reporting 
is the potential for harm, so although very 
few of these incidents actually resulted in 
personal injury or damage, all were reviewed 
in great detail. 
Safe driving is one of our eight ‘golden rules 
of safety’ and, in 2010, was the focus of a 
group-wide employee campaign. During  
the year, our vehicles travelled more than  
77 million km between locations or on 
project sites: equivalent to driving almost 
2,000 times around the globe. Our driving 
incident frequency rate, which records  
major or serious vehicle incidents, fell  
from 0.29 incidents per million km driven  
in 2009 to 0.03. Whilst this improvement is 
encouraging, we continue to regard driving 
as one of our biggest areas of risk and will 
not slacken our efforts to improve further.
We investigate all incidents and accidents, 
circulate guidance from lessons learnt and 
follow up actions. Our aspiration is to have 
no recordable incidents of any kind and 
were pleased that many sites achieved  
this during the year.
Our Asset Integrity Review Board met 
monthly to review plant integrity. The Board 
is chaired by our Offshore Engineering & 
Operations Managing Director and our 
HSSEIA Director and involves operations 
managers from all operated sites. The 
meetings help anticipate potential issues 
and provide a forum for peer review  
and support. In 2010, we improved  
the metrics we use to measure asset 
integrity performance and analyse trends.  
Each operation reports against around  
30 measures covering plant reliability and 
condition, the management of maintenance 
and assurance activities and organisational 
matters such as competence assurance.
Following recent events in the Gulf of 
Mexico, we acted to confirm that our 
operations are protected against major 
incidents and, in the event they do  
occur, that we respond effectively.  
Our programme included:
an assessment of oil spill response ■ ■
capability at all oil & gas production facilities 
review of emergency response ■ ■
arrangements
a technical safety review of five major ■ ■
facilities
new group standards for oil spill response ■ ■
and integrity management 
a revision to our standards for emergency ■ ■
response and crisis management 
We continued to work with the wider 
industry to reduce risk. Petrofac Training 
Services is a leading emergency response 
trainer, while our UK Emergency Response 
Service Centre in Aberdeen provides a 
24-hour integrated response capability. We 
are members of the UK Oil Spill Prevention 
and Response Advisory Group and actively 
support the UK oil & gas industry safety 
initiative, Step Change in Safety, and its 
working groups.
A safe working environment
We strive to ensure that all our people have 
a safe and secure workplace. 
Sadly, in 2010, a fatal accident occurred at 
our El Merk project in Algeria. The incident 
was investigated fully and the results of the 
investigation were reviewed at our quarterly 
group Incident Review Board, which  
is a senior level review attended by all  
the business unit managing directors, to 
make sure that lessons learned from any 
significant incident are effectively shared. 
77 million km
We drove 77 million km or almost  
2,000 times around the world.
Driving Incident Frequency Rate
(incidents per million km driven)
08 09 10
0.22
0.29
0.03 61    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...our people have a safe  
working environment
Staff health and welfare
High standards of staff health and  
welfare are both good employer practice 
and essential to efficient operations.  
We provide health and fitness checks  
for senior managers and comprehensive 
medical assessments for those at risk, 
particularly when located offshore and 
abroad. Exercise and recreational facilities 
are provided at most sites to encourage 
personal fitness and medical teams are 
based at most facilities. Occupational  
health support is also available.
Security 
The hazardous nature of our work is 
heightened in some countries by political 
instability or civil unrest. To meet such 
challenges, Petrofac invests a great  
deal of effort in protecting the security  
of our people and of our physical assets.
In 2010, our recently appointed Group Head 
of Security implemented a security audit  
of all our facilities. This rolling programme 
complements the security review and 
preparations we carry out before 
commencing all new projects. During  
the year, we carried out a comprehensive 
review in Turkmenistan and our move  
into Iraq and Nigeria involved particularly 
intensive security provisions. 
We monitor intelligence about changing 
security situations and keep our staff 
informed, for example, by sending out 
weekly travel and security guidance.  
We act quickly to protect our people  
when conditions deteriorate: in 2010,  
we evacuated a number of staff from 
perceived trouble-spots.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(per 200,000 man-hours)
0.057
06 07 08 09 10
0.067
0.033
0.020
0.026
Recordable Incident Frequency Rate
(per 200,000 man-hours)
0.41
06 07 08 09 10
0.35
0.32
0.36
0.18
Man-hours worked
(million man-hours completed by 
employees and subcontractors)
08 09 10
67
70
76
Corporate social responsibility
 Corporate social responsibility 62    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Environment
Reducing... 
Contributing to communities
We aim to bring Petrofac people and  
the community together to make a positive 
difference to our environment.
Our third annual Planet Petrofac environment 
month celebrated bio-diversity, in support  
of the United Nations’ ‘International Year  
of Bio-diversity’. Thousands of employees  
at 17 locations took part in such activities as 
mangrove and native tree planting, collections 
for orphanages, guided nature walks, 
community lectures and litter-collections  
on beaches and seabeds.
As part of our partnership with local 
communities, we are a member of the Arab 
Forum for Environment and Development 
and, within the UAE, work closely with the 
Emirates Environmental Group and sponsor  
a renewable energy research programme  
at the American University of Sharjah.
1,650 
trees were planted as part of environment 
month campaign in 2010.
Carbon emissions
 
 
 
 
tonnes of carbon emissions  
generated in 2010.
08 09 10
185
208 206
Tonnes of CO2 emitted
(thousands)
205,695
In 2010, Petrofac acted  
to both limit our impact  
on the environment and to 
work with stakeholders to 
protect the natural world. 
We appointed a Group Head of Environment, 
to help raise standards across the Company 
and lead strategic environmental initiatives. 
The new role complements the environment 
teams already active in our business units.
We also developed plans for a company-wide 
environment steering group, involving senior 
business heads and functional environment 
managers. This group will focus on strategic 
issues, such as pollution prevention, waste 
management and resource consumption,  
and will be supported by an environmental 
working group.
Our carbon footprint
Our operations, including joint venture 
operations but excluding customer-owned 
facilities, emitted 205,695 tonnes of CO2 
(2009: 208,100). This reduction is due to the 
fact that our share of the CO2 emissions for 
the Dons field was lower as the asset was 
transferred to EnQuest PLC in April as a  
result of the demerger of our UKCS assets.
Petrofac is proactive in sharing carbon 
generation data. In 2010, we contributed  
to the worldwide Carbon Disclosure  
Project and, in the UK, participate in  
the Government’s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Monitoring for customers
As well as measuring our own carbon 
emissions, Petrofac monitors and collects 
carbon data for the facilities we manage for 
customers. We also perform more extensive 
monitoring for customers of the North Sea 
facilities that we operate, under the Oslo-Paris 
Convention environmental management 
requirements. Additionally, under the terms  
of the European Environmental Emissions 
Monitoring System, we monitor discharges  
of hydrocarbons, heavy metal and radiation 
contamination and for air emissions of  
sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and  
volatile organic carbons, as well as for carbon 
dioxide. We also segregate all waste leaving 
operated facilities and report it by category.
Environmental standards
Comprehensive environmental impact 
assessments are carried out prior to all new 
projects. We follow a systematic approach  
to environmental management, even in 
geographies where such high standards  
are not required by law. Around 95% of  
work that we do, calculated by man-hours 
expended, is covered by the independently 
verified ISO 14001 international standard.   Corporate social responsibility
63    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...our global  
carbon footprint
Corporate social responsibility 64    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Our people
Our customers use 
Petrofac because they 
know they can rely on the 
skills and commitment of 
our people. 
In 2010, we continued to take steps to ensure 
we had the best people, with the right skills, 
to serve our customers – not just now, but for 
decades to come. Such activity is essential in 
the context of the wider industry’s challenge 
to ensure it has the right talent for the future. 
We focused particularly on resourcing, talent 
management and employee engagement and 
on developing a more integrated organisation.
Effective resourcing
We applied a more strategic approach to 
Company-wide resourcing, including the 
drafting of a five-year human resource 
strategy and the appointment of a Head  
of Resourcing. 
We recruited widely, including the 
appointment of more than 120 senior 
managers, to meet the immediate needs 
of our expanding business and help provide 
the next generation of leaders. 
Reflecting our strategic commitment to local 
content, wherever possible, we aim to recruit, 
train and develop employees from local 
communities. For example, following the 
December 2010 award of a contract to 
develop the SEPAT offshore early production 
system in Malaysia, we are staffing the project 
almost entirely with local employees. 
Talent management
We want to make sure our employees have 
the right technical and managerial skills to 
succeed. During the year, we further refined 
our development programmes for all levels  
of staff.
To coach the executives of tomorrow,  
we began a partnership with the London 
Business School to create ‘Petrofac 
Leadership Excellence’. The programme,  
to aid the development of our senior people, 
will be rolled out in 2011. In November 2010, 
we also gathered more than 70 of our  
most senior managers at a leadership 
conference to share best practice, strengthen 
relationships and teamwork, and build 
strategic understanding.
To nurture leadership potential, we assessed 
recent graduate recruits and designed 
development opportunities for those likely to 
become managers or directors. Additionally, 
all our business units took steps to create 
challenging assignments to equip people  
for more senior positions.
We built development frameworks for  
our wider workforce by commencing the 
introduction of individual development  
plans for all employees. The extension of our 
e-learning capability to around two thirds of 
our locations was another step towards our 
strategy of improving technical competences. 
Creating one Petrofac
Our new enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system, TEMPO, which we began rolling out 
in 2010, is helping to establish a consistent 
approach to group HR initiatives. The system 
supports the launch of a global performance 
management capability, including an annual 
appraisal with mid-year review, a common 
Supporting... 
Our values
91% of participants in our survey share 
our Company values.
Petrofac people are:
safe ■ ■
ethical ■ ■
innovative ■ ■
cost-conscious ■ ■
responsive to customers  ■ ■
and always focus relentlessly  
on delivering results
“ I never cease to be impressed  
by the determination of our people. 
Throughout our 30-year history,  
we have encountered numerous 
challenges, particularly in relation  
to the execution of our projects.  
In these instances it is the absolute 
commitment – the relentless focus –  
on finding a solution that has often 
created positive outcomes from  
difficult situations.”
Ayman Asfari 
Group Chief Executive
behavioural competence framework and  
clear visibility of development needs.  
In another move towards group-wide 
consistency, we began the roll out of  
a global grading system for employees.
Petrofac has a committed and engaged 
workforce. In 2009, our biennial employee 
survey, PetroVoices, showed 91% of 
participants share company values and 
almost one in three employees are part  
of our share incentive schemes. As part of  
our support for employee share ownership, 
we implemented an employee share portal 
and an automated staff share dealing facility. 
In addition, in early 2010, we appointed an 
experienced Share Plan Manager to help 
improve our service to employees. We were 
delighted to be commended by ifs ProShare 
as part of its annual award scheme.
Effective communication
Communication is key to engaging our people 
and creating a unified culture. 
During the year, we sought to communicate 
more effectively with our dispersed, 
multicultural workforce, many of whom work 
in remote locations with limited digital access.
New talent
 
 
 
 
 
new staff joined Petrofac in 2010
–  97% of graduates hired since 2008  
are still working for Petrofac
–   Graduates recruited:  
2008 – 104 
2009 – 120 
2010 – 107
–  4% of Petrofac employees left  
by choice in 2010
3,200 65    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...the development and 
training of our people
We created a team briefing framework,  
partly in response to calls for better internal 
communication, particularly at a local level,  
in the PetroVoices survey. ‘Team Talk’ 
incorporates strategic, business unit and  
local content and, following a 2010 pilot, will 
be rolled out globally. It will form one part of  
a planned ‘toolkit’ to help the whole business 
communicate more effectively.
Specific staff communication programmes 
supported key group activity, such as the 
EnQuest demerger, the employee grading 
initiative, the ERP roll out, the PetroVoices 
survey results and environment month.  
We also continued to produce the quarterly 
Petrofacts magazine and again ran the Picture 
Petrofac photography competition for staff.
In line with further PetroVoices survey 
feedback, our business units evolved their 
own communications strategies, supported 
by intranets, newsletters and event 
programmes.
In 2011, a new Internal Communications 
Manager will manage the continuing 
development of our employee communications 
offering, including the planned launch of  
a more powerful company-wide intranet. 
During the year, we will also undertake  
our third PetroVoices employee survey.
We are proud of how highly our people 
identify with our values; as mentioned above, 
in our most recent employee survey, 91% of 
participants said they shared Petrofac’s values.
In 2011, we will celebrate employees who 
particularly embody our values in the way  
they work, with the launch of the Petrofac EVE 
Awards programme, designed to recognise 
and reward excellence, values and energy. 
This is a new initiative that will be open to  
all employees worldwide to demonstrate  
how they embody one or more of the values 
in their daily activities. In addition to raising 
awareness of our values and what they mean, 
the awards seek to celebrate and recognise 
the achievements of the exceptional people 
who work across our group.
Corporate social responsibility
 Corporate social responsibility 66    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Community
Investing... 
Petrofac aims to build 
relationships with,  
and to create value  
for, the communities  
we work with around  
the world.
We believe this approach both fosters local 
stability, during the period of our projects,  
and by encouraging the development of the 
wider community – beyond our workforce – 
helps build sustainable communities for the 
long-term. 
To ensure we approach future community 
investment in the best way, in 2010,  
we developed a new strategy. This new 
community investment strategy involves a 
five-stage process, as shown in the diagram 
below that will ensure that:
national community investment strategies ■ ■
are developed for each new market prior  
to entry, with CSR planning part of the 
pre-bid activity
local stakeholders are involved in strategic ■ ■
planning, to assess community needs and 
expectations, and in ongoing dialogue
evaluation systems are developed for all ■ ■
new projects
Continuous improvement cycle 
The strategy is being implemented by our  
first full-time Group Head of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, who was appointed in 2010.
Delivering projects with local employees is 
integral to our business strategy and one  
of our key differentiators. Our community 
investment approach supports this strategy, 
by helping to equip communities with 
essential skills.
In October 2010, we designed, refurbished 
and equipped Syria’s first oil & gas training 
centre (see case study) as a donation to the 
Syrian Government, in support of its drive to 
develop personnel for its growing oil & gas 
sector. In Algeria, we built a construction  
skills training centre to equip local people  
for work in the national oil & gas industry.
Apart from supporting professional 
development, our community investment 
programme fosters all levels of learning,  
from elementary and secondary schooling  
to higher education. This support ranges  
from providing scholarships to pupils in India 
and Kyrgyzstan to funding employee ‘science 
ambassadors’ who visit UK schools enthusing 
young people about science and engineering. 
During the year, the first intake of UK 
engineering students from the Petrofac  
Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship 
Programme finished their year-long masters 
courses. In financing the £250,000,  
three-year programme, we hope to go  
some way to offset the scarcity of engineers 
at Western universities that is leading to  
a critical skills shortage in our industry.
Developing local workforces
Aspiring Syrian oil & gas workers now 
have the chance to develop their skills  
at the country’s first dedicated industry 
training centre.
The National Training Centre was 
designed, refurbished and equipped by 
Petrofac and was inaugurated in October 
2010 by the Syrian Prime Minister, His 
Excellency Mohammad Naji Ottri. It will 
deliver year-long competence-led training 
courses to up to 120 Syrian people each 
year, with instruction in technical English 
and in technical and safety training across 
the electrical, mechanical, instrumentation 
and production disciplines.
Speaking at the launch event Group Chief 
Executive Ayman Asfari said:
“ Petrofac has been active in Syria  
since the early nineties through  
our Engineering & Construction 
business and we have grown up 
alongside the oil & gas industry 
here. We have been honoured 
today by the presence of  
His Excellency the Prime Minister,  
which reflects the importance  
of this new facility to Syria and  
I am proud of our involvement.”
PHASE 2
Review  
and plan
PHASE 4
Manage  
and support
PHASE 3
Deploy  
and 
implement
PHASE 1
Visit and 
assess
PHASE 5
Stand
alone 67    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
...in communities  
we live and work in
Investing... 
£100,000 
Raised by employees for local  
good causes around the world.
Reflecting the focus we place on safe driving 
internally, our community education focus 
extends to road safety. In the UAE, for 
example, we have committed Dhs 1.5 million 
to support a year-long Sharjah Police road 
safety campaign aimed at young drivers and 
in the UK donated £15,000 to an Aberdeen-
area school ‘Safe Drive Stay Alive’ campaign. 
Engaging employees
Staff CSR champions encourage our people 
to engage in local good causes around the 
world. In 2010, employee-led activity included 
Sharjah employees raising US$100,000 
– which was matched by Petrofac – for 
Pakistani flood victims; Aberdeen staff raising 
£40,000 to fund juvenile diabetes research, 
and our Woking office sponsoring a teenage 
sailor with disabilities who is aiming to 
compete in the 2012 Paralympic Games.
Looking ahead, our key community objective 
for 2011 is to fully assess and understand the 
wide range of activities that we are involved  
in, across the organisation, and to measure 
their value. The development of KPIs for  
our community investment programme  
is another priority.
For more information about  
our CSR programmes see: 
www.petrofac.com/communities
Corporate social responsibility
 Corporate social responsibility 68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ information 
Directors who served in 2010
1 3 4 2
1 Rodney Chase
Non-executive Chairman 
a
 
Rodney became non-executive Chairman  
of Petrofac in June 2005. He spent 38 years 
at BP plc, including 11 on its board, and  
was deputy group CEO on his retirement in 
May 2003. His other roles at BP included time  
as CEO of the exploration & production and 
marketing and refining divisions. Rodney is a 
non-executive director of Computer Sciences 
Corporation, Nalco Company and Tesoro 
Corporation. He is a former board member  
of Tesco plc, BOC plc and Diageo plc. 
Rodney is 67 .
Rodney is stepping down from the Board  
at the 2011 AGM.
2 Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive 
a
Ayman became Group Chief Executive of 
Petrofac Limited in January 2002. He joined 
the group in 1991 to establish Petrofac 
International, of which he was CEO. He 
has more than 30 years’ experience in the  
oil & gas industry, having formerly worked  
as managing director of a major civil and 
mechanical construction business in Oman. 
He is a member of the board of trustees of the 
American University of Beirut. Ayman is 52.
3 Maroun Semaan
Group Chief Operating Officer
Maroun was appointed Group Chief 
Operating Officer in January 2009, with 
overall responsibility for Engineering & 
Construction, Engineering & Construction 
Ventures, Engineering Services, Offshore 
Engineering & Operations and Training 
Services. He joined the group in 1991 to 
establish Petrofac International. Previously,  
he managed oil & gas pipeline, process 
facilities and civil works construction 
contracts in Oman and Bahrain, with the 
Consolidated Contractors International 
Company. He is a member of the board of 
trustees of the American University of Sharjah 
and a founding member of the board of 
trustees of the Arab Forum for Environment 
and Development. Maroun is 55.
4 Kjell Almskog
Senior Independent Director,  
Non-executive Director 
a b c d
Kjell joined the Petrofac Board in March 2005. 
He was chief executive of Kvaerner from 1998 
until its merger with Aker in 2001. Before this, 
he spent 13 years with the international ABB 
group, including time as deputy group CEO 
and head of the oil, gas & petrochemicals 
division. Kjell is non-executive deputy 
chairman of Kverneland Group ASA, 
non-executive board member of Equinox 
Offshore Accommodation Limited and a 
senior adviser to the Taylor Group. Kjell is 70.
Kjell will retire from the Board at the  
2011 AGM. 69 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
8 5
a Member of the Nominations Committee
b Member of the Audit Committee
c Member of the Risk Committee
d Member of the Remuneration Committee
6 7
Directors’ information
5 Keith Roberts
Chief Financial Officer
Keith joined Petrofac as Chief Financial 
Officer in March 2002. He was formerly a 
managing director and operating committee 
member of corporate finance advisory  
firm Hawkpoint Partners. His previous 
experience includes roles in commercial 
banking with Standard Chartered Bank 
and County Bank, the merchant banking 
subsidiary of National Westminster Bank. 
He is a former non-executive director of 
the Peacock Group plc. Keith is 54.
6 Rijnhard van Tets
Non-executive Director 
a b c
Rijnhard became a non-executive director  
in 2007. He is general partner of Laaken  
Asset Management NV. Rijnhard advised  
the managing board of ABN AMRO between 
2002 and 2007 , having previously served  
as a managing board member for 12 years.  
At ABN AMRO, his roles included that  
of chairman of the wholesale clients and 
investment banking group. He is non-
executive chairman of Arcadis NV, Euronext 
Amsterdam NV, Euronext NV and Equity Trust 
Holdings SARL, and a non-executive director 
of IFF Europe, NYSE Euronext Inc, Stichting 
Administratiekantoor Bührmann NV and of 
various charities. Rijnhard is 63.
7 Thomas Thune Andersen
Non-executive Director 
a b d
Thomas became a non-executive director  
in May 2010. He spent 32 years at the  
A.P. Møller-Mærsk group with an international 
career ending as CEO and president of 
Mærsk’s Oil & Gas A/S. He also served 
on Mærsk’s main board and its executive 
committee from 2005 to 2009. He is a 
non-executive director of Scottish & Southern 
Energy plc, chairman of the Lloyds Register 
group board of trustees, chairman of the 
British Danish Chamber of Commerce and  
a non-executive director of VKR Holding. 
Thomas is 56.
8 Stefano Cao
Non-executive Director 
a c d
Stefano became a non-executive director  
in May 2010. He is CEO of Sintonia SA,  
a holding company owning infrastructure 
assets, including toll roads, airports and 
telecoms. Stefano has 33 years’ experience 
in the oil & gas industry. From 2000 to 2008, 
he was COO of Eni’s exploration & production 
division. Before which he spent 24 years  
at Saipem SpA, the international oil & gas 
services group, holding such senior roles  
as CEO, chairman and COO. He is a former 
independent director of Telecom Italia SpA. 
Stefano is 59. 70 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ information
Directors appointed in 2011
9 Norman Murray
Non-executive Director 
e
Norman joined the Petrofac Board as a 
non-executive director in March 2011 with  
the intention that he will succeed Rodney as 
Chairman after the 2011 AGM. He is chairman 
of Cairn Energy plc and a non-executive 
director of Greene King plc and Robert 
Wiseman Dairies plc. Prior to his portfolio 
career, Norman spent 25 years in the venture 
capital industry. He co-founded Morgan 
Grenfell Private Equity Limited and was  
also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset 
Management Limited. He is a former 
chairman of the British Venture Capital 
Association and a past president of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Scotland. Norman is 63. 
10 Roxanne Decyk
Non-executive Director 
f
Roxanne joined the Petrofac Board in  
March 2011 having retired from The Royal 
Dutch Shell Group after 11 years. She held  
a number of roles at Shell including head  
of global government affairs and corporate 
affairs director and was a member of Shell’s 
executive committee from 2005 to 2009.  
Prior to joining Shell, Roxanne had various 
roles at Amoco Corporation and Navistar 
International. She is an independent  
director of Snap-on Incorporated and  
Alliant Techsystems Inc. She is a former 
director of Logica plc and Material Sciences 
Corporation. Roxanne is 58.
11 Andy Inglis
Chief Executive, Energy Developments and 
Production Solutions
Andy joined Petrofac in January 2011 and 
was appointed to the Board in March 2011. 
He spent 30 years with BP, most latterly as 
CEO of its exploration & production business. 
Andy was an executive director on the BP plc 
board between 2007 and 2010. He started 
his BP career as a project engineer on various 
North Sea projects, followed by commercial 
and operating roles in BP’s upstream 
business. He became executive vice 
president and deputy chief executive  
of BP exploration & production in 2004.  
He is a former non-executive director  
of BAE Systems plc. Andy is 51.
9 10 11
e  Norman Murray will be appointed Chairman  
of the Nominations Committee after the  
2011 AGM subject to shareholder approval
f  Roxanne Decyk will be appointed to the 
Nominations, Audit, Risk and Remuneration 
Committees after the 2011 AGM subject to 
shareholder approval 71 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Corporate governance report
Corporate governance 
report
Your Board is responsible for 
promoting long-term shareholder value 
in a responsible manner that takes 
account of our various stakeholders.
Dear shareholder
This is my final governance report as I will be stepping down  
from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
Since I joined the Board we have made great progress in many  
areas, including in relation to our governance framework. Nevertheless, 
we are always seeking to improve our processes, within the 
overarching principle that we do what is best for our Company  
and its shareholders. 
We are aware that companies are, in my view quite correctly, being 
challenged to write governance reports that are more engaging and  
less riddled with the ‘fungus of boiler plate reporting’. In response, 
this year we have tried to write a more accessible report.
What is our approach to governance?
Petrofac is incorporated in Jersey and has a premium listing on  
the London Stock Exchange. The Company is therefore expected  
to meet the UK’s highest standards of regulation and corporate 
governance. A company with a premium listing is required by the 
United Kingdom Listing Authority to adopt the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘UK Code’) regardless of whether it is incorporated 
in the UK or elsewhere.
 
This marks a change from last year when, due to our Jersey 
incorporation, we were not obliged to adhere to the UK Code’s 
predecessor, the Combined Code. At that time we were merely 
required to govern ourselves in line with governance practice in Jersey, 
where there is no formal code. However, Petrofac has chosen to follow 
the Combined Code since the Company first listed almost six years 
ago, as we felt it was best practice. We now welcome the change in 
the compliance regime for premium listed companies incorporated 
outside the UK.
 
We understand, though, that good governance goes beyond 
adherence to a code: although there is, of course, value in monitoring 
compliance against rules, which are generally formulated for good 
reason. Nevertheless, the fundamental value of good governance is 
that it seeks to ensure that a company is well run. As well as promoting 
challenge, accountability and transparency it provides a framework 
that articulates a company’s goals and objectives and allows decisions 
to be taken by the right people at the right time. We believe that  
we have made good progress in strengthening and deepening our  
governance framework this year and will aim to improve further in 2011.
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) published the UK Code in 2010. 
The FRC published the new code earlier than originally planned both 
in response to various corporate failures in 2008 and the publication  
of the Walker report in 2009 on the governance of banks and other 
financial institutions. Questions were rightly asked at the time about 
whether the UK’s governance regime continued to be effective. While 
the FRC concluded that the UK’s ‘comply or explain’ regime continued 
to be largely appropriate, it introduced a number of changes that  
we welcome, in particular the more explicit requirement for boards  
to articulate their risk appetite and to identify and determine the 
significant risks they are prepared to take.
We are required to apply the UK Code from the start of 2011  
and formally report against it for the first time next year. We believe, 
however, that it makes sense to tell you now about our progress  
in implementing the UK Code and this is what we have done  
even if some matters are still work in progress.
Rodney Chase  72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
This is the last year we report our compliance with the old Combined 
Code and I am pleased to say that we consider that, throughout 2010, 
the Company complied with the main principles and all relevant 
provisions of the 2008 Combined Code.
1
 
In addition to this report, the Company has also prepared a corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) report that addresses our engagement with 
society in general. This is on pages 56 to 67 .
What should the Board be doing?
Your Board is responsible for promoting long-term shareholder  
value in a responsible manner that takes account of our various 
stakeholders.
We provide entrepreneurial leadership that has grown and, we believe, 
will continue to grow the business. To enable such continued growth, 
we set corporate strategy and make sure that Petrofac has appropriate 
financial capital and the right kind of people to deliver that strategy.
To attract and retain high calibre employees, we also seek to ensure 
that the Company has the right remuneration policy and, to make  
sure that we remain sustainable, we focus on succession planning.
We want our men and women to share our values, as well as having 
the correct technical expertise. This is particularly important for an 
international company like Petrofac, with employees drawn from 
more than 70 nations. Your Board works hard to set the right tone  
by taking responsibility for our Code of Business Conduct and for 
other important group policies.
Taking and managing risks are an integral part of being entrepreneurial. 
Nevertheless, it is vital that we know and understand the significant 
risks that the Company faces. Ensuring that Petrofac has an appropriate 
framework of internal controls and risk management is, therefore,  
an essential part of your Board’s work.
We work to promote the success of the Company for many people  
but our shareholders are, of course, our principal focus. An essential 
part of our job, therefore, is maintaining a dialogue with shareholders.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for 
decision, which includes:
setting the group’s strategy ■ ■
approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to be material either ■ ■
strategically or by reason of size
approval of the annual budget ■ ■
approval of major corporate transactions ■ ■
approval of major changes to the group’s capital structure ■ ■
approval of key policies, such as those relating to Health, Safety, ■ ■
Security, Environment and Integrity Assurance (HSSEIA) and our  
Code of Business Conduct 
preparing the group’s financial statements ■ ■
recommending or declaring a dividend ■ ■
reviewing the group’s overall governance arrangements including ■ ■
approval of the matrix of delegated authorities
maintaining effective internal controls and risk management ■ ■
succession planning and appointments to the Board ■ ■
setting senior executive remuneration ■ ■
reviewing the performance of the Board itself and its committees ■ ■
What did the Board do in 2010? 
Having given some idea of our general responsibilities, I will now 
set out some of the specific things that your Board did in 2010. It is  
not an all encompassing list, but it does include some of the year’s  
key highlights.
Entrepreneurial leadership
Entrepreneurial leadership could be paraphrased as our management 
team putting strategy into action. This year, the Board spent significant 
time overseeing the demerger of the Don assets into EnQuest PLC, 
which represented a delivery of the ‘build and harvest’ strategy for 
Energy Developments. Also significant were the Board’s approval for 
the Ticleni contract and our investment in Seven Energy International 
Limited, which saw us both move into new geographies and do so via 
novel commercial arrangements which we want to pursue. We also 
monitored the progress of the South Yoloten contract in Turkmenistan 
throughout 2010 and were pleased to end the year having successfully 
completed the conversion of its second phase.
Setting the tone
We approved a number of policies, including our HSSEIA plan for 
2010. We worked hard to develop a more strategic approach to our 
CSR activities. We now have a dedicated Group Head of CSR and 
monitored ongoing progress with two formal updates. We also spent 
considerable time in Risk Committee discussing our response to  
the Bribery Act 2010. Doubtless, such discussions will continue in 
2011 particularly as the UK Government recently announced a delay  
in implementing the Act.
Setting strategy
We increased the time spent on discussing and setting strategy.  
As well as having a dedicated day in May focused on strategy,  
we now spend most of our December board meeting monitoring 
progress in strategic delivery, with reference to our budget and 
five-year plans.
Increasing effectiveness
We undertook an externally facilitated board evaluation.
Succession planning
The quite extensive changes in the Board’s composition are the 
culmination of more than a year’s work.
Accountability
We have started a process to ensure that we comply with the UK 
Code’s new requirement that a board should articulate explicitly its  
risk appetite and determine the nature and extent of the significant 
risks it is prepared to take. This will complement our long established 
framework of internal controls and risk management.
 
1  A copy of the 2008 Combined Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk
Corporate governance report 
continued 73 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Who is on the Board?
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading your Board and ensuring 
that it operates effectively. After a relatively long period of stability, 
there have been a number of membership changes. As it is now 
almost six years since we listed, this reflects our broad policy that 
non-executive directors should generally serve two three-year terms.
We currently have 11 directors comprising the Chairman, six non-
executive directors and four executive directors and they are listed  
in the table below.
Rodney Chase Chairman
Kjell Almskog Senior Independent  
Director
Thomas Thune Andersen Non-executive Director Appointed  
13 May 2010
Stefano Cao Non-executive Director Appointed  
13 May 2010
Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director Appointed  
1 March 2011
Norman Murray Non-executive Director Appointed  
1 March 2011
Rijnhard van Tets Non-executive Director
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive
Maroun Semaan Group Chief Operating 
Officer
Andy Inglis Chief Executive, Energy
Developments and 
Production Solutions
Appointed  
1 March 2011
Keith Roberts Chief Financial Officer
This is intended, however, to be a temporary state of affairs. After  
more than six years on the Board, both Kjell and I will be stepping 
down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM and the Board  
will once again revert to nine directors.
You can find biographies of your directors on pages 68 to 70. We have 
made considerable efforts to build a Board with the right balance of 
diversity and industry expertise. Diversity is healthy as it helps guard 
against ‘group think’ and promotes constructive, challenging debate. 
You will see that your directors are drawn from across the world and 
have varied career histories with no single type of person dominating 
the Board. We are, however, fortunate in that our Board has directors 
with a great deal of experience in the oil & gas industry both in 
exploration and production and lump-sum contracting. This is 
essential if we are to safeguard the interests of shareholders.
All non-executive directors who served during 2010 and to date are 
independent in judgement and character. Directors are required to 
disclose any potential conflict to the Board for its consideration and  
I am not aware of any relationship or circumstance which is likely to 
prejudice, or could appear to prejudice, the judgement of any director.
 
During 2010, Bernard de Combret, Michael Press and Amjad Bseisu 
stepped down from the Board and I thank each of them for their 
respective contributions to the growth of Petrofac. Thomas Thune 
Andersen and Stefano Cao are proving worthy successors. This year, 
Roxanne Decyk, Norman Murray and Andy Inglis joined the Board and  
I welcome them. Norman Murray will take over as Chairman subject  
to shareholder approval at the AGM. 
Corporate governance report
How is the Board organised?
As a Jersey company, our Board is unitary in nature. This means  
that all our directors share equal responsibility for the decisions that 
we make. Executive and non-executive directors need to be able  
to work together in an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual 
respect. It is therefore important that all directors see the Chairman  
as a fair and impartial individual. His relationship with the Group  
Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are particularly 
important since these two individuals represent the views of 
management and non-executive directors, respectively.
I hold regular private meetings with Ayman Asfari and Kjell Almskog 
both between and at our board meetings. I believe, therefore, that I am 
equally informed about the views of management and non-executive 
directors. This insight assists me in two ways: I am better able to set 
the agenda for our board meetings and I can ensure that all directors 
contribute at our meetings.
Both the Chairman and Group Chief Executive have clearly defined 
terms of reference and these are set out in writing. The split in 
responsibilities is shown in the table below.
Roles
Chairman Group Chief Executive
Lead the Board Implement strategy
Ensure effective communication 
with shareholders
Develop manageable goals 
and priorities
Ensure effective communication 
flows between directors
Lead and motivate the 
management teams
Facilitate the effective 
contribution of all directors
Develop proposals to present 
to the Board on all areas reserved 
for the Board’s judgement
Our Secretary to the Board, Mary Hitchon, makes sure that we  
adhere to proper process and follow applicable rules and regulations.  
I rely upon her to advise me on governance matters and she is also 
available to all other members of the Board. Furthermore, if any 
director wishes to take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, he or she can do so. 
 
The Board is assisted by four committees, namely the Nominations, 
Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees. Each committee is 
responsible for reviewing and overseeing activities within its particular 
terms of reference. At each face-to-face board meeting, the chairman 
of each committee provides a summary of any committee meeting 
held since the previous board meeting and the minutes of committee 
meetings are ordinarily circulated to the Board. Reports for 2010  
from each of these committees are provided from pages 79 to 95  
and copies of each committee’s terms of reference are available on 
the Company’s website. The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary 
to all of our committees. 
Petrofac Board
Nominations
Committee
Audit
Committee
Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Takes primary 
responsibility  
for succession 
planning and  
the selection 
process for new 
Board members
Monitors the 
integrity of the 
Company’s 
financial 
statements and 
reviews financial 
internal controls 
and financial risk 
management 
systems
Oversees the 
group’s risk 
management 
and internal 
control 
processes for 
non-financial 
matters
Agrees the 
remuneration 
policy for some 
members of senior 
management  
and sets individual 
compensation 
levels 74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
How often does the Board meet?
Our Board meets face-to-face six times per year, generally for a 
minimum of two days. At least two of our meetings are longer as, 
during our annual programme of events, we also hold a dedicated 
strategy day and a site visit. Committee meetings are held first 
followed by a full board meeting. We set the calendar two years  
in advance, although there have been some occasions when we  
have been forced to revise dates. Details of attendance by Board  
and committee members at such meetings in 2010 are detailed in  
the table below. 
As well as our physical meetings, we hold a number of telephonic 
board meetings, generally to consider an item of business that  
cannot be held over until the next face-to-face meeting.
Corporate governance report 
continued
Board
Nominations
Committee
Audit
Committee
Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Meetings held in 2010 6 5 3 3 4
Rodney Chase
Non-executive Chairman
6 (6) 5 (5) – – –
Kjell Almskog
Senior Independent Director
6 (6) 5 (5) 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3)
Thomas Thune Andersen
1
Non-executive Director
3 (3) 3 (3) 2 (2) – 3 (3)
Stefano Cao
1
Non-executive Director
3 (3) 3 (3) – 1 (1) 3 (3)
Rijnhard van Tets
2
Non-executive Director
5 (6) 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3) 1 (1)
Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive
6 (6) 5 (5) – – –
Maroun Semaan
Group Chief Operating Officer
6 (6) – – – –
Keith Roberts
Chief Financial Officer
6 (6) – – – –
Former Directors
Amjad Bseisu
3
Chief Executive, Energy Developments
2 (2) – – – –
Bernard de Combret
4
Non-executive Director
3 (3) 2 (2) – 2 (2) 1 (1)
Michael Press
4
Non-executive Director
3 (3) 2 (2) 1 (1) 2 (2) 1 (1)
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended
1 From 13 May 2010
2 Rijnhard van Tets was unable to attend one board meeting due to a previous engagement
3 To 4 April 2010
4 To 13 May 2010 75 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Where does the Board meet? 
We hold our board meetings at a variety of locations across the globe. 
Nevertheless, we make sure that we always hold at least one meeting 
each year in Jersey, our place of incorporation. In addition, we hold 
one meeting each year in Sharjah as this is the location of our biggest 
office and the centre of our Engineering & Construction business. 
While in Sharjah, the Board takes the opportunity to meet around 50 
members of our Sharjah management team over an informal dinner. 
 
We also make sure that the Board holds one meeting where Petrofac 
has business. In October 2010, we visited both Singapore and 
Malaysia. In Singapore, we visited our training centre, where the 
Managing Director of Training Services and its local management 
team updated the Board on progress in relation to strategy for the 
business globally and for Singapore. We also met customers who  
use the training centre and had lunch with employees. In Malaysia,  
we met representatives of PETRONAS and other local partners  
over dinner before holding our board meeting the following day in  
our Kuala Lumpur office. Our board meetings not only allow us to  
consider formal business, they also help us to really get to know 
Petrofac, its people and its customers. 
 
Who attends board meetings?
As well as directors and the Secretary to the Board, we have regular 
guests from operational and functional management. In 2010, Marwan 
Chedid, Gordon East, Rob Jewkes and Richard Milne, all members  
of senior management, whose biographies are provided on pages  
50 and 51, attended part or all of at least one meeting. Several  
other members of operational management, one or two tiers below 
managing director level, also attended meetings. We also had regular 
updates from the functional heads of HSSEIA, human resources, 
strategy and CSR. We consider that this regular exposure to our senior 
management is beneficial. It helps directors get to know the Company 
and its senior management better and it makes for more effective 
board meetings that, whilst always professional, are nevertheless  
lively and engaging.
What is the selection process for the Board?
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent selection procedure  
for the appointment of directors.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending  
a director to the full Board. The full Board, with the exception  
of the existing Chairman, takes responsibility for considering  
the appointment of a new Chairman.
For an executive appointment to the Board, the Nominations 
Committee will consider whether an individual is able to contribute 
both as an executive and at Board level. The Committee will assure 
itself that the individual will be able to think strategically and consider 
his or her responsibilities in relation to internal controls and risk 
management. 
Individuals need to have sufficient time to give to our Board. Care  
is taken to establish the existing commitments of all prospective 
non-executive directors, particularly the Chairman. Individuals  
are required to let the Board know if their commitments change  
after appointment. There is a detailed report on the activities of  
the Nominations Committee on page 79.
How do we decide what directors are paid?
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the 
remuneration and terms of employment of executive directors and 
some members of senior management. It is also responsible for 
determining the Chairman’s fee. A detailed report on the activities  
of the Remuneration Committee is provided on pages 84 to 95. 
Executive directors effectively determine the fees of non-executive 
directors since this responsibility lies with the Board as a whole, 
excluding those directors whose fees are being determined.
 
What is our approach to shareholders re-electing directors?
In the past we followed the accepted convention that one third of our 
directors, generally the longest serving members of the Board, submit 
themselves for re-election at the AGM. The UK Code states, however, 
that all directors should submit themselves for re-election every year. 
There has been some ambiguity as to whether companies should 
seek to adopt the new recommendation in 2011 or 2012. Your Board 
has concluded that it would offer shareholders the opportunity  
to re-elect all directors at our 2011 AGM.
How do we get the best out of the Board?
It is important that we get the best out of our board meetings. We 
invest considerable time, effort and expense in arranging meetings  
so it is important that directors are able to make the best possible 
contribution. We believe that the following aspects of support for 
directors are essential: 
board papers ■ ■
Secretary to the Board ■ ■
induction ■ ■
training ■ ■
evaluation ■ ■
Board papers
It is essential that board papers are well written and relevant.  
They should be dispatched in a timely manner so all directors  
have adequate time to read them. Our papers are generally of a  
high standard and for our face-to-face meetings are dispatched  
in hard copy format to directors one week before a board meeting. 
This is important given that our directors are based around the world. 
When we hold a telephonic board meeting, the Secretary to the  
Board ensures that papers are circulated electronically, generally  
at least 24 hours before the meeting.
 
Secretary to the Board
It is important that Board members, particularly our non-executive 
directors, have a principal point of contact within the organisation.  
The non-executive directors receive a great deal of support from 
various individuals within Petrofac, particularly at committee level,  
and are encouraged to contact individuals directly if they wish. We do, 
however, have a highly capable Secretary to the Board whom we may 
approach for general support and advice, or when we do not know 
whom to contact on a particular matter. She ensures that we receive 
appropriate information, as and when appropriate, and this extends  
far beyond dispatching board papers or writing minutes.
 
Corporate governance report Corporate governance report 76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Induction 
Recent governance developments emphasise the importance of 
directors receiving an appropriate induction and ongoing training. In 
2010, in liaison with Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan and with the 
help of the Secretary to the Board, I created induction programmes for 
our newly appointed non-executive directors Thomas Thune Andersen 
and Stefano Cao. 
Visits Visits to our Sharjah, Mumbai, London, Woking and  
Aberdeen offices to meet our managing directors and 
many of their direct reports
Meetings Meetings with functional heads, such as our Director  
of Legal and Commercial Affairs, Group Heads  
of HSSEIA, Human Resources, Internal Audit,  
Tax Communications and CSR, Head of Enterprise  
Risk Management and Group Financial Controller
Seminars
 
 An individually-tailored seminar, led by the Secretary  
to the Board and a partner from our legal advisers, 
Freshfields, on the role and responsibility of a director  
of a UK-listed entity
 A seminar, led by a partner from the remuneration 
consultants, Deloitte LLP, on the role and responsibility  
of the Remuneration Committee
To ensure that time was spent constructively and conversations  
could focus on key topics, we encouraged all employees who met  
the directors to prepare a presentation.
 
We are currently in the process of developing and delivering tailored 
induction programmes for Roxanne Decyk, Norman Murray and  
Andy Inglis.
 
Training
The Chairman is responsible for the training needs of all directors, 
under the UK Code.
Whereas we have traditionally provided regular technical training 
updates during committee meetings, we are now developing a  
series of more formal seminars. These will be held outside committee 
meetings so that the topics under review can receive more time and 
focus and will be individually tailored for Petrofac. At least some of the 
seminars will be led by external advisers. We have always supported 
directors who wish to attend external seminars run by professional 
advisers and we will continue to do so.
Despite such general support, we have not always tracked the full 
extent of director training. Going forward, the Secretary to the Board 
will record all formal training undertaken by directors, both internally 
and externally. This will enable the Chairman to assess whether any 
Board members need additional training support.
 
Evaluation 
ICSA Board Evaluation led a very helpful evaluation of our Board 
during the year. Each director was interviewed individually, on a 
confidential basis, by the same ICSA representative and asked for  
his views on topics relating to the Board’s performance. In addition, 
ICSA observers, including the interviewer, attended a board meeting. 
ICSA presented a report of recommendations to the Board, after 
which directors were invited to comment. The Secretary to the Board 
and I subsequently worked together to place the recommendations 
within the broader context of a board’s responsibilities. We then 
discussed the Board’s performance at a further board meeting  
and agreed that we could be more effective by:
Strategic discussion Increasing the amount of time we spend on 
strategic discussion. We now have not only  
a dedicated strategy day in May but a further 
half day in December. In May we engage  
in ‘blue sky thinking’ and in December  
we monitor progress against strategy,  
by reference to the group’s budget for the 
forthcoming year and our five-year plans.  
In addition, we have agreed a programme  
of ‘deep dive’ presentations to the Board  
on specific strategic matters
Risk appetite Seeking to articulate better our risk appetite 
and significant risks
Succession planning Increasing our focus on succession planning 
by ensuring the issue is regularly included on 
the Nominations Committee agenda
Delegated authorities Revisiting our matrix of delegated authorities 
so that the Board best uses the finite amount 
of time available to it. The group has grown 
extensively over recent years and it is no 
longer appropriate for the Board to consider 
certain matters which it considered in the past
These items are all work in progress with some more developed  
than others, as one would expect following a meaningful evaluation. 
Although we are required to conduct an annual appraisal the reality  
is that a board should always be seeking to improve its performance.
 
As in previous years, my appraisal was conducted by Michael Press, 
our then Senior Independent Director. Michael did this through a series 
of questionnaire led interviews with directors before meeting with me 
to present feedback.
 
How does the Board formally satisfy itself that it has sound 
risk management?
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Petrofac’s 
risk management and internal control systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls.
This year we decided that our annual review would be conducted by 
the full Board. In previous years, we relied upon the Audit Committee 
to conduct a review of our internal controls. We decided that this 
approach was no longer appropriate, given the increasing amount  
of work being done by the Risk Committee. At present the Audit 
Committee concentrates on financial internal controls and the Risk 
Committee focuses on operational controls. The combined work of 
the two committees provided the basis of a formal report to the full 
Board, after which we concluded that the group maintained a sound 
risk management and internal control framework.
As with all companies, our system of internal control and risk 
management can only ever provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Corporate governance report 
continued 77 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
What is our reference for satisfying ourselves that we have  
a sound risk management system?
We look to the revised Turnbull guidance, which was published by  
the FRC in 2005. This is a principles based approach that requires 
your Board to be thoughtful about how best to discharge its 
obligations. Turnbull suggests that boards consider four broad  
themes when attempting to assess the internal control and risk 
management framework:
do you know and understand your significant risks? ■ ■
how do you monitor your internal controls and risk management ■ ■
system?
is your Board receiving information which allows it to identify when ■ ■
delivery of its goals are under threat?
what is your general control environment like? ■ ■
The UK Code provides more explicit guidance than the old Combined 
Code in relation to significant risks. It states that a board should 
determine the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing 
to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives. The change in 
emphasis means that going forward a board should be proactively 
articulating a company’s risk appetite rather than being satisfied with 
simply identifying and managing significant risks. We are currently 
reviewing our processes to meet the requirements of the UK Code 
more effectively.
How does the Board identify Petrofac’s significant risks?
Our Head of Enterprise Risk Management provides the Board with  
a written report before each board meeting giving details of our current 
significant risks and how we plan to mitigate them. The risks that we 
consider significant today are shown on pages 30 to 35.
Our Head of Enterprise Risk Management drafts his report by 
reference to:
risk matrices he receives from each of our individual business units ■ ■
(bottom up approach)
the work of the Enterprise Risk Committee which is chaired by the ■ ■
Group Chief Operating Officer (top down)
How do we intend to respond to changes in the UK Code 
regarding risk management?
Your Board established a Risk Committee in 2007 , with the remit to 
oversee the group’s framework of operational internal controls and risk 
management systems. As reported last year, the Committee approved 
three group policies, as shown in the table below. These policies were 
reviewed during the course of the year and revised as appropriate. The 
Committee considers performance against each policy at least once  
a year. Through the policies, we feel that the Committee goes a long 
way to articulating the Company’s risk appetite and we will continue  
to build on this work.
Policy
Articulates our attitude to risks  
related to:
Sovereign and Financial Market  
Risk Policy 
country, inflation, commodity, currency, 
credit and counterparty
Ethical, Social and Regulatory  
Risk Policy
ethics, contractual liability, non-
compliance with a country’s local  
laws and regulations
Operational and Contractual  
Risk Policy
project performance, business continuity, 
leadership change and HSSEIA
How does Petrofac monitor its internal control and risk 
management system?
Each of our business units has its own business management system 
that incorporates policies and procedures that assist with the business 
units’ risk management. In addition, each business unit produces  
its own risk matrix or register. Each business unit’s management  
team meets regularly and monitors the risk matrix as a matter of 
course. They note any change in risk assessment at an individual  
and aggregate level and seek to take appropriate mitigating action 
should they believe it necessary. The risk matrices for each business 
are formally reviewed each month by the following individuals:
Ayman Asfari ■ ■ , Group Chief Executive
Maroun Semaan ■ ■ , Group Chief Operating Officer
Keith Roberts ■ ■ , Chief Financial Officer
Richard Milne ■ ■ , Group Director of Legal & Commercial Affairs
Paul Green ■ ■ , Head of Enterprise Risk Management 
If a situation occurs which local management judges to be serious,  
it will be reported up the chain of command immediately. 
We have a group internal audit department. The Audit Committee 
approves its audit universe and its annual plan of audits and the  
Group Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings, 
when he reports on any significant findings in relation to our internal 
controls. The Group Head of Internal Audit would report any serious 
weakness or lapse in internal controls, including evidence of fraud,  
to the chairman of the Audit Committee upon discovery. As customary 
with an organisation of our size, we rely upon self-assessment by 
employees to some extent. All senior managers and selected 
employees are required to provide an annual assurance that they  
have complied with the group’s Code of Business Conduct during  
the year.
Does the Board receive information which allows it  
to identify when delivery of its goals are under threat? 
The Board receives a comprehensive written report from Keith 
Roberts, the Chief Financial Officer, at each face-to-face board 
meeting as well as periodic updates between such meetings.  
The Board is kept very well informed about the group’s financial 
performance for the year to date compared to the year’s budget or  
the latest revised forecast. Explanations for variances are provided. 
The budget and five-year plans provided by management for the 
Board’s review incorporate risk analysis as a matter of course.  
Over the years this analysis has increased in sophistication and  
will doubtless continue to do so.
Of course, in addition to financial goals, we have strategic and 
operational goals. Ayman Asfari provides us with a full presentation  
on business operations at each face-to-face board meeting, during 
which he highlights possible impediments to the delivery of our goals.
What does Petrofac’s general control environment look like? 
This is quite hard to define but easier to recognise. To do so, it is worth 
asking such questions as: 
does the Company seem well run with processes that employees ■ ■
know about and adhere to?
do employees understand the minimum behaviour expected of ■ ■
them and conversely what will not be tolerated? 
are there processes in place that allow employees to report ■ ■
something that they consider to be untoward?
is the culture one that encourages openness? ■ ■
does management make efforts to find out what employees  ■ ■
think and feel about the organisation? 
Corporate governance report 78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac has made great efforts to build the foundations for a control 
environment that does all of these things. The table below shows 
some of our more significant achievements. 
Our people We recruited a Group Head of Human 
Resources two years ago and are 
increasingly seeing the benefits of having  
a global approach to HR. Having the right 
kind of people is key; we need to be able  
to recruit people who will thrive here and, 
equally, to develop our existing employees
Our Code of  
Business Conduct
 All of our employees are provided with our 
Code of Business Conduct and some 6,000 
employees have now completed the related 
e-learning module
Our ‘Speaking Up’  
facility
 All employees have the ability to contact,  
in confidence, an independent third party 
called Expolink if they believe that the Code 
of Business Conduct has been breached. 
We investigate all matters brought to our 
attention and the Audit Committee is 
provided with regular retrospective reports
Our matrix of delegated  
authorities
We have defined lines of responsibility  
and delegation of authority throughout the 
group. Our matrix sets out those matters 
which are judged to require Board sanction. 
Examples include:
doing business in high risk locations ■ ■
entering into a new contract above  ■ ■
a certain financial size
investing in a project which puts  ■ ■
a significant level of capital at risk
The matrix also sets out those matters 
which are delegated to management. 
Management is assisted in deciding whether 
or not to undertake any new business 
through a series of risk review committees
Other policies HSSEIA, Disclosure and Communications, 
Share Dealing Code, Conflicts and, as 
already detailed, our group risk policies 
reviewed by the Risk Committee
We are not complacent and know we always have further work to do 
but, nevertheless, we are pleased with what has been achieved to date.
 
How does the Board make sure that it is aware of its 
shareholders’ views?
Ayman Asfari, Keith Roberts and Jonathan Low, our Head of Investor 
Relations, provide a presentation to research analysts, including a 
question and answer session, following the announcement of our  
full year and half year results. This is broadcast live on our website  
and may therefore be followed by all shareholders. Ayman, Keith and 
Jonathan also conduct a series of individual meetings with existing 
and potential shareholders in the week following our full year and  
half year results. 
Ayman and Keith are therefore well placed to provide the rest of the 
Board with their insights into shareholder sentiment. Directors also 
receive brokers’ research notes from Jonathan.
We have also established an annual practice of offering analysts  
and some institutional shareholders the opportunity to visit at least  
one of our operations. In October 2010, we took a group of analysts  
and investors to Syria where they visited two E&C projects, the Ebla 
and Jihar gas plants, and the National Training Centre in Homs.
 
We write to our major shareholders annually offering them the 
opportunity to meet me or the Senior Independent Director. This year 
both Thomas Thune Andersen, in his capacity as chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, and I met some of our major shareholders.
 
All shareholders receive hard copies of our Annual Report and 
Accounts and half year reviews: these, and all announcements  
we make to the market, may also be downloaded from our website.
 
Who are our major shareholders?
Those shareholders with holdings of 3% or more as at 25 February 2011 
are as follows: 
Number of  
ordinary shares
Percentage 
of issued  
share capital
Ayman Asfari and family 62,782,114 18.16%
Maroun Semaan and family 28,082,676 8.12%
Legal & General Group Plc 12,605,890 3.64%
Our Articles of Association have been drafted so that any shareholder 
with 3% or more of our voting rights must disclose its holding.  
This brings us in line with UK incorporated companies. Ordinarily 
shareholders of Jersey incorporated companies with a UK listing  
need only disclose their holdings if they hold voting rights of 5% or 
more in a company.
 
Additional information for shareholders
The Company’s constitution by which the Company is governed  
is called the Company’s Articles of Association. These can only  
be changed by shareholders in general meeting by way of special 
resolution. This year we are proposing some minor changes to our 
Articles and you can see further details outlined in our Notice of AGM. 
 
Our AGM
We hold our AGM in London as we believe that this is the best location 
for the majority of our shareholders. We spend time and effort to try 
to ensure that shareholders find the event worthwhile.
Details of this year’s AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM which 
accompanies the Annual Report and Accounts. As a matter of good 
practice, we will conduct all resolutions on a poll and announce the 
results to the market as soon as possible after the meeting.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible this year when  
my colleagues and I will be available to answer your questions.
Rodney Chase
Chairman of the Board 
4 March 2011
Corporate governance report 
continued 79 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Nominations Committee 
report
Dear shareholder
This year proved to be a particularly busy one for the Nominations 
Committee. At the start of 2010 the Committee agreed that it would 
initiate a search for a new Chairman, as I have now served for six 
years. Our Senior Independent Director led the process and having 
agreed a job and person specification, appointed search consultants 
Egon Zehnder International to assist. I am delighted that this resulted  
in Norman Murray joining our Board at the start of March with a  
view to him taking on the role of Chairman when I step down at the 
conclusion of our AGM.
Kjell Almskog, our Senior Independent Director, is also stepping  
down from the Board at the same time. We therefore appointed Egon 
Zehnder International to conduct a second search for a non-executive 
director. Roxanne Decyk consequently joined our Board at the same 
time as Norman. I am confident that Norman will lead the Board well 
and that he and Roxanne will make strong individual contributions. 
They both have oil & gas experience but have also spent time in other 
industries, which will enrich the Board’s debate. I have greatly enjoyed 
serving on this Board and I am sure that they will too.
Ayman Asfari led Energy Developments and Production Solutions  
on an interim basis throughout 2010. We were delighted when  
an extensive search resulted in Andy Inglis being appointed Chief 
Executive of Energy Developments and Production Solutions at  
the start of this year. The Committee recommended that Andy be 
appointed a director to the Board and he joined the Board in early 
March. He not only leads a substantial part of our group but has 
extensive boardroom experience.
In view of the changes to the Board, the Committee considered  
the membership of the Board’s committees after the AGM and who 
should assume the role of Senior Independent Director after Kjell’s 
retirement. The Board agreed the Committee’s recommendations  
on the composition of the various committees and on Rijnhard van 
Tets being appointed Senior Independent Director. Rijnhard will be  
our longest serving non-executive director in May and will, I am sure, 
fulfil the role of Senior Independent Director admirably.
In making these changes, the Committee had due regard to the 
Board’s overall size and composition. 
We also considered succession planning more widely and will look  
at this aspect of our responsibilities in greater detail going forward 
since it is such an important element of ensuring that our business  
is sustainable. 
On more prosaic matters, we reviewed and revised our terms  
of reference so that they continue to conform with best practice.
In summary, I believe that your Board has the right people to lead  
the Company in 2011 and beyond.
Rodney Chase 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
4 March 2011
Membership
Now Rodney Chase (Chairman)
Ayman Asfari
Kjell Almskog
Thomas Thune Andersen
Stefano Cao
Rijnhard van Tets
After AGM Norman Murray (Chairman)
Ayman Asfari
Thomas Thune Andersen
Stefano Cao
Roxanne Decyk
Rijnhard van Tets
Role of the Committee
Regularly reviews the Board composition and structure
Considers succession planning for directors and other senior 
executives
Identifies and recommends candidates to be appointed to the Board
Nominations Committee report 80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Audit Committee report
Dear shareholder
It was very much business as usual for the Audit Committee in 2010.  
Our calendar of meetings is now well established and is largely driven  
by our programme of communications to the market. A more detailed 
description of the Committee’s activities is provided later but in summary 
the Committee considered the group’s full and half year results and 
formally reviewed the effectiveness of Petrofac’s internal control and  
risk management systems. I wish to thank my colleague Kjell Almskog 
who is stepping down from the Board shortly. He has provided invaluable 
support to the Committee over the last few years. Roxanne Decyk will 
join the Audit Committee in May and I look forward to working with her.
The events of 2008 and thereafter have resulted in a great deal of  
debate about risk management and sound internal controls. Investors 
increasingly want to know whether or not a board has a real grasp  
of the risks facing the enterprise and if there are effective safeguards  
in place to mitigate them. The Audit Committee has always worked 
closely with the Risk Committee in order to provide appropriate 
assurance to our Board and, in line with best practice, I also serve on  
the Risk Committee. To date the Audit Committee has concentrated  
on financial internal controls and the Risk Committee on operational 
risks. While this approach has served us well, the Board agreed at the 
end of 2010 that the group’s increasing size and complexity meant that 
we should revisit the committees’ interface to ensure we have the best 
possible framework for understanding and managing our risks be  
they financial, operational or compliance related. The Company has  
now appointed a Group Head of Compliance and his appointment  
will doubtless influence our deliberations as we develop our future 
approach to assurance on all our internal controls.
The UK Code emphasises the need for directors to keep on top of 
technical developments, which is particularly pertinent for the Audit 
Committee. We intend to hold a series of dedicated seminars before  
our meetings in 201 1, focusing on changes to accounting standards  
that will specifically affect Petrofac. I have recent and relevant financial 
experience of course, but it is important to keep that experience up  
to date.
 
Rijnhard van Tets
Chairman of the Audit Committee
4 March 201 1
Membership
Now Rijnhard van Tets (Chairman)
Kjell Almskog
Thomas Thune Andersen
After AGM Rijnhard van Tets (Chairman)
Thomas Thune Andersen
Roxanne Decyk
Role of the Committee
Monitors the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and 
reviews significant financial reporting judgements
Reviews internal control and risk management systems of a  
financial nature
Monitors the effectiveness of the group’s internal audit function  
and reviews its material findings
Oversees the relationship with the external auditors including 
agreeing their fee and assessing their independence and 
effectiveness 81 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Financial reporting
As set out in our Directors’ Statements on page 96 directors are 
responsible for preparing group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards. The group has  
an internal control and risk management framework in place which 
permits the Company to prepare consolidated accounts and this 
includes policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting 
records are maintained and transactions accurately recorded. 
In 2010, the Committee reviewed the 2009 Report and Accounts  
and 2010 half year results. Furthermore, in March 2011 we of course 
reviewed the 2010 Report and Accounts and you are reading these 
now. As part of these reviews, we discussed with Keith Roberts and 
the external auditors the significant accounting policies, estimates  
and judgements that had been adopted.
Internal controls and risk management systems
The Committee reviewed the group’s internal controls primarily 
through its engagement with our internal audit function and the  
Risk Committee. Our Group Head of Internal Audit, Ajit Nair, attends 
each committee meeting. At the start of the year the Committee 
agrees the annual internal audit plan, which is drawn up on a  
risk-based approach. Any significant findings from internal control 
audits undertaken have been appropriately followed up and  
the necessary actions taken to address any weaknesses found.  
Ajit provides a progress report part way through the year, as a 
consequence of which his plan may be revised, and a final report  
at the end of the year.
In 2010, the internal audit department completed 85 assignments 
across a broad cross-section of the group’s activities. Rijnhard van 
Tets and Kjell Almskog served on both the Audit and Risk Committees 
during the year and therefore had oversight of the Risk Committee’s 
work in relation to operational controls. In addition, the Committee 
receives regular reports detailing matters reported by employees 
under our ‘Speaking Up’ or whistle-blowing process.
Audit Committee report
Effectiveness of group internal audit and external auditors
The Committee formally assessed the performance of our internal 
auditors and the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP , and judged  
that both were effective. In making its assessment of the external 
auditors, the Committee had due regard to their expertise, resourcing 
and independence.
 
Non-audit services policy
We have a non-audit services policy that sets out under what 
circumstances we may appoint our external auditors to undertake 
additional non-audit work. This is reviewed by the Committee  
each year. Our policy, which remained unchanged from last year,  
is summarised below:
the external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying out  ■ ■
work which might impair their objectivity
Keith Roberts, as Chief Financial Officer, will seek approval from the ■ ■
Committee before appointing the external auditors to carry out a piece 
of non-audit work:
if the fee is above US$200,000 –
if total non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the annual  –
audit fee
if the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited from carrying  –
out the work, but the Chief Financial Officer wants to appoint them 
due to exceptional circumstances
the Chief Financial Officer may appoint the external auditors to do all ■ ■
types of other work
Details of non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young LLP during 
2010 are provided in note 4e to the financial statements. 82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Risk Committee report 
Dear shareholder
I took over the role of chairman of the Risk Committee in May. I would like 
to thank my predecessor Kjell Almskog for his efforts: he has left me with 
a solid foundation on which to build. 
The Walker Report emphasised the importance of a risk committee and, 
while the report’s focus was directed at banks and financial institutions,  
it has influenced the wider corporate community. In this day and age it  
is unrealistic to think that the Audit Committee of a company the size of 
Petrofac can take sole responsibility for oversight of financial, operational 
and compliance internal controls. The workload would be excessive. 
Both committees will work independently but in a complementary way. 
Having had more than 30 years’ experience in the oil & gas industry,  
both within E&P and lump-sum contracting, I believe that I can add  
real value to the Risk Committee’s work in relation to oversight of 
operational controls.
I am very fortunate to be joined on the Committee by Rijnhard van Tets 
and Roxanne Decyk. Rijnhard brings extensive banking experience, 
which is particularly useful when considering sovereign and financial 
market risks. Roxanne has enjoyed a varied executive career that 
culminated in over ten years at Shell, where she was most recently head 
of government affairs. I am sure that this experience will help her provide 
useful insights and advice on ethical and regulatory matters. In short,  
I believe that our committee is well placed to help the group continue  
to deepen its non-financial internal control processes. 
The Committee is supported by the Head of Enterprise Risk 
Management and Maroun Semaan, Keith Roberts and Richard Milne 
attend meetings as a matter of course. In addition the Group Treasurer 
and the Head of Insurance and the Group Head of Security have also 
made presentations to the Committee. In this way, we ensure that our 
discussions are as worthwhile as possible.
This year, as well as reviewing the three Petrofac policies that cover 
non-financial controls, we also devoted one meeting to considering the 
implications of the UK Bribery Act. Other areas of emphasis were the 
group’s insurance cover, business continuity planning, and security, 
particularly in relation to new country entry. 
 
Stefano Cao
Chairman of the Risk Committee
4 March 2011 
Membership
Now Stefano Cao (Chairman)
Kjell Almskog
Rijnhard van Tets
After AGM Stefano Cao (Chairman)
Roxanne Decyk
Rijnhard van Tets
Role of the Committee
Reviews group risk policy and procedures
Oversees group operational risk management systems, including 
insurance provision
Ensures effective monitoring of the group’s internal controls and 
risk management 83 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
The group’s overall risk management framework including details  
of the key risks facing the business is described on pages 32 to 35.
Review of policies
During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies:
Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy ■ ■
Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy ■ ■
Operational and Contractual Risk Policy ■ ■
Further detail about the areas covered by each of the policies is  
set out in a table on page 77. Our reviews consider whether policies 
require amending and assurance that they are being adhered to 
across the group.
 
UK Bribery Act
The UK passed a Bribery Act in 2010 that is scheduled to come  
into force in 2011 although later than originally planned. The Act 
modernises and consolidates existing UK law on bribery and 
corruption. In particular, the Act creates a new corporate offence  
of failing to prevent bribery. Our Code of Business Conduct is  
clear; Petrofac does not permit the giving or receiving of bribes. 
Nevertheless, we have to ensure that we have adequate procedures  
in place which are designed to prevent bribery. We have therefore 
spent considerable effort reviewing and amending our processes.  
We will be supporting the roll out of our new processes with an 
extensive education programme across the group. 
Risk Committee report
New country entry procedures
The risks associated with doing business in a new country are  
greater than those associated with a country which we know well.  
We have therefore spent time reviewing our processes and intend  
to continue to refine them during 2011. 
Security
Security comes under the remit of our HSSEIA department. In 2010, 
our Group Head of Security gave a presentation to the Committee on 
group security processes. He covered both our approach to security 
in geographies where we are already established and also how we 
seek to ensure the security of our people when we are entering a new 
country. He focused on Iraq and Turkmenistan as these are countries 
where we will be working in 2011 and beyond. 
 
Business continuity
We have now largely completed our business continuity planning  
for the group. We are pleased that in 2010 the Aberdeen office was 
awarded BS 25999 accreditation. Our Woking office has held this 
accreditation since 2009.
Insurance
Insurance will always be an essential part of risk transference for  
any organisation and we provide regular updates to the Committee. 84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ remuneration 
report
Dear shareholder
I am delighted to have become chairman of Petrofac’s Remuneration 
Committee during another year of exceptional performance, with strong 
growth across all our KPIs including revenue, earnings and backlog,  
as well as the successful demerger of the UK Continental Shelf assets 
from our Energy Developments business in April 2010. 
Our remuneration policy is geared towards having a significant proportion 
of reward linked to the continued success of the business. As such,  
our policy is for basic salaries to be at median or below, with variable  
pay structured to allow executive directors to achieve upper quartile  
total remuneration if outstanding performance is achieved.
We believe this approach will allow Petrofac to attract, retain and motivate 
high calibre individuals with the skills and capabilities to match our 
ambitions for continued growth and sustained success.
Accordingly, as previously advised, the Committee reviewed executive 
remuneration during the year in the context of Petrofac’s exceptional 
performance to date. Our review showed that basic salary levels 
continued to be appreciably below industry benchmarks and below 
lower quartile compared to UK companies of similar size. Total 
remuneration levels remained below market even after last year’s 
changes to performance related pay. This gap continued to widen  
due to Petrofac’s sustained strong growth. 
Therefore, after careful consideration and consultation with major 
shareholders, the Committee has made an exceptional adjustment to 
executive director basic salaries for 201 1. In line with our remuneration 
policy, basic salaries are still positioned at or below median.
In addition, we have made a relatively modest increase to the cash 
allowances for UK-based directors (which are paid in lieu of pension  
and company car provision). 
These changes will assist us in securing the key talent that is critical  
to the continuing success of the business. Indeed, in January 201 1,  
we were able to announce the appointment of Andy Inglis as Chief 
Executive, Energy Developments and Production Solutions, whose 
remuneration package is given on page 92.
The Committee is also proposing to make a minor administrative 
amendment to the Deferred Bonus Share Plan to extend participation  
to employees in certain Petrofac joint venture organisations, where 
appropriate. Further details are outlined on page 90. Shareholder 
approval for this amendment will be sought at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee believes that these changes are in the best interests  
of shareholders.
 
Thomas Thune Andersen
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 March 2011 
Membership
Prior to the  
2010 AGM
Bernard de Combret (Chairman)
Michael Press
Rijnhard van Tets
Between the 2010 
and 2011 AGMs
Thomas Thune Andersen (Chairman)
Kjell Almskog
Stefano Cao
After the  
2011 AGM
Thomas Thune Andersen (Chairman)
Stefano Cao
Roxanne Decyk  85 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to  
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 of the United Kingdom and relevant listing 
rules of the Financial Services Authority. The Remuneration Committee 
takes responsibility for the preparation of the report, which is approved 
by the Board. 
This report sets out the remuneration policy and principles under 
which directors and senior managers are rewarded, and details the 
remuneration and share interests of each director for the year ended 
31 December 2010. 
Shareholders will be invited to approve this report at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). This vote will cover the remuneration  
policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to 
individual levels of remuneration. The vote on the resolution will have 
advisory status only. The members of the Remuneration Committee 
will be available at the AGM to answer shareholders’ questions about 
directors’ remuneration. 
The sections of this report dealing with directors’ emoluments and 
share interests have been audited (pages 93 to 95) by the group’s 
external auditors.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee consider that, 
throughout 2010 and up to the date of this report, the Company  
has complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code  
relating to directors’ remuneration.
Information not subject to audit
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee’s main tasks are to: 
recommend and agree with the Board the framework or broad ■ ■
policy for the remuneration of executive directors, the Chairman  
and certain senior managers
review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the ■ ■
remuneration policy
ensure that incentives are appropriate to encourage enhanced ■ ■
performance
approve the design of, and set the targets for, any performance ■ ■
related pay scheme 
review the design of all share incentive plans before approval by  ■ ■
the Board and shareholders and monitor the application of the rules 
of such schemes and the overall aggregate amount of the awards
set the remuneration of all executive directors, certain senior ■ ■
managers and the Chairman within the agreed policy, taking  
into account remuneration trends across the Company and 
remuneration practices in other peer companies
Attendance 
Attendance at Committee meetings is shown on page 74 in the 
corporate governance report. 
What did the Committee do in 2010?
Regular items Other items
consideration of 2010 salary ■ ■
increases and prior year bonus and 
provisional Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) award levels for the year
approval of 2010 PSP structure  ■ ■
and performance conditions
consideration of 2009 and 2010 ■ ■
bonus pools across the wider 
workforce
update on performance for ■ ■
subsisting PSP awards
approval of Remuneration Report ■ ■
confirmation of vesting status  ■ ■
of 2007 PSP awards
approval of 2010 Deferred Bonus ■ ■
Share Plan (DBSP) awards under 
the annual bonus award cycle
approval of 2010 PSP awards ■ ■
review of provisional 2010 annual  ■ ■
bonus pools
review of Restricted Share Plan ■ ■
(RSP) awards made during 2010
review of market positioning and  ■ ■
consideration of proposed 2011 
increases to basic salaries and  
cash allowances
consideration of feedback  ■ ■
from shareholders on the 
remuneration proposals for  
2010 and confirmation of  
2010 salaries
consideration of implications  ■ ■
of the demerger on subsisting 
awards under the Company’s 
share plans
shareholder consultation in ■ ■
relation to proposed 2011  
salary increases
consideration of DBSP ■ ■
amendments to allow 
participation of joint venture 
employees where appropriate
Directors’ remuneration report 86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Summary of remuneration elements – policy
Fixed pay
Salary based on role and contribution – market median or below ■ ■
Cash allowance annual cash allowance in lieu of pension and company car contributions ■ ■
market standard for role and geographic location, although current levels are below median ■ ■
Pension Petrofac does not provide any formal pension arrangements for executive directors ■ ■
Variable pay
Quantum Performance conditions
Annual bonus maximum cash award of 200% of salary ■ ■ subject to achievement of financial, safety and personal ■ ■
performance targets
Performance  
Share Plan
maximum award of 200% of salary  ■ ■
(300% in exceptional circumstances)
awards vest after three years, subject to achievement  ■ ■
of performance conditions
50% of awards are subject to total shareholder return ■ ■
(TSR) relative to an international peer group on an index 
TSR basis:
0% vesting below index –
30% vesting for performance equal to the index –
100% vesting for outperformance of the index by 25% –
50% of awards are subject to an achievement of ■ ■
compound annual growth in earnings per share (EPS):
0% vesting for 10% growth per annum –
30% vesting for 15% growth per annum –
100% vesting for 20% growth per annum –
In 2007 , the Committee agreed that its remuneration policy for 
executive directors and certain senior managers would be as follows:
basic salaries would be median or below, against a relevant ■ ■
benchmarking group (see below) 
the variable elements of remuneration would be structured so that ■ ■
individuals could achieve upper quartile total remuneration, subject 
to achievement of challenging performance standards
The Committee believes that this policy will ensure that executive 
directors and senior managers are incentivised to deliver the group’s 
strategic goals and long-term shareholder value.
Annual bonus targets relate to the delivery of short-term targets  
that the Committee considers are critical drivers of business  
growth and delivery of performance. In contrast, the PSP objectives  
reward long-term shareholder value creation and strong bottom-line 
performance.
The Committee believes that the most appropriate pay comparators 
are:
for the Group Chief Executive and certain operational executives,  ■ ■
a select group of international and UK oil & gas services  
companies (to the extent that data in relation to such companies  
is publicly available)
for certain functional executives, FTSE companies of a similar size ■ ■
and complexity
The Committee also uses remuneration in UK companies of a similar 
size and complexity as a reference point when considering the 
remuneration of operational executive directors and senior managers.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Support for the Committee
The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent 
advice on remuneration matters. During 2010, Deloitte LLP did not 
provide any other advice to the Company. The Committee also 
received support during 2010 from legal advisers Norton Rose and 
Freshfields. During 2010, Freshfields acted as corporate lawyers to the 
Company and Norton Rose provided advice on certain matters relating 
to compensation and benefits.
During 2010, the following individuals, none of whom were Committee 
members, attended at least part of one meeting:
Remuneration policy – executive directors
The Committee aims to establish a level of remuneration which:
is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and key ■ ■
executives of the calibre required to achieve the group’s objectives 
reflects the size and complexity of the group’s business together ■ ■
with an executive’s individual contribution and geographical location
Individual Role Reason for attendance
Carol Arrowsmith Partner at Deloitte LLP Adviser
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive To provide context for  
matters under discussion
Geoff Tranfield Group Head of HR To provide context for  
matters under discussion
Richard Milne Director of Legal and  
Commercial Affairs
Advice on demerger
Mary Hitchon Secretary to the  
Committee
Secretary
None of the above attended part of any meeting in which their own 
remuneration was discussed. 87 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
2011 changes to executive director remuneration
Petrofac has been one of the most successful public companies of 
recent times. Since IPO, it has created exceptional shareholder value, 
and as a result it is now an established member of the FTSE 100.
Earnings growth during the period has been in excess of 550%.
In last year’s remuneration report, the Committee signalled its  
intention to review basic salaries during 2010, and in particular  
their impact on total compensation levels, in the context of Petrofac’s 
exceptional performance.
The 2010 benchmarking review showed that basic salary levels 
remained below industry benchmarks and also below lower quartile 
compared to UK companies of similar size and complexity. This had  
a significant impact on total remuneration, which generally remained 
well below market competitive levels, even after the changes to 
performance related pay last year. This gap continued to widen given 
the outstanding performance and sustained growth of the business  
during 2010.
There is upward pressure on remuneration levels within the oil & gas 
services industry, both in the general workforce and at more senior 
levels. It is a highly competitive industry, in which securing increasingly 
sought after talent is critical to continuing success.
The Committee remains committed to the policy of modest basic 
salaries and having a significant proportion of pay linked to the 
continued success of the business. However, total compensation  
was uncompetitive to the extent that it was inhibiting Petrofac’s ability  
to attract talent which is consistent with Petrofac’s growth ambitions 
and succession planning strategy.
Taking the above factors into account, the Committee believed  
that it was a priority to deal with this issue. Following consultation  
with key shareholders, from 1 January 2011, it decided to:
increase executive director basic salaries by 20% ■ ■
make a relatively modest increase to the cash allowance paid to  ■ ■
UK executive directors in lieu of pension and company car provision, 
as existing levels were significantly below the market. The cash 
allowance was thus increased from £50,000 to £65,000 
Following the increases, basic salaries remain at median or below 
compared to the select oil & gas services comparator group, and 
around lower quartile compared to the UK market. Cash allowances 
for UK-based directors continue to be modest.
The Committee, and the entire Board, believe that these changes are 
in shareholders’ best interests and are wholly in line with our stated 
remuneration policy. 
 
Fixed and variable pay
A significant proportion of Petrofac’s total remuneration package is 
variable. There is a particular emphasis on long-term share-based 
incentives, to align closely directors’ interests with shareholders’ 
interests.
The balance between the fixed (basic salary) and variable (annual 
bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration varies 
depending on performance. The charts below show the mix  
between fixed and variable pay, excluding cash allowances/benefits. 
The actual mix may be higher or lower, depending on the performance 
of Petrofac and the individual. 
Composition of total remuneration at target and  
maximum performance
Target performance
38%  Salary
39%  Annual bonus
23%  PSP
Maximum performance
20%  Salary
40%  Annual bonus
40%  PSP
If an executive director receives a maximum cash bonus and 
maximum PSP award equal to 200% of basic salary, his fixed 
remuneration (excluding cash allowances/benefits) would be one fifth 
of his overall remuneration, with variable remuneration making up the 
balance. At target performance, his fixed remuneration would be 
broadly two-fifths of his overall remuneration.
Individual elements of remuneration
Fixed pay 
■  basic salary
■  cash allowances
■  non-cash benefits
Basic salary
Ordinarily, the Committee determines an executive director’s basic 
salary at the beginning of each year and any change is applied with 
effect from 1 January. Basic salaries are set at median or below 
against the relevant benchmarking group, and depend upon the 
individual’s role and contribution.
As outlined on page 84, in light of Petrofac’s exceptional growth,  
and as remuneration levels had fallen further behind the market, the 
Committee determined that executive director basic salaries should  
be increased by 20%, from 1 January 2011. Following the increases, 
basic salaries remain at around lower quartile compared to the UK 
market and at median or below compared to the oil & gas services 
comparator group. The revised basic salaries are therefore wholly in 
line with Petrofac’s remuneration policy.
Directors’ remuneration report 88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Changes to basic salaries are as follows, with effect from 1 January 201 1: 
2011  
basic salary
2010  
basic salary
Ayman Asfari £582,000 £485,000
Maroun Semaan US$567,000 US$472,500
Keith Roberts £350,000 £292,000
Cash allowances
In addition to basic salary and non-cash benefits, UK resident 
executive directors receive a cash allowance in place of benefits 
including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension contributions. 
Directors do not receive pension contributions from the Company.
In 2010, all UK-based executive directors received a cash allowance  
of £50,000. As previously mentioned, the Committee made relatively 
modest adjustments to cash allowances to UK-based directors to 
£65,000, with effect from 1 January 2011.
The Company pays a cash allowance in respect of housing and 
transport to Maroun Semaan, in line with local market practice.  
In 2010, Maroun Semaan received a cash allowance of US$220,000 
for the year: no increase is proposed from 1 January 2011.
The table below sets out cash allowances for executive directors,  
from 1 January 2011. 
2011 cash  
allowance
2010 cash  
allowance
Ayman Asfari £65,000 £50,000
Maroun Semaan US$220,000 US$220,000
Keith Roberts £65,000 £50,000
In addition, Maroun Semaan, as a UAE resident executive director,  
is required by local statute to receive a cash sum (called an end  
of service indemnity) from his employer on the termination of his 
employment within the UAE. Accordingly, the Company accrues  
an amount each year.
Non-cash benefits
Executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind. UK-resident 
executive directors currently receive private health insurance, life 
assurance and long-term disability insurance. Maroun Semaan who, 
as mentioned above, is resident in the UAE receives similar benefits, 
as well as other typical expatriate senior executive benefits, such as 
education and return flights to his permanent home.
Variable pay
■  annual cash bonus payments 
■  Performance Share Plan
Annual cash bonus payments
Each January, the Committee decides whether to award each 
executive director a cash bonus for the previous year. In doing so,  
the Committee considers two principal elements:
the extent to which the group’s financial performance, and, as ■ ■
appropriate, the business division for which the individual director  
is primarily responsible, have achieved annually established  
budgets and targets
the extent to which the individual has met personal objectives, ■ ■
which are agreed at the start of each year with the aim of achieving 
the group’s business strategy. Each executive director’s personal 
objectives include health and safety targets. In addition, some 
executive directors have targets in relation to succession planning, 
risk management and the development and implementation of the 
group’s CSR programme. In this way, the Committee considers  
that it has an incentive structure for senior managers that promotes 
responsible behaviour
For 2010, in line with the stated policy, the Committee set the maximum 
bonus potential at 200% of basic annual salary for achievement of 
corporate and personal targets. 
The Committee awarded cash bonus awards of between 154% and 
200% of salary to Ayman Asfari, Keith Roberts and Maroun Semaan, 
in recognition of both the group’s outstanding financial results for 2010 
and their personal performances. As shown on pages 28 and 29, 
Petrofac has displayed strong growth across its KPIs, including 
revenue, earnings and backlog, as well as the successful demerger  
of the UK Continental Shelf assets from our Energy Developments 
business in April 2010.
The following table sets out the 2010 annual bonus awards made to 
executive directors.
Annual  
bonus in 
respect  
of 2010
As % of  
2010 salary
Ayman Asfari £970,000 200%
Maroun Semaan US$945,000 200%
Keith Roberts £450,000 154%
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Executive directors and certain senior managers may receive 
performance-related share awards on an annual basis. Participants 
are granted contingent awards to receive ordinary shares in the 
Company, which will in normal circumstances vest after three years, 
subject to their continued employment and to the extent performance 
conditions are met.
Under the existing PSP, the maximum award level in any financial  
year is 200% of basic annual salary, although an award of up to  
300% may be made under exceptional circumstances. Award levels 
are determined based on a participant’s individual contribution to  
the business.
It is proposed that Maroun Semaan will receive a 2011 PSP award  
of 194% of salary and Keith Roberts will receive a 2011 PSP award  
of 143% of salary. 
The Committee considers that Ayman Asfari’s performance  
during 2010 has been exceptional, taking into account his strong 
leadership, the sustained growth in revenue, profit and backlog  
and his continued focus on substantial shareholder value creation, 
including the successful completion of the demerger of the UK 
Continental Shelf oil & gas assets in April 2010. Additionally,  
following the demerger he acted as interim Chief Executive of Energy 
Developments and Production Solutions for the remainder of 2010. 
Therefore, the Committee is proposing to make a PSP award of 250% 
of salary to Ayman in March 2011.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 89 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
The Committee believes that PSP performance conditions should balance 
alignment with shareholder returns and reward for delivery of strong 
underlying financial performance.
TSR remains the best measure of the Company’s ultimate delivery of 
shareholder returns and EPS is the internal financial measure most closely 
linked to value creation in an oil & gas services business.
The performance period is three years, as this is considered to be an 
appropriate long-term time horizon for both performance measurement 
and retention.
50% of award based on TSR performance relative to  
an index of sectoral comparators over the three-year 
performance period
PSP award  
paid in shares  
(amount varying 
according to 
performance achieved)
50% of award based on annual EPS growth over the 
three-year performance period
Year 0 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
PSP award
Directors’ remuneration report
2008 award 2009 award 2010 award 2011 award
Abbot Group • – – –
Aker Solutions • • • •
Amec • • • •
Chicago Bridge and Iron Co. • • • •
Entrepose Contracting • • • –
Expro International • – – –
Fluor • • • •
Foster Wheeler • • • •
Haliburton • • • •
Helix Energy Solutions • • – –
JGC • • • •
Maire Tecnimont – – • •
Saipem • • • •
Schlumberger • • • •
SNC-Lavalin Group • • • •
Technip • • • •
Tecnicas Reunidas • • • •
Wood Group (John) • • • •
WorleyParsons • • • •
TSR element (50% of award)
For the 2011 PSP grant, the TSR performance measure and accompanying vesting schedule will remain the same as previous grants. 
TSR is the percentage return to a purchaser of an ordinary share in the Company arising from share price appreciation and reinvestment of 
dividends over a given period. The TSR of the Company is measured and then compared against the median TSR of an index of a number  
of international peer companies, as detailed in the following table. 
Plan operation 90 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Vesting is determined in line with the following:
TSR relative to an un-weighted  
comparator group index
Percentage of TSR element  
of award vesting
1,2
Less than index 0%
Equal to index 30%
More than index by up to 25% Straight line vesting between 30% 
and 100%
More than index by 25% or more 100%
1  The Committee is authorised under the rules of the PSP to make retrospective 
adjustment(s) to the comparator index for any year of award if one or more of  
the constituent companies are subject to de-listing, merger, acquisition or other  
such event.
2  It is assumed that a notional £100 is invested equally among all the companies 
making up the TSR index at the start of the performance period. At the end of the 
vesting period, the index will represent the value of what the initial notional investment 
of £100 would have returned over the period. This will be representative of the 
average return made by the Company’s competitors. This is then compared to the 
return by an equivalent notional investment of £100 in Petrofac over the same period.
From 2010, vesting of the TSR element is subject to the achievement 
of strong underlying financial performance of Petrofac. For awards 
granted before then, it was also necessary to achieve EPS growth over 
the period of at least RPI plus 3% over the three-year vesting period.
EPS element (50% of award)
Earnings per share represent the earnings (excluding dividends),  
in pence, attributable to one ordinary share. The Company’s EPS 
performance over a three-year period is calculated and vesting is  
in line with the vesting schedule attached to a particular award, as 
shown in the table below.
Awards made in  
2010 onwards
EPS compound  
annual growth over  
three-year period
Awards made prior  
to 2010
EPS compound  
annual growth over  
three-year period
Percentage of  
EPS element of  
award vesting
10% or less 15% or less 0%
More than 10% but  
less than 15%
More than 15% but less  
than 20%
Straight line vesting  
between 0% and 30% 
15% 20% 30%
More than 15% but  
less than 20%
More than 20% but less  
than 25%
Straight line vesting  
between 30% and 100% 
20% or more 25% or more 100%
The Committee determines the EPS targets immediately before the 
grant of each award. It considers internal growth projections, market 
consensus figures and general external conditions. The Committee 
believes the targets attached to existing PSP awards are extremely 
stretching.
Other discretionary share plans
As part of its oversight role, the Committee considers the following 
discretionary share plans:
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP)
Under the DBSP, selected employees are required, or in some cases 
invited, to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company 
shares (‘invested shares’). The Company will generally grant the 
participant an additional award over a number of shares, being a 
specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares (‘matching 
shares’), typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participant’s continued employment, invested and 
matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary 
of grant; or alternatively, vest one third on the first anniversary of the 
grant, one third on the second anniversary and the final proportion  
on the third anniversary.
The Committee uses its discretion to determine whether a participant 
should be subject to either three-year cliff or annual vesting (or a 
mixture). In doing so, it takes management recommendations into 
consideration.
In 2007 , the Committee decided that neither executive directors nor 
the most senior members of management should participate in the 
scheme as there are no performance conditions attached to matching 
awards. If such individuals are considered for DBSP participation in 
future years, the Company undertakes not to make matching awards, 
unless they are subject to suitably stretching performance conditions 
and a deferral period of at least three years.
Proposed changes
The Committee is seeking shareholder approval to make minor 
administrative changes to the DBSP at the forthcoming AGM,  
as set out below:
the Committee wishes to extend eligibility to participate in the  ■ ■
DBSP to certain Petrofac joint ventures (JVs), where it considers  
it appropriate
currently, individuals are only eligible to participate in the DBSP  ■ ■
if Petrofac holds a majority shareholding in their employing entity. 
The Committee wishes to have the flexibility to extend participation, 
where it deems appropriate, to employees of JVs where Petrofac 
has a shareholding of at least 25%
the Committee believes that extending participation levels in the ■ ■
DBSP, where appropriate, will align the interests of key individuals  
in the Company’s JV entities with those of Petrofac shareholders
Further details of the proposed resolution are included in the Notice  
of AGM.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on  
an ad hoc basis throughout the year. Executive directors are not 
eligible to participate in the scheme. 
The scheme is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards 
to individuals who join the group part way through the year, having  
left accrued benefits with a previous employer. The Committee 
periodically monitors the level of awards.
Wider workforce remuneration
When determining remuneration arrangements for executive  
directors, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and 
conditions of employees throughout the group. There is upward 
pressure on remuneration levels within our highly competitive sector. 
The Committee is aware that securing increasingly sought-after key 
talent is critical to the continued success of Petrofac.
On an all-employee basis, the Company offers participation in an 
approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP), which the Committee considers 
as part of its oversight role.
Under the SIP , all UK employees, including UK-resident directors,  
may invest up to £1,500 per tax year of gross salary (or, if less,  
10% of salary) to purchase ordinary shares. There is no holding  
period for these shares.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 91 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
General share plan information
Dividends and voting rights
Participants in the PSP, DBSP and RSP have no dividend or voting 
rights in respect of their respective awards until their awards vest. 
However, when the Company pays a dividend, the shares under 
award will be increased by the number of shares that could have been 
acquired with the amount of dividend received, had the participant 
been the owner of the award shares. The vesting of the additional 
shares will be subject to the same performance conditions as the 
original award shares.
Participants in the SIP receive dividends in respect of their shares,  
in common with any other shareholder. 
Effect of the demerger on subsisting awards
Unlike shareholders, participants in the PSP , DBSP and RSP were  
not entitled to receive EnQuest PLC shares upon the successful 
completion of the demerger of Petrofac’s UK Continental Shelf oil  
& gas assets in April 2010. The Committee therefore agreed to make 
appropriate adjustments to subsisting awards, to put participants in  
a similar economic position as shareholders, applying an adjustment 
factor of 1.08 to subsisting awards.
The Committee also approved appropriate adjustments to TSR and 
EPS performance conditions for subsisting awards, to ensure that 
measurement is undertaken on a consistent basis.
Funding policy
In 2007 , the Board approved a funding policy in relation to the 
Company’s employee benefit trust, which holds shares to be  
used to satisfy awards under the Company’s DBSP , PSP and RSP .
The Company reviews its contingent obligations under the above  
listed share incentive schemes on a quarterly basis to ensure that the 
employee benefit trust should purchase under a loan arrangement 
with the group and hold shares, sufficient to cover between 80% to 
100% of its maximum liability, at any time under the three schemes.
Other matters
The Committee is delighted to report that at the ifsProShare Awards  
in December 2010, Petrofac received a commendation in the category  
of ‘Best Employee Share Plan outcome following a Corporate 
Transaction’. 
This award recognises Petrofac’s detailed consideration of the  
impact of the demerger of its UK Continental Shelf oil & gas assets  
to EnQuest PLC in April 2010 on subsisting awards under the 
Company’s share incentive plans.
Directors’ remuneration report
Performance graph
As mentioned, the Company’s total shareholder return is defined  
as our share price growth plus any dividends used to acquire further 
shares in Petrofac. For shareholders’ information, the Company’s  
TSR performance since 1 January 2006 is shown below compared 
with the performance of the FTSE 100 Index. 
The Committee believes the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate 
index given the Company’s current positioning within it.
Graph showing TSR performance of Petrofac measured against  
the FTSE 100 over the five-year period to 31 December 2010 
(three-month average)
0
Petrofac
Jan
06
May
06
Sep
06
Jan
07
May
07
Sep
07
Jan
08
May
08
Sep
08
Jan
09
May
09
Sep
09
Jan
10
May
10
Sep
10
Dec
10
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
TSR (rebased to 100 on 1 January 2006)
FTSE 100 Source: Datastream
Executive directors’ service contracts
Executive directors have 12-month rolling service contracts with the 
Company and are contractually restricted to a termination payment 
equal to 12 months’ salary and benefits. None of the executive 
directors are subject to a contractual retirement date. Further details 
are shown below. 
Name of
Executive 
Director
Date of 
service 
contract
Date first 
appointed
Number of
months’ notice
Company Director
Ayman Asfari 13 September 
2005 
11 January  
2002
12 12
Maroun Semaan 13 September  
2005 
11 January  
2002
12 12
Keith Roberts 13 September  
2005 
6 April  
2002
12 12
Amjad Bseisu
1
13 September  
2005 
11 May 
2007
12 12
1 Amjad Bseisu stood down from the Board on 6 April 2010.
Amjad Bseisu
On the successful demerger of the UK Continental Shelf oil & gas 
assets to EnQuest PLC on 6 April 2010, Amjad Bseisu stepped down 
from the Board with immediate effect and by mutual agreement  
to assume the role of Chief Executive of EnQuest PLC. As a result,  
no compensation was payable to him. 
The Committee decided that his subsisting share awards should be 
scaled back proportionally to reflect the proportion of the relevant 
vesting period that had elapsed at 6 April 2010. These awards will be 
released on the original vesting dates, to the extent that the original 
performance conditions attached to each award are met. 92 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Appointment of Andy Inglis
In January 2011, Andy Inglis joined Petrofac as Chief Executive,  
Energy Developments and Production Solutions. He was appointed  
to the Board on 1 March 2011.
The Committee considered Andy Inglis’ remuneration package in  
the light of his calibre and experience and the fact that he would be 
joining the Board shortly after his appointment. 
For the most part, Andy Inglis has a standard remuneration package 
on a similar basis to those of other current Petrofac executive 
directors. His fixed remuneration will consist of basic salary (£500,000) 
and a payment in lieu of pension contribution and company car 
allowance (£65,000), in common with other UK-based executive 
directors.
Andy Inglis will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus and 
Performance Share Plan on the same basis as other executive 
directors.
To attract such a proven business leader with a strong technical 
background, the Committee agreed the following one-off 
arrangements:
for 2011 only, an enhanced PSP award of 300% of salary, subject  ■ ■
to the same performance conditions as other executive directors. 
This replaces any normal 2011 award
a one-off retention share award with a value of £1 million which  ■ ■
will vest in equal annual tranches over three years in order  
to compensate him for foregone remuneration opportunities
a one-off payment of £450,000 to assist with his relocation to  ■ ■
the UK to perform his duties
Non-executive directors – remuneration policy and practice
The Board reviews and sets the fees of independent non-executive 
directors annually, supported by independent professional advice.
When deciding an appropriate fee level for each independent 
non-executive director, the Board takes into account the level of  
fees generally paid to non-executive directors serving on boards  
of similarly-sized, UK-listed companies and the responsibility and  
time commitment required of the role.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are  
not entitled to compensation on leaving the Board. However, if the 
Chairman or a non-executive director is requested to resign, they  
are entitled to prior notice or fees in lieu of three months’ notice. 
Director
Date of latest 
letter of 
appointment 
Date first 
appointed
Required 
notice from 
Company  
(in months)
Rodney Chase 13 September  
2005 
21 June  
2005
3
Kjell Almskog 13 September  
2005 
23 March  
2005
3
Thomas Thune Andersen 11 February  
2011
13 May  
2010
3
Stefano Cao 11 February  
2011
13 May  
2010
3
Rijnhard van Tets 2 February  
2007 
11 May  
2007
3
Bernard de Combret¹ 13 September  
2005
19 November  
2003
3
Michael Press¹ 13 September  
2005
30 April  
2002
3
 
1 Bernard de Combret and Michael Press stood down at the 2010 AGM.
 
Fees for non-executive directors are as shown in the table below.  
The Board reviewed these fees in early 2011, and has made changes 
with effect from 1 January 2011 to position the fees close to mid-market 
taking account of the extensive time and travel demands of these roles.
2011
£ 
2010
£
Basic fees
Non-executive Director 60,000 55,000
Additional fees 
Committee chairman 14,000 12,000
Senior Independent Director
1
14,000 12,000
1  There is no current intention to pay an additional fee payable for the role of Senior 
Independent Director once Kjell Almskog steps down from the Board on 13 May 201 1.
 
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the 
Remuneration Committee. The fee level for Rodney Chase, who will  
be stepping down from the Board after the 2011 AGM, is £120,000  
per year with effect from 21 June 2010 (previously £100,000).
Norman Murray and Roxanne Decyk were appointed non-executive 
directors on 1 March 2011. Subject to shareholder approval, Norman 
Murray will assume the role of Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM. 
From 13 May 2011, his annual fee as Chairman will be £230,000.
The Board as a whole is responsible for deciding non-executive 
directors’ fees unless such fees exceed £500,000 per annum in 
aggregate, in which case shareholder approval in a general meeting 
would be sought. A resolution is proposed at the 2011 AGM to amend 
the Articles of Association in order to increase the maximum non-
executive director fees payable to £1 million per annum. This increase 
is necessary to allow Petrofac sufficient headroom to discharge its 
obligations without further shareholder approval.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 93 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Audited information
Amount of each director’s emoluments in the relevant financial year
The remuneration of each director in respect of 2010 (with 2009 comparison) comprised:
Salaries and 
fees 
US$’000
Cash 
allowances
US$’000¹
Benefits
US$’000²
Cash
bonus
US$’000
2010
total
US$’000
2009
total
US$’000
Executive Directors
Ayman Asfari³ 747 77 46 1,495 2,365 1,965
Maroun Semaan 472 260 52 945 1,729 1,394
Keith Roberts³ 449 77 1 694 1,221 934
Non-executive Directors
Rodney Chase 170 – – – 170 158
Kjell Almskog 103 – – – 103 87
Thomas Thune Andersen
4
66 – – – 66 –
Stefano Cao
4
66 – – – 66 –
Rijnhard van Tets 103 – – – 103 87
Former Directors
Amjad Bseisu
3,5
11 7 20 – – 137 924
Bernard de Combret
5
37 – – – 37 87
Michael Press
5
37 – – – 37 87
2,367 434 99 3,134 6,034 5,723
1  Payment in lieu of pension allowance and other benefits for UK-resident directors and end of service indemnity and various allowances for the UAE-resident director, as outlined 
on page 88. Directors are not eligible to receive pension contributions from the Company.
2  Ayman Asfari’s benefits relate primarily to the employment of a personal assistant who spends part of her time in the administration of his philanthropic work. Maroun Semaan 
receives, inter alia, benefits in relation to his children’s education and return flights to his permanent home. Details of other benefits are provided on page 88.
3  UK-based directors are paid in Sterling. Amounts have been translated to US Dollars based on the prevailing rate at the date of payment or award with the exception of the 
bonus amounts, which have been translated using the average exchange rate for the year.
4  Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao were appointed as directors on 13 May 2010 and their fees reflect the period from then to the end of the year.
5  Amjad Bseisu stepped down as a director on 6 April 2010 upon the demerger of EnQuest PLC and the table above shows his remuneration during the period up to his 
departure; Bernard de Combret and Michael Press stepped down as directors on 13 May 2010 and their fees reflect the period up to then.
Directors’ remuneration report 94 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Awards of shares under the PSP
Awards of shares during the year to executive directors under the PSP are given below:  
Director and
date of grant
% of basic 
salary in 
year of 
grant
Number of 
shares at 
31.12.09¹
Shares
granted in 
year under
 annual 
award 
cycle¹
Dividend 
shares
 granted in
 the year
2
Additional 
shares 
received 
upon
 adjustment
for the 
demerger
3
Lapsed in 
year
Vested in  
year
Number of 
shares at
 31. 12.10¹
Date from which 
shares vest
Market 
price on 
date of 
grant
Ayman Asfari
19 March 2007 100.0 95,671 – – – – 95,671 Nil
4
19 March 2010 415p
19 March 2008 122.7 104,032 – 2,490 8,322 – – 114,844
4
19 March 2011 522p
19 March 2009 130.9 116,539 – 2,789 9,323 – – 128,651
5
19 March 2012 545p
14 May 2010 200.0 – 88,213 1,954 – – – 90,167
5
19 March 2013 1103p
Maroun Semaan
19 March 2007 100.0 45,204 – – – – 45,204 Nil
4
19 March 2010 415p
19 March 2008 123.7 47 ,750 – 1,142 3,820 – – 52,712
4
19 March 2011 522p
19 March 2009 122.2 73,267 – 1,753 5,861 – – 80,881
5
19 March 2012 545p
14 May 2010
6
225.0 – 66,462 1,472 – – – 67,934
5
19 March 2013 1103p
Keith Roberts
19 March 2007 100.0 58,465 – – – – 58,465 Nil
4
19 March 2010 415p
19 March 2008 88.9 46,236 – 1,106 3,698 – – 51,040
4
19 March 2011 522p
19 March 2009 95.0 50,852 – 1,217 4,068 – – 56,137
5
19 March 2012 545p
14 May 2010 200.0 – 53, 1 10 1,1 76 – – – 54,286
5
19 March 2013 1103p
Former Director
Amjad Bseisu
7
19 March 2007 100.0 55,807 – – – – 55,807 Nil
4
19 March 2010 415p
19 March 2008 92.3 46,236 – – 3,698 16,647 – 33,287 19 March 2011 522p
19 March 2009 90.9 48,156 – – 3,852 34,673 – 17,335 19 March 2012 545p
1   The award levels given are the maximum number that can vest subject to the performance conditions attached to awards. The performance conditions are explained in detail 
on pages 88 to 90.
2   Dividends awarded on the shares granted under the PSP are reinvested to buy further shares. 
3    Following the completion of the demerger of Petrofac’s UK Continental Shelf oil & gas assets to EnQuest PLC in April 2010, the Company applied an adjustment factor of  
1.08 (8%) to unvested share awards held under the Petrofac Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) to compensate awardholders for not being entitled to EnQuest PLC shares  
at the time of the demerger.
4    The performance conditions for the April 2007 PSP award were satisfied and the award vested in full during the year. Shares awarded on 19 March 2008 have satisfied their 
performance conditions in full and will vest 100% on 19 March 2011. Based on a share price of 1378 pence, which is the share price at 25 February 2011 being the latest 
practicable date prior to the adoption of this report by the Remuneration Committee, the values of the awards delivered to current executive directors would be as follows: 
Ayman Asfari: £1,582,550; Keith Roberts: £703,331; and Maroun Semaan: £726,371.
5   Shares awarded on 19 March 2009 and 14 May 2010 are not due to vest until 19 March 2012 and 19 March 2013, respectively. It is too early, in the Committee’s opinion, 
to provide shareholders with a meaningful assessment to the extent that these shares will vest, if at all.
6    Maroun Semaan received an exceptional PSP award of 225% of salary in 2010 due to his outstanding contribution to the group’s extremely strong performance in 2009.
7   Amjad Bseisu stepped down from the Board on 6 April 2010. His share awards have been scaled back proportionally to reflect the proportion of the relevant vesting period  
that had elapsed as at 6 April 2010. These awards will be released on the original vesting dates, as outlined in the table above.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 95 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Sums paid to third parties in respect of executive directors’ services
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive director’s services (2009: nil).
Directors’ beneficial shareholdings at 31 December 2010
Directors’ personal shareholdings, which include family interests and which are not related to their remuneration, have been disclosed under the 
requirements of the UKLA listing rules and are as follows:
Number of shares as  
at 31 December 2010 
Number of shares as 
at 31 December 2009 
or date of appointment 
if later
1
Executive Directors
Ayman Asfari 62,782,114 53,782,114
Maroun Semaan 28,082,676 30,607 ,676
Keith Roberts 2,120,000 2,120,000
Non-executive Directors
Rodney Chase 815,000 800,000
Kjell Almskog 400,000 400,000
Thomas Thune Andersen
1
4,000 2,000
Rijnhard van Tets 100,000 100,000
 The Company’s share price at the end of the financial year was 1587 pence and the market price during the year was in the range of 948.5 pence 
to 1601 pence.
AGM
The remuneration report will be submitted for approval to the AGM to be held on Friday 13 May 2011.
On behalf of the Board
Thomas Thune Andersen
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 March 2011
Directors’ remuneration report 96 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and  
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. The directors have chosen to prepare the financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). The directors are also responsible for the 
preparation of the directors’ remuneration report, which they  
have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under 
Jersey law. The directors are also responsible for the preparation  
of the corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
Jersey Company law (the ‘Law’) requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial period in accordance with any 
generally accepted accounting principles. The financial statements  
are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company at the period end and the profit or loss of the Company 
for the period then ended. In preparing these financial statements,  
the directors should:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently ■ ■
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent ■ ■
specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been ■ ■
adopted in their preparation
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless  ■ ■
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue  
in business
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that  
the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the 
Law. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ approach
The Board’s objective is to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects, particularly  
in the annual report, half year report (formerly the interim report) and 
other published documents and reports to regulators. The Board has 
established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation. 
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are set  
out in the business review on pages 16 to 54. The financial position of 
the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the financial review on pages 52 to 54. In addition, 
note 33 to the financial statements include the Company’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Directors’ statements
The Company has considerable financial resources together with  
long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across 
different geographic areas and industries. As a consequence, the 
directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company  
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the directors listed on pages 68 and 69 confirm that to the 
best of their knowledge:
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a ■ ■
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole
the operating and financial review includes a fair view of the ■ ■
development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face
By order of the Board 
Keith Roberts
Chief Financial Officer
4 March 2011 97 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
We have audited the group financial statements of Petrofac Limited 
(‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the group’) for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income,  
the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated  
cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable Jersey law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
and our engagement letter dated 15 February 2011. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 96, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they  
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express  
an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to:
review the statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to  ■ ■
going concern as set out on page 96, which for a premium listed 
UK incorporated company is specified for review by the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority
report as to whether the information given in the corporate ■ ■
governance report with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to  
the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Independent Auditors’ report to  
the members of Petrofac Limited
Notes:
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility  
of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the website.
2  Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as  ■ ■
at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended
have been properly prepared in accordance with International ■ ■
Financial Reporting Standards
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the ■ ■
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991
Opinion on other matter
In our opinion, the information given in the corporate governance 
report set out on pages 71 to 78 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters:
where the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to report to  ■ ■
you if, in our opinion:
proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns  –
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting  –
records and returns
we have not received all the information and explanations we  –
require for our audit
under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the ■ ■
corporate governance report relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review
where the Company instructed us to review the statement of ■ ■
directors’ responsibilities, set out on page 96, in relation to going 
concern
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and on the information in the remuneration report that is described 
as having been audited. 
Justine Belton 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
London
4 March 2011
Independent Auditors’ report to the 
members of Petrofac Limited Consolidated 
financial 
statements
98    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
Restated 
2009
US$’000
Revenue 4a 4,354,217 3,655,426
Cost of sales 4b (3,595,142) (3,038,250)
Gross profit 759,075 617 , 176
Selling, general and administration expenses 4c (221,449) (186,293)
Gain on EnQuest demerger 11 124,864 –
Other income 4f 5,013 4,075
Other expenses 4g (4,053) (2,998)
Profit from operations before tax and finance income/(costs) 663,450 431,960
Finance costs 5 (5,131) (5,582)
Finance income 5 10,209 11 ,942
Share of loss of associate 14 (131) –
Profit before tax 668,397 438,320
Income tax expense 6 (110,545) (84,515)
Profit for the year 557,852 353,805
Attributable to:
 Petrofac Limited shareholders 557,817 353,603
 Non-controlling interests 35 202
557,852 353,805
Earnings per share (US cents) 7
– Basic (excluding gain on EnQuest demerger) 127.76 104.78
– Diluted (excluding gain on EnQuest demerger) 126.09 103.19
– Basic (including gain on EnQuest demerger) 164.61 104.78
– Diluted (including gain on EnQuest demerger) 162.46 103.19
The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group financial statements
99    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
Restated 
2009
US$’000
Profit for the year 557,852 353,805
Foreign currency translation 25 (908) 15,087
Foreign currency translation recycled to income  
statement in the year on EnQuest demerger 11 45,818 –
Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the period 25 (16,612) (4,303)
Net changes in fair value of derivatives and  
financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 25 (18,958) 29,229
Net changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 25 70 –
Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 25 (74) –
Other comprehensive income 9,336 40,013
Total comprehensive income for the period 567,188 393,818
Attributable to:
 Petrofac Limited shareholders 567,153 393,616
 Non-controlling interests 35 202
567,188 393,818
The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
100    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Consolidated statement of financial position
At 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
Restated 
2009
US$’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 287,158 677,996
Goodwill 12 105,832 97,922
Intangible assets 13 85,837 73,107
Investment in associates 14 16,349 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 16 101,494 539
Other financial assets 17 2,223 12,535
Deferred income tax assets 6c 26,301 49,726
625,194 911 ,825
Current assets
Inventories 18 7,202 9,798
Work in progress 19 803,986 333,698
Trade and other receivables 20 1,056,759 878,670
Due from related parties 32 327 18,260
Other financial assets 17 42,350 30,957
Income tax receivable 2,525 –
Cash and short-term deposits 21 1,063,005 1 ,4 1 7,363
2,976,154 2,688,746
Total assets 3,601,348 3,600,571
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders
Share capital 22 6,914 8,638
Share premium 992 69,712
Capital redemption reserve 10,881 10,881
Shares to be issued 994 1,988
Treasury shares 23 (65,317) (56,285)
Other reserves 25 34,728 25,394
Retained earnings 787,270 834,382
776,462 894,710
Non-controlling interests 2,592 2,819
Total equity 779,054 897,529
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26 40,226 59,195
Provisions 27 45,441 92,103
Other financial liabilities 28 11,453 27,485
Deferred income tax liabilities 6c 48,086 42,192
145,206 220,975
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 29 1,021,436 977,01 7
Due to related parties 32 11,710 57,326
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26 47,435 58,071
Other financial liabilities 28 37,054 3,634
Income tax payable 105,559 88,219
Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 19 178,429 461 ,1 44
Accrued contract expenses 30 1,275,465 836,656
2,677,088 2,482,067
Total liabilities 2,822,294 2,703,042
Total equity and liabilities 3,601,348 3,600,571
The financial statements on pages 99 to 143 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by  
Keith Roberts – Chief Financial Officer.
The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
101    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
Restated 
2009
US$’000
Operating activities
Profit before tax including gain on EnQuest demerger 668,397 438,320
Gain on EnQuest demerger (124,864) –
543,533 438,320
Non-cash adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment and write off 4b, 4c 95,903 1 1 7,780
 Share-based payments 4d 14,784 13,263
 Difference between other long-term employment benefits paid and  
amounts recognised in the income statement 6,074 7,905
 Net finance income 5 (5,078) (6,360)
 Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4b,4f,4g 315 (784)
 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 4f (2,338) –
 Other non-cash items, net 13,319 (3,233)
666,512 566,891
Working capital adjustments:
 Trade and other receivables (266,757) (176,773)
 Work in progress (470,288) (81,003)
 Due from related parties 17,933 (15,353)
 Inventories (2,982) (5,721)
 Other current financial assets (12,661) (4,775)
 Trade and other payables 167,707 479,902
 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings (282,715) 175,617
 Accrued contract expenses 438,809 284,795
 Due to related parties (45,616) 56,767
 Other current financial liabilities 6,045 177
215,987 1,280,524
Other non-current items, net (8,720) (4,265)
Cash generated from operations 207,267 1,276,259
Interest paid (1,948) (3,351)
Income taxes paid, net (99,030) (87,71 4)
Net cash flows from operating activities 106,289 1 ,185,194
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (115,345) (317 , 17 4)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 (15,110) –
Purchase of other intangible assets 13 (153) (10,375)
Purchase of intangible oil & gas assets 13 (15,644) (29,230)
Cash outflow on EnQuest demerger (including transaction costs) (17,783) –
Investment in associates 14 (8,459) –
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 16 (101,494) (106)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3,219 1,333
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 539 95
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 6,018 –
Interest received 10,257 12,158
Net cash flows used in investing activities (253,955) (343,299)
Financing activities
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (32,458) (9,958)
Proceeds from capital injection by non-controlling interest – 2,408
Treasury shares purchased 23 (36,486) –
Equity dividends paid (132,244) (98,995)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (201,188) (106,545)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (348,854) 735,350
Net foreign exchange difference (7,793) 6,235
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,390,744 649,159
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 1,034,097 1,390,744
The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
102    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2010
 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited
 
Issued
share
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
US$’000
Shares to
 be issued
US$’000
*Treasury
shares
US$’000
(note 23)
Other 
reserves
US$’000
(note 25)
Retained
earnings
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Non-
controlling
interests
US$’000
Total
equity
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2010  
as restated 8,638 69,712 10,881 1,988 (56,285) 25,394 834,382 894,710 2,819 897,529
Net profit for the year – – – – – – 557,81 7 557,81 7 35 557,852
Other comprehensive income – – – – – 9,336 – 9,336 – 9,336
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – – 9,336 557,81 7 567, 1 53 35 567, 188
Shares issued as payment of 
consideration on acquisition 4 2,452 – (994) – – – 1,462 – 1,462
Share-based payments charge 
(note 24) – – – – – 14,784 – 14,784 – 14,784
Shares vested during the year 
(note 23) – – – – 27 ,454 (26,1 70) (1,284) – – –
Transfer to reserve for share-
based payments (note 24) – – – – – 12,750 – 12,750 – 12,750
Treasury shares purchased  
(note 23) – – – – (36,486) – – (36,486) – (36,486)
Deferred tax on share based 
payments reserve – – – – – (1,366) – (1,366) – (1,366)
EnQuest demerger share split 
and redemption (note 11) (1,728) – – – – – 1,728 – – –
Distribution on EnQuest 
demerger (note 11) – (71 ,1 72) – – – – (473,325) (544,497) – (544,497)
Dividends (note 8) – – – – – – (132,048) (132,048) – (132,048)
Movement in non-controlling 
interests – – – – – – – – (262) (262)
Balance at 31 December 2010 6,914 992 10,881 994 (65,317) 34,728 787,270 776,462 2,592 779,054
 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited
 
Issued
share
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
US$’000
Shares to
 be issued
US$’000
*Treasury
shares
US$’000
(note 23)
Other 
reserves
US$’000
(note 25)
Retained
earnings
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Non-
controlling
interests
US$’000
Total
equity
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 8,636 68,203 10,881 1,988 (69,333) (39,292) 577,739 558,822 209 559,031
Net profit for the year as reported – – – – – – 353,603 353, 603 9,428 363,031
Other comprehensive income  
as reported – – – – – 35,813 – 35,813 4,200 40,013
Total comprehensive income for 
the year as reported – – – – – 35,813 353, 603 389,416 13,628 403,044
Restatement – – – – – 4,200 – 4,200 (13,426) (9,226)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year as restated – – – – – 40,013 353, 603 393,616 202 393,818
Shares issued on acquisition 2 1,509 – – – – – 1 ,511 – 1 ,511
Share-based payments charge 
(note 24) – – – – – 13,263 – 13,263 – 13,263
Shares vested during the year 
(note 23) – – – – 13,048 (12,617) (431) – – –
Transfer to reserve for share-
based payments (note 24) – – – – – 10,942 – 10,942 – 10,942
Deferred tax on share based 
payments reserve – – – – – 13,085 – 13,085 – 13,085
Capital injection by non-
controlling interests – – – – – – – – 2,408 2,408
Dividends (note 8) – – – – – – (96,529) (96,529) – (96,529)
Balance at 31 December 2009  
as restated 8,638 69,712 10,881 1,988 (56,285) 25,394 834,382 894,710 2,819 897,529
*Shares held by Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust.
The attached notes 1 to 35 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
103    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2010
1 Corporate information 
The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited (the 
‘Company’) for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 4 March 2011.
Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and domiciled 
in Jersey under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and is the holding 
company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries (together 
‘the group’). The Company’s 31 December 2010 financial statements 
are shown on pages 146 to 158. The group’s principal activity is  
the provision of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and 
processing industry.
A full listing of all group companies, and joint venture companies,  
is contained in note 35 to these consolidated financial statements.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and 
available-for-sale financial assets which have been measured at  
fair value. The presentation currency of the consolidated financial 
statements is United States Dollars and all values in the financial 
statements are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$’000) except 
where otherwise stated. The directors have re-considered the nature 
of the contractual commitments to a joint venture on a lump sum 
construction contract in the Engineering & Construction reporting 
segment and as a result, the amount of US$9,226,000 shown as part 
of non-controlling interest in December 2009 in the income statement 
has been reclassified to Cost of Sales. Similarly US$4,200,000 shown 
within Other Comprehensive Income has been shown as attributable 
to Petrofac. US$9,226,000 in the statement of financial position has 
been reclassified as trade and other payables.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its 
subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and applicable requirements  
of Jersey law. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries. The financial 
statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting  
year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made  
to the financial statements of the group’s subsidiaries to bring their 
accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the  
date on which control is transferred out of the group. Control  
is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the  
financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain  
benefits from its activities. All intra-group balances and transactions, 
including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation. 
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the group are 
disclosed separately from the group’s equity and income statement. 
Prior to 1 January 2010 losses incurred by the group were attributed 
to non-controlling interests until the balance is reduced to nil. Any 
further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless there was  
a binding obligation on the part of the non-controlling interest to cover 
these. Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not reallocated between 
non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.
New standards and interpretations
The group has adopted new and revised Standards and Interpretations 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of  
the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. The principal effects of 
the adoption of these new and amended standards and interpretations 
are discussed below:
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (Revised)’ the revised standard 
increases the number of transactions to which it must be applied 
including business combinations of mutual entities and combinations 
without consideration. IFRS 3 (revised) introduces significant changes 
in the accounting for business combinations such as valuation of 
non-controlling interest, business combination achieved in stages,  
the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent 
consideration and the accounting for transaction costs. These 
changes will have a significant impact on profit or loss reported in  
the period of an acquisition, the amount of goodwill recognised in  
a business combination and profit or loss reported in future periods.
IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 
(Amendments)’ the amended standard requires that a change in the 
ownership interest of a subsidiary (without loss of control) is accounted 
for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and these 
transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill or gains and losses. 
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost and 
any retained interest is remeasured to fair value with gains or losses 
recognised in profit or loss.
IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to owners’ this interpretation 
provides guidance in respect of accounting for non-cash asset 
distributions to shareholders. This interpretation is effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2009. See note 11 for distributions in 
respect of EnQuest demerger.
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ the amendment clarifies that segment 
assets and liabilities need not be reported if they are not used as a 
measure by the chief operating decision maker. As segment assets 
and liabilities are not reviewed by the chief operating decision maker 
for operational and financial decisions, the group has opted not to 
disclose segment assets and liabilities in note 3.
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ the amendment clarifies that operating 
segments as defined in IFRS 8 prior to aggregation for reporting 
purposes, are the largest unit for allocating goodwill on acquisitions. 
The amendment has no impact on the group as goodwill impairment 
testing is performed on cash generating units before aggregation.
Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of  
existing standards have been issued and are effective for the group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 or later 
periods which the group has not early adopted. The following are 
applicable to the group for which the impact on the group’s operating 
results or financial position will be assessed on adoption of these 
standards and interpretations:
i)  IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2013, reflects the first phase of the IASB’s 
work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to the classification 
and measurement of financial assets. It specifies that all financial 
assets should be initially measured at fair value and gives further 
guidance on the measurement of debt instruments and equity 
instruments. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address the 
classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge 
accounting and derecognition. The completion of this project is 
expected in early 2011. The management believes that this standard 
will not have a significant effect on the group’s financial position.
104    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 ii)  IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures (Revised)’ effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. The revision simplifies 
the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation 
to significant influence and joint control. The management believes 
that this standard will not have a significant effect on the group’s 
financial position.
Other amendments resulting from improvements to IFRS to the 
following standards and interpretations did not have any impact on  
the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the group:
 
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
IAS 32   ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation – Classification of  
Rights Issues (Amendment)’ 
IFRIC 14  ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 
(Amendment)’ 
IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’
Significant accounting judgements and estimates
Judgements
In the process of applying the group’s accounting policies, 
management has made the following judgements, apart from those 
involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on  
the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements:
revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement  ■ ■
and construction contracts: the group recognises revenue on 
fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts 
using the percentage-of-completion method, based on surveys  
of work performed. The group has determined this basis of  
revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress  
on such contracts
Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources  
of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year 
are discussed below:
project cost to complete estimates: at each statement of financial ■ ■
position date the group is required to estimate costs to complete  
on fixed price contracts. Estimating costs to complete on such 
contracts requires the group to make estimates of future costs to  
be incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the statement 
of financial position date
onerous contract provisions: the group provides for future losses  ■ ■
on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the 
contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years. 
Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions 
about the achievement of contract performance targets and the 
likely levels of future cost escalation over time
impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is ■ ■
impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation  
of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the  
goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the group 
to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each  
cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable discount  
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.  
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2010 was 
US$105,832,000 (2009: US$97 ,922,000) (note 12)
deferred tax assets: the group recognises deferred tax assets  ■ ■
on all applicable temporary differences where it is probable that 
future taxable profits will be available for utilisation. This requires 
management to make judgements and assumptions regarding  
the amount of deferred tax that can be recognised based on the 
magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits. The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2010 was 
US$26,301,000 (2009: US$49,726,000)
income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to routine ■ ■
tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations are 
discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities. Whilst the 
ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be 
determined with certainty, management estimates the level of 
provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis  
of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with  
the tax authority concerned
recoverable value of intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets: ■ ■
the group determines at each statement of financial position date 
whether there is any evidence of indicators of impairment in the 
carrying value of its intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets. 
Where indicators exist, an impairment test is undertaken which 
requires management to estimate the recoverable value of its 
intangible assets for example by reference to quoted market values, 
similar arm’s length transactions involving these assets or value in 
use calculations
units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable ■ ■
reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil & gas assets 
such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the depletion of 
the remaining reserves over their life of production. These calculations 
require the use of estimates including the amount of economically 
recoverable reserves and future oil & gas capital expenditure
Interests in joint ventures 
The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other 
parties which represent joint ventures. These take the form of 
agreements to share control over other entities (‘jointly controlled 
entities’) and commercial collaborations (‘jointly controlled operations’). 
The group’s interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by 
proportionate consolidation, which involves recognising the group’s 
proportionate share of the joint venture’s assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses with similar items in the consolidated financial statements  
on a line-by-line basis. Where the group collaborates with other entities 
in jointly controlled operations, the expenses the group incurs and its 
share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. Assets controlled by the group and liabilities incurred by it 
are recognised in the statement of financial position. Where necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial statements of the group’s jointly 
controlled entities and operations to bring their accounting policies into 
line with those of the group.
Investment in associates
The group’s investment in associates is accounted for using the equity 
method where the investment is initially carried at cost and adjusted 
for post acquisition changes in the group’s share of net assets of the 
associate. Goodwill on the initial investment forms a part of the carrying 
amount of the investment and is not individually tested for impairment.
The group recognises its share of the net profits after tax and 
non-controlling interest of the associates in its consolidated income 
statement. Share of associate’s changes in equity is also recognised in 
the group’s consolidated statement of changes in equity. Any unrealised 
gains and losses resulting from transactions between the group and 
the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in associates.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared using the same 
accounting policies and reporting periods as that of the group. 
The carried value of the investment is tested for impairment at each 
reporting date. Impairment, if any, is determined by the difference 
between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carried  
value and is reported within the share of income of an associate  
in the group’s consolidated income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currency translation
The Company’s functional and presentational currency is United 
States Dollars. In the financial statements of individual subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates, transactions in currencies other than  
a company’s functional currency are recorded at the prevailing rate  
of exchange at the date of the transaction. At the year end, monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position 
date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of 
exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was 
determined. All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to  
the consolidated income statement with the exception of exchange 
differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form  
part of the group’s net investment in subsidiaries. These are taken 
directly to statement of changes in equity until the disposal of the  
net investment at which time they are recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. 
The statement of financial positions of overseas subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates are translated into US Dollars using the 
closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities are translated at  
the rates of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position 
date. The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and joint 
ventures are translated at average exchange rates for the year. 
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are 
taken directly to other reserves within statement of changes in equity.
On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences 
are recognised in the consolidated income statement as a component 
of the gain or loss on disposal. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment in value. Cost comprises the 
purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable 
to making that asset capable of operating as intended. The purchase 
price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the  
fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis other than on  
oil & gas assets at the following rates:
Oil & gas facilities 10% – 12.5% 
Plant and equipment 4% – 33% 
Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% – 33% 
   (or lease term if shorter) 
Office furniture and equipment  25% – 100% 
Vehicles 20% – 33%
Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, 
using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to  
proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated  
future development expenditure relating to those reserves. 
Each asset’s estimated useful life, residual value and method  
of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each 
financial year end.
No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction. 
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from the 
derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included 
in profit or loss when the item is derecognised. Gains are not classified 
as revenue.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for  
sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will  
be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use. 
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying 
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of 
time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those 
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their 
intended use. All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest 
payable in the consolidated income statement in the period in which 
they are incurred.
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at 
cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over 
the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition. Following initial 
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or 
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
such carrying value may be impaired. All transaction costs associated 
with business combinations post 1 January 2010 are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated 
to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination. Each unit or units to which goodwill  
is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which the 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not 
larger than an operating segment determined in accordance with 
IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of  
the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the 
carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill,  
an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and  
part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on  
disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance  
is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed  
of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
Deferred consideration payable on acquisition
When, as part of a business combination, the group defers a 
proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an 
acquisition, the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair  
value of the consideration. The unwinding of the discount element is 
recognised as a finance cost in the income statement. For business 
combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in estimated 
deferred consideration payable on acquisition is adjusted against  
the carried goodwill. For business combinations after 1 January 2010, 
106    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 changes in estimated deferred consideration payable on acquisition 
are recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are 
measurement period adjustments which are as a result of additional 
information obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and 
circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted 
against carried goodwill.
Intangible assets – non oil & gas assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially 
measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and 
are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is separable 
or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair value can  
be measured reliably. After initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses. Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised  
over their useful economic life using a straight line method unless  
a better method reflecting the pattern in which the asset’s future 
economic benefits are expected to be consumed can be determined. 
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets is included  
in the selling, general and administration expenses line of the 
consolidated income statement. The expected useful lives of assets 
are reviewed on an annual basis. Any change in the useful life or 
pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is treated as a change 
in accounting estimate and is accounted for prospectively by changing 
the amortisation period or method. Intangible assets are tested  
for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.
Oil & gas assets
Capitalised costs
The group’s activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to  
assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted  
for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
Evaluation expenditures
Expenditure directly associated with evaluation (or appraisal) activities 
is capitalised as an intangible asset. Such costs include the costs  
of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to 
contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable overheads 
incurred during the evaluation phase. For such appraisal activity,  
which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried 
as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered capable  
of commercial development. Such costs are subject to technical, 
commercial and management review to confirm the continued intent 
to develop, or otherwise extract value. When this is no longer the case, 
the costs are written-off in the income statement. When such assets 
are declared part of a commercial development, related costs are 
transferred to tangible oil & gas assets. All intangible oil & gas assets 
are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any impairment 
loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Development expenditures
Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the 
construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities  
such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised 
within property, plant and equipment.
Changes in unit-of-production factors
Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations  
are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior 
years’ amounts.
 
Decommissioning
Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when  
the group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an 
item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when  
a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made. The amount 
recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.  
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for 
decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life  
of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and 
probable reserves. Any change in the present value of the estimated 
expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the  
oil & gas asset. 
The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning 
provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair 
value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured 
at their fair value using quoted market rates or in the absence of 
market data other fair value calculation methodologies. Gains and 
losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the 
investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain  
or loss previously reported in equity is included in the consolidated 
income statement.
Impairment of assets (excluding goodwill)
At each statement of financial position date, the group reviews  
the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess 
whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.  
If any such indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable 
to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its 
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately  
in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is 
treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying  
amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined  
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.  
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried  
at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment  
is treated as a revaluation increase. 
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary  
course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the 
estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Cost comprises 
purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly 
allocable expenses. Costs of inventories, other than raw materials,  
are determined using the first-in-first-out method. Costs of raw 
materials are determined using the weighted average method.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and  
estimated earnings
Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction 
contracts are presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the ■ ■
estimated earnings recognised at the contract’s percentage of 
completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting 
the progress payments received or receivable from the customers, 
are shown in current assets in the statement of financial position 
under ‘Work in progress’
where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed ■ ■
the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated 
losses, the excess is shown as ‘Billings in excess of cost and 
estimated earnings’ within current liabilities
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice 
amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be 
uncollectable. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there  
is objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer 
probable under the terms of the original invoice. Impaired debts are 
derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand  
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months  
or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at  
the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly  
attributable to the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  
any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that  
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the 
time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a 
current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific 
to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement as a finance cost.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset)  
is derecognised where:
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; ■ ■
the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset,  ■ ■
but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material 
delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; or
the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the ■ ■
asset and either a) has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or b) has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing 
liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification  
is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying 
amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in  
the consolidated income statement.
Pensions and other long-term employment benefits
The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in 
accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries  
in which it operates. The amount charged to the consolidated income 
statement in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions 
payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable during 
the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued 
liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of financial position.
The group’s other long-term employment benefits are provided  
in accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the  
group operates, further details of which are given in note 27 .
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including directors) of the group receive remuneration  
in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby  
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights  
over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’). 
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured  
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.  
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the 
price of the shares of Petrofac Limited (‘market conditions’), if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award (the ‘vesting period’).  
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the group’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The income statement 
charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective  
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. Equity 
awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of 
cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that 
date is recognised in the income statement.
Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust
The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust was established on 7 March 
2007 to warehouse ordinary shares purchased to satisfy various new 
share scheme awards made to the employees of the Company, which 
will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their respective 
vesting dates subject to satisfying the performance conditions of each 
scheme. The trust has been presented as part of both the Company 
and group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12 ‘Special 
Purpose Entities’. The cost of shares temporarily held by Petrofac 
Employee Benefit Trust is reflected as treasury shares and deducted 
from equity.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
108    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is 
based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether 
the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific 
asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
The group has entered into various operating leases the payments  
for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic 
benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. The following specific recognition criteria also apply:
Engineering, procurement and construction services  
(Engineering & Construction)
Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on  
the percentage-of-completion method, based on surveys of work 
performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably. 
In the early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of  
a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are 
recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected  
to be recoverable. 
Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis  
of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by  
the cost-to-cost method.
Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period  
in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract 
schedule of rates.
Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion  
of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, 
whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is 
sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance 
standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive 
payments can be measured reliably. Claims and variation orders  
are only included in revenue when negotiations have reached an 
advanced stage such that it is probable the claim/variation orders  
will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
Facilities management, engineering and training services (Offshore 
Engineering & Operations, Engineering, Training Services and 
Production Solutions)
Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period  
in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract 
schedule of rates. 
Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the 
percentage-of-completion method, measured by milestones 
completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be 
estimated reliably. In the early stages of contract completion, when the 
outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues 
are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected 
to be recoverable.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is 
sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance 
standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive 
payments can be measured reliably. Claims are only included in 
revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that 
it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
Oil & gas activities (Energy Developments)
Oil & gas revenues comprise the group’s share of sales from the 
processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when  
the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to 
the buyer.
Pre-contract/bid costs
Pre-contract/bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until 
there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which 
all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed out over the 
life of the contract. 
Income taxes
Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and 
deferred tax. 
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, 
or paid to the taxation authorities. Taxable profit differs from profit  
as reported in the consolidated income statement because it  
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible  
in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable  
or deductible. The group’s liability for current tax is calculated using  
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
statement of financial position date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the 
statement of financial position date between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following 
exceptions:
where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition  ■ ■
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with ■ ■
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where  
the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled 
and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future; and
deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that  ■ ■
it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax 
losses can be utilised
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be 
available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be 
utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed  
at each statement of financial position date and are recognised to the 
extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an 
undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and 
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial 
position date.
Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to 
other comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are 
credited or charged to respectively, other comprehensive income  
or equity. Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 109    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments and hedging 
The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price  
collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with  
foreign currency, interest rate and oil price fluctuations. Such derivative 
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date  
on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the 
fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated 
income statement. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference 
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
profiles. The fair value of interest rate cap, swap and oil price collar 
contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the  ■ ■
fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or
cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ■ ■
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a ■ ■
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction
The group formally designates and documents the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the  
inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management objectives  
and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The 
documentation also includes identification of the hedging instrument, 
the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and 
how the group will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in 
offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or 
cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The group also documents 
its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis,  
of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions 
are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows  
of the hedged items.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the 
hedging relationship, as follows:
Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised directly in statement of changes  
in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income 
statement. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged transaction affects the consolidated 
income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction  
is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement. When  
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss that was reported in statement of changes in equity  
is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Embedded derivatives
Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives  
at the date that the group first becomes party to the contract, with 
reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly 
modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly 
and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are 
separated and accounted for as standalone derivatives.
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
110    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 3 Segment information 
For management purposes Petrofac is organised into seven main types of business unit activities which have been split into four reportable 
segments below. Whilst Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions are three fairly diverse businesses none have ever met the 
quantitative thresholds set by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ for determining reportable segments.
The four reportable segments shown below consist of:
Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore  ■ ■
oil & gas industry
Offshore Engineering & Operations which provides operations management services to the offshore oil & gas industry ■ ■
Energy Developments which co-invests with partners in oil & gas production, processing and transportation assets ■ ■
Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions activities consist of the provision of early stage engineering services such as ■ ■
conceptual FEED studies, oil & gas related technical competency training and consultancy services and production improvement services 
under value aligned commercial structures
Management separately monitors the trading results of its seven business units for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance 
and making decisions about how resources are allocated to them. Each business unit/segment performance is measured based on its 
profitability which is reflected in a manner consistent with the results shown below. However, certain shareholder services related overheads, 
group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments. 
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the group’s reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Year ended 31 December 2010
Engineering & 
Construction
US$’000
Offshore
Engineering &
Operations
US$’000
Engineering,
Training Services
& Production 
Solutions
US$’000
Energy
Developments
US$’000
Corporate
& others
US$’000
Consolidation
adjustments & 
eliminations
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Revenue
External sales 3,232,1 7 4 710,080 223,748 188,215 – – 4,354,217
Inter-segment sales 21,732 11 ,821 131,538 – – (165,091) –
Total revenue 3,253,906 721,901 355,286 188,215 – (165,091) 4,354,217
Segment results 438,867 24,506 26,590 66,290 (900) (3,362) 551,991
Gain on EnQuest demerger – – – 124,864 – – 124,864
Unallocated corporate costs – – – – (13,405) – (13,405)
Profit/(loss) before tax and finance  
income/(costs) 438,867 24,506 26,590 191 ,154 (14,305) (3,362) 663,450
Share of loss of associate – – – (131) – – (131)
Finance costs – (968) (696) (3,121) (3,659) 3,313 (5,131)
Finance income 9,74 1 209 525 348 2,699 (3,313) 10,209
Profit/(loss) before income tax 448,608 23,747 26,419 188,250 (15,265) (3,362) 668,397
Income tax (expense)/income (75,550) (6,519) 1 ,1 44 (31,895) 2,275 – (110,545)
Non-controlling interests (35) – – – – – (35)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to 
Petrofac Limited shareholders 373,023 17,228 27,563 156,355 (12,990) (3,362) 557,817
Other segment information
Capital expenditures:
Property, plant and equipment 62,088 2,785 6,857 4 1 , 112 4,575 (1 ,1 78) 116,239
Intangible oil & gas assets – – – 15,644 – – 15,644
Charges:
Depreciation 34,340 2,238 7,206 49,816 367 (575) 93,392
Amortisation 1,044 597 870 – – – 2,511
Other long-term employment benefits 10,435 613 1,581 54 87 – 12,770
Share-based payments 7,693 1 ,167 1,896 1 ,121 2,907 – 14,784
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 3 Segment information continued
Year ended 31 December 2009 (restated)
Restated 
Engineering &
Construction
US$’000
Offshore
Engineering &
Operations
US$’000
Engineering,
Training Services
& Production 
Solutions
US$’000
Energy
Developments
US$’000
Corporate
& others
US$’000
Consolidation
adjustments & 
eliminations
US$’000
Restated 
Total
US$’000
Revenue
External sales 2,508,951 616,542 281,225 248,708 – – 3,655,426
Inter-segment sales – 10,1 78 68,431 – – (78,609) –
Total revenue 2,508,951 626,720 349,656 248,708 – (78,609) 3,655,426
Segment results 312,374 1 7,830 34,483 77,395 (1,615) (326) 440, 141
Unallocated corporate costs – – – – (8,181) – (8,181)
Profit/(loss) before tax and finance  
income/(costs) 312,374 1 7,830 34,483 77,395 (9,796) (326) 431,960
Finance costs – (258) (1,582) (10,702) (5,705) 12,665 (5,582)
Finance income 14,087 94 313 64 10,049 (12,665) 11 ,942
Profit/(loss) before income tax 326,461 17,666 33,214 66,757 (5,452) (326) 438,320
Income tax (expense)/income (61,328) (4,853) (672) (20,566) 3,095 (191) (84,515)
Minority interests (14) – (188) – – – (202)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable  
to Petrofac Limited shareholders 265, 119 12,813 32,354 46,191 (2,357) (517) 353,603
Other segment information
Capital expenditures:
Property, plant and equipment 51,821 3,400 6,682 309,824 4,686 (1,014) 375,399
Intangible oil & gas assets – – – 29,230 – – 29,230
Charges:
Depreciation 24,525 1,887 7,482 78,677 251 (918) 111 ,904
Amortisation 415 – 668 – – – 1,083
Impairment – – – 4,793 – – 4,793
Other long-term employment benefits 7,779 833 1,736 52 38 – 10,438
Share-based payments 6,213 1,263 2,258 1,337 2,192 – 13,263
Geographical segments
The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and non-current assets by geographical segments for the 
years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Year ended 31 December 2010
Algeria
US$’000
United Arab
Emirates
US$’000
United
Kingdom 
US$’000
Kuwait
US$’000
Oman
US$’000
Syria
US$’000
Saudi
Arabia
US$’000
Other
countries
US$’000
Consolidated
US$’000
Revenues from  
external customers 1,037,966 798,328 753,842 360,624 350,313 277,196 235,936 540,012 4,354,217
United
Kingdom 
US$’000
United Arab
Emirates
US$’000
Tunisia
US$’000
Algeria
US$’000
Malaysia
US$’000
Indonesia
US$’000
Other
countries
US$’000
Consolidated
US$’000
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment 54,326 94,292 52,031 30,737 14,836 1,555 39,381 287, 1 58
Intangible oil & gas assets – – – – 69,532 – – 69,532
Other intangible assets 9,365 – – – – 6,940 – 16,305
Goodwill 90,093 15,240 – – – – 499 105,832
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
112    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Year ended 31 December 2009
United 
Kingdom
US$’000
United Arab
Emirates
US$’000
Syria 
US$’000
Algeria
US$’000
Oman
US$’000
Kuwait
US$’000
Kazakhstan
US$’000
Other
countries
US$’000
Consolidated
US$’000
Revenues from  
external customers 705,281 695, 118 530,269 492,378 380,601 203,577 184,305 463,897 3,655,426
United
Kingdom 
US$’000
Tunisia
US$’000
United Arab
Emirates
US$’000
Algeria
US$’000
Malaysia
US$’000
Other
countries
US$’000
Consolidated
US$’000
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment 447 ,591 57,078 74,093 55,229 25,279 18,726 677,996
Intangible oil & gas assets – – – – 53,888 – 53,888
Other intangible assets 11 ,654 – – – – 7,565 19,219
Goodwill 85,155 – 12,099 – – 668 97,922
Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located. Revenue from two customers amounted to S$1,422,410,000 
(2009: US$801,723,000) in the Engineering & Construction segment. 
4 Revenues and expenses
a. Revenue
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Rendering of services 4,202,371 3,446,037
Sale of crude oil & gas 146,075 202,770
Sale of processed hydrocarbons 5,771 6,619
4,354,217 3,655,426
Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions 
revenues of a ‘pass-through’ nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$227 ,974,000 (2009: US$230,262,000).
b. Cost of sales
Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2010 is US$154,000 (2009: US$908,000 gain) gain on disposal of property,  
plant and equipment used to undertake various engineering and construction contracts. In addition depreciation charged on property,  
plant and equipment of US$85,186,000 during 2010 (2009: US$104,997 ,000) is included in cost of sales (note 9).
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and loss on maturity  
of undesignated derivatives of US$3,409,000 (2009: US$19,508,000 gain). These amounts are an economic hedge but do not meet the criteria 
within IAS39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Staff costs 126,475 94,583
Depreciation 8,206 6,907
Amortisation (note 13) 2,511 1,083
Impairment – 4,793
Other operating expenses 84,257 78,927
221,449 186,293
Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
d. Staff costs 
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Total staff costs:
Wages and salaries 828,439 708,684
Social security costs 31,809 27,877
Defined contribution pension costs 12,621 11 , 155
Other long-term employee benefit costs (note 27) 12,770 10,438
Expense of share-based payments (note 24) 14,784 13,263
900,423 771,417
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 4 Revenues and expenses continued
Of the US$900,423,000 (2009: US$771,417 ,000) of staff costs shown above, US$773,948,000 (2009: US$676,834,000) are included in cost  
of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of persons employed by the group during the year was 12,807 (2009: 11,628).
e. Auditors’ remuneration 
The group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to  
the group:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Audit of the group financial statements 1,209 1,369
Other fees to auditors:
Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 812 546
Tax services 520 178
All other services 93 15
2,634 2,108
f. Other income
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Foreign exchange gains 720 2,342
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 8 –
Gain on sale of intangible assets 2,338 –
Other income 1,947 1,733
5,013 4,075
g. Other expenses
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Foreign exchange losses 3,452 2,675
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 477 124
Other expenses 124 199
4,053 2,998
5 Finance (costs)/income
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Interest payable:
Long-term borrowings (2,908) (3,1 71)
Other interest, including short-term loans and overdrafts (581) (310)
Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration and decommissioning provisions (1,642) (2,101)
Total finance cost (5,131) (5,582)
Interest receivable:
Bank interest receivable 9,945 11 ,487
Other interest receivable 264 455
Total finance income 10,209 11 ,942
6 Income tax
a. Tax on ordinary activities
The major components of income tax expense are as follows:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Current income tax
Current income tax charge 115,199 100,985
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (2,843) (31,448)
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 907 5,570
Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years (2,718) 9,408
Income tax expense reported in the income statement 110,545 84,515
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
114    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 b. Reconciliation of total tax charge
A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Company’s domestic tax rate is  
as follows:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Accounting profit before tax (including gain on EnQuest demerger) 668,397 438,320
At Jersey’s domestic income tax rate of 0% (2009: 0%) – –
Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 116,199 107,320
Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 1,073 14,706
Income not taxable – (396)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (5,561) (22,040)
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (568) (252)
Unrecognised tax losses 1,634 618
Other permanent differences (2,157) (15,441)
Effect of change in tax rates (75) –
At the effective income tax rate of 16.5% (2009: 19.3%) 110,545 84,515
The group’s effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2010, including the US$124,864,000 gain on the demerger of Energy Development’s 
UKCS business is 16.5% and excluding this gain, the effective tax rate is 20.3% (2009: 19.3%). 
On 5 April 2010, the group completed the demerger of its UKCS business to EnQuest PLC, an independent company which is listed on the 
London and Stockholm stock exchanges. No chargeable gain arose on the transaction for UK corporate tax purposes. This decreased the 
group’s effective tax rate for the period.
Excluding the gain from the demerger, there has been a small increase in the group’s effective tax rate. Factors contributing to this increase 
compared to 2009 include ring fence expenditure supplement no longer being available for claim following the demerger of Petrofac Energy 
Developments Limited, no additional adjustments being made in respect of the applicability of the lower tax rate to the group’s project in Oman, 
material changes in jurisdictions in which profits are expected to be earned by the Engineering & Construction reporting segment and due  
to recent acquisitions. There has also been an increase in reportable profit within taxable jurisdictions. In June 2010, the UK Government 
announced its intention to propose to Parliament to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 24% over the course of four years.  
From 1 April 2011 the UK corporate rate is 27% and will impact the reversal of the temporary difference from this date onwards, reducing  
the UK tax assets and liabilities. This UK tax rate change has been substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
c. Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax relates to the following:
Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position Consolidated Income Statement
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Deferred income tax liabilities
Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 1,412 2,599 (597) (139)
Accelerated depreciation 36,580 27,5 1 5 14,630 15,472
Other temporary differences 10,094 12,078 (4,336) (1,441)
Gross deferred income tax liabilities 48,086 42,192
Deferred income tax assets
Losses available for offset 2,259 18,413 (14,135) (11 , 130)
Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 2,404 7 ,596 327 9,409
Share scheme 15,721 18,636 (230) (1,142)
Other temporary differences 5,917 5,081 2,530 3,949
Gross deferred income tax assets 26,301 49,726
Deferred income tax (credit)/charge (1,811) 14,978
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 6 Income tax continued
d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit 
through future taxable profits is probable. The group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$18,366,000 (2009: US$15,452,000).
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Expiration dates for tax losses
No earlier than 2022 9,466 11 ,451
No expiration date 6,384 3,360
15,850 1 4,811
Tax credits (no expiration date) 2,516 641
18,366 15,452
7 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive 
effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under 
the employee share award schemes which are held in trust. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings  
per share excluding gain on EnQuest demerger 432,953 353,603
Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings  
per share including gain on EnQuest demerger 557,817 353,603
2010
Number
’000
2009
Number
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 338,867 337,473
Effect of diluted potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment schemes 4,493 5,187
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 343,360 342,660
8 Dividends paid and proposed
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2008: 17 .90 cents per share – 60,332
Interim dividend 2009: 10.70 cents per share – 36,197
Final dividend for 2009: 25.10 cents per share 85,291 –
Interim dividend 2010: 13.80 cents per share 46,757 –
132,048 96,529
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Proposed for approval at AGM 
(not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2010: 30.00 cents per share (2009: 25.10 cents per share) 103,715 86,729
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
116    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 9 Property, plant and equipment
Oil & gas
assets
US$’000
Oil & gas
facilities
US$’000
Land,
buildings
and
 leasehold
improvements
US$’000
Plant and
equipment
US$’000
Vehicles
US$’000
Office
furniture
and
equipment
US$’000
Assets
under 
construction
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost
At 1 January 2009 279,103 125,371 83,088 22,235 6,574 69,047 – 585,418
Additions 276,798 32,612 32,632 4,273 4,907 1 7,663 6,514 375,399
Disposals – – (1,474) (4,631) (789) (3,366) – (10,260)
Exchange difference – – 1,296 1 ,103 204 3,745 165 6,513
At 1 January 2010 555,901 1 57,983 115,542 22,980 10,896 87,089 6,679 957,070
Additions 32,252 7,602 44, 11 4 1,445 4,755 19,238 6,833 116,239
Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – 2,081 46 43 – 2,1 70
Disposals (470,447) – (1,847) (2,344) (854) (1 7,268) – (492,760)
Transfers – – 881 4 – (885) – –
Exchange difference – – (462) (712) (158) (809) (132) (2,273)
At 31 December 2010 117,706 165,585 158,228 23,454 14,685 87,408 13,380 580,446
Depreciation
At 1 January 2009 (16,187) (87,026) (7,983) (16,512) (4,235) (40,4 11) – (172,354)
Charge for the year (60,984) (15,254) (14,998) (3,571) (2,254) (14,843) – (111 ,904)
Disposals – – 1,330 4,516 740 3,150 – 9,736
Exchange difference – – (379) (1,051) (37) (3,085) – (4,552)
At 1 January 2010 (77, 1 71 ) (102,280) (22,030) (16,618) (5,786) (55,189) – (279,074)
Charge for the year (32,204) (15,993) (23,981) (2,734) (3,462) (15,018) – (93,392)
Disposals 59,592 – 1,400 538 769 16,072 – 78,371
Transfers – – (83) – – 83 – –
Exchange difference – – 71 327 28 381 – 807
At 31 December 2010 (49,783) (118,273) (44,623) (18,487) (8,451) (53,671) – (293,288)
Net carrying amount:
At 31 December 2010 67,923 47,312 113,605 4,967 6,234 33,737 13,380 287,158
At 31 December 2009 478,730 55,703 93,512 6,362 5, 110 31,900 6,679 677,996
No interest has been capitalised within oil & gas facilities during the year (2009: nil) and the accumulated capitalised interest, net of depreciation 
at 31 December 2010, was US$432,000 (2009: US$931,000). 
Additions to oil & gas assets in 2009 mainly comprise development expenses capitalised on the group’s interest in the Don area assets of 
US$274,114,000. During the year, the Don assets were demerged and as a result oil & gas assets with a net book value of US$410,855,000  
were disposed of (note 11).
Included in oil & gas assets are US$2,196,000 (2009: US$50,726,000) of capitalised decommissioning costs net of depreciation provided on  
the PM304 asset in Malaysia and the Chergui asset in Tunisia. The decrease in the 31 December 2010 oil & gas asset’s balance is due to the 
demerger of the Don area assets in the United Kingdom (note 11).
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$85,186,000 (2009: US$104,997 ,000) is included in cost of sales and 
US$8,206,000 (2009: US$6,907,000) in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction comprises of expenditures incurred in relation to the group ERP project.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 10 Business combinations
Scotvalve Services Limited
On 14 January 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Scotvalve Services Limited (Scotvalve), a United Kingdom  
based company, involved in the servicing and repair of oilfield pressure control equipment. The Scotvalve acquisition will enhance the group’s 
mechanical services offering and expand its geographical footprint. The consideration for the acquisition was Sterling 4,630,000 (equivalent 
US$7 ,512,000) comprising of Sterling 2,801,000 (equivalent US$4,545,000) as an initial cash payment, Sterling 150,000 (equivalent US$243,000) 
to be settled in cash during the year and the balance being the discounted value of deferred consideration amounting to Sterling 1,679,000 
(equivalent US$2,724,000) payable based on the estimated future profitability of Scotvalve. The range of deferred consideration payable is  
from zero to a maximum of Sterling 2,000,000 (equivalent US$3,122,000) over a three year period.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Scotvalve on completion of the acquisition are analysed below:
Recognised on 
acquisition
US$’000
Carrying
value
US$’000
Property, plant and equipment 1,891 1,978
Investments in associates (note 14) 777 777
Intangible assets (note 13) 1 ,107 –
Trade and other receivables 2,606 2,606
Cash and short-term deposits 410 410
Total assets 6,791 5,771
Less:
Deferred tax liability (325) (16)
Income tax liability (279) (279)
Trade and other payables (1,220) (1,220)
Total liabilities (1,824) (1,515)
Fair value of net assets acquired 4,967 4,256
Goodwill arising on acquisition 2,545
Consideration at acquisition 7,5 1 2
US$’000
Cash outflow on acquisition:
Cash acquired with subsidiary 410
Cash paid on acquisition (4,545)
Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary (4,135)
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise equipment manufacturer warranty repair licenses which are being amortised over their 
remaining economic useful lives of five years on a straight-line basis.
The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration  
of the business in to the group.
From the date of acquisition, Scotvalve has contributed revenues of US$6,903,000 and net income of US$1,020,000 to the net profit of the 
group. If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of Scotvalve would have been US$1,020,000 and 
revenue would have been US$6,903,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 102,000 (equivalent US$154,000) relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included 
within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The deferred consideration payable was re-assessed at year end in light of latest financial projections for the business and the current carried 
amount was reduced by Sterling 135,000 (equivalent US$208,000) with a corresponding increase in other income within the consolidated 
income statement. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
118    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited
On 1 April 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited (SGC), a United Kingdom 
based provider of software consultancy to flow metering control system manufacturers for a consideration of Sterling 4,523,000 (equivalent 
US$6,853,000) comprising of Sterling 3,178,000 (equivalent US$4,815,000) paid upfront in cash and the balance being the discounted value  
of deferred consideration amounting to Sterling 1,345,000 (equivalent US$2,038,000) payable based on the estimated future revenue of the 
company. This acquisition will enhance the group’s existing metering service offering and also its ability to provide turnkey metering solutions to 
both brownfield and greenfield international oil & gas projects. The range of deferred consideration payable is from Sterling 600,000 (equivalent 
US$937 ,000) to a maximum of Sterling 1,200,000 (equivalent US$1,873,000) based on future revenue of SGC over a two year period.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of SGC on completion of the acquisition are analysed below:
Recognised on 
acquisition
US$’000
Carrying
value
US$’000
Property, plant and equipment 61 61
Intangible assets (note 13) 2,065 –
Trade and other receivables 1,424 1,424
Cash and short-term deposits 1,920 1,920
Total assets 5,470 3,405
Less:
Deferred tax liability (579) –
Income tax liability (383) (383)
Trade and other payables (1 ,126) (1,254)
Total liabilities (2,088) (1,637)
Fair value of net assets acquired 3,382 1,768
Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,471
Consideration at acquisition 6,853
US$’000
Cash outflow on acquisition:
Cash acquired with subsidiary 1,920
Cash paid on acquisition (4,815)
Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary (2,895)
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition comprise of software related to metering technology which is being amortised over its remaining 
economic useful lives of five years on a straight-line basis.
The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of  
the business in to the group.
From the date of acquisition, SGC has contributed revenues of US$6,549,000 and net income of US$165,000 to the net profit of the group.  
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of SGC would have been US$205,000 and revenue would  
have been US$7 ,412,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 65,000 (equivalent US$99,000) relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included 
within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The deferred consideration payable was re-assessed at year end in light of latest financial projections for the business and the current carried 
amount was reduced by Sterling 188,000 (equivalent US$293,000) with a corresponding increase in other income within the consolidated 
income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 10 Business combinations continued
CO2DeepStore Limited
On 27 April 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of CO2DeepStore Limited (CO2DeepStore), a United Kingdom based 
company focused on the CO2 geological storage sector of the carbon capture and storage market for a cash consideration of Sterling 220,000 
(equivalent US$340,000). This acquisition represents the group’s first step into the strategically important emerging low carbon energy sector.
 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CO2DeepStore on completion of the acquisition are analysed below:
Recognised on 
acquisition
US$’000
Carrying
value
US$’000
Property, plant and equipment 3 3
Trade and other receivables 134 134
Cash and short-term deposits 263 263
Total assets 400 400
Less:
Income tax liability (31) (31)
Trade and other payables (29) (29)
Total liabilities (60) (60)
Fair value of net assets acquired 340 340
Goodwill arising on acquisition –
Consideration at acquisition 340
US$’000
Cash outflow on acquisition:
Cash acquired with subsidiary 263
Cash paid on acquisition (340)
Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary (77)
From the date of acquisition, CO2DeepStore has contributed revenues of US$88,000 and a net loss of US$823,000 to the net profit of the group. 
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of CO2DeepStore would have been US$573,000 and revenue 
would have been US$905,000.
The transaction costs of Sterling 17 ,000 (equivalent US$26,000) relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included 
within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, costs of up to Sterling 200,000 (equivalent US$312,000) will be payable to the former owners  
of CO2DeepStore three years from the date of completion based on the estimated future profitability of the company and will be recognised  
as an expense in the income statement over this period. The charge for the current year is Sterling 44,000 (equivalent US$68,000).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
120    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 TNEI Services Limited
On 14 June 2010, the group acquired a 100% interest in the share capital of TNEI Services Limited (TNEI) through the acquisition of its holding 
company New Energy Industries Limited for a cash consideration of Sterling 6,123,000 (equivalent US$8,913,000). TNEI provides services in  
the areas of power transmission and distribution, planning and environmental consent and energy management. The acquisition of TNEI further 
broadens the group’s technical consulting services offering in the rapidly developing power and renewable energy markets.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of TNEI on completion of the acquisition are analysed below:
Recognised on 
acquisition
US$’000
Carrying
value
US$’000
Property, plant and equipment 215 215
Acquired goodwill 881 881
Trade and other receivables 1,779 1,779
Cash and short-term deposits 910 910
Total assets 3,785 3,785
Less:
Trade and other payables (1 ,198) (1 ,198)
Total liabilities (1 ,198) (1 ,198)
Fair value of net assets acquired 2,587 2,587
Goodwill arising on acquisition 6,326
Consideration at acquisition 8,913
US$’000
Cash outflow on acquisition:
Cash acquired with subsidiary 910
Cash paid on acquisition (8,913)
Net cash outflow on the acquisition of subsidiary (8,003)
The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the 
business into the group.
From the date of acquisition, TNEI has contributed revenue of US$3,898,000 and a net loss of US$5,000 to the group. If the above combination 
had taken place at the beginning of the year, net profit of TNEI would have been US$301,000 and revenue would have been US$6,296,000. 
The transaction costs of Sterling 38,000 (equivalent US$58,000) relating to the acquisition have been expensed in the year and are included 
within selling, general and administration and are included as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Sterling 1,538,000 (equivalent US$2,370,000) will be payable 50% in Petrofac shares and 50%  
in cash to the former owners of TNEI who remain as employees of the Petrofac group in three equal tranches over three years from the date  
of completion which will be recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the three years. The charge for the 
current year is Sterling 278,000 (equivalent US$428,000).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 11 Gain on EnQuest demerger
On 5 April 2010, the group’s interests in the Don area oil assets were demerged via a transfer of three of its subsidiaries, Petrofac Energy 
Developments Limited (PEDL), Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited (PEDOL) and PEDL Limited (PEDLL) to EnQuest PLC for  
a deemed consideration for accounting purposes of US$553,300,000 which was settled by the issue of EnQuest PLC shares directly to  
Petrofac Limited shareholders*. The gain on the demerger transaction has been computed as follows:
US$’000
Fair value of consideration 553,300
Less: 
Property, plant and equipment (410,855)
Deferred tax asset (27 ,394)
Inventories (5,578)
Trade and other receivables (107,039)
Cash and bank (16,1 47)
Total book value of assets transferred (567,013)
Provision for decommissioning 55,967
Trade and other payables 130,348
Translation reserve (3,308)
Total book value of liabilities transferred 183,007
Net assets transferred (384,006)
Transaction costs (1,636)
Release of foreign currency translation reserve (45,818)
Allocated goodwill written off (note 12) (1 ,1 46)
Other consolidation adjustments 4,1 70
Gain on demerger 124,864
* In order to effect the demerger of the PEDL sub group to EnQuest, the existing issued ordinary share capital of Petrofac Limited was subdivided and converted into new ordinary
  Petrofac shares with a nominal value of US$0.02 each and Petrofac B shares of US$0.005 each and subsequent to this share split the B shares were purchased and cancelled in 
exchange for an allotment and issue of EnQuest ordinary shares directly to holders of Petrofac B shares.
As a result of this capital re-organisation and purchase of Petrofac B shares US$1,728,000 of Petrofac issued ordinary share capital was 
extinguished and transferred to retained earnings and the non-cash distribution to Petrofac shareholders for accounting purposes of 
US$553,300,000 was made via the utilisation of the existing share premium account balance of US$71,172,000 with the remaining amount of 
US$482,128,000 being transferred out of retained earnings. In addition US$8,803,000 of proceeds generated by the Petrofac Employee Benefit 
Trust selling its holding of EnQuest shares arising from the demerger have been credited to retained earnings leaving a net impact on retained 
earnings of US$473,325,000.
12 Goodwill
A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
At 1 January 97,922 97,534
Acquisitions during the year (note 10) 13,223 –
Reassessment of deferred consideration payable (1,313) (8,992)
Write off on EnQuest demerger (note 11) (1,146) –
Exchange difference (2,854) 9,380
At 31 December 105,832 97,922
Reassessment of deferred consideration payable mainly comprises of the reduction in deferred consideration payable on Caltec Limited of 
US$4,285,000 (2009: US$2,929,000 decrease) and an increase in deferred consideration payable on SPD Group Limited of US$3,141,000 
(2009: US$4,351,000 decrease). 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to five groups of cash-generating units, which are operating segments,  
for impairment testing as follows:
Offshore Engineering & Operations ■ ■
Engineering Services ■ ■
Production Solutions ■ ■
Training Services ■ ■
Energy Developments ■ ■
These represent the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
122    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training cash-generating units
The recoverable amounts for the Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training units have been 
determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections. Management has adopted a ten-year projection 
period to assess each unit’s value in use as it is confident based on past experience of the accuracy of long-term cash flow forecasts that  
these projections are reliable. The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year 
period, extrapolated for a further five years at a growth rate of 5% for Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services and Training 
cash-generating units and 2.5% per annum for Production Solutions cash-generating unit since it includes newly acquired businesses where 
there is less historic track record of achieving financial projections. 
Energy Developments cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of the Energy Developments unit is also determined on a value in use calculation using discounted pre-tax cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets and economic assumptions for the unit approved by senior management and covering a five-year period, 
as referred to in IAS 36.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Offshore Engineering & Operations unit 27,992 22,975
Engineering Services 7,728 –
Production Solutions unit 49,739 52,496
Training Services unit 19,302 20,234
Energy Developments unit 1,071 2,217
105,832 97,922
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The calculation of value in use for the Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering Services, Production Solutions and Training Services  
units is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
Market share: the assumption relating to market share for the Offshore Engineering & Operations unit is based on the unit re-securing those 
existing customer contracts in the UK which are due to expire during the projection period; for the Training Services unit, the key assumptions 
relate to management’s assessment of maintaining the unit’s market share in the UK and developing further the business in international 
markets.
Growth rate: estimates are based on management’s assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth 
rates experienced in the recent past by each unit. A growth rate of 5% per annum has been applied for Offshore Engineering & Operations, 
Engineering Services and Training Services cash-generating units for the remaining five years of the ten-year projection period and 2.5% per 
annum for Production Solutions cash-generating unit since it includes newly acquired businesses where there is less historic track record of 
achieving financial projections.
Net profit margins: estimates are based on management’s assumption of achieving a level of performance at least in line with the recent past 
performance of each of the units.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 14.6% per annum for each of Offshore Engineering & Operations (2009: 14.5%), 
Engineering Services (2009: n/a) Production Solutions (2009: 14.5%) and Training (2009: 14.5%) cash-generating units which are derived from 
the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the group. This discount rate has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return 
adjusted for the group’s estimated equity market risk premium and the group’s cost of debt. 
The calculation of value in use for the Energy Developments unit is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
Discount rate: management has used an estimate of the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of the group plus a risk premium to reflect  
the particular risk characteristics of each individual asset. The discount rate used for 2010 was 13.4% for each asset (2009: 10.5%).
Oil & gas prices: management has used an oil price assumption of US$75.00 (2009: US$70.00) per barrel and a gas price of US$8.73 (2009: 
US$8.30) per mcf for the impairment testing of its individual oil & gas investments.
Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production as  
a basis of calculating value in use.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Other than the assumed success of the Ticleni contract in Production Solutions with regard to the assessment of value in use of the cash 
generating units, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying  
value of the relevant unit to exceed its recoverable amount, after giving due consideration to the macro-economic outlook for the oil & gas 
industry and the commercial arrangements with customers underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each of the units.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 13 Intangible assets
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Intangible oil & gas assets
Cost:
At 1 January 53,888 43,137
Additions 15,644 29,230
Disposal – (18,479)
At 31 December 69,532 53,888
Accumulated impairment:
At 1 January – (13,686)
Impairment – (4,793)
Disposal – 18,479
At 31 December – –
Net book value of intangible oil & gas assets at 31 December 69,532 53,888
Other intangible assets
Cost:
At 1 January 25,476 13,892
Additions on acquisition (note 10) 3,172 –
Additions 153 10,375
Disposal (4,220) –
Exchange difference (43) 1,209
At 31 December 24,538 25,476
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 January (6,257) (4,990)
Amortisation (2,511) (1,083)
Disposal 540 –
Exchange difference (5) (184)
At 31 December (8,233) (6,257)
Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 16,305 19,219
Total intangible assets 85,837 73,107
Intangible oil & gas assets
Oil & gas asset (part of the Energy Development segment) additions above comprise of US$15,644,000 (2009: US$29,230,000) of capitalised 
expenditure on the group’s assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil & gas assets of US$15,644,000 (2009: US$29,230,000) in the current 
period arising from pre-development activities. 
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprising customer contracts, proprietary software, LNG intellectual property and patent technology are being 
amortised over their remaining estimated economic useful life of three, six, eight and ten years respectively on a straight-line basis and the 
related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administrative expenses (note 4c). During the year, proprietary software was 
disposed of with a resulting gain disclosed in other income (note 4f).
14 Investment in associates
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Investment in Gateway Storage Company Limited 15,795 –
Associates acquired through acquisition of Scotvalve (note 10) 777 –
Share of associate loss (131) –
Exchange difference (92) –
16,349 –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
124    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Gateway Storage Company Limited
On 6 December 2010, the group acquired a 20% equity interest in Gateway Storage Company Limited (Gateway), an unlisted entity, to progress 
and develop the Gateway Gas Storage project in the East Irish Sea. The initial cost of the investment was Sterling 5,000,000 (equivalent 
US$7,795,000) together with, transaction costs of US$664,000 and contracted value of free services to be provided by the group of Sterling 
500,000 (equivalent US$780,000). Additional contingent payments may become payable under the terms of the investment, subject to key 
project development milestones being achieved, including the outcome of further successful equity sales. Deferred consideration of Sterling 
4,160,000 (equivalent US$6,556,000) has been estimated as payable using a discounted storage project cash flow model assuming certain 
project scenarios to which estimated probabilities were assigned by management. The deferred consideration in no event will exceed an 
additional amount of Sterling 28,000,000 (equivalent US$43,705,000). The share of the associate’s statement of financial position is as follows:
2010 
US$’000
Non-current assets 123
Current assets 3,050
Current liabilities (795)
Equity 2,378
Transaction costs incurred 664
Fair value of free services to be provided 780
Deferred consideration payable 6,556
Exchange on deferred consideration payable (63)
Residual goodwill 5,417
Share of loss (131)
Carrying value of investment 15,601
Share of associates revenues and net loss:
Revenue –
Net loss (131)
15 Interest in joint ventures 
In the normal course of business, the group establishes jointly controlled entities for the execution of certain of its operations and contracts.  
A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 35. The group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to jointly controlled 
entities is as follows:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Revenue 194,848 31,573
Cost of sales (171,233) (28,293)
Gross profit 23,615 3,280
Selling, general and administration expenses (14,286) (16,374)
Other (expense)/income, net (6,553) 47
Finance income, net 643 5
Profit/(loss) before income tax 3,419 (13,042)
Income tax (263) (268)
Net profit/(loss) 3,156 (13,310)
Current assets 94,935 61,677
Non-current assets 27,634 4,830
Total assets 122,569 66,507
Current liabilities 120,892 64,619
Non-current liabilities 1,658 3,686
Total liabilities 122,550 68,305
Net assets/(liabilities) 19 (1,798)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 16 Available-for-sale financial assets
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Seven Energy International Limited 101,251 –
Shares – listed 243 –
Units in a mutual fund – 539
101,494 539
On 25 November 2010, the group paid US$101,251,000 for 15% (12.6% on a fully diluted basis) of the share capital of Seven Energy International 
Limited (Seven Energy), a leading Nigerian gas development and production company. The group also has the option to subscribe for 148,571  
`of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52,000,000, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance conditions and 
milestones in relation to project execution. These warrants have been fair valued as derivative financial instruments under IAS 39 using a Black 
Scholes Model and are included in other financial assets (note 17) with a corresponding entry in trade and other payables representing deferred 
revenue relating to the performance conditions. This will be recognised as a gain once the warrants become exercisable.
17 Other financial assets
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Other financial assets – non-current
Fair value of derivative instruments (note 33) 12 9,655
Restricted cash 266 2,880
Other 1,945 –
2,223 12,535
Other financial assets – current
Seven Energy warrants (note 16) 11,969 –
Fair value of derivative instruments (note 33) 9,183 22,306
Interest receivable 731 845
Restricted cash 19,196 7,431
Other 1,271 375
42,350 30,957
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the group’s 
trading activities (note 31). This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
18 Inventories
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Crude oil 2,119 5,272
Processed hydrocarbons 90 31
Stores and spares 4,083 2,943
Raw materials 910 1,552
7,202 9,798
Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$28,840,000 (2009: US$37 ,306,000).
19 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Cost and estimated earnings 7,812,897 3,918,368
Less: billings (7,008,911) (3,584,670)
Work in progress 803,986 333,698
Billings 2,144,252 3,406,412
Less: cost and estimated earnings (1,965,823) (2,945,268)
Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 178,429 461 ,1 44
Total cost and estimated earnings 9,778,720 6,863,636
Total billings 9,153,163 6,991,082
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
126    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 20 Trade and other receivables
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Trade receivables 785,383 614,837
Retentions receivable 26,297 8,772
Advances 179,101 139,550
Prepayments and deposits 34,059 35,1 43
Other receivables 31,919 80,368
1,056,759 878,670
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days’ terms. Trade receivables are reported net of provision for 
impairment. The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables totalling US$785,383,000 (2009: US$614,837 ,000)  
are as follows:
2010 2009 
Specific
impairment
US$’000
General
impairment
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Specific
impairment
US$’000
General
impairment
US$’000
Total
US$’000
At 1 January 4,875 1,754 6,629 3,698 1,296 4,994
Charge for the year 2,189 1,796 3,985 6,309 1,320 7,629
Amounts written off (2,197) (67) (2,264) (343) (198) (541)
Unused amounts reversed (1,738) (893) (2,631) (4,798) (661) (5,459)
Transfers (326) 326 – – – –
Exchange difference (13) 19 6 9 (3) 6
At 31 December 2,790 2,935 5,725 4,875 1,754 6,629
At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Number of days past due
Neither past 
due nor
impaired 
US$’000
< 30
days
US$’000
31-60
days
US$’000
61-90
days
US$’000
91-120
days
US$’000
121-360
days
US$’000
> 360
days
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Unimpaired 599,661 125,821 34,562 10,897 7,324 834 164 779,263
Impaired – 3,230 1,085 157 1,633 4,023 1,717 11 ,845
599,661 129,051 35,647 11 ,054 8,957 4,857 1,881 791 ,108
Less: impairment provision – (1 ,211) (391) (244) (774) (2,295) (810) (5,725)
Net trade receivables 2010 599,661 127,840 35,256 10,810 8,183 2,562 1,071 785,383
Unimpaired 434,159 116, 197 28,835 13,365 3,431 5,977 2,138 604,102
Impaired – 3,1 77 2,1 48 386 2,510 6,220 2,923 1 7,364
434,159 119,37 4 30,983 13,751 5,941 12,197 5,061 621,466
Less: impairment provision – (585) (243) (332) (305) (3,421) (1,743) (6,629)
Net trade receivables 2009 434,159 118,789 30,740 13,419 5,636 8,776 3,318 614,837
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to externally prepared 
customer credit reports and the historic payment track records of the counterparties.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the group’s sub-contractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been 
performed at the statement of financial position date. The increase in advances during 2010 relates to new contract awards in the Engineering & 
Construction business partly offset by the unwinding of advances on more mature contracts.
Included in other receivables are US$ nil (2009: US$46,697 ,000) recoverable from venture partners on the Don assets being their share of 
accrued expenses. 
 All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, and will be largely  
paid in Sterling and Kuwaiti Dinars.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 21 Cash and short-term deposits
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Cash at bank and in hand 244,018 203,105
Short-term deposits 818,987 1,214,258
Total cash and bank balances 1,063,005 1 ,4 1 7,363
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements  
of the group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$1,063,005,000 (2009: 
US$1,417,363,000).
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Cash at bank and in hand 244,018 203,105
Short-term deposits 818,987 1,214,258
Bank overdrafts (note 26) (28,908) (26,619)
1,034,097 1,390,744
22 Share capital
The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Authorised
750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each (2009: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each) 15,000 18,750
Issued and fully paid
**345,715,053 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each (2009: 345,532,388 ordinary shares of US$0.025 each) 6,914 8,638
The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows:
Number
Ordinary shares:
Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2009 345,434,858
Issued during the year as further deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 97,530
Ordinary shares of US$0.025 each at 1 January 2010 345,532,388
Issued during the year as further deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 182,665
Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2010 345,715,053
The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares. The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
**In order to effect the demerger of the PEDL sub group to EnQuest, the existing issued ordinary share capital of Petrofac Limited was subdivided and converted into new ordinary 
Petrofac shares with a nominal value of US$0.02 each and Petrofac B shares of US$0.005 each and subsequent to this share split the B shares were purchased and cancelled in 
exchange for an allotment and issue of EnQuest ordinary shares directly to holders of Petrofac B shares.
23 Treasury shares
For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the  
Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust. All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below:
2010 2009
Number US$’000 Number US$’000
At 1 January 7,210,965 56,285 9,540,306 69,333
Acquired during the year 2,122,960 36,486 – –
Vested during the year (2,576,586) (27,454) (2,329,341) (13,048)
At 31 December 6,757,339 65,317 7,210,965 56,285
During the year 5,467,852 Petrofac shares previously held in a Lehman Brothers custody account pending the finalisation of their legal 
administration were released to the Employee Benefit Trust.
Shares vested during the year include dividend shares of 120,504 (2009: 76,931) with a cost of US$1,284,000 (2009: US$431,000).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
128    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 24 Share-based payment plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Under the Performance Share Plan of the Company, share awards are granted to executive directors and a restricted number of other senior 
executives of the group. The shares cliff vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain 
pre-defined non-market and market-based performance conditions. The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of 50% of the  
total award, is subject to achieving between 10% and 20% earning per share (EPS) growth targets over a three-year period. The fair values of  
the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated based on the quoted closing market price per Company share  
at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation (subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual 
leaver rate during the period from award date to year end) over the three-year vesting period of the plan. The fair value and assumed vesting  
rates of the EPS part of the scheme are shown below: 
Fair value
 per share
Assumed 
vesting rate
2010 awards 1,103p 95.0%
2009 awards 545p 93.6%
2008 awards 522p 89.1 %
2007 awards 415p 94.3%
The remaining 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return (TSR) of the group compared 
to an index composed of selected relevant companies. The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an 
independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following 
assumptions at the date of grant:
2010 awards 2009 awards 2008 awards 2007 awards
Expected share price volatility (based on median of  
comparator group’s three-year volatilities) 50.0% 49.0% 32.0% 29.0%
Share price correlation with comparator group 39.0% 36.0% 22.0% 1 7.0%
Risk-free interest rate 1.50% 2.10% 3.79% 5.20%
Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Fair value of TSR portion 743p 456p 287p 245p
The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the PSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable:
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 1,432,680 1,298,809
Granted during the year 390,278 576,780
Vested during the year (407,316) (4 18,153)
Forfeited during the year (65,453) (24,756)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,350,189 1,432,680
The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger (82,594 shares) and any rolled up 
declared dividends (64,264 shares) (2009: 60,830). The 8% uplift adjustment compensated the existing share plan holders for the loss in market 
value of Petrofac shares on flotation of EnQuest and employees have no legal right to receive dividend shares until the shares ultimately vest.
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 390,278 in respect of 2010 awards (2009: nil), 
538,602 in respect of 2009 awards (2009: 576,780), 421,309 in respect of 2008 awards (2009: 431,843), and nil in respect of 2007 awards 
(2009: 424,057).
The charge recognised in the current year amounted to US$3,208,000 (2009: US$2,727 ,000).
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP)
Executive directors and selected employees were originally eligible to participate in this scheme although the Remuneration Committee  
decided in 2007 that executive directors should no longer continue to participate. Participants are required, or in some cases invited, to receive  
a proportion of any bonus in ordinary shares of the Company (‘Invested Awards’). Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the 
participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares (‘Matching Shares’). 
A change in the rules of the DBSP scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 11 May 2007 such 
that the 2007 share awards and for any awards made thereafter, the invested and Matching Shares would, unless the Remuneration Committee 
of the Board of Directors determined otherwise, vest 33.33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33.33% on the second 
anniversary of the date of grant and the final 33.34% of the award on the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 24 Share-based payment plans continued
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP) continued
At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until all employees have confirmed the voluntary portion of 
their bonus they wish to be settled by shares rather than cash and until the Remuneration Committee has approved the mandatory portion of  
the employee bonuses to be settled in shares. Once the voluntary and mandatory portions of the bonus to be settled in shares are determined, 
the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments. The costs relating to the Matching Shares 
are recognised over the relevant vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the 
quoted closing market price at the date of grant adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan. The details of the fair values and 
assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are below:
Fair value
 per share
Assumed 
vesting rate
2010 awards 1,185p 94.4%
2009 awards 545p 93.9%
2008 awards 522p 90.9%
2007 awards 415p 89.6%
The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the DBSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable:
2010 
Number*
2009 
Number*
Outstanding at 1 January 4,694,191 3,755,383
Granted during the year 1,397,094 2,773,020
Vested during the year (1,792,895) (1,743,372)
Forfeited during the year (216,079) (90,840)
Outstanding at 31 December 4,082,311 4,694,191
*Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger (327 ,058 shares) and rolled up 
declared dividends of 184,599 (2009: 169,836).
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 1,313,894 in respect of 2010 awards (2009: nil), 
1,948,340 in respect of 2009 awards (2009: 2,696,752), 820,077 in respect of 2008 awards (2009: 1,237 ,786), and nil in respect of 2007 awards 
(2009: 759,653).
The charge recognised in the 2010 income statement in relation to matching share awards amounted to US$9,195,000 (2009: US$8,064,000).
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
All UK employees, including UK resident directors, are eligible to participate in the scheme. Employees may invest up to Sterling 1,500 per tax 
year of gross salary (or, if lower, 10% of salary) to purchase ordinary shares in the Company. There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, selected employees are granted shares in the Company over a discretionary vesting period which may 
or may not be, at the direction of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. 
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future. The 
fair values of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant 
adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period. For details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme, 
see below:
Weighted
average fair 
value per share
Assumed 
vesting rate
2010 awards 990p 95.8%
2009 awards 430p 69.4%
2008 awards 478p 88.0%
2007 awards 456p 94.3%
The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the RSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable:
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 1,082,461 1 , 184,711
Granted during the year 203,384 86,432
Vested during the year (176,360) (167,053)
Forfeited during the year (105,773) (21,629)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,003,712 1,082,461
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
130    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 The number of outstanding shares exclude the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger (78,156 shares) and rolled up 
declared dividends of 48,474 (2009: 33,691).
The number of awards still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 is made up of 195,580 in respect of 2010 awards (2009: nil), 
36,658 in respect of 2009 awards (2009: 86,432), 665,542 in respect of 2008 awards (2009: 786,826), and 105,932 in respect of 2007 awards 
(2009: 209,203).
During the year the Company recognised a charge of US$2,381,000 (2009: US$2,472,000) in relation to the above.
The group has recognised a total charge of US$14,784,000 (2009: US$13,263,000) in the consolidated income statement during the year 
relating to the above employee share-based schemes (see note 4d) which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along 
with US$12,750,000 of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2009 which has been settled in shares granted during the 
year (2009: US$10,942,000).
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 88 to 90 of the directors’ remuneration report.
25 Other reserves
Net unrealised 
gains/(losses) 
on available-for-
sale-financial
assets
US$’000
Net unrealised
(losses)/
gains on
derivatives
US$’000
Foreign
currency
translation
US$’000
Reserve for
share-based 
payments
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 74 7,847 (79,415) 32,202 (39,292)
Foreign currency translation – – 15,087 – 15,087
Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year – (4,303) – – (4,303)
Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets 
designated as cash flow hedges – 29,229 – – 29,229
Share-based payments charge (note 24) – – – 13,263 13,263
Transfer during the year (note 24) – – – 10,942 10,942
Shares vested during the year (note 24) – – – (12,617) (12,617)
Deferred tax on share based payments reserve – – – 13,085 13,085
Balance at 1 January 2010 74 32,773 (64,328) 56,875 25,394
Foreign currency translation – – (908) – (908)
Foreign currency translation recycled to consolidated income 
statement in the year on EnQuest demerger (note 11) – – 45,818 – 45,818
Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year – (16,612) – – (16,612)
Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets 
designated as cash flow hedges – (18,958) – – (18,958)
Net changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 70 – – – 70
Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (74) – – – (74)
Share-based payments charge (note 24) – – – 14,784 14,784
Transfer during the year (note 24) – – – 12,750 12,750
Shares vested during the year (note 24) – – – (26,1 70) (26,1 70)
Deferred tax on share based payments reserve – – – (1,366) (1,366)
Balance at 31 December 2010 70 (2,797) (19,418) 56,873 34,728
Nature and purpose of other reserves
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale financial assets
This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale financial assets held by the group net of deferred tax effects. Realised gains and 
losses on the sale of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised as other income or expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on derivatives
The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges are included within this reserve  
net of related deferred tax effects. When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out  
of equity to the consolidated income statement. Realised net gains amounting to US$16,764,000 (2009: US$5,161,000) relating to foreign 
currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales, realised net losses  
of US$ nil (2009: US$1,470,000 loss) relating to interest rate derivatives have been classified as a net interest expense and a realised net loss  
of US$152,000 (2009: US$611,000 gain) was added to revenues in respect of oil derivatives.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 25 Other reserves continued
Net unrealised gain/(losses) on derivatives continued
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains 
on the maturity of un-designated derivatives amounting to a net loss of US$3,409,000 (2009: US$19,508,000 gain) have been recognised in the 
cost of sales. 
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign 
subsidiaries. It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the group’s net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments
The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers 
out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year 
ended 2009 of US$12,750,000 (2008 bonus of US$10,942,000) which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares 
during the year (note 24). 
26 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding:
31 December 2010
Actual interest rate %
31 December 2009
Actual interest rate %
Effective
interest rate % Maturity
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Current
Revolving credit facility (i) n/a US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
– 20,000
Bank overdrafts (ii) UK LIBOR 
+ 1.50%, 
US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
UK LIBOR 
+ 1.50%, 
US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
UK LIBOR 
+ 1.50%,
 US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
on demand 28,908 26,619
Other loans:
Current portion of term loan (iii) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
3.26% to 4.14% 
(2009: 3.14% 
to 3.71%)
14,241 10,489
Current portion of term loan (iv) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
2.01% to 3.91% 
(2009: 2.65% 
to 3.44%)
4,286 963
47,435 58,071
Non-current
Term loan (iv) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
2.01% to 3.91% 
(2009: 2.65% 
to 3.44%)
2010-2013 13,809 18,291
Term loan (iii) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
3.26% to 4.14% 
(2009: 3.14% 
to 3.71%)
2010-2013 30,576 46,694
44,385 64,985
Less:
Debt acquisition costs net of 
accumulated amortisation and 
effective rate adjustments
(4,159) (5,790)
40,226 59,195
Details of the group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
(i) Revolving credit facility
This facility has been repaid on 31 December 2010.
(ii) Bank overdrafts
Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US Dollars and Sterling denominations to meet the group’s working capital requirements. These are repayable 
on demand.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
132    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 (iii) Term loan
This term loan at 31 December 2010 comprised drawings of US$23,057 ,000 (2009: US$28,877 ,000) denominated in US$ and US$21,760,000 
(2009: US$28,306,000) denominated in Sterling. Both elements of the loan are repayable over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013.
(iv) Term loan
This term loan is to be repaid over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013. The drawings at 31 December 2010 comprised 
US$13,203,000 (2009: US$13,900,000) denominated in US$ and US$4,892,000 (2009: US$5,354,000) denominated in Sterling. 
The group’s credit facilities and debt agreements contain covenants relating to interest and net borrowings cover. None of the Company’s 
subsidiaries is subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company. 
27 Provisions
Other long-term
employment 
benefits provision
US$’000
Provision 
for 
decommissioning
US$’000
Provision for 
insurance 
claims
US$’000
Total
US$’000
At 1 January 2010 34,130 57,973 – 92,103
Additions during the year 12,770 984 1,561 15,315
Don assets demerger (note 11) – (55,967) – (55,967)
Unused amounts reversed/paid in the year (6,696) (90) – (6,786)
Unwinding of discount – 776 – 776
At 31 December 2010 40,204 3,676 1,561 45,441
Other long-term employment benefits provision
Labour laws in certain countries in which the group operates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits. These 
benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment.
Provision for decommissioning
The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the group’s obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the site at the PM304 field 
in Malaysia and at Chergui in Tunisia. The liability is discounted at the rate of 3.80% on PM304 (2009: 3.80%), 5.25% on Chergui (2009: 5.25%) 
and nil% (2009: 4.50%) on demerged Don assets. The unwinding of the discount is classified as finance cost (note 5). The group estimates that 
the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2014 on PM304 and in 2018 on Chergui. 
Provision for insurance claims
The provision for insurance claims relates to the amount set aside to cover potential future insurance claims against the group which will be 
settled by the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
28 Other financial liabilities
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Other financial liabilities – non-current
Deferred consideration payable 11,279 27,438
Fair value of derivative instruments (note 33) 174 –
Other – 47
11,453 27,485
Other financial liabilities – current
Deferred consideration payable 24,595 1,622
Interest payable 9 22
Fair value of derivative instruments (note 33) 12,197 1,813
Other 253 177
37,054 3,634
Included in deferred consideration payable above is an amount payable of US$3,918,000 (2009: US$4,890,000) relating to the group’s purchase 
of a floating platform and US$6,556,000 (2009: US$ nil) relating to the group’s investment in an associate (note 14).
29 Trade and other payables
2010 
US$’000
Restated 
2009 
US$’000
Trade payables 278,383 292,414
Advances received from customers 412,044 379,684
Accrued expenses 251,512 260,290
Other taxes payable 12,755 14,699
Other payables 66,742 29,930
1,021,436 977,01 7
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 29 Trade and other payables continued
Advances from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement  
of financial position date.
Included in other payables are retentions held against subcontractors of US$6,170,000 (2009: US$938,000). Also included in other payables 
above is U$11,969,000 deferred revenue relating to the provision of services required to earn the right to subscribe for the additional Seven 
Energy warrants (note 16).
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the group, mainly in Sterling, Euros and  
Kuwaiti Dinars.
30 Accrued contract expenses
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Accrued contract expenses 1,272,942 832,503
Reserve for contract losses 2,523 4,153
1,275,465 836,656
The reserve for contract losses is to cover costs in excess of revenues on certain contracts.
31 Commitments and contingencies
Commitments
In the normal course of business the group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure 
performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld. Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees  
by the Company in favour of the issuing banks. 
At 31 December 2010, the group had letters of credit of US$2,984,000 (2009: US$91,042,000) and outstanding letters of guarantee, including 
performance, advance payments and bid bonds, of US$2,951,553,000 (2009: US$2,124,134,000) against which the group had pledged or 
restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$19,462,000 (2009: US$2,675,000). 
At 31 December 2010, the group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$188,561,000 (2009: US$351,803,000).  
These commitments consist of future obligations to either acquire or sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value  
dates (note 33). 
Leases
The group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment. These non-cancellable 
leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation  
at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements. The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are  
as follows:
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Within one year 18,031 35,796
After one year but not more than five years 41,239 57, 1 27
More than five years 76,914 73,030
136,184 165,953
Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of an office building extension in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$49,232,000 
(2009: US$39,735,000), lease of mobile operating production unit and floating storage and offloading unit US$15,619,000 (2009: US$35,665,000) 
in Block PM304, offshore Malaysia and mobile drilling rig for the Don Southwest project of US$ nil (2009: US$10,089,000).
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$35,625,000 (2009: US$33,063,000). 
Capital commitments
At 31 December 2010, the group had capital commitments of US$90,416,000 (2009: US$18,786,000) excluding the above lease commitments. 
Included in the above are commitments to refurbish the floating production, storage and offloading unit for East Fortune of US$52,800,000 
(2009: US$ nil), further appraisal and development of wells as part of the Cendor project in Malaysia amounting to US$7 ,269,000 (2009: 
US$14,572,000), commitments in respect of the Ticleni Production Enhancement contract in Romania US$21,046,000 (2009: US$ nil) and 
commitments in respect of IT projects of US$9,281,000 (2009: US$3,300,000). 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
134    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 32 Related party transactions 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 35. Petrofac Limited 
is the ultimate parent entity of the group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties:
Sales to related
parties
US$’000
Purchases from
related parties
US$’000
Amounts owed
by related
parties
US$’000
Amounts owed
to related parties
US$’000
Joint ventures 2010 101,370 88,796 327 11,098
2009 27,337 15,434 1 7,773 56,925
Key management personnel interests 2010 – 1,688 – 612
2009 – 1,405 487 401
All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are 
approved by the group’s management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of key management personnel interests of US$1,601,000 (2009: US$1,336,000) reflect the market rate based costs  
of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and directors of the group on company business,  
which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Group Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary. 
Also included in purchases in respect of key management personnel interests is US$87 ,000 (2009: US$69,000) relating to client entertainment 
provided by a business owned by a member of the group’s key management.
Amounts owed by key management personnel comprises of a temporary loan of US$ nil (2009: US$487 ,000) provided in respect of income tax 
payable on vesting of Restricted Share Plan shares pending disposal of shares to meet this liability once the close period for trading Petrofac 
shares ends.
Compensation of key management personnel 
The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the group comprising of executive and non-executive directors of the 
Company and other senior personnel. Further information relating to the individual directors is provided in the directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 84 to 95.
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Short-term employee benefits 11,870 11 ,209
Other long-term employment benefits 142 129
Share-based payments 3,827 3,368
Fees paid to non-executive directors 581 506
16,420 15,212
33 Risk management and financial instruments
Risk management objectives and policies
The group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, 
amounts due from/to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other 
payables and deferred consideration.
The group’s activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term 
deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on both conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well  
as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency. These risks are managed from time to time by using  
a combination of various derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, caps and forward currency contracts in line with the group’s 
hedging policies. The group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the 
significant financial risks faced by the group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 80 to 83.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the group’s financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk  
and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below:
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the group’s interest-bearing financial liabilities  
and assets. 
The group’s exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the group’s long-term variable rate debt obligations 
and its cash and bank balances. The group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The group’s cash 
and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The impact on the group’s pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting 
date is demonstrated in the table below. The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity
100 basis 
point increase
US$’000
100 basis 
point decrease
US$’000
100 basis
point increase
US$’000
100 basis
point decrease
US$’000
31 December 2010 (710) 710 – –
31 December 2009 (1,096) 1,096 – –
The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: 
Year ended 31 December 2010
Within
1 year
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-3
years
US$’000
3-4
years
US$’000
4-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Floating rates
Bank overdrafts (note 26) 28,908 – – – – – 28,908
Term loans (note 26) 18,527 23,823 20,562 – – – 62,912
47,435 23,823 20,562 – – – 91,820
Financial assets
Floating rates
Cash and short-term deposits 
(note 21) 1,063,005 – – – – – 1,063,005
Restricted cash balances  
(note 17) 19, 196 266 – – – – 19,462
1,082,201 266 – – – – 1,082,467
Year ended 31 December 2009
Within
1 year
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-3
years
US$’000
3-4
years
US$’000
4-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Floating rates
Revolving credit facility (note 26) 20,000 – – – – – 20,000
Bank overdrafts (note 26) 26,619 – – – – – 26,619
Term loans (note 26) 11 ,452 18,901 24,221 21,863 – – 76,437
58,071 18,901 24,221 21,863 – – 123,056
Financial assets
Floating rates
Cash and short-term deposits 
(note 21) 1 ,4 1 7,363 – – – – – 1 ,4 1 7,363
Restricted cash balances  
(note 17) 7,431 226 – – – 2,654 10,311
1,424,794 226 – – – 2,654 1 ,427,67 4
Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective rate adjustments of US$4,159,000 (2009: 
US$5,790,000).
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. The other financial instruments of the 
group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
136    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges 
At 31 December 2010, the group held no derivative instruments, designated as cash flow hedges in relation to floating rate interest-bearing  
loans and borrowings.
Foreign currency risk
The group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the 
functional currency of its operating units. The group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US Dollar 
reporting currency of the group. The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial 
assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US Dollar terms, of the group totals. 
2010
% of foreign 
currency
denominated
 items 
2009
% of foreign
currency
denominated 
items 
Revenues 41.6% 39.5%
Costs 62.2% 50.1 %
Current financial assets 34.8% 35.3%
Non-current financial assets 0.0% 1.0%
Current financial liabilities 51.2% 42.3%
Non-current financial liabilities 59.4% 34.6%
The group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations. It is the group’s policy 
not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments 
used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness. 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion. 
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date. Revenues and costs in currencies other than the 
functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction. The following significant exchange rates 
applied during the year in relation to US Dollars:
2010 2009
Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate
Sterling 1.54 1.56 1.56 1.62
Kuwaiti Dinar 3.49 3.55 3.47 3.48
Euro 1.32 1.34 1.40 1.44
The following table summarises the impact on the group’s pre-tax profit and equity (due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities 
and derivative instruments) of a reasonably possible change in US Dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies:
Pre-tax profit Equity
+10% US Dollar 
rate increase 
US$’000
-5% US Dollar 
rate decrease 
US$’000
+10% US Dollar 
rate increase 
US$’000
-5% US Dollar 
rate decrease 
US$’000
31 December 2010 (3,750) 1,875 6,272 (3,136)
31 December 2009 (10,238) 5, 141 7,980 (3,990)
Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges 
At 31 December 2010, the group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: 
Contract value Fair value (undesignated) Fair value (designated) Net unrealised gain/(loss) 
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Euro currency purchases 171,072 101,909 (1,794) 5,017 (2,046) 24,479 (1,827) 28,430
Sterling currency purchases 14,405 38,700 (135) – 1,583 4,703 1,695 4,966
Yen currency purchases (sales) 1,721 (160) 128 – 76 (942) 117 (862)
Swiss Francs purchases 1,363 – – – 175 – 14 –
Kuwaiti Dinars sales – (211 ,034) – 53 – (1,349) – 266
(1) 32,800
The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2011 and July 2013 (2009: between January 2010 and 
July 2013).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued
At 31 December 2010, the group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with a fair value loss of US$1,633,000 
(2009: US$1,786,000 gain) as follows: 
Fair value Net unrealised gain/(loss) 
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Euro currency cash and short-term deposits 15,730 91,660 (1,798) 1 ,163
Sterling currency cash and short-term deposits 2,086 5,264 (120) 772
Yen currency cash and short-term deposits 4,510 – 278 –
Swiss Francs cash and short-term deposits 660 – 7 –
Kuwaiti Dinars cash and short-term deposits – 19,1 46 – (149)
(1,633) 1,786
During 2010, changes in fair value losses of US$19,456,000 (2009: losses US$28,043,000) relating to these derivative instruments and financial 
assets were taken to equity and US$16,764,000 of gains (2009: US$5,161,000 gains) were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income 
statement. The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on maturity of un-designated 
derivatives of US$3,409,000 (2009: US$19,508,000 gains) were recognised in the income statement (note 4b).
Commodity price risk – oil prices
The group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil & gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil & gas. The 
group’s policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars. 
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long term forecast production data is available.
During the year the group entered into various crude oil swaps hedging oil production of 176,400 bbl (2009: 96,000 bbl) with maturities  
ranging from 1 April 2010 to 31 December 2011. In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 43,750MT  
(2009: 27 ,000MT) with maturities from 1 April 2010 to 31 December 2011. 
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2010 was US$1,163,000 liability (2009: US$1,813,000 liability) with a loss recognised in equity of 
US$1,163,000 (2009: US$1,813,000 loss). During the year, a loss of US$152,000 (2009: US$611,000 gain) was recognised in the consolidated 
income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions.
The following table summarises the impact on the group’s pre-tax profit and equity (due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments 
and the underlifting asset/overlifting liability) of a reasonably possible change in the oil price:
Pre-tax profit Equity
+10 US$/bbl
increase 
US$’000
-10 US$/bbl
decrease 
US$’000
+10 US$/bbl
increase 
US$’000
-10 US$/bbl
decrease 
US$’000
31 December 2010 (194) 194 (802) 802
31 December 2009 82 (82) (861) 861
Credit risk
The group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. Business Unit Risk Review Committees (BURRC) have been set up by the 
Board of Directors to evaluate the creditworthiness of each individual third party at the time of entering into new contracts. Limits have been 
placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required. Receivable 
balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary. At 31 December 2010, the group’s  
five largest customers accounted for 72.0% of outstanding trade receivables and work in progress (2009: 57 .5%).
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale 
financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum 
exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
138    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Liquidity risk
The group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts, revolving credit facilities, 
project finance and term loans to reduce its exposure to liquidity risk. The maturity profiles of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2010 
are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 2010
6 months
or less
US$’000
6-12
months
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Contractual
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000
Carrying
amount
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings 37,776 9,659 23,823 20,562 – 91,820 87,661
Trade and other payables 
(excluding advances  
from customers) 551,233 58,159 – – – 609,392 609,392
Due to related parties 11 ,710 – – – – 11 ,710 11 ,710
Deferred consideration 24,595 – 11 ,279 – – 35,874 35,874
Derivative instruments 11 ,034 1 ,163 1 74 – – 12,371 12,371
Interest payable 9 – – – – 9 9
Interest payments 421 388 632 206 – 1,647 –
636,778 69,369 35,908 20,768 – 762,823 757,017
Year ended 31 December 2009
6 months
or less
US$’000
6-12
months
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Contractual
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000
Carrying
amount
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings 31,863 26,208 18,901 46,084 – 123,056 1 1 7,266
Trade and other payables 
(excluding advances  
from customers) 585,490 11 ,843 – – – 597 ,333 597 ,333
Due to related parties 44,496 12,830 – – – 57,326 57,326
Deferred consideration 1,622 – 20,519 11 ,356 – 33,497 29,060
Derivative instruments 907 906 – – – 1,813 1,813
Interest payable 22 – – – – 22 22
Interest payments 816 1 ,1 48 2,094 2,291 – 6,349 –
665,216 52,935 41,514 59,731 – 819,396 802,820
The group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued
Capital management
The group’s policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value. 
The group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital 
structure on a regular basis. The gearing ratio and return on shareholders’ equity is as follows:
2010 
US$’000
Restated 
2009 
US$’000
Cash and short-term deposits 1,063,005 1 ,4 1 7,363
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (A) (87,661) (1 1 7,266)
Net cash (B) 975,344 1,300,097
Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders (C) 776,462 894,710
Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders (D) 557,817 353,603
Gross gearing ratio (A/C) 11.3% 13.1 %
Net gearing ratio (B/C) Net cash
 position
Net cash
 position
Shareholders’ return on investment (D/C) 71.8% 39.5%
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of the group’s financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the group’s statement of financial position are set 
out below: 
Carrying amount Fair value
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
2010 
US$’000
2009 
US$’000
Financial assets
Cash and short-term deposits 1,063,005 1 ,4 1 7,363 1,063,005 1 ,4 1 7,363
Restricted cash 19,462 10,311 19,462 10,311
Available-for-sale financial assets 101,494 539 101,494 539
Seven Energy warrants 11,969 – 11,969 –
Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 7,961 26,891 7,961 26,891
Forward currency contracts-undesignated 1,234 5,070 1,234 5,070
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 87,661 1 1 7,266 87,661 1 1 7,266
Deferred consideration 35,874 30,1 78 35,874 30,1 78
Oil derivative 1,163 1,813 1,163 1,813
Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge 8,173 – 8,173 –
Forward currency contracts-undesignated 3,035 – 3,035 –
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets, forward currency contracts and oil derivatives. 
Seven Energy warrant’s fair value has been calculated using a Black Scholes option valuation model (note 16). The fair values of long-term 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows 
using the effective interest rate. The Company considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and 
other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the 
above table.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
140    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Fair value hierarchy
The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective  
fair values:
Tier 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities
Tier 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on all observation data (directly or indirectly)
Tier 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on unobservable market data
Assets measured at fair value 
Year ended 31 December 2010
Tier 1
US$’000
Tier 2
US$’000
2010
US$’000
Financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 243 101,251 101,494
Seven Energy warrants – 11 ,969 11,969
Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge – 7,961 7,961
Forward currency contracts-undesignated – 1,234 1,234
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 87,661 87,661
Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge – 8,1 73 8,173
Forward currency contracts-undesignated – 3,035 3,035
Oil derivative – 1 ,163 1,163
Year ended 31 December 2009
Tier 1
US$’000
Tier 2
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets – 539 539
Forward currency contracts-designated as cash flow hedge – 26,891 26,891
Forward currency contracts-undesignated – 5,070 5,070
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – 1 1 7,266 1 1 7,266
Oil derivative – 1,813 1,813
34 Events after the reporting date
On 31 January 2011, Energy Developments signed an RSC to lead the development of the Berantai field, offshore Peninsular Malaysia for Petronas, 
the Malaysian national oil company. Petrofac has a 50% interest in the RSC alongside our two local partners who each hold a 25% interest and 
the joint venture will develop the field and subsequently operate it for seven years after first gas production. As part of the fast track development 
of the field, the group has committed as at 31 December 2010 to acquire an FPSO vessel which will be jointly owned by Berantai joint venture 
partners (see note 31 for details).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements 35 Subsidiaries and joint ventures
At 31 December 2010, the group had investments in the following subsidiaries and incorporated joint ventures:
Proportion of nominal value of issued
shares controlled by the group
Name of company Country of incorporation 2010 2009
Trading subsidiaries
Petrofac Inc. USA *100 *100
Petrofac International Ltd Jersey *100 *100
Petrofac Energy Development UK Limited England *100 –
Petrofac Energy Developments Limited England – *100
Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey *100 *100
Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England *100 *100
Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey *100 *100
Petrofac Services Limited England *100 *100
Petrofac Services Inc. USA *100 *100
Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey *100 *100
Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey *100 *100
Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited Jersey *100 *100
Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey *100 –
Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100
Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100
Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100
Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100
Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100
Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac International Nigeria Ltd Nigeria 100 100
Petrofac Pars (PJSC) Iran 100 100
Petrofac Iran (PJSC) Iran 100 100
Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Nuigini Limited Papua New Guinea 100 100
PFMAP Sendirian Berhad Malaysia 100 100
Petrofac Caspian Limited Azerbaijan 100 100
Petrofac (Malaysia-PM304) Limited England 100 100
Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac Training Inc. USA 100 100
Petrofac Training (Trinidad) Limited Trinidad 100 100
Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100
Petrofac Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100
Petrofac Energy Developments (Ohanet) Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac Energy Developments (Ohanet) LLC USA 100 100
PEDL Limited England – 100
Petrofac (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100 100
PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia **50 **50
PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100
Pt PCI Indonesia Indonesia 80 80
Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100
Petrofac Training Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100
* Directly held by Petrofac Limited 
**Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
142    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Proportion of nominal value of issued
shares controlled by the group
Name of company Country of incorporation 2010 2009
Trading subsidiaries continued
Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 80 80
Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100
SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 51 51
SPD UK Limited Scotland 51 51
SPD LLC United Arab Emirates **25 **25
Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited Cayman Islands – 100
PT. Petrofac IKPT International Indonesia 51 51
Petrofac Kazakhstan Limited England 100 100
Petrofac International (UAE) LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100
Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100
Petrofac International South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100 100
Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100
Eclipse Petroleum Technology Inc United States 100 100
Caltec Limited England 100 100
i Perform Limited Scotland 100 100
Petrofac FPF1 Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrokyrgyzstan Limited Jersey 100 100
Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 –
Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 –
CO2DeepStore Limited Scotland 100 –
CO2DeepStore Holdings Limited Jersey 100 –
CO2DeepStore (Aspen) Limited England 100 –
TNEI Services Limited England 100 –
Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 –
Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited Jersey 100 –
The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 –
Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 –
Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S.R.L Romania 100 –
Joint Ventures
Costain Petrofac Limited England 50 50
Kyrgyz Petroleum Company Kyrgyz Republic 50 50
MJVI Sendirian Berhad Brunei 50 50
Spie Capag – Petrofac International Limited Jersey 50 50
TTE Petrofac Limited Jersey 50 50
Petrofac Emirates LLC United Arab Emirates **49 **49
Dormant subsidiaries
Joint Venture International Limited Scotland 100 100
Montrose Park Hotels Limited Scotland 100 100
RGIT Ethos Health & Safety Limited Scotland 100 100
Scota Limited Scotland 100 100
Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Cyprus 100 100
Rubicon Response Limited Scotland 100 100
**Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Group financial statements Company 
financial 
statements
144    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Petrofac 
Limited (the ‘Company’) for the year ended 31 December 2010 which 
comprise the company income statement, the company statement of 
comprehensive income, the company statement of financial position, 
the company cash flow statement, the company statement of  
changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 17. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
Jersey law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
and our engagement letter dated 15 February 2011. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to:
report to you our opinion on whether the section of the remuneration ■ ■
report that is described as audited has been properly prepared  
in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein
review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the  ■ ■
Board on Directors’ remuneration, which for a premium listed UK 
incorporated company is specified for review by the Listing Rules  
of the Financial Services Authority 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes  
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate  
to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as  ■ ■
at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended
have been properly prepared in accordance with International ■ ■
Financial Reporting Standards
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the ■ ■
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
Opinion on other matter 
In our opinion the part of the remuneration report to be audited,  
which you have instructed us to review, has been properly prepared  
in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters:
where the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to report to  ■ ■
you if, in our opinion:
 –  proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us
 –  the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns
 –  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit
where the Company instructed us to review certain elements of  ■ ■
the report to shareholders by the Board on director’s remuneration
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements  
of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010. 
Justine Belton  
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
London 
4 March 2011
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited website is the responsibility  
of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes 
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented  
on the website.
2  Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Petrofac Limited
145    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Company financial statements 146    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Revenue 3 342,997 161,994
General and administration expenses 4 (15,903) (11 ,440)
Other income 5 177,890 –
Other expenses (1,822) (577)
Profit before tax and finance income/(costs) 503,162 149,977
Finance costs 6 (1,800) (5,349)
Finance income 6 2,678 9,858
Profit before tax 504,040 154,486
Income tax expense – –
Profit for the year 504,040 154,486
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Profit for the period 504,040 154,486
Net (loss)/gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the period – (537)
Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges – 962
Other comprehensive income (loss) – 425
Total comprehensive income for the period 504,040 154,911
The attached notes 1 to 17 form part of these Company financial statements.
Company income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Company statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Company statement of financial position
At 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 33 27
Investments in subsidiaries 8 233,231 265,599
Available-for-sale investment 9 101,251 –
334,515 265,626
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 300 189
Amounts due from subsidiaries 10 42,508 379,939
Warrants on available-for-sale investment 9 11,969 –
Cash and short-term deposits 11 88,257 64,387
143,034 444,515
Total assets 477,549 710, 141
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders
Share capital 17 6,914 8,638
Share premium 992 69,712
Capital redemption reserve 10,881 10,881
Treasury shares 12 (65,317) (56,285)
Share based payments reserve 45,154 43,790
Retained earnings 18,214 119, 103
Total equity 16,838 195,839
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 26,887 39,008
Long-term employee benefit provisions 251 176
27,138 39,184
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18,804 811
Amounts due to subsidiaries 10 403,126 448,048
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 11,643 26,259
433,573 475, 118
Total liabilities 460,711 514,302
Total equity and liabilities 477,549 710, 141
The financial statements on pages 146 to 158 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by  
Keith Roberts – Chief Financial Officer.
The attached notes 1 to 17 form part of these Company financial statements.
147    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Company financial statements Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Notes
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Operating activities
Profit before tax 504,040 154,486
Gain on EnQuest demerger 5 (177,890) –
326,150 154,486
Adjustments for:
 Depreciation 4 20 27
 Share-based payments 13 671 912
 Difference between other long-term employment benefits paid and amounts recognised in the 
income statement 75 32
 Net finance income 6 (878) (4,509)
 Other non-cash items, net 1,526 1,843
Operating profit before working capital changes 327,564 152,791
 Trade and other receivables (111) 60
 Amounts due from subsidiaries (15,199) (109,097)
 Trade and other payables 6,024 319
 Amounts due to subsidiaries (44,922) 160,583
 Current financial liabilities – (433)
273,356 204,223
Other non-current items, net – 307
Cash generated from operations 273,356 204,530
Interest paid (1,800) (1,443)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 271,556 203,087
Investing activities
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 9 (101,251) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (26) (13)
Repayment of investment by subsidiaries 44,886 (50,000)
Interest received 5,270 187
Net cash flows used in investing activities (51,121) (49,826)
Financing activities
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (26,773) (5,121)
Treasury shares purchased 12 (36,486) –
Equity dividends paid (132,244) (98,995)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (195,503) (104, 116)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 24,932 49,1 45
Net foreign exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents (1,062) 726
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 64,387 14,516
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 11 88,257 64,387
The attached notes 1 to 17 form part of these Company financial statements.
148    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Issued
share
capital
US$’000
(note 16)
Share 
premium
US$’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
US$’000
*Treasury
shares
US$’000
(note 12)
Share-based
payments
reserve
US$’000
(note 13)
Net 
unrealised
gains
 (losses) on
derivatives
US$’000
Retained
earnings
US$’000
Total
equity
US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2009 8,636 68,203 10,881 (69,333) 32,202 (425) 61,577 111 ,7 4 1
Net profit for the year – – – – – – 154,486 154,486
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – – 425 – 425
Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – – 425 154,486 154,911
Shares issued as payment of deferred consideration 2 1,509 – – – – – 1 ,511
Share-based payments charge (note 13) – – – – 912 – – 912
Shares vested during the year – – – 13,048 (12,617) – (431) –
Transfer to reserve for share-based payments (note 13) – – – – 23,293 – – 23,293
Dividends (note 7) – – – – – – (96,529) (96,529)
Balance at 1 January 2010 8,638 69,712 10,881 (56,285) 43,790 – 119, 103 195,839
Net profit for the year – – – – – – 504,040 504,040
Other comprehensive income – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – – – – – 504,040 504,040
Share-based payments charge (note 13) – – – – 671 – – 671
Shares vested during the year – – – 27 ,454 (26,1 70) – (1,284) –
Treasury shares purchased (note 12) – – – (36,486) – – – (36,486)
Transfer to reserve for share-based payments (note 13) – – – – 26,863 – – 26,863
Shares issued as payment of deferred consideration 4 2,452 – – – – – 2,456
EnQuest demerger share split and redemption (note 5) (1,728) – – – – – 1,728 –
Distribution on EnQuest demerger (note 5) – (71 ,1 72) – – – – (473,325) (544,497)
Dividends (note 7) – – – – – – (132,048) (132,048)
Balance at 31 December 2010 6,914 992 10,881 (65,317) 45,154 – 18,214 16,838
*Shares held by Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust
The attached notes 1 to 17 form part of these Company financial statements.
149    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2010
1 Corporate information 
The financial statements of Petrofac Limited (‘the Company’)  
referred to as the Company financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with  
a resolution of the Directors on 4 March 2011. 
Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered in  
Jersey under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and is the holding 
company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries (together  
‘the group’). The group’s principal activity is the provision of facilities 
solutions to the oil & gas production and processing industry.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements have been prepared on a  
historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and 
available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair value. 
The functional and presentation currency of the separate financial 
statements is United States Dollars and all values in the separate 
financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$’000) 
except where otherwise stated. Certain comparative information  
has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Statement of compliance
The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and applicable 
requirements of Jersey law. 
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for 
impairment.
Long-term loan receivables from subsidiaries
Long-term loan receivables from subsidiaries are initially stated at  
fair value. After initial recognition, they are subsequently measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Due from/due to subsidiaries
Due from/due to subsidiaries are both interest bearing and non-interest 
bearing short-term funding to and from subsidiaries. These are 
recognised at the fair value of consideration received/paid, less  
any provision for impairment. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand  
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months  
or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of any outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at  
the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly 
attributable to the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  
any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Employee Benefit Trust
The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust (PEBT) is treated as an extension 
of the activities of the Company and accordingly the Company 
financial statements include all transactions and balances of the PEBT 
except for transaction and balances between the company and PEBT.
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including directors) of the group receive remuneration  
in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees 
render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares  
(‘equity-settled transactions’).
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured  
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.  
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the 
price of the shares of Petrofac Limited (‘market conditions’), if applicable.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award (the ‘vesting period’). 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The income 
statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement  
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of  
that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective  
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. Equity 
awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of 
cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that 
date is recognised in the income statement.
The Company operates a number of share award schemes on behalf 
of the employees of the group which are described in detail in note 24 
of the consolidated financial statements of the group. 
The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value  
of equity settled share-based payments awarded to employees and 
transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original 
share awards. The share-based payments charges pertaining to fellow 
group companies are recharged to them and shown as investment. 
Subsequently they are transferred to due from subsidiaries and settled 
in cash.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated at fair 
value, including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured 
at their fair value using quoted market rates or in the absence of 
market data other fair value calculation methodologies. Gains and 
losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until the 
investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or 
loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price  
collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with  
foreign currency, interest rate and oil price fluctuations. Such derivative 
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date  
on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the 
fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income 
statement. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference 
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
profiles. The fair value of interest rate cap, swap and oil price collar 
contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
150    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 3 Revenues
Revenues comprise of dividends from subsidiaries which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Dividend income from subsidiaries 342,997 161,994
4 General and administration expenses
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Staff costs 10,750 7 ,595
Depreciation 20 27
Other operating expenses 5,133 3,818
15,903 11 ,440
Included in other operating expenses above are auditors’ remuneration of US$65,000 (2009: US$67 ,000) related to the fee for the audit  
of the parent company financial statements. It excludes fees in relation to the audit of the group financial statements, which are borne by  
Petrofac Services Limited.
5 Gain on EnQuest demerger
On 5 April 2010, the group’s interests in the Don area oil assets were demerged via a transfer of three of its subsidiaries, Petrofac Energy 
Developments Limited (PEDL), Petrofac Energy Developments Oceania Limited (PEDOL) and PEDL Limited (PEDLL) to EnQuest PLC for  
a deemed consideration for accounting purposes of US$553,300,000 which was settled by the issue of EnQuest PLC shares directly to  
Petrofac Limited shareholders*. The gain on the demerger transaction has been computed as follows:
US$’000
Fair value of consideration 553,300
Less: 
Net book value of PEDL investment (373,774)
Transaction costs (1,636)
Gain on demerger 177,890
* In order to effect the demerger of the PEDL sub group to EnQuest, the existing issued ordinary share capital of Petrofac Limited was subdivided and converted into new ordinary Petrofac
shares with a nominal value of US$0.02 each and Petrofac B shares of US$0.005 each and subsequent to this share split the B shares were purchased and cancelled in exchange for an 
allotment and issue of EnQuest ordinary shares directly to holders of Petrofac B shares.
As a result of this capital re-organisation and purchase of Petrofac B shares US$1,728,000 of Petrofac issued ordinary share capital was extinguished 
and transferred to retained earnings and the non-cash distribution to Petrofac shareholders for accounting purposes of US$553,300,000 was 
made via the utilisation of the existing share premium account of balance of US$71,172,000 with the remaining amount of US$482,128,000 being 
transferred out of retained earnings. In addition US$8,803,000 of proceeds generated by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust selling its holding of 
EnQuest shares arising from the demerger have been credited to retained earnings leaving a net impact on retained earnings of US$473,325,000.
6 Finance costs/(income)
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Interest payable:
Long-term borrowings (1,205) (1,443)
On amounts due to subsidiaries (595) (3,906)
Total finance cost (1,800) (5,349)
Interest receivable:
Bank interest receivable 44 55
On amounts due from subsidiaries 2,634 9,803
Total finance income 2,678 9,858
151    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements
Company financial statements 7 Dividends paid
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2008: 17 .90 cents per share – 60,332
Interim dividend 2009: 10.70 cents per share – 36,197
Final dividend for 2009: 25.10 cents per share 85,291 –
Interim dividend 2010: 13.80 cents per share 46,757 –
132,048 96,529
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2010: 30.00 cents per share (2009: 25.10 cents per share) 103,715 86,729
8 Investments in subsidiaries
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
At 1 January 265,599 214,088
Investment in Petrofac UK Holdings Limited 22,331 1 ,511
Investment in Petrofac Energy Developments Limited (PEDL) – 50,000
Investment repaid by PEDL (50,000) –
Capitalisation of amount due from PEDL 373,774 –
Derecognition of PEDL investment and amounts due on EnQuest demerger (373,774) –
Investment in Jermyn Insurance Company Limited 3,001 –
Receipt from Petrofac Facilities Management Limited (7,700) –
Invested bonus in Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP) charged to subsidiaries 12,518 10,753
Receipt of invested bonus in DBSP from subsidiaries (12,518) (10,753)
Share based payment amounts receivable from subsidiaries 14,113 12,351
Transferred to due from subsidiaries (14,113) (12,351)
As at 31 December 233,231 265,599
At 31 December 2010, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries:
Proportion of nominal value of issued 
shares controlled by the Company
Name of company Country of incorporation 2010 2009
Trading subsidiaries
Petrofac Inc. USA 100 100
Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100
Petrofac Energy Developments Limited England – 100
Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100
Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100
Petrofac Services Inc. USA 100 100
Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100
Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100
Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 –
Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 –
9 Available-for-sale investment
On 25 November 2010, the Company invested US$100,000,000 for 15% (12.6% on a fully diluted basis) of the share capital of Seven Energy 
International Limited (Seven Energy), a leading Nigerian gas development and production company incurring US$1,251,000 of transaction costs. 
The Company also has the option to subscribe for 148,571 of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52,000,000, subject 
to the performance of certain service provision conditions and milestones in relation to project execution. These warrants have been fair valued  
as derivative financial instruments under IAS 39, using Black Scholes Model, amounting to US$11,969,000 with a corresponding entry in trade 
and other payables representing deferred revenue relating to the performance conditions. This will be recognised as a gain once the warrants 
become exercisable.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
152    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 10 Amounts due from/due to subsidiaries
Amounts due from/due to subsidiaries comprise both interest and non-interest bearing short-term loans provided to/received from subsidiaries 
listed in note 8.
11 Cash and short-term deposits
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Cash at bank and in hand 19,687 4,857
Short-term deposits 68,570 59,530
Total cash and bank balances (cash and cash equivalents) 88,257 64,387
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and one month depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$88,257 ,000 (2009: US$64,387 ,000).
12 Treasury shares
For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the  
Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust. All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below:
2010 2009
Number US$’000 Number US$’000
At 1 January 7,210,965 56,285 9,540,306 69,333
Acquired during the year 2,122,960 36,486 – –
Vested during the year (2,576,586) (27,454) (2,329,341) (13,048)
At 31 December 6,757,339 65,317 7,210,965 56,285
During the year 5,467 ,852 of the above shares held by Lehman Brothers in a client custody account were released to the Company as part of  
the Lehman Brothers administration process.
13 Share-based payments charge/reserve 
Share based payment charge
Share-based payment plan information is disclosed in note 24 of the consolidated financial statements of the group. The following table shows 
the movements in the number of shares held under the three group employee schemes:
Deferred Bonus 
Share Plan
Number
Performance 
Share Plan
Number
Restricted 
Share Plan
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 2009 41,809 137,047 –
Granted during the period 47,766 85,033 –
Vested during the period (21,000) (37,383) –
Forfeited during the period (1,605) – –
Outstanding at 1 January 2010 66,970 184,697 –
Granted during the period 24,912 75,210 5,585
Vested during the period (29,239) (48,505) –
Forfeited during the period (518) – –
Outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2010 62,125 211,402 5,585
Deferred Bonus 
Share Plan
Number
Performance 
Share Plan
Number
Restricted
Share Plan
Number
Made up of following awards:
2008 6,791 51 ,159 –
2009 30,422 85,033 –
2010 24,912 75,210 5,585
62,125 211,402 5,585
During the year, a share-based payment scheme charge of US$671,000 (2009: US$912,000) was recognised by the Company in respect of its 
own employees time spent on shareholder related services.
Share-based payment reserve
The transfer during the year into share-based payment reserve disclosed in the statement of changes in equity of US$26,863,000 (2009: 
US$23,293,000) is the charge for share-based payments awards by the company to its own employees as well as employees of subsidiaries, 
including bonus amounts converted into shares.
153    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements
Company financial statements 14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The Company had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding:
31 December 2010
Actual interest rate %
31 December 2009
Actual interest rate %
Effective
interest rate % Maturity
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Current
Revolving credit facility (iii) – US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
US LIBOR 
+ 1.50%
– 20,000
Current portion of term loan (i) US LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
3.26% 
(2009: 3.71%)
7,357 5,296
Current portion of term loan (ii) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
2.01% to 3.91% 
(2009: 2.65% 
to 3.44%)
4,286 963
11,643 26,259
Non-current
Term loan (ii) US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US/UK LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
2.01% to 3.91% 
(2009: 2.65% 
to 3.44%)
2010–2013 13,809 18,291
Term loan (i) US LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
US LIBOR 
+ 0.875%
3.26% 
(2009: 3.71%)
2010–2013 15,700 23,581
29,509 41,872
Less:
Debt acquisition costs net of 
accumulated amortisation  
and effective interest rate 
adjustments (2,622) (2,864)
26,887 39,008
Details of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
(i) Term loan
This term loan at 31 December 2010 comprised drawings of US$23,057 ,000 (2009: US$28,877 ,000) repayable over a period of three years 
ending 30 September 2013.
(ii) Term loan
This term loan is to be repaid over a period of three years ending 30 September 2013. 
(iii) Revolving credit facility
This facility was repaid on 31 December 2010.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
154    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 15 Risk management and financial instruments
Risk management objectives and policies
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, are amounts due from and due to subsidiaries, cash and short-term deposits and interest 
bearing loans and borrowings.
The Company’s activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risks on its external variable rate loans and 
borrowings which are addressed by using derivative instruments to hedge this exposure. The Company has a policy not to enter into speculative 
trading of financial derivatives.
The other main risks besides interest rate are foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed 
in detail below:
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Company’s interest-bearing financial liabilities 
and assets. The Company does not hedge its exposure on its interest bearing funding to/from subsidiaries. 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The impact on the Company’s pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates is demonstrated in the table below. 
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity
100 basis 
point increase
US$’000
100 basis 
point decrease
US$’000
100 basis
point increase
US$’000
100 basis
point decrease
US$’000
31 December 2010 (401) 401 – –
31 December 2009 (823) 823 – –
The following table reflects the maturity profile of interest bearing financial liabilities and assets, excluding interest bearing subsidiary related 
financial assets and liabilities: 
Year ended 31 December 2010
Within
1 year
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-3
years
US$’000
3-4
years
US$’000
4-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Floating rates
Term loan (note 14) 11 ,643 15,497 14,012 – – – 4 1 ,152
Amount due to subsidiaries 
(interest bearing) 403,126 – – – – – 403,126
414,769 15,497 14,012 – – – 444,278
Financial assets
Floating rates
Cash and short-term deposits 
(note 11) 88,257 – – – – – 88,257
Amount due from subsidiaries 
(interest bearing) 42,508 – – – – – 42,508
130,765 – – – – – 130,765
155    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements
Company financial statements 15 Risk management and financial instruments continued
Year ended 31 December 2009
Within
1 year
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-3
years
US$’000
3-4
years
US$’000
4-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Floating rates
Revolving credit facility (note 14) 20,000 – – – – – 20,000
Term loan (note 14) 6,259 11 ,688 15,567 14,617 – – 48,131
Amount due to subsidiaries 
(interest bearing) 448,048 – – – – – 448,048
474,307 11 ,688 15,567 14,617 – – 516,1 79
Financial assets
Floating rates
Cash and short-term deposits 
(note 11) 64,387 – – – – – 64,387
Amount due from subsidiaries 
(interest bearing) 358,693 – – – – – 358,693
423,080 – – – – – 423,080
Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective interest rate adjustments of US$2,622,000  
(2009: US$2,864,000).
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges
There were no outstanding interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010.
Foreign currency risk
Almost all of the financial assets and liabilities of the Company are denominated in US Dollars. The foreign currency exposure is limited to  
Sterling 3,134,000 equivalent US$4,892,000 (2009: Sterling 3,300,000 equivalent US$5,354,000) of its interest bearing loans and borrowings.
The following table summarises the impact on the Company’s pre-tax profit and equity (due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, 
liabilities and derivative instruments) of a reasonably possible change in US Dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies:
Pre-tax profit Equity
+10% US Dollar 
rate increase 
US$’000
–5% US Dollar 
rate decrease 
US$’000
+10% US Dollar 
rate increase 
US$’000
–5% US Dollar 
rate decrease 
US$’000
31 December 2010 (1,482) 741 – –
31 December 2009 (3,821) 1 ,911 – –
Credit risk
The Company’s principal financial assets are cash and short-term deposits and amounts due from subsidiaries. 
The Company manages its credit risk in relation to cash and short-term deposits by only depositing cash with financial institutions that have  
high credit ratings provided by international credit rating agencies.
Liquidity risk
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of term loans and revolving  
credit facilities to reduce its exposure to liquidity risk. 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
156    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 The maturity profiles of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2010 are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2010
6 months
or less
US$’000
6-12
months
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Contractual
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000
Carrying
amount
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings 5,583 6,060 15,497 14,012 – 4 1 ,152 38,530
Trade and other payables 18,804 – – – – 18,804 18,804
Amounts due to subsidiaries – 403,126 – – – 403,126 403,126
Interest payments 250 234 391 134 – 1,009 –
24,637 409,420 15,888 14,146 – 464,091 460,460
Year ended 31 December 2009
6 months
or less
US$’000
6-12
months
US$’000
1-2
years
US$’000
2-5
years
US$’000
More than
5 years
US$’000
Contractual
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000
Carrying
amount
US$’000
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings 2,648 23,611 11 ,688 30,184 – 68,131 65,267
Trade and other payables 811 – – – – 811 811
Amounts due to subsidiaries – 448,048 – – – 448,048 448,048
Interest payments 563 798 1,273 1,472 – 4,106 –
4,022 472,457 12,961 31,656 – 521,096 51 4,126 
The Company uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management
The Company’s policy is to maintain a healthy capital base using a combination of external and internal financing to support its activities as the 
holding company for the group.
The Company’s gearing ratio is as follows:
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Cash and short-term deposits 88,257 64,387
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (A) (38,530) (65,267)
Net/cash (debt) (B) 49,727 (880)
Total Equity (C) 16,838 195,839
Gross gearing ratio (A/C)* 228.8% 33.3%
Net gearing ratio (B/C)
Net cash 
position 0.4%
* Significant increase in gross gearing ratio in 2010 is as a result of EnQuest demerger.
157    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements
Company financial statements 15 Risk management and financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of the Company’s financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the Company’s statement of financial position 
are set out below: 
Carrying amount Fair value
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
2010
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Financial assets
Cash and short-term deposits 88,257 64,387 88,257 64,387
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 38,530 65,267 38,530 65,267
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings and long-term receivable from a subsidiary are equivalent to amortised costs 
determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate. The Company considers that the carrying amounts 
of trade and other receivables, amounts due from/due to subsidiaries, trade and other payables and other current financial liabilities approximate 
their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
Fair value hierarchy
The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective  
fair values:
Tier 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities
Tier 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on all observation data (directly or indirectly)
Tier 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on unobservable market data
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
Tier 2
US$’000
2010
US$’000
Financial assets
Seven Energy warrants 11 ,969 11,969
Tier 2
US$’000
2010
US$’000
Financial assets
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 38,530 38,530
Tier 2
US$’000
2009
US$’000
Financial assets
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 65,267 65,267
16 Related party transactions
The Company’s related parties consist of its subsidiaries and the transactions and amounts due to/due from them are either of funding or 
investing nature (note 8). The Company is re-charged a portion of the key management personnel cost by one of its subsidiaries. The amount 
recharged during the year was US$2,854,000 (2009: US$2,182,000). For further details of the full amount of key management personnel costs 
refer to the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 93 to 95.
17 Share capital
The movements in share capital are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements of the group.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2010
158    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Oil & gas reserves (unaudited)
At 31 December 2010
Europe Africa South East Asia Total
Oil & NGLs
mmbbl
Oil & NGLs
mmbbl
Gas
bcf
Oil & NGLs
mmbbl
Oil & NGLs
mmbbl
Gas
bcf
Oil equivalent
mmboe
Proven reserves
At 1 January 2010
Developed 3.4 1.4 19.3 3.6 8.4 19.3 11 .8
Undeveloped 9.7 – 0.5 – 9.7 0.5 9.7
Proven 13.1 1.4 19.8 3.6 18.1 19.8 21.5
Changes during the year:
Revisions – (0.1) 8.2 (0.4) (0.5) 8.2 0.9
Additions – – 1.6 8.9 8.9 1.6 9.1
Divestments (12.6) – – – (12.6) – (12.6)
Production (0.5) (0.5) (4.6) (1 .1) (2.1) (4.6) (2.8)
At 31 December 2010
Developed – 0.8 23.4 2.1 2.9 23.4 7.0
Undeveloped – – 1.6 8.9 8.9 1.6 9.1
Proven – 0.8 25.0 11.0 11.8 25.0 16.1
Probable reserves
At 1 January 2010 6.4 – 6.2 0.5 6.9 6.2 8.1
Changes during the year:
Revisions – – (3.3) 0.4 0.4 (3.3) (0.1)
Additions – – 1.4 0.4 0.4 1.4 0.5
Divestments (6.4) – – – (6.4) – (6.4)
Production – – – – – – –
At 31 December 2010 – – 4.3 1.3 1.3 4.3 2.1
Total proven & probable reserves
At 1 January 2010 19.5 1.4 26.0 4.1 25.0 26.0 29.6
Changes during the year:
Revisions – (0.1) 4.9 – (0.1) 4.9 0.8
Additions – – 3.0 9.3 9.3 3.0 9.6
Divestments (19.0) – – – (19.0) – (19.0)
Production (0.5) (0.5) (4.6) (1 .1) (2.1) (4.6) (2.8)
At 31 December 2010 – 0.8 29.3 12.3 13.1 29.3 18.2
Notes
■ ■ these estimates of reserves were prepared by the group’s engineers and audited by a competent, independent third party based on the guidelines of the Petroleum Resources 
Management System (sponsored by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the World Petroleum Council, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society of  
Petroleum Evaluation Engineers)
■ ■ the reserves presented are the net entitlement volumes attributable to the Company, under the terms of relevant production sharing contracts and assuming future oil prices  
equivalent to US$75 per barrel (Brent)
■ ■ for the purpose of calculating oil equivalent total reserves, volumes of natural gas have been converted to oil equivalent volumes at the rate of 5,800 standard cubic feet of gas  
per barrel of oil
■ ■ the Europe geographical segment contains reserves attributable to the Don Fields, which were divested from the Company in April 2010
159    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Oil & gas reserves (unaudited)
Company financial statements Shareholder information
At 31 December 2010
Petrofac shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange using  
code ‘PFC.L ’. 
Registrar
Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited
12 Castle Street
St Helier
Jersey JE2 3RT
UK Transfer Agent
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Company Secretary and registered office
Ogier Corporate Services (Jersey) Limited
Ogier House
The Esplanade
St Helier
Jersey JE4 9WG 
Legal Advisers to the Company
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Joint Brokers
Goldman Sachs
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
JP Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London EC2V 7RF
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
Corporate and Financial PR
Tulchan Communications Group
85 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1AE
Financial Calendar
13 May 2011 Annual General Meeting
20 May 2011 Final dividend payment
22 August 2011 Interim results announcement
October 2011 Interim dividend payment
Dates correct at time of print, but subject to change
The group’s investor relations website can be found through www.petrofac.com
160    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Designed and produced by
CONRAN DESIGN GROUP +44 (0)20 7284 5200
Photography by Sam Robinson. 
This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and Revive Pure  
White Uncoated paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the  
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
...but the journey 
is just beginning Annual report and accounts 2010
We’ve come  
a long way...
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac Services Limited
117 Jermyn Street
London SW1Y 6HH
United Kingdom
T +44 20 7811 4900 
F +44 20 7811 4901
www.petrofac.com
