 Aricom plc
Annual Report 2008
Anglo-Russian Industrial Commodities
Aricom plc Annual Report 2008 Aricom is developing mineral assets 
in Russia’s Far East, with a current 
focus on iron ore and ilmenite for 
the high-growth markets of China.
Road and railway connecting Kuranakh operations with Olekma Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
01
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Contents
Group Overview
01 Highlights
04 Geography
06 Aricom’s Unique Position
08 Timeline
10 Chairman’s Statement
11 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Business Review
14 Kuranakh Project
17 K&S Project
20 Garinskoye
22 K&S and Garinskoye Combined 
Feasibility Study
24 Bolshoi Seym Project
25 Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye 
Flanks Projects
26 Giproruda
27 Titanium Sponge Plant
28 Infrastructure
31 2008 Report on Health, Safety and 
the Environment
36 Board of Directors
Corporate Governance
40 Financial Review
42 Corporate Governance
46 Audit Committee Report
48 Directors’ Remuneration Report
53 Directors’ Report
61 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
Financial Statements
62 Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Aricom plc
63 Consolidated Income Statement
64 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
65 Consolidated Balance Sheet
66 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
67 Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements 2008
95 Parent Company Financial 
Statements 2008
96 Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Aricom plc
97 Company Balance Sheet
98 Notes to Financial Statements
103 Deﬁnitions and Glossary of 
Technical Terms
104 Directors and Advisers 
Highlights
Strong cash balance of US$257 million at year end
First sales of pre-concentrate iron ore achieved 
at Kuranakh
Kuranakh crushing and screening plant operational 
although sales of pre-concentrate suspended until 
beneﬁciation plant operational in H2 2009
Combined feasibility study completed for K&S 
and Garinskoye projects, however, progress delayed 
due to slow project ﬁnance markets
Two acquisitions completed extending K&S 
and Garinskoye projects
Titanium sponge joint venture established in China 
with Chinalco
Bridge project across Amur River approved by 
Chinese and Russian governments
Economic downturn leading to falling commodity 
prices and challenging project ﬁnance market
Impairment charge of US$386 million in recognition 
of downturn and consequential delay to projects
Proposed recommended merger of Peter Hambro 
Mining and Aricom announced
Key Financial Information
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2005 2006 2007 2008
Net assets 17,688 527,405 1,142,396 757,866
Net cash equivalents and 
short-term investments (566) 89,668 498,478 257,822
Net (loss)/proﬁt (3,748) (2,582) 111 (426,600)
(Loss)/earnings per share (0.03) (0.01) 0.00 (0.38)
All ﬁgures in the above table are in US$’000 except EPS which is in US$ per share. 
Aricom plc’s Key Performance Indicators are contained within the above table and 
selected highlights. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
02
Group Overview
Mining operations at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
03
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
04
MONGOLI A
CH I N A
RUSS I A
AMUR
UK
s ve e m l ng and d ve dev
us g y p oj R R R sia d s 
e e eg e ne mine o ource o st. T
o o f of fk g h d gio f of
a as wel ctu ruc tr str ns rt in or c ty e p p p
g l he om o C ho n o g g g g m
s. com ustri du c c d
Kuranakh – 100% owned K&S – 100% owned Garinskoye – 99.6% owned
Geology Medium sized titanomagnetite iron
ore and ilmenite deposit
Development Stage Mining commenced and ﬁrst sales 
achieved. Completion due in H2 2009
Forecast Production Annual average sales estimates of 
900ktpa iron ore and 290ktpa ilmenite
at full production
Geology Large magnetite iron ore deposit
Development Stage Combined K&S and Garinskoye
feasibility study completed. Alternative 
development plans in place
Future Production Potential Annual average production estimate
of 3.6mtpa iron ore concentrate and 
potential to beneﬁciate to pig iron 
under combined scenarios
Geology Large magnetite iron ore deposit
Development Stage Combined K&S and Garinskoye
feasibility study completed. 
Conﬁrmation drilling completed
Future Production Potential Annual average production estimate 
of 4.6mtpa iron ore concentrate and
potential to beneﬁciate to pig iron 
under combined scenarios
Ore being loaded into crushing and screening
plant at Kuranakh New federal road next to K&S A A view of Garinskoye Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
05
N
. " " (
) 30 000 /
2. ,
,
I -15 000 / ), .
L E G E N D
ﬁre-prevention regulations.
2.Arrangement of the key production facilities,to be designed by STI, is made with
py titanium sponge plant (the ﬁrst phase capacity is 15, 000 tpy) provided by SAMI institute.
1.This drawing is based on the General Layout (of former cement works site) of 30, 000 
N O T E S :
a consideration of the most practical and process links, and meeting sanitation and
access rail road of former cement works
Eastern Jiamusi station
Dasian road
Dasian road
greenland
greenland
greenland
to Mudanjiang river
Sunsing street
to Jianan substation
Sunsing street to highway 221
liquefaction station
to Tongjiang rive
to Tunsan road
ve
CH I N A
RUSS I A
AMUR
EAO
Vladivostok
Nakhodka
Grodekovo
Blagoveshchensk
Zabaikalsk
Chita
Harbin
Sovetskaya Gavan
Kuranakh
Titanium Sponge
K&S
Bolshoi Seym
Port
Garinskoye
Bridge
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Bolshoi Seym – 49% associate Titanium sponge plant – 
65% joint venture
Infrastructure projects
Geology Medium sized ilmenite and magnetite
iron ore deposit
Development Stage Early stage exploration
Future Production Potential Two concentrates: ilmenite and iron ore 
(titanomagnetite)
Creation of the joint venture in China with Chinalco
Completion of preliminary design of processing plant and equipment
Start of works at project site in Jiamusi Tenders launched for plant and machinery 
Bridge Intention to participate in the
construction of a bridge over the 
Amur River between Russia and China
Port Viability of design and construction of 
a 7mtpa iron ore transhipment terminal
in Russia’s Far East under review
Trans-Siberian railway
Other rail routes
Border
> Key
A view of Bolshoi Seym deposit Plan of proposed plant layout Current port at Sovetskaya Gavan 06
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Aricom’s Unique Position
Projects People
Kuranakh generates ﬁrst revenues Combined K&S and Garinskoye feasibility study completed
Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks acquisitions completed providing natural 
expansion potential to the K&S and 
Garinskoye projects respectively
Portfolio
Aricom’s pipeline of mining projects as well as 
its infrastructure opportunities has focused the 
Group on creating a low cost Anglo-Russian 
industrial commodities champion. Crucial 
construction and operational experience has 
been obtained at the Kuranakh mine which 
generated its ﬁrst revenues in June 2008. 
The key K&S and Garinskoye projects have 
taken further developmental steps with the 
completion of the combined feasibility study. 
There remains the opportunity to move further 
up the value chain through Aricom’s titanium 
sponge joint venture and the potential to 
upgrade K&S’s processed iron ore to pig iron.
Continuing focus on the challenge of recruitment and training of local talent 
Management incorporating Russian operational expertise and Western market 
and corporate experience
By 31 December 2008, 985 people were employed by the Group
A cornerstone of the Company’s development 
is our people. As the portfolio develops, 
Aricom has increased its recruitment drive 
with various initiatives including advertising 
campaigns, management training programmes 
and university scholarships, mostly 
concentrated on the Amur and EAO regions. 
Pre-concentrate from Kuranakh being loaded onto wagons at Olekma Mining supervisor at Kuranakh 07
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
MONGOLIA
CH I N A
RUSSI A
AMUR
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Geography Infrastructure
Close proximity to Russian-Chinese border Long term freight advantage compared to global industrial commodities producers
China remains the key market for Aricom. With 
the beneﬁt of local rail transportation, Aricom 
continues to believe that the combination of an 
abundance of mineral resources and proximity 
to China is a valuable combination of geology 
and geography. The nearby Heilongjang 
region of China has a number of steel plants 
and in the medium term, the Chinese market 
for iron ore is expected to grow further.
Advantageous location of projects close to Trans-Siberian and BAM railroads
Access to locally generated hydroelectric power and the national grid
Potential for further cost advantages through construction of planned bridge 
south of K&S into China
Rail
All of the assets within the portfolio are planned 
to be connected to the rail network. Both the 
Trans-Siberian and BAM railways pass through 
the Amur region with the Trans-Siberian 
continuing into the EAO and running some 4km 
from the planned plant site for the K&S deposit. 
This proximity to rail infrastructure is expected 
to give Aricom signiﬁcant cost advantages.
Power
Aricom’s proposed operations are in areas 
that have access to the national grid and to 
the power provided from hydroelectric power 
stations located in this part of Russia.
Port
Aricom is studying the viability of design 
and construction of a 7mtpa iron ore port 
in Russia’s Far East to provide access 
to the global sea borne market.
Regional map of Russian/Chinese border BAM railway at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
08
Timeline
2008
January
Completion of a 
feasibility study for 
development of a 
titanium sponge 
production plant and 
the execution of a 
binding Memorandum 
of Understanding with 
Chinalco, the largest 
non-ferrous metals 
company in China.
March
Acquisition of 
options to purchase 
Kostenginskoye and 
Garinskoye Flanks 
licences providing 
signiﬁcant natural 
expansion potential 
to the existing K&S 
and Garinskoye 
projects respectively. 
May
Formal process 
commenced for 
the funding of 
construction and 
development for the 
K&S and Garinskoye 
iron ore projects.
June
Aricom achieves 
ﬁrst revenue from 
Kuranakh project.
Pre-concentrate from Kuranakh being loaded onto wagons at Olekma Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
09
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
2009
August
Titanium sponge 
joint venture with 
Chinalco established.
September
Acquisition of 
Garinskoye Flanks 
and Kostenginskoye 
licences completed.
October
Completion of 
combined feasibility 
study for Garinskoye 
and K&S projects 
proving viability 
of both projects 
and independently 
reviewed by industry 
leading consultants.
February
Announcement of 
the ﬁrm intention 
of Peter Hambro 
Mining to pursue a 
recommended merger 
with Aricom which 
will, upon completion, 
create a mining 
industry leader in the 
Far East of Russia.
November
Aricom signs 
Memorandum of 
Understanding with 
MCC relating to 
the construction 
of a beneﬁciation 
plant at K&S.
February
Aricom announces 
a revised K&S 
development plan. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
10
Chairman’s S
Aricom’s portfolio of assets has seen a number of signiﬁcant 
advances during 2008 and it was therefore disappointing
not to see them reﬂected in the year-on-year share price 
performance which was understandably impacted by the
global economic crisis.
In 2008, we saw our ﬁrst sales revenue at Kuranakh and whilst the
contribution from these early stage sales was not material, the
testing of the Group’s logistics division has been invaluable and has
proved our ability to produce and ship our product to market. I am
conﬁdent that we will be fully commissioned by the end of 2009 at
both the Kuranakh and Olekma plants which will see production of 
two proﬁtable products.
In October, we published the feasibility studies on the combined
K&S and Garinskoye project which showed an attractive investment
return whilst maintaining a maximum funding requirement similar to
that announced a year earlier. This was the culmination of a year’s
work and has been fully independently reviewed. I believe this to
be a credit to the strength of the projects and the Aricom team.
External global market and credit factors have weakened 
perceptions of the global mining sector during the last quarter of 
2008 and in recognition of this new paradigm, we are re-working
the project economic analysis in order to develop a more efﬁcient
funding structure. Pre-concentrate sales at Kuranakh have been 
suspended due to a weakening of demand although demand for 
our ﬁnal products remains strong.
Despite the share price performance over the last quarter, 
I believe that the fundamentals supporting the Aricom investment 
proposition remain strong and that we are arguably better 
positioned than many of our peers, with an enviable cash position
at the start of 2009 of over a quarter of a billion dollars and
no debt.
Due to the current crisis, as with many other mining companies, the
Board of Aricom has reviewed the Company’s portfolio of assets
and has provided for impairment where it is considered appropriate 
to do so. In Aricom’s situation this ﬁgure is material due to the 
sharp economic downturn and movement in the Group’s share
price, particularly versus the Balance Sheet value of the Group’s
assets. Further information on impairment provisions is detailed in
the Financial Review on page 40.
I would like to thank all the people who work within the Group and
to welcome those who joined during 2008.  Whilst we are doing
our utmost to reduce costs, I believe that one of the Company’s 
most valuable assets is our human resource and we will continue to 
grow our key skill base as we move toward positive cash ﬂows. 
With cautious optimism, I believe that Aricom begins 2009 from a 
solid base. We have a strong balance sheet and a number of very 
large deposits, within a full spectrum of mining, development and 
delineation that are situated in close proximity to the border of 
one of the world’s largest growth markets. In the second half of the
year, we will be producing from our Kuranakh project, retaining our 
cost advantages into a local market from where demand for our 
products continues to remain strong.
On 6 February 2009 it was announced that the independent board 
committees of Aricom plc and Peter Hambro Mining plc (‘PHM’) 
had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended merger 
of the two companies by which all of the issued share capital of 
Aricom will be acquired by Peter Hambro Mining. The Independent
Aricom Board Committee considered the merger to represent
an attractive opportunity to Aricom shareholders as it will allow 
them to beneﬁt from (i) an enhanced market position, scale and
growth platform and operational and strategic synergies through 
shared infrastructure of closely located operations; (ii) cashﬂow
from the enlarged group’s portfolio of producing assets which 
would help fund the investment required for Aricom’s longer-term 
development plans; and (iii) the potential for signiﬁcant increase in
value of both Peter Hambro Mining and Aricom. It is intended that 
the merger will be effected by way of a Court sanctioned scheme 
of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006. The
merger is conditional upon, among other things, certain Russian 
regulatory conditions being fulﬁlled to the reasonable satisfaction 
of both companies, the passing of the necessary resolutions by the 
shareholders of both companies and the sanction of the Court.
It is anticipated that, if the conditions outlined above are fulﬁlled,
the merger will complete in late April. Aricom intends to hold its 
Annual General Meeting after the expected date of completion 
of the merger.  If the merger does not progress as anticipated
the Annual General Meeting may be held before completion 
of the merger, in which case, shareholders will be informed of 
arrangements for the Annual General Meeting.
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy
Chairman
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, left with Jay Hambro, right Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
11
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Capturing Value by Vertical Integration
With all Aricom projects, we have explored the potential to 
move up the value chain into downstream processing in order 
to maximise the return. The most advanced area in which we are 
addressing this capture of further value is the joint venture with 
Chinalco to process Kuranakh’s ilmenite into titanium sponge. 
During 2008, the two parties ﬁnalised the joint venture agreement 
and entered into the ﬁrst stage of construction.  
In addition, our largest vertical integration project is our plan to 
upgrade our iron ore concentrate to direct reduced iron using 
the ITmk3 process owned by Kobe Steel, with whom we are in 
discussions. This high value-added product is in considerable 
demand in the local market and we are also in discussions with a 
number of potential construction partners.
Another area in which we have moved away from direct mining 
operations to utilise our current portfolio of assets and the 
availability of local expertise is the in-house mining engineering 
institute, Giproruda. The 163 specialists employed by Girproruda 
carry out work on both Aricom and third party projects and 
generate a proﬁt line for the Group as well as aiding our internal 
analytical process.  
Balance Sheet
Aricom enters 2009 with a cash balance of US$257 million and no 
debt.  Cash management has become a priority during the year 
and we have tried to maintain both a diversity of low risk banking 
exposure and blend of dollar and rouble deposits. This has resulted 
in a relatively low return on investment and foreign exchange losses 
due to the weakening rouble.
Cash conservation is a priority for the Group and a macro review of 
budgets and capital expenditure is in place. All project decisions 
are under review pending funding progress.
Outlook
Particularly in this market, I would draw shareholders’ attention 
to the risk section contained in this report, however I share my 
Chairman’s cautious optimism in believing that Aricom begins  
2009 well placed with strong mining assets, a strong cash balance 
and a growing human resource. I would like to thank everyone 
within the Aricom Group for all their hard work and I am conﬁdent 
that we can achieve our targets for 2009 and will continue to unlock 
shareholder value.
Jay Hambro
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The year in review saw Aricom make signiﬁcant progress at key 
stages of project development and, despite the weakened 
commodity markets, the potential for our portfolio of assets to 
deliver long term shareholder value remains in place. The key  
to unlocking this value is suitable funding.
Value Creation in the Mining Portfolio
Kuranakh advanced from mining to ﬁrst production during the year 
and despite signiﬁcant delays we are now seeing good progress 
at the Olekma beneﬁciation plant with commissioning expected in 
the second half of 2009. The successful sales of pre-concentrate 
demonstrated our logistics division’s ability to deliver to market 
whilst the crushing and screening plant is now capable of operating 
at a capacity of 1mtpa.
Aricom’s full feasibility study, the results of which were published 
in October, proved the value and viability of the K&S project and 
was then independently reviewed for the beneﬁt of potential 
project ﬁnanciers. The mine plan shows a life of 40 years on current 
reserves at an average mining rate of 10mtpa. Construction work 
on basic infrastructure at site has commenced and good progress 
is being made on relevant permitting and approvals.
At Garinskoye, conﬁrmation drilling has been completed resulting 
in a proven mine-life of 25 years at 10mtpa. The initial capital outlay 
at Garinskoye has been minimised by reducing the initial scope of 
operations at site to a mining, crushing and screening facility. The 
resultant pre-concentrate would then be transported to the K&S 
project where it would be blended with K&S ore to generate a 65% 
concentrate. The study also shows a pleasing correlation of Russian 
reserve estimates to the internationally accepted JORC standard.  
The announcement of our combined feasibility study coincided 
with the initial peak in concerns on global credit markets and hence 
we have now reviewed further optimisations to reduce signiﬁcantly 
external funding requirements.  
Growth by Acquisition
Value accretive acquisitions remain an integral element of Aricom’s 
growth strategy and during 2008, Aricom acquired strategic 
extensions to both the K&S and Garinskoye projects. Although the 
potential investment return from these acquisitions is long term, 
the size of the resource acquired lifts Garinskoye and K&S to a size 
that is equivalent to a Tier 1 world class project. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
12
Business Review
Aricom’s ﬂeet of Volvo trucks at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
13
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
14
AMUR
Kuranakh Project
First sales of iron ore pre- concentrate achieved
Crushing and screening plant operational
Initial development of open pit completed 
Progress on construction of beneﬁciation plant and 
infrastructure 
Background picture: Atlas Copco drill at Kuranakh
Inset picture: Conveyor at the crushing and screeing plant at Kuranakh
Reserves and Resources
Kuranakh GKZ
& Saikta* Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
B 5.5 32.9 1.8
C1 18.9 32.0 6.1
C2 11.8 33.0 3.9
Total 36.2 32.4 11.8
JORC
Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Measured – – –
Indicated 37.9 32.1 12.2
Inferred – – –
Total 37.9 32.1 12.2
* SRK and WAI found the reserves to be generally JORC compliant. Additional exploration of the
other six ore bodies is scheduled in order to increase the estimated resources available for mining. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
15
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Business Review
Group Overview
Kuranakh Project 
Titanomagnetite Deposit Nearing Commissioning
Location
North West Amur region
Ownership
LLC Olekminsky Rudnik – 100% Aricom subsidiary
Licence area
85km²
Life of mineable reserves
15 years
Number of ore zones
Two with six more suggesting exploration
Expected per annum production
0.9mtpa titanomagnetite; 0.29mtpa ilmenite
Background
LLC Olekminsky Rudnik (‘Olekminsky Rudnik’), the 100% owned 
subsidiary of Aricom, holds the licence for the exploration and 
development of the Kuranakh ilmenite and titanomagnetite deposit 
in the north west of the Amur Region. Kuranakh was acquired in 
December 2003 from Peter Hambro Mining plc.
Mining 
The stripping of overburden and mining of ore continued 
throughout the year at the Saikta open pit. Mining was 
concentrated on the 740–770 elevation benches with the majority 
of ore coming from the 740 bench. As budgeted, a surveyed 
total of 789,500m³ of overburden and 100,500t of ore had been 
moved by the end of the year with the majority of the overburden 
material being used to build the haulroads in and around the site. 
Approximately 89,000 linear metres of blast holes had been drilled 
by 31 December 2008. 
Mining Equipment
Three EKG5A electric rope shovels have been working in the open 
pit with the remaining two expected to be operational in the ﬁrst 
half of 2009. The following mining equipment was delivered during 
the year:
20 Volvo A40E articulated trucks – all commissioned and operational;
One Atlas Copco DML overburden drill; ANFO truck (10t capacity) – commissioned and permitted; and Six HOWO pre-concentrate haulage trucks. Processing 
Kuranakh Crushing and Screening Plant
Despite the bad weather conditions, including extremely low 
temperatures in the ﬁrst and last quarters of 2008, the construction 
works at the crushing and screening plant proceeded during the 
spring and summer. All of the required equipment was purchased 
from Chinese and Ukrainian companies, delivered to site and 
installed. Two cone crushers and one magnetic separator were 
commissioned in October 2008 and as a result, the ﬁrst stage 
of the crushing and screening plant was commissioned and 
subsequently produced more than 10,000t of pre-concentrate. 
Out of this, nearly 6,000t was sold although production from the 
plant was subsequently suspended temporarily in December. A 
further two cone crushers and three magnetic separators were 
commissioned in December and by the end of the year all of the 
plant buildings were fully enclosed and heated. 
At full capacity 2.4mt of ore will be crushed annually to produce 
1.8mt of pre-concentrate. 
2008 Progress
First Shipments of Pre-concentrate
On 19 June 2008, Aricom announced that it had completed the ﬁrst 
product sales from Kuranakh. The shipped product was an iron ore 
pre-concentrate that was mined and processed from the Kuranakh 
deposit. This was an initial sale from previously stockpiled material 
which was delivered, by truck, from Kuranakh to the Aricom loading 
yard at the Olekma railway station. 
Regular shipments of iron ore pre-concentrate from the crushing 
and screening plant, amounting to 5,864t, were delivered in 
October and November. In early December, owing to the rapidly 
deteriorating market conditions no longer supporting the economic 
value in selling pre-concentrate, sales were suspended to await 
commissioning of the Olekma processing plant in mid-2009. By 
31 December 2008, 13,500t of pre-concentrate had been produced 
and 10,015t had been shipped.
Mining truck at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
16
Kuranakh Project continued
Olekma Process Plant Site
Despite the overall delay, generally good progress was achieved 
on construction throughout the year notwithstanding exceptionally 
cold weather in the ﬁrst and last quarters of 2008. Further delays 
were experienced due to the late delivery of the electrostatic 
separators but by the end of December 2008, all processing 
equipment had arrived at the site and was ready for installation.
Speciﬁc progress on construction during 2008 included:
Completion of the outer shell of the main process building (300t of structural steel);
Completion of all internal frameworks including overhead bridge cranes;
Completion of internal thermal cladding and installation of heaters; and
Commencement of the concrete foundation platforms for equipment.
Construction and commissioning of the entire process plant is 
expected to be completed during H2 2009.
Infrastructure
Support Facilities 
The majority of the administrative, accommodation and other 
associated support infrastructure was completed and in operation 
by the year end. Construction of the fourth accommodation 
block and transitional galleries between levels should be 
completed shortly whilst the heating and water treatment 
systems are operational and the site laboratory and site 
shop are almost complete.
Rail Connection
Completion of the assembly works associated with the rail tracks 
for the three site sidings and the spur line to the BAM mainline is 
expected early in 2009. 
Human Resources
Recruitment for all levels of management and operational 
personnel is proceeding on schedule. The human resources 
department made visits to various training institutes in the Amur 
and other regions as well as conducting an extensive advertising 
campaign both in the Russian Far East and major university cities. 
In addition, Aricom has commenced a full management training 
programme to attract young graduates to the operations. At the 
end of 2008, the Kuranakh project had a total staff of 576 working 
at Kuranakh, Tynda and in the Blagoveschensk regional ofﬁce.
Accommodation block at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
17
AMUR
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Business Review
Group Overview
K&S Project 
Completion of the K&S and Garinskoye Feasibility Study 
Signing of the MOU with MCC for the construction of the 
Beneﬁciation Plant
Site preparation and initial construction programme 
commenced
Background picture: An overhead view of K&S
Inset picture: Exploration drilling at Sutara
Reserves and Resources
GKZ
Kimkan* Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
A 17.8 35.9 6.4
B 69.4 35.5 24.6
C1 102.2 35.5 36.3
C2 32.3 35.2 11.4
Total 221.7 35.5 78.7
Sutara est. pre GKZ approval
C1 369.3 32.7 120.76
JORC**
Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Measured – – –
Indicated 165.9 33.8 56.2
Inferred 83.1 32.9 27.4
Total 249.0 33.5 83.5
Measured – – –
Indicated 248.0 30.9 76.6
Inferred 58.2 30.9 18.0
Total 306.2 30.9 94.6
* Formally reviewed by WAI February 2007 for pre-feasibility study and now inputted into
Micromine model.
** JORC estimate as independently reviewed by WAI. Further exploration work ongoing at Sutara. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
18
K&S Project Magnetite Iron Ore Deposit in Development
Location
Obluchensky district of the EAO
Ownership
KS GOK – 100% Aricom subsidiary
Licence area
Kimkanskoye: 22.4km²; Sutarskoye: 27km²
Life of mine
25–40 years
Number of ore zones
Kimkan: 7; Sutara: 3
Expected per annum production
3.6mtpa iron ore; 2.5mtpa direct reduced iron
Background
The K&S (‘Kimkanskoye’ & ‘Sutarskoye’) deposits were ﬁrst 
identiﬁed in the early 1950s and 1960s and are located close to 
both the Trans-Siberian railway (4km) and the Chinese border 
(c.60km). The licences over the two deposits were granted to 
LLC Rubicon (now known as KS GOK) in February 2006 and have 
a term of 20 years, which is extendable with the consent of the 
licensing authority. In April 2006, Aricom acquired an option to 
purchase 50% of LLC Rubicon which holds the licences. In June 
2006, Aricom acquired the 50% interest in K&S not subject to 
the option and subsequently exercised the option and completed 
the transaction in August 2007, consequently owning 100% of 
the K&S project.
2008 Progress
Exploration
Drilling
Geological exploration works were completed at Kimkanskoye 
(‘Kimkan’) and continued at Sutarskoye (‘Sutara’) with ﬁve 
exploration borehole drills being used overall. By the end of 
December 2008, c.21,000 linear metres of drilling and 47,000m³ of 
trenches were completed. All geological and geotechnical drilling 
is expected to be completed by mid 2009.
Hydrogeology
During 2008, six hydrogeological boreholes were drilled, lined 
and capped ready for pumping. In May 2008, GKZ conﬁrmed 
water pumping potential of 5,000m³ per day following extensive 
test pumping of underground aquifers and water analysis. 
The hydrological works at the Kimkan River and hydrological 
exploration works at Sutara are ongoing and results are expected 
during the ﬁrst quarter of 2009.
Geotechnical
Geotechnical exploration for the accommodation camp and the 
process plant sites and in the area of the tailings management 
facility was completed in the ﬁrst quarter of 2008, and tree 
clearance commenced in the areas approved by the Federal 
authorities. At the Kimkan deposit, a local construction company 
tested the overburden stripping material to determine whether it 
can be used for construction purposes with results due shortly.
Reserves and Resources
In September 2008, Aricom completed the conversion of 
K&S reserve and resource calculations from the Russian GKZ 
classiﬁcation to the internationally accepted JORC classiﬁcation. 
Exploration camp at K&S
JORC resources of the Kimkan deposit. Cut-off grade 25% Fe total
Speciﬁc
Volume Tonnage weight Fe total
Category ‘000m³ ‘000 m³/t %
Indicated 49,641 165,826 3.3 33.8
Inferred 25,693 83,120 3.2 32.9
Total 75,334 248,946 3.3 33.5
JORC resources of the Sutara deposit. Ore body 1. Cut-off grade 24% Fe total
Speciﬁc
Volume Tonnage weight Fe total
Category ‘000m³ ‘000 m³/t %
Indicated 72,944 248,011 3.4 30.9
Inferred 17,116 58,197 3.4 30.9
Total 90,060 306,208 3.4 30.9 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
19
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
New federal road next to K&S
Procurement and Construction
Aricom held discussions with a number of local and international 
companies regarding the construction contracts for processing 
and infrastructure. Negotiations focused on local contractors 
for the smaller, more numerous, infrastructure contracts (roads, 
rail connections, power and water supplies) and international 
contractors for the larger contract for constructing the mine and 
process plants. 
The contract negotiations for the processing plant culminated 
in October 2008 with Aricom entering into a non-binding 
Memorandum of Understanding with China Metallurgical Group 
Corporation (‘MCC’). MCC are one of the largest equipment 
manufacturers in China and a leading Chinese contractor to 
the metals and mining industry. The MoU provides the basis for 
discussions between Aricom and MCC concerning the signing of 
an engineering, procurement and construction agreement (‘EPC’ 
contract) based on an internationally recognised form of contract 
(such as the International Federation of Consulting Engineers 
(FIDIC)) for ﬁxed price, EPC/turnkey projects. 
Negotiations with equipment manufacturers to supply both the 
K&S and Garinskoye projects with crushers, screens, ball mills, 
magnetic separators and specialised vehicles, took place during 
the second half of the year. 
By the end of December 2008, construction work had commenced 
on access roads and site clearing for a temporary construction camp.
Social and Environmental
Public Consultation
Two public consultations on the project were organised in May 
and June 2008 in conjunction with the EAO government and 
the local district administration. A preliminary consultation 
gathered approximately 70 local citizens, potential employees, 
and representatives of the authorities, whilst the main public 
hearing attracted 155 participants. The issues discussed at both 
meetings included the social and environmental impacts of the 
project, regional infrastructure development, and employment 
opportunities. Participants unanimously supported the project.
Human Resources
At the end of December 2008, 118 people were employed in the 
regional ofﬁce in Birobidjan and at the K&S project site. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
20
AMUR
Garinskoye
Completion of initial exploration drilling
Completion of Public Enquiry Background picture: A view of Garinskoye
Inset picture: A view of Garinskoye
Reserves and Resources
GKZ
Garinskoye Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
A 22.5 42.7 9.6
B 61.3 43.2 26.5
C1 127.7 40.8 52.1
C2 177.3 40.8 72.3
Total 388.8 41.3 160.5
JORC Equivalent*
Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Measured – – –
Indicated 244.0 34.2 83.5
Inferred 146.9 31.6 46.4
Total 390.9 33.2 129.9
* JORC estimate as independently reviewed by WAI. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
21
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
Garinskoye
Magnetite Iron Ore Deposit in Development
Location
Mazanovsky District in Central Amur
Ownership
99.58% Aricom
Licence area
12km²
Life of mine
40 years
Number of ore zones
One
Expected per annum production
4.6mtpa iron ore
Background
In October 2006, Rosnedra (the Federal Subsoil Service) initiated 
a tender for the licence to mine iron ore at the Garinskoye 
deposit. Following the acquisition of an initial 70.22% interest in 
Garinskoye in September 2007, pursuant to an agreement dated 
March 2007, in December 2007, Aricom conditionally agreed to 
increase its ownership in Garinskoye to 99.58%. In February 2008, 
a further 29.26%, owned by Olis Constructions Limited (‘Olis’), was 
purchased by Aricom. 
2008 Progress
Exploration
Drilling
Conﬁrmation and geotechnical drilling was ongoing throughout 
2008 and by the end of December, a total of 2,091 linear metres 
had been completed. The geotechnical study of potential pit 
wall stability began in March and is being performed by a St. 
Petersburg based company. This will continue throughout the 
winter drilling season and results are expected in early 2009.
Procurement and Construction
Negotiations with equipment manufacturers to supply both the 
K&S and Garinskoye projects with crushers, screens, ball mills, 
magnetic separators, and specialised vehicles, took place during 
the second half of the year. 
The geotechnical research and work necessary for receiving 
approvals for the construction of the access roads and other 
infrastructure commenced in July. The survey and design works 
for the ﬁrst stage of the construction of the access roads will 
commence in the ﬁrst half of 2009. 
Environmental Studies
A contract was signed with a local environmental specialist 
to prepare the preliminary environmental impact study for 
the Garinskoye project. This study, based on the results of 
environmental baseline conditions, was ﬁnished in October and 
the results will be incorporated into the ﬁnal OVOS report (Russian 
Environmental Impact Assessment), to be issued in 2009. The 
results of the preliminary study concluded that despite impacts on 
the environment and the local populace, the overall social impact 
of the project will be beneﬁcial and will result in improvements to 
regional infrastructure and an increase in local employment.
Public Consultations
The Garinskoye public enquiry took place on 4 December 2008 
with over 250 attendees from the local communities, administration 
and related stakeholders. Aricom gave presentations on project 
development, environment and employment opportunities. Whilst 
a number of local stakeholders had concerns over the effect of 
a large industrial project on an otherwise rural environment, the 
majority of attendees were supportive.
Human Resources
Aricom has embarked upon a programme to select local high 
school students for further education and training. The students 
will receive an Aricom scholarship to study at universities in Russia’s 
Far East and will be guaranteed employment at the end of their 
study period. By 31 December 2008, 17 people were employed on 
the Garinskoye project in Blagoveschensk.
A view of Garinskoye Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
22
Background
In October 2008, Aricom completed and published the results of 
its Combined K&S and Garinskoye Feasibility Study. 
The study envisaged both K&S and Garinskoye being developed 
by open pit mining methods, both mining ore at the rate of 10mtpa 
and both delivering their ore to feed a single optimised processing 
plant to be located at K&S. The study also included plans to 
commission a direct reduced iron (‘DRI’) facility at the K&S project 
site utilising iron ore concentrate feed from the processing plant to 
produce iron nuggets.
The study received positive independent review by industry 
leading consultants, including Wardell Armstrong International and 
Hatch Engineering and in addition, JORC reserve estimates were 
independently generated for K&S and Garinskoye which showed 
good correlation to historical estimates.
Process
The central processing plant at K&S would process both the 
pre-concentrated ore from Garinskoye (7.26mtpa) and the 
run-of-mine ore from the Kimkan and Sutara pits (10mtpa) with 
annual production of 8.2mtpa of iron concentrate at 65% Fe. 
Approximately 3.75mtpa of that concentrate will be sent to the 
proposed DRI plant for further processing. The balance, some 
4.55mtpa, will be sold as concentrate. 
The DRI plant which will be located in the same industrial complex 
as the processing plant is expected to use the Kobe Steel Ltd 
owned ‘ITmk3’ technology which uses a coal based rotary hearth 
furnace to form iron nuggets. At full production this plant should 
produce 2.5mtpa of iron nuggets which will be sold in this form.
K&S and Garinskoye Combined Feasibility Study
Infrastructure
The K&S project is located close to the Trans-Siberian Railway and 
the road and energy network. The full feasibility study proposes 
that Aricom will re-construct a small section of historic railway 
connection and loading/unloading facilities. The main area of 
infrastructure required is a camp for approximately 1,100 people 
and relevant heating, water and electricity supplies.
The Garinskoye project is located approximately equidistant 
between the Trans-Siberian and BAM railways. The optimised study 
has looked at the local area in detail in order to reduce the original 
cost of constructing a railway connection to Garinskoye from one of 
the national networks. Aricom commissioned a study from a North 
American contractor for the construction of a 124km cable belt 
conveyor connecting Garinskoye to a spur from the Trans-Siberian 
Railway at Shimanovsk where Aricom would build a storage area 
and loading facilities. The second main area of infrastructure 
required is a camp for approximately 500 people and relevant 
heating, water and electricity supplies.
Mineable Reserve Analysis
The Company used a Russian contractor to construct detailed 
mine plans for both the K&S and Garinskoye projects using both 
historical geological data as used in the GKZ reserve and resource 
data and the more recent conﬁrmation drilling that Aricom 
has undertaken. The following table sets out this information 
and highlights the good correlation between the historical 
mineable reserves to what has been redrilled and 
independently reviewed recently:
GKZ Mineable JORC Mineable
GKZ Reserve Estimate Reserve Estimate Estimated Mine Life
Resource Estimate *** **** *****
Garinskoye 388mt at 41.3%** 223mt at 38.5%** 220mt at 37.9%* 25 years
K&S 564mt at 33.7%* 539mt at 33.7%* 377mt at 31.8%* 40 years
Total 953mt at 36.7% 762mt at 35.1% 597mt at 34.0% 40 years
* Conﬁrmed by GKZ in 1956 for Kimkan deposit and calculated, but not conﬁrmed, for the Sutara deposit.
** Conﬁrmed by GKZ in 1956.
*** Mineable reserve estimated as GKZ A + B + C1 categories.
**** Mineable reserve estimate as independently reviewed by WAI.
***** Mine life as estimated by Aricom studies at forecast annual mining capacity and based on reserves before the addition of resources and halo areas.
Drilling at K&S Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
23
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
Geological exploration camp at Sutarskoye
Capital Expenditure
The maximum capital expenditure requirements for the differing phases of the various projects are detailed below: 
To Concentrate On to DRI
US$ million K&S Garinskoye K&S Total
Design & Other   29 37 88 154
Infrastructure   157 549 7 713
Mining 7447n/a121
Beneﬁciation   276 69 971 1,316
Total 5367021,0662,304
The majority of these estimates are based on actual quotations 
received. For the purpose of this analysis all capital expenditure 
totals are shown as pre-production and so do not include ongoing 
sustaining capital expenditure which is expected to be on average 
US$10 million per annum. 
Construction Contracts
The working assumption is that Aricom manages a number of 
subcontractors for the construction and development of the 
necessary infrastructure and initial mining operations.
In November 2008, the Company entered into a non-binding 
Memorandum of Understanding (‘MoU’) with China Metallurgical 
Group Corporation (‘MCC’), one of the largest equipment 
manufacturers in China and a leading Chinese contractor to the 
metals and mining industry. The MoU relates to the construction 
of the central processing plant at K&S and provides the basis for 
discussions between Aricom and MCC concerning the signing of 
an engineering, procurement and construction agreement (‘EPC’ 
contract) based on an internationally recognised form of contract 
(such as the International Federation of Consulting Engineers 
(‘FIDIC’)) for ﬁxed price, EPC/turnkey projects.
The DRI plant would be the subject of a separate contract and 
Aricom has received a proposal from an international contractor.
Revised K&S development plan
Due to the current global economic crisis and the resulting 
signiﬁcant downturn in the availability of debt ﬁnancing, Aricom 
has sought to optimise the construction and development phasing 
of the K&S and Garinskoye projects to bring smaller, less capital 
intensive, mining and processing operations into production at the 
earliest possible time whilst maintaining attractive returns.
An updated analysis of the K&S operation has been developed 
based upon mining ore at an initial capacity of 3.5mtpa (increasing 
in year seven to 10mtpa) to be delivered to a processing plant 
producing 1.1mtpa of saleable iron ore concentrate at a grade of 
65.8% Fe. The analysis also assumes that two years after the start of 
the processing plant, a DRI plant, employing the Kobe Steel ITmk3 
technology, would process 0.75mtpa of iron ore concentrate to 
produce 0.5mtpa of DRI nuggets.
The K&S analysis shows that signiﬁcant project optimisation can 
be achieved by reducing the initial capacity of the processing and 
DRI plants, with the modular nature of both allowing expansion at 
a later date. This should achieve an immediate capital expenditure 
reduction of approximately 70% in the cost of the processing 
plant and nearly 80% in the DRI plant versus the original plan. 
Further reductions can be achieved in capital expenditure for site 
infrastructure with the reduced size of the operation allowing a very 
signiﬁcant saving of approximately US$70 million to be made to 
the original plan of building additional railway infrastructure near 
to the pit. The total infrastructure saving, which also includes 
reductions in the size of the accommodation camp and the tailings 
facilities, represents an approximately 50% reduction versus the 
original plan.
Any option to reduce the size of the K&S operation would also 
reduce capital expenditure required at the mining site itself. The 
sequential mining of the project’s three pits (Kimkanskoye Central, 
Kimkanskoye West and Sutarskoye) makes it possible to reduce 
initial capital investments in the mining equipment such as drill rigs, 
excavators, bulldozers and mine trucks. The total mining reduction 
is approximately 60% versus the original plan. Overall capital 
expenditure for the reduced K&S project to progress to the start-
up stage is estimated to be approximately US$420 million, US$116 
million less than envisaged under the original plan.
This reduced capital expenditure gives the project signiﬁcant 
option value. Financial and iron ore markets will continue to be 
monitored by the Enlarged Group for evidence that the projected 
economic requirements of the study are in place. In the interim, 
the work programme at K&S is under constant review to minimise 
cash outﬂow whilst keeping some positive momentum on 
project development. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
24
AMUR
Bolshoi Seym Project Titanomagnetite Exploration Deposit
Background picture: A view of Bolshoi Seym deposit
Location Location
Tyndinski district, 40km to south 
of Kuranakh
Ownership Ownership
49% Aricom, 51% Managing Company 
Intergeo LLC (‘Intergeo’)
Licence area Licence area
26km²
Life of mine Life of mine
n/a
Number of ore zones Number of ore zones
n/a
Expected per annum production Expected per annum production
n/a
Background
In February 2006, Aricom entered into 
a heads of agreement with Timia, a 
company related to Interros, which is 
the major shareholder in OJSC Norilsk 
Nickel. The heads of agreement 
related to the establishment of a new 
holding company for LLC Uralmining 
(‘Uralmining’), the company that owns 
the licence to develop the Bolshoi 
Seym deposit. The holding company is 
49% owned by Aricom and 51% owned 
by Timia with Aricom appointing the 
General Director of Uralmining. 
2008 Progress
Exploration
Drilling
The drilling operations have been 
conducted on a pattern 200m long by 
100m wide. 49 inclined boreholes were 
drilled, during the year, on nine cross-
sections. Most of the drilling operations 
were concentrated in the eastern ore 
zone and one cross-section was drilled 
that intersected the ore bodies of the 
western ore zone. Geophysical logging 
was conducted in all of the boreholes. The 
drilling results to date indicate that the ore 
bodies have a thickness of between 10 to 
30m. The ore bodies have been explored to 
a depth of 400m.
The ﬁeldworks completed by 31 December 
2008 included:
Geological-environmental works on analysis of the baseline conditions. 
Environmental samples were sent to the 
Center of Hygiene and Epidemiology; 
37,375 linear metres of drilling works were completed, including four 
hydrogeological boreholes (852m);
17,526 core samples were taken and the analytical results of 10,732 samples were 
received by Urangeo (the subcontractor 
responsible for sample analysis);
7,800m³ of trenching works were 
completed;
3,952m 3
 of trench samples were 
completed and analysis results obtained 
for 498 samples; and
Two technological samples were sent to analytical laboratories – 23t were sent 
to Apatity and 315t were sent to 
Udokan.
The project is under review.
Reserves and Resources
GKZ
Bolshoi Seym* Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
C2 270.0 18.0 48.6
P1 430.0 17.8 76.5
Total 700.0 17.9 125.1
JORC Equivalent
Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Indicated – – –
Inferred 270.0 18.0 48.6
Total 270.0 18.0 48.6
* Kulakov 1988 estimate.
Note: These values are geological cut-offs and tend to deﬁne the margins of mineralisation. WAI is
satisﬁed with this methodology adopted by Aricom. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
25
AMUR
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
Background picture: A view of Garinkskoye
Kostenginskoye and 
Garinskoye Flanks Projects
Background
In March 2008, Aricom acquired options 
to purchase two licences close to the 
existing K&S and Garinskoye projects. 
The options were acquired from two 
Cypriot companies, which indirectly held 
the licences, with two cash payments 
of US$22.5 million paid at the time of 
the announcement. Subsequently, in 
September, the options were exercised 
and a further payment was made 
consisting of the allotment and issue of 
10,937,500 (21,875,000 in total) ordinary 
shares of £0.001 each in the capital of 
the Company (‘Consideration Shares’) 
credited as fully paid to the sellers.
Kostenginskoye
The Kostenginskoye licence covers an 
area located approximately 25km to the 
south of Aricom’s K&S project. This will 
provide signiﬁcant natural expansion 
potential to the existing project at K&S.
To date, preliminary site surveying and 
aerial magnetometer surveys have taken 
place at Kostenginskoye. The programme 
for the exploration of the deposit was 
developed by Aricom and approved by the 
local (Khabarovsky region) authorities and 
will commence in Q1 2009. It will include:
Bore hole drilling – a) exploration – 39,585m;
– b) technological – 4,780m;
– c) hydro geological – 2,800m;
– d) sterilisation – 500m;
Trenching – 159,600m³; Geomagnetic surveying – 12.5km²; and Sampling – 17,641 samples. Garinskoye Flanks
The Garinskoye Flanks licence covers an 
area of 3,530km² immediately surrounding 
Aricom’s current Garinskoye licence. Aricom 
is preparing and reviewing the exploration 
programme.
Reserves and Resources
GKZ
Kostenginskoye Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
A/B/C1/C2 163.9 31.6 51.8
P1/P2 100.0 31.6 31.6
Total 263.9 31.6 83.4
Garinskoye GKZ
Flanks Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
A/B/C1/C2 6.3 41.3 2.6
P1/P2 975.0 41.3 402.6
Total 981.3 41.3 405.2
JORC Equivalent
Kostenginskoye Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Indicated – – –
Inferred 163.9 31.6 51.8
Total 163.9 31.6 51.8
Garinskoye JORC Equivalent
Flanks Ore Mt Grade % Fe Mt
Indicated – – –
Inferred 6.3 41.3 2.6
Total 6.3 41.3 2.6 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
26
Giproruda
Background
Based in St. Petersburg and employing 163 people (at 31 
December 2008), Giproruda is one of Russia’s most respected 
mining design institutes specialising in the analysis and design of 
both open pit and underground mining projects. Giproruda has 
considerable experience in extreme mining, geological and climatic 
conditions. Aricom holds a 70.3% interest in Giproruda.
Iron ore is a key area of the institute’s expertise. This will be of 
speciﬁc beneﬁt in the analysis and design of a number of Aricom’s 
future and existing development projects. Giproruda continues its 
work programme for other customers and estimates that it currently 
has a 60% market share in the project design services sector in the 
Russian mining sphere.
Completion of the Garinskoye pre-feasibility study
Completion of the new Hydrometallurgical Laboratory
2008 Progress
During 2008, Giproruda conducted studies on:
The Garinskoye feasibility study (as described previously); A Far East Russian oil and gas project for a third party; and A gold project for a third party. All the main key performance indicators for 2008 exceeded 
the forecast results by between 15% and 30% with three of 
the institute’s design projects being approved by the Federal 
authorities. In 2008, Giproruda also introduced new technology for 
design and cost accounting and an IT modernisation programme 
including the purchase of the latest mine planning software.
Hydrometallurgical Laboratory
In December 2008, Giproruda opened their new hydrometallurgical 
laboratory in St. Petersburg. This state of the art laboratory is 
equipped with the latest hydrometallurgical test equipment from 
Switzerland. The focal point of this new facility is the installation 
of three autoclaves for heat and pressure testing of ores. There 
are two specialised ecological systems in the laboratory, which 
purify the autoclave emissions and thus allow the laboratory to be 
sited close to the centre of St. Petersburg. The laboratory will be 
available for third party test work from the ﬁrst quarter of 2009.
Computerised design Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
27
AMUR
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
Titanium Sponge Plant Downstream Chinese Joint Venture
Location Location
Jiamusi City, China
Ownership Ownership
65% Aricom, 35% Aluminium Corporation of China (‘Chinalco’)
Background 
In order to capture additional proﬁt margins available in the 
processing of ilmenite to be produced by Kuranakh, in June 2006 
Aricom signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Chinalco,
the largest nonferrous metal company in China and the owner of 
China’s largest titanium metal processing plant, for the design and 
development of a titanium sponge production plant in China. 
Aricom will provide the joint venture with capital, ilmenite from
its Kuranakh project and expertise in titanium resources and
technology. Chinalco will provide capital, technologies, proﬁciency 
in engineering design, construction and metal production and 
ensure off-take of the titanium sponge to be produced by
the plant.
2008 Progress
Project Approval by the Chinese Authorities and Creation 
of the Joint Venture
During the ﬁrst half of 2008, Aricom and Chinalco completed
all necessary surveying at site and ﬁled an application with the
Chinese authorities for the establishment of a joint venture in 
Jiamusi city (Heilongjiang province, China). The relevant approvals 
from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry for 
Land and Resources, China Ministry of Commerce and, crucially, 
the China National Development and Reform Committee were
subsequently obtained in the summer and in September 2008, 
the joint venture, now called Heilongjiang Jiatai Titanium Co., was 
registered and received its business licence. On 10 September 
2008, the ofﬁcial ceremony of laying the foundation stone was
conducted and the ﬁrst board meeting was held.
The Joint Venture commenced negotiations with the Chinese banks 
on the issue of project ﬁnancing during the fourth quarter 2008.
Design
The basic design of the processing plant and necessary equipment
was completed by the State Titanium and Design Institute of 
Ukraine (STI) in June 2008 whilst the preliminary design of the 
whole plant is expected to be completed by Shenyang Aluminium
and Magnesium Institute (SAMI) in the ﬁrst half of 2009. 
The full detailed design of the plant will be completed jointly by STI 
and SAMI in September 2009.
Site Preparation and Construction
Construction exploration works are being carried out by a company
from Xian, which commenced a drilling programme and seismic 
surveys at the construction site in November 2008 in preparation 
for the start of the main construction programme which is
currently expected to be in the spring of 2009. Site levelling
has already begun. 
Several tenders have already been sought for the procurement 
of the plant and machinery and the joint venture still expects full 
commissioning of the plant by the end of 2010. 
This project is under review.
Creation of the Joint Venture with Chinalco Completion of preliminary design of processing plant and equipment
Start of works at project site in Jiamusi Tenders launched for plant and machinery Titanium sponge opening ceremony in Jiamus City Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
28
EAO
Infrastructure
Background picture: An overhead view of the Sovetskaya Gavan Bay
Inset picture: Current port at Sovetskaya Gavan, proposed bridge site Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
29
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
Background
Aricom is participating in the project for a bridge over the Amur 
River. The site is close to the Russian town of Nizhneleninskoye 
and the Chinese town of Tongjiang. The river at this location has 
an approximate width of 1km and a maximum depth of between 
approximately 5 to 6m. The Russian railway network has a 
connection to the town of Nizhneleninskoye from the Trans-Siberian 
Railway station at the capital of the EAO, Birobidjan. This connects 
the network to Nizhneleninskoye where there is an established 
crossing point of the river/border. This crossing is currently served 
by a natural ice bridge for approximately three months of the year 
and a ferry for the remainder of the year.
For Aricom, the presence of the new bridge suggests a saving in 
transport costs of approximately US$4.0 per tonne of iron ore. This 
bridge would also be available to other local industries and would 
be seen as a key advance for the local economy.
2008 Progress
Intergovernmental Approval
In 2008, the major focus was Aricom’s involvement in progressing 
the Intergovernmental Agreement between Russia and China. By 
1 October 2008, all of the necessary approvals had been received 
from the relevant authorities and the documents were submitted 
by the Ministry of Transport to the Government of the Russian 
Federation. On 28 October 2008 at the meeting of the Heads of 
Governments of the Russian Federation and China, the Agreement 
was signed. 
Location
In the ﬁrst half of 2008, the location of the bridge and its overall 
design were ﬁnalised. A wide range of geodetic, geological and 
hydrological tests have being carried out at the project site. 
Working meetings were conducted between Russian and Chinese 
design companies both in Birobidjan and in Tongjiang during which 
the order of design works, the bridge parameters and the future 
cooperation plan were agreed.
A local design company has started the topographic surveying of 
the bridge site and further construction and infrastructural design. 
The St. Petersburg Bridge Institute is working on the technical 
requirements for bridge construction. 
Further Development
As no State ﬁnancing has been designated for this project, and 
there has been no precedent in Russia of having a privately-funded 
cross-border bridge, consultations are currently being held by 
the Russian State Institute of Comparative Law in order to agree 
upon a legal framework. When the legal framework has been 
deﬁned, an investment proposal will be formed and construction 
can commence. On the basis of current preliminary plans, and 
assuming availability of ﬁnance, construction of the bridge could be 
completed by 2013.
The capacity of the existing railroad between Birobidjan and 
Nizhneleninskoye will not be enough to satisfy the cargo 
throughput of the bridge. Works on reaching an agreement with 
JSC ‘Russian Railways’ on upgrading the railroad from Birobidjan 
to Leninsk are ongoing. 
Infrastructure Bridge ‘Nizhneleninskoye – Tongjiang’
Consolidated Intergovernmental Agreement approved 
Bridge location speciﬁed Artist’s impression of bridge Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
30
2008 Progress
Special Economic Zone Status
Following a successful tender, the land is expected to be granted 
Special Economic Zone (‘SEZ’) status. The status is awaiting 
conﬁrmation from a Governmental decree, after which SGMTP 
will be able to complete the formalities of applying for a status 
of a resident company in the zone. Such companies will enjoy a 
number of governmental beneﬁts including state ﬁnancing of the 
modernisation of the railway, construction of a marshalling yard 
near the port and improvements in the power grid capacity. Other 
beneﬁts include lower taxes and import/export duties (depending 
on the commodity).
In October 2008, the Federal Agency for SEZs visited the area to 
meet with local authorities and study the scope and volume of 
infrastructure works to be carried out at government expense. 
In December 2008, at a meeting of the Maritime Panel of the 
Russian Federal Government, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergey 
Ivanov stressed that the development of SEZs for ports and their 
adjacent infrastructure, as well as the promotion of public-private 
partnership in the development of the zones, was and will be 
among the top priorities of the Russian Government Maritime Panel 
and Federal Agency for SEZs.
Future Development
In preparation for the construction, SGMTP is applying for a licence 
that would allow it to act as the construction supervisor.
In 2009, Aricom will continue dialogue with potential strategic 
partners and also study the possibility of teaming up with other 
bulk commodity producers to jointly construct and operate the 
bulk terminal.
Container Terminal
In 2008, Aricom began plans for the potential construction 
of a container terminal in addition to the bulk terminal. Situated 
inside the SEZ, the container terminal could be a separate 
commercial project which would use the same railway branch 
and marshalling yard. 
The BAM has the potential to be a faster rail link to Europe than 
the Trans-Siberian Railway from the other ports in Russia’s Far East, 
such as Nakhodka and Vladivostok. In addition, the Sovetskaya 
Gavan gulf has better depths and manoeuvring capabilities, 
allowing reception of vessels with deadweight of more 
than 200,000t.
Aricom is currently talking to a number of potential strategic 
partners regarding the ﬁnancing of construction and the 
management of the port.
Infrastructure Sea Terminal in the Sovetskaya Gavan Gulf
Sovetskaya Gavan won a tender to manage a Special Seaport Economic Zone
Active interest from potential partners Background
In order to reduce transport costs and to improve the number 
of logistical options for the Group’s mining projects, Aricom is 
studying the viability of the design and construction of an iron 
ore transhipment terminal in Russia’s Far East. The terminal would 
provide facilities for the unloading of incoming railway carriages, 
temporary storage of ore, and loading ore onto sea transport for 
further shipment to the global seaborne market.
The new terminal is expected to be constructed in the area of 
the existing Sovetskaya Gavan Sea Port situated in the Sovetsko-
Gavanski Municipal District of Khabarovsk Krai. Located at the 
terminus of the BAM, Sovetskaya Gavan was proposed as the 
location of the new port in view of its proximity to Aricom’s 
mining projects, convenient access to the BAM, and favourable 
hydrological and meteorological conditions.
The project is supported by the Russian Federal Government and 
the Khabarovsk Krai local government, both of which have included 
it in their long term development plans for the region. In addition, 
it is also taken into account by the Russian Railways in their 
development plans for the BAM. Given the small scale of existing 
industrial enterprises in the Sovetsko-Gavanski Municipal District, 
the terminal may become a landmark enterprise in the area.
Aricom has established a wholly-owned subsidiary limited 
company, Sovetskaya Gavan Sea Trade Port (‘SGMTP’), in 
Khabarovsk Krai. The company leased a plot of land of 100 
hectares on Maria Cape in Sovetskaya Gavan Bay where the 
terminal may be sited. 
A preliminary feasibility study for the bulk terminal and the adjacent 
railway infrastructure was completed by the Russian design 
institute, NPO Gidroteks, in 2007.
Aerial view of Sovetskaya Gavan gulf Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
31
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
2008 Report on Health, Safety 
and the Environment Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
32
Introduction
Aricom recognises that sustainable development is based upon 
two key issues. Firstly, that everyone – companies, employees, 
families, communities, administrations and political organisations 
– is connected, and secondly, that these interconnections exist 
within the natural environment. What happens in one has an impact 
– both positive and negative – on the other. Aricom acknowledges 
this and acts accordingly. Consequently, we are integrating the 
standards of sustainable development into everything we do 
including the design and evaluation of projects, mine planning and 
decommissioning and methods of raising ﬁnancial capital to fund 
our projects. 
Health Safety and Environmental Management
Aricom is a developing company, which realises that its Health, 
Safety and Environment (HSE) responsibilities increase with the 
corresponding increase in the scale of its activities. We comply with 
both Russian legislation (guided by the Environmental Protection 
Agency of the Russian Federation, ‘Rosprirodnadzor’) and with 
international good practice (the International Finance Corporation 
Performance Standards on social and environmental sustainability 
and Environmental, Health and Safety guidelines). 
Aricom considers Health, Safety, and Environment as one of its 
major priorities and has formed a HSE committee at the level of 
the Board of Directors. The committee comprises four Directors, 
including two Non-Executive Directors (one of whom is the 
Chairman of the committee), the Chairman of Aricom and the 
Technical Director. The body monitors performance and ensures 
that we act consistently across all of our projects in relation to HSE. 
During 2008, we have employed a number of HSE specialists, 
including an Environmental Manager based in Moscow, who leads 
the team of ecological engineers and environmental specialists 
at the Kuranakh, K&S and Garinskoye projects. This department 
coordinates Aricom’s day-to-day HSE activities.
Aricom has appointed independent consultants, Wardell 
Armstrong International, who visit our projects located in the 
Russian Far East twice a year. They report directly to the Board 
of Directors.
Requirements
Aricom works in strict compliance with the legislation of the Russian 
Federation and fully supports compliance with Good International 
Industry Practice (GIIP) and with IFC Performance Standards and 
World Bank guidelines. Our HSE personnel ensure that all of our 
projects have the necessary documentation, licences, and permit 
approvals in accordance with the laws, regulations and other 
requirements. Where local legislation does not require an adequate 
level of HSE performance, Aricom conducts its activities in a 
manner that is consistent with the relevant international standards 
and practices, taking into account cultural and social features. 
Additionally Aricom and the IFC have developed an Environmental 
and Social Action Plan to monitor our performance in meeting 
international standards. 
Health and Safety Procedures
Aricom drafted HSE procedures in 2007 and continued their 
reﬁnement and implementation in 2008. These procedures were 
ﬁrst introduced at the Kuranakh project and are being introduced 
at K&S and Garinskoye. Project management is responsible for 
adapting these procedures to site speciﬁc requirements which 
ensures effective and consistent implementation throughout all 
our projects.
Health Management
Our employees are our major asset and their health is paramount. 
Our personnel, contractors and visitors have access to adequate 
medical and ﬁrst aid services as appropriate to the location and 
nature of the operations. Aricom acknowledges the presence of 
inherent occupational health risks associated with the nature of 
our operations, including noise, dust, hazardous materials, and 
vibration; alcoholism and drug abuse; and insect borne diseases 
such as encephalitis. Site-based health management schemes, 
including regular check-ups, access to preventive medicines and 
health advice, are being established to protect employees and 
contractors from health hazards associated with their employment. 
Each Aricom project site is establishing a department responsible 
for industrial and labour safety which includes, on site medical, 
ﬁre and emergency specialists. Local communities’ health issues 
relevant to the Company operations are also identiﬁed and 
managed by our Human Resources departments. 
Site Based Health Management
Where appropriate, Aricom employees and contractors undergo 
regular assessments to ensure their ﬁtness for work. For the 
purpose of minimising health risks at site, operators of machinery 
receive a short medical check-up at the beginning and the end of 
each shift. The annual occupational health assessment and ongoing 
monitoring and medical surveillance programmes are conducted 
by competent specialists for all employees. In 2008, we introduced 
a drug and alcohol management programme designed to increase 
employee awareness of the dangers of these substances.
2008 Report on Health, Safety 
and the Environment Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
33
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Business Review
Group Overview
Occupational Safety
Aricom strives to prevent any kind of injury at our sites and 
maintains the highest level of safety. In line with its commitment to 
occupational safety in the Company, the Aricom Board makes the 
site management accountable for compliance with safety policies. 
Leadership and Awareness
Employees receive regular instruction to increase their awareness 
of potential safety risks with site safety managers ensuring that 
staff have a clear understanding of these risks and the appropriate 
response measures to be taken. Following recruitment, but prior 
to taking up employment, Aricom educates future employees in 
HSE awareness. This education and training is documented and 
refresher courses take place annually. Personal Safety Protective 
Equipment (PSPE) is required at all sites with management of each 
site responsible for the type of PSPE needed and its deployment.
Safety Performance
At Kuranakh and K&S, we have introduced systems to coordinate, 
measure and track our safety performance. The project managers 
report monthly to the Technical Director and provide all of the 
relevant information on accidents, incidents and Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rates. 
Other safety control measures include site visits and audits from 
external consultants, management observations and inspections, 
as well as safety communications meetings and toolbox talks. 
Accidents
Between January 2007 and February 2008, Aricom maintained an 
accident free record. We regret to announce that in February 2008, 
an accident took place at Kuranakh involving two Aricom personnel 
who were injured whilst felling trees. In October 2008, during 
the loading of iron ore concentrate onto a rail wagon, one of our 
employees was injured by falling rocks. Later in the same month, 
an environmental technician was hurt in an accident involving the 
personnel bus. All employees made a full recovery.
Lost Time Injury Frequency
In 2008, Aricom employees completed 89,591 working man-days 
and 210 working man-days were lost due to work related accidents.
Environmental Protection 
All of our projects are being developed in the Russian Far East, 
where the ﬂora and fauna are relatively untouched. We are very 
aware of our environmental responsibilities and are implementing 
high standards to protect the surrounding landscape from any 
impact from our mines. For example, we do not utilise hazardous 
chemicals in any of our operations.
Environmental Risks
The primary sources of potential impact on the environment will 
come from:
mining operations; processing operations; tailings management facilities; and solid waste landﬁlls and waste dumps. The baseline conditions studies and impact assessments carried 
out at the sites showed that Aricom’s activities present no risks with 
irreversible ecological consequences. 
The speciﬁc risks that require attention include:
decrease of the drainage basin areas of local rivers as a result of the construction of tailings dams;
contamination from nitrogen dioxide (NO 2
), carbon monoxide 
(CO), and non-organic dust;
contamination of soil and plant cover with non-organic dust; environmental pollution with iron and other heavy metals which will cause potential changes in the acidity of components of 
the environment;
hydrodynamic impact on the underground water reservoirs, which are a source of local water supplies; and
the physical and mechanical impacts on the soil and plant resources of the region caused by the destruction of the fertile 
layer of soil and vegetation in the construction areas.
Environmental Management
The evaluation of risks to the environment as identiﬁed in the 
baseline assessments has resulted in the formulation of action 
plans. These prescribe the basic obligations of the Company with 
respect to:
management of the quality of atmosphere; effective use of water resources; actions for the protection of health and safety of personnel; management of extreme (emergency) situations; the organisation of an environmental monitoring system during the period of construction and development of the projects; and
plans for community involvement. The management plans for the protection of the environment, 
health and safety detail the measures for the reduction and control 
of the critical risks. The monitoring and control of these critical risks 
will be conducted throughout the life of the project from initial 
construction to project closure.  Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
34
To reduce the impacts on the atmosphere air and water resources 
we are:
employing dust-suppression measures at the open pits, waste dumps and all major roads; 
process plants and the heating plants are being ﬁtted with dust/gas treatment equipment to prevent harmful exhaust gas 
emissions; 
recycling more than 80% of the Kurankah’s process plant water needs; and
using the liquid phase of tailings dumps (after settlement) and pit run off waters for dust-suppression.
Social Development
Introduction
Aricom is working closely with the local communities and 
indigenous groups in order to ensure that the regional inhabitants 
share in our success.
Recruitment and Training Programme
As we grow and develop, we are constantly providing new job 
opportunities for the local people. 985 people were employed by 
Aricom at the end 2008.
2008 saw the continuation of our extensive recruitment campaign 
for all levels of management and operators. The human resources 
department made visits to various training institutes in the Amur 
and other regions as well as conducting an extensive advertising 
campaign both in the Russian Far East and major university cities. 
Aricom has also commenced a full graduate training programme. 
The programme is targeted at the selection and training of young, 
talented graduates as potential senior managers. The training 
programme lasts for two to three years, during which time the 
management trainees are given a full understanding of all of 
Aricom’s activities as well as a period of ‘on-the-job’ training. In 
addition, Aricom initiated an evaluation programme to select high 
school students who will receive an Aricom scholarship to study 
at the Russian Far East universities. The students will specialise 
in geology, mining engineering, geo-environmental studies and 
economics. Aricom will guarantee the students employment on 
completion of their study period. At the end of 2008, eleven 
students had been awarded Aricom scholarships and had 
commenced their university studies. 
Local Communities 
Aricom works in close collaboration with the local communities 
and other stakeholders. Our goals are to maintain transparent and 
open communication and consultation with the stakeholders. We 
identify and address the needs, concerns and expectations of our 
stakeholders and encourage the local communities to participate 
and contribute to our mutual beneﬁt. Aricom believes that it is 
important that we conduct our activities and operations in a way in 
order to respect traditional rights, values and cultural heritage.
Our sites are often located in the poor and remote areas of 
the Russian Far East. More than half of the local people in our 
regions are unemployed and many live under difﬁcult conditions. 
Assistance to the local people in remote communities through 
education, training and job opportunities is good for the future of 
both the communities and Aricom. 
The Company maintains proactive and open consultation and 
communication with the governments, authorities and local 
communities. We have an active Public Disclosure Strategy 
whereby all the concerns, complaints and relevant external 
communications related to the HSE aspects of the Company 
are recorded and registered. Such concerns are acknowledged 
and investigated and afterwards reported back to the relevant 
stakeholders. Mechanisms are in place to resolve a conﬂict if it 
arises, through consultation and participation directly with the 
stakeholders or their representatives. 
At Kuranakh, K&S and Garinskoye Aricom has conducted public 
consultations. Aricom briefs the people in the locations near 
the construction and operation and makes them aware of 
the activities implemented, and welcomes any initiatives on 
future developments.
2008 Report on Health, Safety 
and the Environment continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
35
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Business Review
Group Overview
HSE Statistics
2006 2007 2008
Employees
Direct Employment   228 467 970
Contractors   250 250 275
Number of jobs created or preserved – 240 970
Number of women in mining  12 31 161
Percentage of employees from Oblast 88% 81% 82%
Percentage of employees from 
local community   0 5% 8%
Percentage of nationals in 
top management   77% 79% 79%
Number of employees receiving training 18 96 198
Initiatives to hire and train 
local workers    Yes Yes Yes
Community
Access to infrastructure
Number of water/electricity/
gas connections   – – 5
Number of power substations built – 2 –
Kilometres of roads built  23 46 21
Purchases from local suppliers  – – –
Local supplier/SME development 
programme    Yes Yes Yes
2006 2007 2008
Environmental and Social Impacts
Environment
Displacement of other activities   No No No
Incidents/problems   No No No
Community consulted about plan   Yes Yes Yes
Social
Direct adverse health impacts 
from operations   No No No
Indirect (e.g. HIV/AIDS) health impacts No No No
Nuisance (e.g. noise. dust etc.) impacts 
on community   No No No
Increased tensions/alcoholism   No No No
Acceptance by locals    Yes Yes Yes
Community Engagement
Frequency of consultations  Quarterly Quarterly Quarterly
Community say in social spending No No No
Community development plan   No No In
    progress
Independent community fund in place No No No
Planning for Project Closure
Project closure plans    Yes Yes Yes
Plans for community beyond closure No No No
Plans public and consulted about   Yes Yes Yes Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
36
Board of Directors
1. Pavel Maslovskiy
Chairman
Pavel is Deputy Chairman and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Peter 
Hambro Mining plc and is Chairman of OJSC Pokrovskiy Rudnik. 
Pavel was formerly assistant professor at Moscow State Aircraft 
Technology Institute.
2. Jay Hambro 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Jay Hambro joined Aricom in July 2006. Previously Jay was Director 
of Business Development at Peter Hambro Mining plc during 
Peter Hambro Mining plc’s rapid evolution from junior exploration 
company to the second largest, and one of the lowest cost, gold 
producers in Russia. Prior to joining Peter Hambro Mining, Jay 
was a manager of the Metals & Mining corporate ﬁnance team 
within HSBC Investment Bank. Jay began his career in the resource 
ﬁnance team at NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd following a BSc in 
Business Management. Jay is a non-executive director of Peter 
Hambro Mining plc.
3. Brian Egan
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Brian Egan was appointed Finance Director in July 2007. He was 
the Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Gloria-Jeans Corporation, a 
leading Russian apparel manufacturer and retailer and has over 15 
years’ experience in senior ﬁnancial roles. He was previously VP of 
Finance of the EMEA Region/Ingredients Division with Associated 
British Foods Plc, Financial Director of Georgia-Paciﬁc Ireland 
Limited and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Coca-Cola HBC Russia. He is 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
4. Yuri Makarov
Operations Director
Yuri Makarov was appointed to the Aricom board in 2004. Until 
this appointment, Yuri was the adviser to the Chairman of OJSC 
Pokrovsky Rudnik, a subsidiary of Peter Hambro Mining plc. Prior to 
this, he was the Commercial Director of NT Computers in Moscow, 
Russia. He has been actively involved in Aricom’s development 
since its incorporation. Yuri is a qualiﬁed systems engineer from the 
Moscow State Aircraft Technology Institute.
5. Martin Smith
Technical Director
Martin Smith joined Aricom in June 2006 as Technical Director with 
responsibility for overseeing all the technical aspects of Aricom’s 
mine developments. He has more than 25 years’ operational and 
corporate management experience across the global mining 
industry. Having begun his career as a mining engineer at Anglo 
American Corporation, South Africa, Martin has led important 
projects mining coal, base and precious metals for some of 
the leading mining and exploration companies, including Kier 
International, Costain Mining and Shell International.
6. Sir Malcolm Field
Senior Non-Executive Director
Sir Malcolm Field was formerly CEO of WH Smith PLC and a 
non-executive director of Scottish and Newcastle, MEPC, The 
Stationery Ofﬁce and Evolution Beeson Gregory and a number of 
private companies. He was most recently Chairman of the CAA and 
Tube Lines Ltd. Sir Malcolm is the Senior Independent Director of 
Hochschild Mining PLC.
7. Peter Hambro
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Peter Hambro was a banker and then Deputy Managing Director 
of Mocatta and Goldsmid. He founded Peter Hambro Ltd as a 
mining ﬁnance house in London. He is, together with Pavel, one 
of the founding shareholders and the Chairman of Peter Hambro 
Mining plc.
8. Sir Roderic Lyne
Non-Executive Director
Sir Roderic Lyne was appointed to the Board in October 2006. 
Sir Roderic served as British Ambassador to Russia from January 
2000 until August 2004, when he retired from the Diplomatic 
Service after 34 years. He now works as a consultant, principally 
advising businesses on Russia and the CIS. He is an advisor to 
BP plc and to JPMorgan Chase, a member of the Council of the 
Royal Institute of International Affairs, a member of the Board 
of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce and of the Board of 
Governors of Kingston University.
9. Tony Redman
Non-Executive Director
Tony Redman worked at Anglo American from 1970 to 2008. 
In 1979, he moved to the Anglo Coal division, where he was 
appointed Managing Director in 1996 and Chairman in 2002. In 
2005, he became Group Technical Director of Anglo American plc. 
He was also a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Limited, 
listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and a director of 
Anglo American South Africa Limited. He retired from Anglo 
American at the end of 2008. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
37
Financial Statements
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Group Overview
1
4
7
2
5
8
3
6
9 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
38
Corporate Governance and 
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
39
Business Review
Financial Statements
Corporate Governance
Group Overview Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
40
Financial Review
Results of Operations
The Group made a loss after tax for the year of US$426.6 million 
compared to a proﬁt after tax in 2007 of US$0.1 million. The current 
year’s loss includes an impairment charge of US$386.4 million. 
The Group recognised revenue from operations of US$9.7 million 
during the year ended 31 December 2008 (2007: US$4.9 million), 
comprising US$9.2 million (2007: US$4.9 million) of revenue 
generated from its engineering services company, Giproruda, and 
sales of iron ore pre-concentrate of US$0.5 million from Kuranakh 
(2007: nil).
Administration expenses have increased as expected, from 
US$24.9 million to US$30.9 million primarily due to an increase 
in salary costs, consultancy costs, rent and general overheads in 
connection with the expansion of the Group’s activities. Average 
staff numbers for the year increased from 228 in 2007 to 641 
in 2008. 
Due to the current world economic crisis, as with many other 
mining companies, the Board reviewed the Company’s portfolio 
of assets and provided for impairment where it considered it 
prudent to do so. Consequently, an impairment provision 
of US$386.4 million was recognised by the Group. 
The key assumptions to the impairment review are described in 
note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Investment Revenues
Income from investments and cash balances has decreased from 
US$21.5 million in 2007 to US$15.5 million in 2008 due to lower 
interest rates earned on deposits and lower average cash balances 
held throughout the year. 
Finance Costs
Finance costs increased from US$0.6 million in 2007 to US$23.2 
million in 2008. This is primarily due to the adverse impact of 
foreign exchange differences on the Group’s Rouble denominated 
funds in the second half of 2008, which more than eliminated 
exchange difference on deposits held in Russian Rouble 
denominated funds accumulated during the ﬁrst six months of 
2008. The Group’s policy had been to hold a substantial portion of 
cash in Russian Roubles in order to hedge against Russian Rouble 
denominated capital and operating expenditure.
Tax
A tax charge recognised for the year of US$5.6 million (2007: 
US$2.0 million credit) relates primarily to the reduction in the 
deferred tax asset on deductible temporary differences due to 
foreign exchange movements of US$4.4 million and tax on the 
operating proﬁt generated by Giproruda being US$0.7 million. 
Financial Position
The Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2008 and comparatives 
at 31 December 2007 are summarised in the table below:
  2008 2007
  US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets 468,189 569,768
Current assets 310,493 594,681
Total assets 778,682 1,164,449
Current liabilities (16,175) (13,174)
Non-current liabilities (4,641) (8,879)
Total liabilities (20,816) (22,053)
Net assets 757,866 1,142,396
Net assets decreased by US$384.5 million to US$757.9 million, 
primarily due to an impairment provision of US$386.4 million 
recognised against Kuranakh, and the combined K&S and 
Garinskoye projects. The impairment is described in more detail 
in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-current assets have decreased by US$101.6 million, mainly 
due to additions to property, plant and equipment, being capital 
expenditure of US$108.1 million, the acquisition of 29.36% minority 
interest in the Garinskoye licence for US$110.7 million, the 
acquisition of the Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks licences 
for US$53.9 million, our equity share of the Titanium Sponge joint 
venture of US$20.4 million, offset by an impairment provision of 
US$386.4 million. 
Current assets have decreased by US$284.2 million mainly due 
to a reduction in short-term investments and cash and cash 
equivalents of US$240.7 million and the short-term US$65.1 million 
loan receivable from Olis being offset against the purchase 
consideration for the acquisition of the remaining 29.26% interest 
in Lapwing. There is an increase in current receivables and 
inventory due to the start up at Kuranakh. 
Acquisition of Assets
During the year the Group completed the acquisition of a further 
29.36% interest in Lapwing from Olis and PBO Handelsges M.B.H 
(‘PBOH’) and completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the 
Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks licences. 
These acquisitions are described in further detail in note 33 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Property, Plant and Equipment 
A further US$108.1 million was invested in property, plant and 
equipment during the year mainly related to the construction at 
Kuranakh. Following the completion of the acquisition of a further 
29.36% interest in Garinskoye, approximately US$110.7 million was 
allocated to Mining Properties and Leases. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
41
However due to a potential delay in the planned development of 
various projects, primarily because of a slow project ﬁnancing 
market and forecast weaker iron ore prices, an impairment 
provision of US$386.4 million was recognised by the Group against 
the Kuranakh project (US$86.5 million) and the combined K&S and 
Garinskoye project (US$299.9 million). The impairment is described 
in more detail in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased 
by US$240.7 million to US$257.8 million (2007: US$498.5 million).
The net cash outﬂow from operating activities for 2008 was US$51.9 
million (2007: US$12.9 million) reﬂecting increased costs associated 
with the Group’s commencement of mining activities at Kuranakh, 
and administrative costs associated with the further development 
of the other projects. Net cash used in investing activities was 
US$70.0 million (2007: US$281.8 million), comprising mainly of 
US$20.8 million paid as our contribution to the share capital of 
Titanium Sponge JV, US$45.0 million paid for the options to acquire 
Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks and capital expenditure of 
US$108.5 million (2007: US$76.7 million) offset by proceeds from 
the disposal of short-term investments of US$113.3 million (2007: 
US$10.8 million) and investment income of US$16.5 million (2007: 
US$16.5 million). 
The Group has a cash balance which is managed in accordance with 
a Board approved treasury policy and spread across a number of 
ﬁnancial institutions in order to reduce the exposure to any one 
counterparty. The majority of the cash balance is held with highly 
rated UK based institutions.
The Group holds deposits in US Dollars, GB Pounds and Russian 
Roubles as appropriate, so as to hedge against currency exposures. 
However, rapid depreciation of the Russian Rouble against the 
US Dollar at the end of 2008, affected the cash holdings of the 
Group. The total effect of the retranslation of foreign currency 
denominated balances in 2008 resulted in a foreign exchange 
loss of US$22.6 million. The Group has implemented a new legal 
structure and new treasury policies in order to help minimise future 
foreign exchange exposure. 
A positive economic effect of Russian Rouble and GB Pound 
depreciation is the reduction in operating costs in US Dollar 
equivalent.
Events After the Balance Sheet Date
On 6 February 2009 the respective independent Committees of 
the Boards of Directors of Peter Hambro Mining plc (‘PHM’) and 
Aricom announced that they had reached agreement on the terms 
of a recommended merger of the two companies by which all of 
the issued share capital of Aricom will be acquired by PHM, in 
exchange for shares in PHM.
Following completion of the merger, existing shareholders of PHM 
and Aricom will hold 56.8% and 43.2% of the enlarged group 
respectively, calculated on an undiluted basis.
The merger provides for the acquisition of Aricom shares to be 
effected by way of a court sanctioned scheme of arrangement 
under Part 26 of the Companies Act involving a capital reduction 
of Aricom under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985 
(‘the Scheme’). 
The purpose of the Scheme is to enable PHM to acquire the whole 
of the issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Aricom. 
Under the terms of the Scheme, if the Scheme becomes effective, 
all Aricom shares will be cancelled and Aricom shareholders will 
receive one fully paid new PHM share in exchange for 16 fully paid 
Aricom shares.
The merger valued each Aricom share at: 36.6 pence using the 
closing price per PHM share on 4 February 2009 of 585 pence, 
being the last day before PHM announced its cash placing; 
30.9 pence using the closing price per PHM share on 5 February 
2009 of 495 pence, being the last day prior to the announcement of 
a ﬁrm intention to make an offer; and it valued each Aricom share 
at 24.9 pence using the price per PHM share on 8 January 2009, 
being the last day prior to the offer period, of 398 pence.
Going Concern Basis
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had cash balances of 
US$257.8 million. Given the challenging project ﬁnance market, the 
Directors are reviewing all operating costs and capital expenditure 
plans to ensure that signiﬁcant further expenditures over and above 
those currently committed will not be committed until further 
funding is assured. 
In connection with the proposed merger, the Board has reviewed 
projections of the enlarged group, and following the placing, is 
satisﬁed that the enlarged group will have sufﬁcient funds for the 
foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason the Directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Brian Egan
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
25 February 2009
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 42
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
The Combined Code
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies listed on a 
regulated market to disclose how they have applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of The Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 (the ‘Combined Code’). This report, together with the 
Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of 
good governance of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 or, where the Company has not complied with 
the Combined Code, explains the reasons why.
Statement of Compliance
The Group has been in compliance with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 
save that, as set out in more detail below:
the Board does not contain sufﬁcient independent Non-Executive Directors to comprise half the Board, excluding the Chairman; the Chairman is not independent for the purposes of the Combined Code; and the committees of the Board have not been made up of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate level of corporate governance and intends, to the extent otherwise disclosed, to 
continue to comply with the main provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board
The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors. The Board currently consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are considered to be independent under the Combined Code but all of whom 
the Board judges to be independent, as explained below. The Board believes that it is appropriate to have a Senior Independent Director 
and Sir Malcolm Field fulﬁls this role.
Details of the individuals’ skills and experience are contained in the Directors’ biographies on page 36.
The Group meets regularly on at least four scheduled occasions during each year and more frequently if necessary. In 2008, there were six 
scheduled Board meetings, 15 unscheduled Board or Committee meetings, four Audit Committee meetings, ﬁve Remuneration 
Committee meetings, two Nomination Committee meetings and ﬁve HSE Committee meetings. The attendance by Directors who held 
ofﬁce throughout the year was as follows:
Unscheduled
Scheduled Board/ Audit Remuneration Nomination HSE
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Brian Egan 6 15 4–– 4
Sir Malcolm Field
1,2,3,4
  634525
Jay Hambro 6 144325
Peter Hambro
1,2
  613515
Sir Roderic Lyne
1,2,3,4
  634525
Yuri Makarov 5 2 1 – – 5
Pavel Maslovskiy
3,4
  642225
Martin Smith
4
6 4––– 5
Membership of Committees throughout the year under review:
1 Member of the Audit Committee
2 Member of the Remuneration Committee
3 Member of the Nomination Committee 
4 Member of the HSE Committee 
Other Directors attended meetings of the Committees by invitation.
The unscheduled Board or Committee meetings in 2008 were held to issue formal approvals, or deal with other matters of a routine or 
administrative nature, which did not require attendance of the full Board. Such meetings are usually attended by Jay Hambro and Brian 
Egan and consequently their attendance at meetings is higher than other directors.
In addition, there were 12 Executive Committee meetings in 2008, attended by Brian Egan, Jay Hambro, Yuri Makarov and Martin Smith.
The Board is responsible for the determination and monitoring of the Group’s strategic aims and values, the direction and control of the 
Group and the management of the capital structure and will also ensure that the necessary ﬁnancial and human resources are, and will 
continue to be, in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives. The Board works closely with the operational management to achieve 
the Group’s objectives.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, such matters include:
responsibility for strategy and management, including long-term objectives, approval of budgets, review of performance; changes to structure and capital; approval of accounting policies and of ﬁnancial results; responsibility for sound systems of internal control; approval of major investments and contracts; approval of material press releases and communications with shareholders; review of Board composition, on recommendations by the Nomination Committee; review of remuneration policy, on recommendations by the Remuneration Committee; delegations of authority; corporate governance matters; and approval of Group policies. Corporate Governance Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
43
Individual Directors may seek independent advice at the expense 
of the Company within certain limits.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ 
Liability Insurance.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly separated 
and have been set out in writing. The Chairman is responsible for 
ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information, for facilitating the effective contribution of the 
Non-Executive Directors and ensuring a constructive relationship 
between all Directors. The Chief Executive is responsible for 
the effective leadership of the management team in running 
the business. 
The Chairman holds discussions with Non-Executive Directors 
without the Executive Directors being present. The independent 
Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman being present 
at least annually to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman and Chief Executive ensure there is appropriate 
communication with Shareholders and participate in regular and 
ongoing visits to major Shareholders.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board believes that it has sufﬁcient members to contain a 
balance of experience and skills, but is not so large as to be 
unwieldy. The Board includes a balance of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors such that no individual, or group of individuals, 
can dominate the Board’s decision making. No one individual has 
unfettered powers of decision. However, the Combined Code 
recommends that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman 
should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors and since 
there is no majority of Non-Executive Directors excluding the 
Chairman, the Company does not comply with the Combined Code 
in this area.
The Board keeps the membership of committees under review to 
ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience. The Board is 
satisﬁed that all Directors have sufﬁcient time to devote to their 
roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on 
independence of Non-Executive Directors under the Combined 
Code, and in relation to the year under review, the Board considers 
two of the Non-Executive Directors, Sir Malcolm Field and Sir 
Roderic Lyne, to be independent of the Company as deﬁned by the 
Combined Code. However, two of the Non-Executive Directors, 
Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy (the Chairman), would not be 
viewed as independent and therefore the Company did not comply 
with the Combined Code in this respect. However, the Board 
believes that independence is not a state of mind that can be 
measured objectively and, given the character, judgement and 
decision making process of the individuals involved, the Board 
believes that these Directors can be considered independent. 
Further to the appointment of Tony Redman on 1 January 2009, 
three of the ﬁve Non-Executive Directors will be considered 
independent as deﬁned by the Combined Code. Tony Redman has 
been appointed as a member of the Audit, HSE, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Given the size of the Company, the Board believes that 
having a Remuneration Committee comprised of three members 
and an Audit Committee comprised of four members is 
appropriate. However, the Combined Code recommends that all 
members of the Audit Committee and at least three members of 
other committees should be independent Non-Executive Directors 
and, until the appointment of Tony Redman, only two members 
were deemed independent under the Combined Code.
The Board reviews the independence of the Directors annually and 
all new appointments will be made after consideration of the 
independence of proposed new Directors. 
Sir Malcolm Field has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns 
which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve, 
or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Information and Professional Development
The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form 
and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties. All Directors 
are encouraged to make further enquiries of the Executive 
Directors or management as they feel appropriate. 
The Chairman ensures that all Directors continually update their 
skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the 
Company’s operations needed to fulﬁl their role, for example, by 
brieﬁngs by executive management and regular Board reporting. 
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and 
updating all Directors’ knowledge and capabilities, both on 
appointment and subsequently as necessary. In addition, Board 
committees are provided with sufﬁcient resources, plus the power 
to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to 
time, to undertake their duties. 
All Directors have access to the services of a professionally 
qualiﬁed and experienced Company Secretary, who is responsible 
for information ﬂows to the Board, facilitating induction and 
assisting with professional development as required, ensuring 
compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and 
regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance 
matters. The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary 
is a Board decision.
Performance Evaluation
The Board has introduced a formal performance evaluation 
procedure for the Board as a whole and for the committees. The 
Directors complete performance questionnaires relating to the 
Board and Committees, which are collated and reviewed by the 
Senior Non-Executive Director prior to the Board, which will 
consider and review the ﬁndings of this process annually. The 
Remuneration Committee is responsible for the performance 
review of Directors and the independent Non-Executive Directors 
are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman. 
Re-election of Directors
The Board formally reviews succession plans for all key 
management roles, including Executive Directorships, on 
an ongoing basis. 
All Directors are required by the Company’s Articles of Association 
to submit themselves to Shareholders for re-election at the ﬁrst 
Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter by 
rotation at least once every three years. At this year’s Annual 
General Meeting, it is intended that Tony Redman will stand for 
re-election, following his appointment to the Board on 1 January 
2009. The Directors retiring by rotation are Pavel Maslovskiy, Peter 
Hambro and Jay Hambro. In addition, the appointment of each 
Director is reviewed by other members of the Board prior to that 
Director seeking re-election at a forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. Biographical details of all Directors are included on 
page 36.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 44
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Board Committees
The Board has established ﬁve committees and provides sufﬁcient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Membership of 
these committees as at 31 December 2008 is shown below.
Health, 
Safety & 
Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Executive
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Malcolm Field  Chairman Chairman Chairman Member –
Peter Hambro Member Member–––
Sir Roderic Lyne  Member Member Member Chairman –
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy  – – Member Member –
Executive Directors
Brian Egan –––– Member
Jay Hambro –––– Member
Yuri Makarov –––– Member
Martin Smith – – – Member Member
Terms of Reference of these committees are available on the Company’s website at www.aricom.plc.uk
Appointments to the Board and the Nomination Committee
The Board follows a procedure for the appointment of Directors, including an induction programme for the Director concerned.
Aricom has established a separate Nomination Committee which is chaired by Sir Malcolm Field and the other members are Sir Roderic 
Lyne, Dr Pavel Maslovskiy and, with effect from 1 January 2009, Tony Redman. The Nomination Committee will regularly review 
the structure, size and composition of the Board and make any recommendations to the Board where necessary. The Nomination 
Committee is responsible for succession planning of Directors and for the identiﬁcation and nomination of candidates to ﬁll 
vacancies where necessary.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria. In the case of candidates for Non-Executive Directorships, care is taken to 
ascertain whether they have sufﬁcient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities. As part of this 
process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes. The terms 
and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for public inspection.
Tony Redman was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2009. In considering the appointment of a new Director, the 
Nomination Committee appointed an external consultant, Odgers, in which Sir Malcolm Field had declared an interest since he was a 
director of this company. The Committee reviewed a number of candidates provided by Odgers but agreed that the most suitable 
candidate was Mr Redman, who had been recommended to the Board by an independent party.
The Chairman is the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Peter Hambro Mining plc and Director of various subsidiary companies in the Peter Hambro 
Mining Group. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is a Non-Executive Director of Peter Hambro Mining plc. Changes to these commitments will be 
reported to the Board.
Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee
While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors’ remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely of Non-Executive 
Directors, is responsible for determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of Executive Directors and senior Executives. 
Directors abstain from decisions determining their own remuneration. A report on Directors’ remuneration, including a more detailed 
description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 48 to 52.
The Company’s policy is that no compensation will be payable when a Director’s appointment is terminated for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance. 
The Company has in place a Long Term Incentive Plan which was established during 2007. Contrary to Combined Code requirements, 
Shareholder approval was not sought since there was no legal requirement to seek such approval as, at the time of adoption, the Company 
was not listed on the Main Board. However, details were included in the listing document. 
Accountability and Audit and the Audit Committee
The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all documents released by the Group and the Company, including the Annual Report, 
present a fair and accurate assessment of the Group and the Company’s position and prospects.
The Board is responsible for the Group and the Company’s system of internal controls, excluding associates, and conducts an annual 
review to identify and evaluate risk, including ﬁnancial, operational and compliance risk, and to review the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss. In accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance, 
the Board conﬁrms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Company 
and the Board is satisﬁed that the system of internal controls has operated effectively throughout the year and that it has taken any 
necessary actions to address any issues arising. 
Corporate Governance continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
45
The Company has established an Audit Committee and a report 
by this committee is set out on pages 46 to 47.
The Audit Committee reviews an internal controls report at each 
meeting and the Company’s Governance and Control Policy and 
Procedure manual is reviewed and updated regularly and circulated 
to the Board and senior management for review. 
The Audit Committee routinely receives reports relating to the 
external audit process and discusses matters of internal control. 
The Audit Committee reviews non audit services provided by the 
External Auditors, details of which are disclosed in note 10 on 
page 78. The Committee is satisﬁed that the objectivity and 
independence of the auditors is maintained.
HSE Committee
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee consists of four 
Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director and is 
responsible for Aricom’s staff, the communities within which the 
Company operates and to the environment of the project areas.
Aricom’s environmental, health, safety and social policies are 
designed to comply with both Russian regulatory requirements as 
implemented under the supervision of the Environmental 
Protection Agency of the Russian Federation (‘Rosprirodnadzor’) 
and with international good practice. The Company uses best 
endeavours to comply with the International Finance Corporation 
(‘IFC’) performance standards on social and environmental 
sustainability as well as with the IFC Environmental, Health and 
Safety (‘EHS’) guidelines. The IFC, which invested in the Group in 
2007, undertakes a full environmental and social audit of our 
operations on a regular basis and maintains strong communication 
with the HSE Committee.
During 2007, the Company appointed Wardell Armstrong 
International (‘WAI’) as independent HSE auditors. They will 
conduct biannual site visits and reviews and report directly to the 
Board of Directors through the HSE Committee.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee consists of the four Executive Directors 
and is responsible for the day to day management of the Company 
and for ensuring that the overall objectives set out by the Board 
are achieved. 
The Committee ensures that the Board is kept up to date on all 
material events and makes recommendations regarding business 
objectives and the strategic direction and control of the Company. 
The Committee also ensures coordination between senior 
managers, manages the Company’s operational, ﬁnancial and 
administration performance and is responsible for the assessment 
and management of risk.
Related Party Transactions
The Company has established procedures to ensure that all 
transactions with related parties are reviewed and approved by 
members of the management and the Board who have no conﬂict 
of interest in the given transaction. Where appropriate, due to 
the required level of authority, transactions are reviewed by a 
committee of members of the Board who are independent of the 
transaction. Full details of the related party transactions are given 
in note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Relations with Shareholders
The Combined Code encourages a dialogue with institutional 
Shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives. 
The Directors (including the Non-Executive Directors) have regular 
and ongoing communication with institutional Shareholders and 
Executive Directors participate in investor roadshows, visits to 
Shareholders and scheduled half yearly updates. Feedback from 
these visits is reported to the Board to ensure that the Board 
understands the views of major Shareholders. In addition, the 
Chairman routinely offers Shareholders the opportunity of meeting 
with either himself, the Chief Executive or the Senior Independent 
Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters 
Shareholders wish to raise. 
The Company maintains a website at www.aricom.plc.uk which is 
regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about 
the Group.
The Combined Code encourages boards to use the annual general 
meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their 
participation. The Board welcomes as many Shareholders as 
possible to attend the Annual General Meeting and Shareholders 
are given the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to discuss 
any issues of interest or concern, including performance, 
governance or strategy, with the Directors.
At general meetings, the Chairman will announce the level of 
proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against 
and abstentions, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands. 
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General 
Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue. The 
Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
will deal with matters relating to those committees.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc 
and signed on its behalf by:
Heather Williams FCIS
Company Secretary
25 February 2009
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
46
Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-
Executive Directors of the Company and has deﬁned Terms of 
Reference. The Audit Committee’s terms of reference include 
matters indicated by the Combined Code and are available on the 
Company’s website. The Audit Committee is responsible for:
monitoring the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the 
Company’s ﬁnancial performance, reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
reporting issues and judgements in respect of the preparation 
of the half-yearly and annual ﬁnancial statements, preliminary 
results and related formal statements before submission to 
the Board;
reviewing the Group’s internal ﬁnancial controls and, unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems;
reviewing the consistency of, changes in and compliance with accounting policies and practices; the judgements and 
assumptions of management; signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting 
issues and judgements; estimates and judgements made by the 
Company, taking into account the views of the External Auditor; 
signiﬁcant adjustments; 
reviewing the going concern assumption; reviewing the methods used to account for signiﬁcant or unusual transactions;
reviewing the clarity and completeness of disclosures in ﬁnancial statements;
reviewing material information related to the ﬁnancial statements including the business and ﬁnancial review and 
Corporate Governance statements;
ensuring compliance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority and with other applicable legal requirements.
discussing problems and reservations arising from the preparation and audit of such ﬁnancial statements, and any 
matters which the External Auditors may wish to discuss (in the 
absence of management where necessary) including discussion 
of any major issues which arose during the audit, any accounting 
and audit judgements, levels of errors identiﬁed during 
the audit;
reviewing the Company’s arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in conﬁdence, about possible wrongdoing in 
ﬁnancial reporting or other matters and reviewing the 
Company’s procedures for detecting fraud;
making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the Shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in 
relation to the appointment of the External Auditors and the 
approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
External Auditors;
reviewing and monitoring the External Auditors’ independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements; 
assessing annually the External Auditors’ qualiﬁcations, expertise and resources and the effectiveness of the audit 
process including a report from the External Auditors on their 
internal quality procedures; and
developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the External Auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services by the external audit ﬁrm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its ﬁndings to the Board, 
identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action 
or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are:
Name Date of appointment
Sir Malcolm Field (Chairman) 1 August 2006
Peter Hambro 12 December 2003
Sir Roderic Lyne 3 October 2006
Tony Redman 1 January 2009
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the 
Committee and the Company Chairman, who is not a member of 
the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend new 
appointments to the Committee. The Committee is currently 
comprised of four Non-Executive Directors and two members 
constitute a quorum. The Board considers that the Chairman of the 
Committee has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience through his 
career in business and his appointment to other Boards.
The Company has a policy of providing training to Directors where 
required. Ongoing training can include attendance at formal 
conferences, internal brieﬁngs, brieﬁngs by external advisers and 
visits by Directors to operations in the business.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an 
understanding of:
the principles of, contents of, and developments in ﬁnancial reporting including the applicable accounting standards;
key aspects of the Group’s operations including corporate policies, Group ﬁnancing, and systems of internal control;
matters that inﬂuence or distort the presentation of accounts; the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector- speciﬁc laws and other relevant corporate legislation;
the role of internal and external auditing and risk management; the regulatory framework for the Group’s businesses; and environmental and social responsibility best practices. Meetings
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and has an 
agenda linked to events in the Group’s ﬁnancial calendar, including 
a review of the Group’s annual and half yearly results, the review of 
the internal controls of the Group and ensuring that the ﬁnancial 
performance of the Group is properly reported on and monitored. 
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is approved by the Audit 
Committee Chairman in advance of each meeting. Each Audit 
Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of 
interest in addition to the routine items.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and a 
representative of the External Auditors are invited to attend 
meetings of the Audit Committee and attended all Audit 
Committee meetings held in 2008. Senior management present 
such reports as are requested by the Committee to enable it to 
discharge its duties.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to 
Discharge its Duties
Since the beginning of 2008 the Audit Committee has:
reviewed the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007, the interim report for the period ended 
30 June 2008 and the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2008. The Committee received reports from the 
External Auditors on their audits of the annual reports and 
accounts and review of the interim report;
reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the External Auditors;
Audit Committee Report Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
47
recommended to the Board the fees to be paid to the External Auditors for their audit of the 2008 accounts;
reviewed the Letters of Representation provided to the External Auditors relating to the ﬁnancial periods ended 31 December 
2007, 30 June 2008 and 31 December 2008;
reviewed the Letters of Engagement relating to the review and audit for the ﬁnancial periods ended 30 June 2008 and 31 
December 2008 respectively;
reviewed the legal and ﬁnancial structure of the Group; reviewed the going concern status of the Group and the ability to publish a going concern statement in the Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2008;
review of the requirements relating to the impairment of the Group’s assets;
reviewed the accounting treatment relating to the Group’s projects and to the LTIP allocations; and
reviewed the risks associated with the Group’s business. External Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Group’s policy on external 
audit. The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the 
independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and 
regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day 
responsibility to the Group Finance Director. 
The Group’s policy on external audit sets out the categories of 
non-audit services which the External Auditors will and will not be 
allowed to provide to the Group, subject to de minimis levels and 
Audit Committee Chairman approval in emergency situations.
To fulﬁl its responsibility regarding the independence of the 
External Auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed:
the changes in key external audit staff in the External Auditors’ plan for the current year;
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship; and
the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the External Auditors, in addition to their case by case approval of the 
provision of non-audit services by the External Auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the External Auditors, the Audit 
Committee reviewed:
the External Auditors’ fulﬁlment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan; and
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities 
outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the 
Board that the External Auditors are re-appointed.
Internal Audit Function
The Group does not currently have an Internal Audit function since 
the scale and operations of the Group are such that there is 
currently deemed no requirement for an Internal Audit function. 
The Audit Committee is required to review the Group’s internal 
ﬁnancial controls and, where required, review the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems and statement on internal 
control systems prior to endorsement by the Board.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has 
concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of 
reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the 
External Auditors.
It is intended that the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be 
available at this year’s Annual General Meeting to answer any 
questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on 
its behalf by:
Sir Malcolm Field
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 February 2009
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
48
Introduction
This report is prepared in GB Pounds (‘GBP’ or ‘£’) as the Company 
is headquartered in England, has GB pound functional currency 
and the Directors are predominantly paid in that currency.
The report describes how the Board has applied the principles 
relating to Directors’ remuneration.
The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the 
requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. It is 
intended that an Ordinary Resolution to approve this report will be 
put to the members at this year’s Annual General Meeting, but the 
Directors’ remuneration is not conditional upon the resolution 
being passed. The report has been divided into separate sections 
for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Field and 
the other members throughout the year under review were Peter 
Hambro and Sir Roderic Lyne. With effect from 1 January 2009, 
Tony Redman replaced Peter Hambro as a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
None of the members of the Remuneration Committee has any 
personal ﬁnancial interest (other than as Shareholders) or day-to-
day involvement in running the business. The Remuneration 
Committee makes recommendations to the Board. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the review of the 
performance of the Executive Directors. The remuneration and 
conditions of employment of Executive Directors and senior 
Executives are determined by the Remuneration Committee. 
Directors abstain from decisions determining their own 
remuneration. The Remuneration Committee works with the Chief 
Executive on all aspects of remuneration except his own and sets 
the remuneration of the Chief Executive. The scale and structure of 
the Executive Directors’ remuneration is approved on the basis of 
their performance, the performance of the Company and their 
service agreements with due regard to the interests of the 
Shareholders and the Company as a whole. The Remuneration 
Committee can make recommendations to the Board concerning 
employee incentives. 
Bearing in mind the provisions of the Combined Code, the 
Remuneration Committee is required to review at least annually the 
remuneration package (comprising base salary, any performance-
related element of salary or bonus, participation in share option 
schemes and other beneﬁts) of each Executive Director as 
proposed by the Chief Executive or previously agreed by the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is required, at least once a year, to 
review its own performance, constitution and terms of reference to 
ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommend 
any changes it considers necessary to the Board.
Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors
The Group operates in a highly competitive marketplace for senior 
skilled management which places a strong emphasis on above 
average rewards for outstanding performance. An overriding 
objective is to ensure that the approach to remuneration is simple 
and clear.
Executive remuneration packages are prudently designed to 
attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre needed to 
develop and run the Group’s businesses and to reward them for 
enhancing value to Shareholders. The performance measurement 
of the Executive Directors and key members of senior management 
and the determination of their annual remuneration package are 
undertaken by the Committee.
As a result, the Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion 
of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be 
performance-related. In structuring the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee’s expectation 
is that the split between performance based and ﬁxed would 
be 60%:40%.
The Company’s remuneration policy is that the remuneration is 
decided annually by the Remuneration Committee.
There are ﬁve main elements of the remuneration package for 
Executive Directors and senior management:
basic annual salary; beneﬁts-in-kind; performance based bonus payments; share option incentives; and pension arrangements. Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside 
the Company providing that the Chairman’s permission is obtained 
in advance of any such appointment. Jay Hambro is also a Non-
Executive Director of Peter Hambro Mining plc and received 
and retained an annual fee of £61,000 for the year ended 
31 December 2008.
Basic Salary
Each Executive Director’s basic salary is reviewed by the 
Committee at the beginning of each year and when an individual 
changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, 
the Committee considers the Group as a whole and relies on 
objective research which gives up-to-date information on a 
comparator group of companies. It is intended that executive 
Directors’ contracts of service will be available for inspection 
at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards 2008/2009
Basic salary awards were made as follows for Executive Directors:
  Year ended Year ended
  31 December 31 December 
  2008 2007
  £’000 £’000
Brian Egan 218 81
1
Jay Hambro 275 208
Yuri Makarov 204 159
Martin Smith 185 141
1 Brian Egan was appointed as a Director with effect from 31 July 2007
At the January 2009 salary review, no salary increases were 
awarded to Directors.
Beneﬁts-in-Kind
The Executive Directors receive certain beneﬁts-in-kind, for 
example car allowance and private medical insurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
49
Annual Bonus Payments
The Committee establishes speciﬁc objectives that must be met for 
each ﬁnancial year if a performance-related bonus is to be paid; the 
objectives for 2008 are shown below. The Committee believes that 
any incentive compensation awarded should be tied to the 
interests of the Company’s Shareholders. Account is also taken of 
the relative success of the different parts of the business for which 
the Executive Directors are responsible and the extent to which the 
strategic objectives set by the Board are being met. The maximum 
performance-related bonus that can be paid is 100% of basic 
annual salary. In exceptional circumstances speciﬁcally described, 
the Remuneration Committee can award bonuses above 100% of 
annual salary. 
Bonus Awards 2008
The objectives and achievements for 2008 covered the following:
The need for signiﬁcant advances with K&S and Garinskoye projects through moving from scoping to bankable feasibility. 
The favourable project economics were presented to 
shareholders and to the market in October 2008. This 
independent result justiﬁed the judgement made by Executive 
Management at the time of acquiring the asset. Full bonus for 
this objective was awarded.
The acquisition of valuable strategic assets of Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks in July 2008. A successful bid presented 
by management against considerable opposition. Full bonus 
was awarded.
Although slightly delayed the start of the crushing and screening plant at Kuranakh. Overall successful operational 
delivery but with a reduced bonus award.
Progressing further to the establishment of the JV with Chinalco, an important strategic partner for the development of Titanium 
Sponge where plant construction has commenced and which is 
on course to start production in 2010. A bonus was awarded for 
ﬁnding an appropriate partner and establishing joint venture 
arrangements.
The swift implementation of a cost cutting exercise and conserving of cash. 
Against the achievement of the above objectives the delivery of the 
beneﬁciation plant at Kuranakh has been delayed to mid 2009. No 
bonus was awarded in respect of this objective.
Executive Directors may earn annual incentive payments of up to 
75% of their basic salary (Chief Executive: 100%) together with the 
beneﬁts of long term share option incentives.
Incentive payments for the year ended 31 December 2008 varied 
between 45% and 60% of basic salary, 10% of which was required 
to be taken in shares purchased in the market by recipients within 
one month of the announcement of the 2008 results and to be held 
for not less than 12 months from the date of the purchase of the 
shares. See table on page 51.
Share Options
During the year ended 31 December 2003, following approval at 
the Annual General Meeting, the Company established a share 
option scheme (the ‘Share Option Scheme’). The reason for the 
scheme was to incentivise the Executive Directors. The Committee 
had responsibility for supervising the scheme and the grant of 
options under its terms.
There were no performance criteria to be met as it was considered 
that the share price performance was the best indicator of 
performance of the Executive Directors and the options granted 
could be exercised (by the issue of new shares) after a period of 
three years from the date the option was granted. Thereafter the 
option could be exercised for the rest of its life without further 
test, normally provided the grantee is still in employment with 
the Company.
The exercise price of the options granted under the above scheme 
would be equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the 
time when the options were granted. 
The Company’s policy has been to grant options to Directors at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee, taking into account 
individual performance normally up to a maximum of two times 
annual salary. It has been the Company’s policy to phase the 
granting of share options rather than to award them in a single 
large block to any individual other than on commencement 
of employment.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and 
conditions of any entitlement of a Director to share options. 
No further options over ordinary shares will be granted under 
the Company’s existing share option scheme following the 
establishment of the Long Term Incentive Plan (see below).
Long Term Incentive Plan 
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company 
established a Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) to operate in 
conjunction with an Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘EBT’) to provide an 
effective and ﬂexible means of holding assets for the beneﬁt of 
employees and their families and providing valuable long-term 
beneﬁts. Contributions to the EBT will be at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, which will also recommend allocations 
under the LTIP. The EBT is administered and operated by an 
independent trustee. A second allocation under the LTIP was 
implemented during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The potential beneﬁciaries of the LTIP include a number of the 
Executive Directors (see table below) and also some senior 
managers within the Group.
The shares allocated to the EBT under the LTIP vest three years 
from the date of allocation and a number of pre-set objectives will 
need to be fulﬁlled for the LTIP to vest. The full details of these 
objectives contain commercially sensitive information and must be 
fulﬁlled in order for the shares to vest in full The Remuneration 
Committee expects to publish the objectives in detail at the time 
of vesting. 
The objectives under the allocations cover the delivery of mining 
and production levels of ilmenite and titanomagnetite from 
Kuranakh, the delivery of an appropriate ﬁnancing package to 
fund both the K&S and Garinskoye projects through to the 
commencement of mining operations, the appointment of 
contractors to build the necessary infrastructure and the 
achievement of predetermined operating proﬁt levels. In addition, 
the implementation of these developments must be conducted to 
the standards set by the HSE Committee of the Board for Safety, 
Health Environment and Communities. 
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
50
The structure of the LTIP is that, on each allocation, a subsidiary of 
Aricom will provide an interest free loan to the EBT to enable the 
EBT to subscribe for new ordinary shares in Aricom at market value. 
These ordinary shares will be held by the EBT on behalf of the 
potential participants for the vesting period, together with any 
Aricom shares already held by the EBT which have not previously 
been allocated under the LTIP. These shares are therefore held by 
the EBT on behalf of the potential participants for the vesting 
period and, should the Remuneration Committee advise the 
Trustees that the LTIP objectives have been successfully achieved, 
the shares will be sold, the loan repaid and the gains on the shares 
passed to the participants, subject to the provisions of the EBT. 
Shares are not allotted directly to the participants of the scheme.
The allocations made under the LTIP are disclosed on page 52.
The following rules have been set for the operation of the LTIP: 
The maximum number of ordinary shares that may be allocated under the LTIP shall not exceed at any time 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital; 
The number of ordinary shares which may be held in the EBT shall not at any time exceed 5% of the Company’s issued 
share capital; 
No further options over ordinary shares will be granted under the Company’s existing share option scheme; and 
Awards under the LTIP will be subject to agreed performance conditions as established by the Remuneration Committee. 
However, completion of the performance conditions can be 
waived by the trustees at their sole discretion, but having regard 
to any recommendations by the Remuneration Committee, in 
circumstances where such conditions have become either 
inappropriate or overly onerous by external circumstances. 
Pension Arrangements
Executive Directors have their own pension arrangements and are 
not members of a company pension scheme. 
The Company has agreed to make contributions equivalent to 
between 15% and 17.5% of basic salary into the personal approved 
pension schemes of the Directors and employees. Amounts paid to 
Directors are set out in the Schedule of Directors’ Emoluments and 
Compensation on page 51.
Directors’ Contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have 
contracts for an indeﬁnite term providing for up to a maximum of 
one year’s notice. However, it may be necessary occasionally to 
offer longer notice periods to new Directors. Where this arises, it is 
the Company’s policy to reduce the notice period to one year 
within two years of appointment of the Director. The service 
contract of Jay Hambro, who was appointed a Director in 2006, 
provides for a notice period of 12 months. All other Executive 
Directors have contracts which are subject to either three or six 
months’ notice by either party. 
It is intended that Tony Redman, Pavel Maslovskiy, Peter Hambro 
and Jay Hambro be proposed for re-election at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting. Their notice periods, and those of the other 
Directors, are as follows: 
Date of contract Notice period
Executive Directors
Brian Egan 10/07/2007 6 months
Jay Hambro 01/09/2006 12 months
Yuri Makarov 26/04/2004 3 months
Martin Smith 04/04/2006 6 months
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Malcolm Field 01/01/2007 3 months
Peter Hambro 12/12/2003 3 months
Sir Roderic Lyne 26/09/2006 3 months
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy 12/12/2003 3 months
Tony Redman (appointed 01/01/2009)  04/08/2008 3 months
In the event of early termination, the Directors’ contracts 
provide for compensation up to a maximum of basic salary 
for the notice period. No compensation will be payable when 
a Director’s appointment is terminated for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have speciﬁc terms of engagement 
and their remuneration is determined by the Board and based on 
independent surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of 
similar companies. The basic fee paid to each Non-Executive 
Director in the year was £30,000. The Non-Executive Directors 
receive further fees for additional work performed for the Company 
in respect of membership of the Remuneration Committee, 
Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and Environmental 
Committee and Audit Committee. The additional fees paid to 
Non-Executive Directors are at a rate of £10,000 for membership of 
the Audit Committee and HSE committee, £5,000 for chairmanship 
of the Audit Committee and HSE committee, £5,000 for 
membership of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee and £2,500 for chairmanship of the Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination Committee. The Chairman of the 
Company is paid a further £65,000 and the Senior Non-Executive 
Director a further £15,000. Non-Executive Directors were not able 
to participate in the Company’s share option scheme with the 
exception of options granted at the initial listing of the Company 
on AIM in 2003.
Directors’ Interests in Contracts of Signiﬁcance 
None of the Directors have interests in contracts of signiﬁcance 
with the Company or with any of its subsidiaries.
Related party contracts are set out in note 39 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Audited Information
Aggregate Directors’ Remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
  2008 2007
  £’000 £’000
Emoluments 1,668 1,788
Compensation for loss of employment  – 30
Gains on exercise of share options  – 440
Contributions to personal pensions  89 73
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report 2008
51
Aricom plc
Directors’ Emoluments and Compensation
The main elements of the remuneration of the Chairman and the Directors were paid in sterling (except for Yuri Makarov as noted below) 
and were as follows:
Basic salary/ Other Total Total
fees Pension beneﬁts Bonus 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Brian Egan 218 22 18 103 361 171
Jay Hambro 275 48 3 165 491 525
Yuri Makarov 204 – 1 90 295 311
Martin Smith 185 19 3 83 290 297
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Malcolm Field  85––– 85 84
Peter Hambro 60––– 60 60
Sir Roderic Lyne  65––– 65 64
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy  110––– 110 109
Former Director
Peter Howes 13 1–– 14 270
1,215 90 25 441 1,771 1,891
Basic salary/fees includes fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of membership of committees as set out above.
Brian Egan was appointed as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 July 2007 and his salary included in the aggregate ﬁgure above reﬂects this. He is entitled to a car allowance of £12,000 per annum, which is included in other beneﬁts above.
Yuri Makarov’s salary includes a rouble salary of RuR 2,160,000 from Aricom LLC. Sir Malcolm Field’s fees for the eight months to August 2008 were paid to a third party, Anne Charlton Limited. Peter Howes resigned as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 July 2007 and was awarded a payment of £30,000 as compensation for loss of employment in 2007.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director was £491,000 (2007: £525,000). The bonus ﬁgures are inclusive of the 10% bonus deferral as explained above. A special bonus was paid in 2007 in recognition of the work involved relating to the admission of the Company’s shares and warrants to 
the Ofﬁcial List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange plc and in relation 
to the fundraising in 2007. This bonus was approved by the Remuneration Committee and was paid in addition to the Company’s annual 
bonus policy.
Directors’ Share Options
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company 
granted to or held by the Directors. 
Details of options over shares for Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Share Options
The current share options held by Directors and the movement during the year is set out below: 
Number of Number of
shares under shares under
option as at Granted Exercised option as at
1 January during during 31 December
2008 the year the year 2008
Executive Directors
Jay Hambro 2,500,000 – – 2,500,000
Martin Smith 400,000 – – 400,000
Yuri Makarov 800,000 – – 800,000
Former Director
Peter Howes 400,000 – (400,000) –
The options outstanding were issued in accordance with the Aricom plc Share Option Scheme. The exercise price is 42 pence and the 
exercise dates are between 19 July 2009 and 19 July 2012.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the ﬁnancial year.
Options granted under the Share Option Scheme are not subject to performance criteria as explained above. The market price of the 
ordinary shares at 31 December 2008 was £0.076 and the range during the year was £0.0523 to £1.06.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 52
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
180 Aricom
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
FTSE 350 Metals & Mining
160
140
120
190
80
60
Jan
2004
Aug
2004
Apr
2005
Nov
2005
Jul
2006
Feb
2007
Oct
2007
May
2008
Dec
2008
40
20
0
Source: Bloomberg, 31 December 2008
Long Term Incentive Plan
The following awards were made to Directors under the LTIP in October 2007 and October 2008 following recommendations by the 
Remuneration Committee to the trustees of the EBT:
Date of award Number Price Term
Brian Egan October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Jay Hambro October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Yuri Makarov October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Martin Smith October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
The above are maximum possible allocations, subject to the vesting period and the attainment of objectives as described above. The 
above allocations refer to the LTIP units and do not refer to numbers of shares. Each LTIP unit entitles the beneﬁciary to potentially 
participate in any potential upside in the share price but does not entitle the beneﬁciary to the underlying shares.
Performance Graph (unaudited)
The Directors consider that the most appropriate measure of the Company’s performance is its share price compared with the FTSE 350 
Metals & Mining Index, the FTSE All Share Index and the FTSE 250 Index.
A graph showing the Company’s share price compared with the FTSE 350 Metals & Mining Index, the FTSE All Share Index and the 
FTSE 250 Index from the date of admission to trading on AIM until 31 December 2008 is shown below:
Aricom vs FTSE 250, FTSE All Share and FTSE 350 Metals & Mining
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Malcolm Field
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2009
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
53
Report and Financial Statements
The Directors present their report and the audited ﬁnancial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2008. Comparatives 
are for the year ended 31 December 2007. The consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’).
Principal Activity
The principal activity of the Group is the development of a 
vertically integrated mining, processing and marketing group 
concentrating on industrial commodities. The main activities and 
assets of the Group are in Russia and the Group predominantly 
serves the Russian and Chinese markets.
Enhanced Business Review
The enhanced business review of the Group has been covered by 
the disclosures contained in the Chairman’s Statement on page 10, 
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review on page 11, the Financial 
Review on pages 40 to 41 and this Directors’ Report on pages 
53 to 60.
The Key Performance Indicators Review has been covered by the 
disclosures contained on page 1.
Results, Review of the Business and Future Prospects
The consolidated income statement is set out on page 63. The 
Directors’ report should be read in conjunction with the Chairman’s 
Statement on page 10, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review on 
page 11 and the Financial Review on pages 40 to 41 which include 
information about the Group’s business and performance during 
the period and an indication of future prospects. Events 
subsequent to 31 December 2008 are set out in note 40.
The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend 
(2007: nil).
Events Since the Balance Sheet Date
Details of events occurring since 31 December 2008 are set out in 
note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Risk Factors
The exploration for and development of natural resources is a 
speculative activity that involves a high degree of risk. The 
Directors believe that, in particular, readers of this report should be 
aware of these risks and uncertainties. If any of these risks and 
uncertainties, together with possible additional risks and 
uncertainties of which the Directors are currently unaware or which 
they consider not to be material in relation to the Company’s 
business, actually occur, the Company’s business, ﬁnancial position 
or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. It 
should be noted that this list is not exhaustive and that certain 
other risk factors may apply.
In addition, ﬁnancial risk management disclosures have been made 
in note 38 to the Conslidated Financial Statements.
The Group may not be able to Finance the Group’s Planned 
Capital Expenditures
The Group’s business requires signiﬁcant capital expenditures, 
including in exploration and development, production, transport, 
reﬁning and meeting the Group’s obligations under environmental 
laws and regulations.
However, in the next two to ﬁve years the Group expects to ﬁnance 
a substantial part of these capital expenditures out of the proceeds 
of the Placing in June 2007 and from external borrowings. No 
assurance can be given that the Group will be able to raise the 
ﬁnancing required for its planned capital expenditures, on a 
secured basis or otherwise, on acceptable terms or at all. If the 
Group is unable to raise the necessary ﬁnancing, the Group will 
have to reduce its planned capital expenditures. Any such 
reduction could adversely affect the Group’s ability to develop any 
of its mineral resources. If the reductions are severe enough, the 
Group may not be able to commence operations at one or more 
of its licensed territories. 
If the Group does not perform mineral exploration programmes 
required by the terms of the relevant licences, these licences may 
be revoked or may lapse and it will lose all interest that it has in 
these deposits. The Group’s ability to obtain outside ﬁnancing will 
depend in part upon the prices of ilmenite and iron ore and the 
industry’s perception of their future price and other factors outside 
its control. Cash constraints and strategic considerations may also 
lead the Group to dispose of all or part of its interests in some of its 
projects or mineral rights or to seek third parties jointly to develop 
one or more projects.
Geology and Reserves
The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves 
signiﬁcant uncertainties and the Group’s operations will be subject 
to all of the hazards and risks normally encountered in such 
activities. In addition, any metals exploration programme entails 
risks relating to the location of economically viable orebodies, the 
development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of 
necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining 
and processing facilities. No assurance can be given that any 
metals exploration programme will result in any new commercial 
mining operation or in the discovery of new resources.
Geological hazards and risks include unusual and unexpected 
geological formations, rock falls, ﬂooding and other climatic 
conditions, any one of which could result in damage to, or 
destruction of, the Group’s facilities, damage to life or property, 
environmental damage or pollution and legal liability which could 
have a material adverse impact on the business, operations and 
ﬁnancial performance of the Company. Although precautions to 
minimise risk will be taken, even a combination of careful 
evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate all of the 
hazards and risks.
As is common with all exploration ventures, there is also 
uncertainty and therefore risk associated with the Group’s 
operating parameters and costs. These can be difﬁcult to predict 
and are often affected by factors outside the Group’s control. With 
all metals and minerals operations there is uncertainty and, 
therefore, risk associated with operating parameters and costs 
resulting from the scaling up of extraction methods tested in pilot 
conditions. Metals and minerals exploration is speculative in nature 
and there can be no assurance that any potential deposits 
discovered will result in an increase in the Group’s mineable 
resource base. In addition, it may take many years from the initial 
phase of exploration and drilling before production is possible. 
During this time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery 
may change as a result of changes in metal and/or mineral 
market prices.
Directors’ Report
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
54
Implementation of New Projects
The Group has had limited business activity to date and its mining 
interests have not yet been fully developed into commercial 
production. Implementation of the Group’s projects will in most 
cases require, inter alia, conclusion of agreements with third parties 
and government consents. There is no certainty that any of these 
will be achieved and thus no certainty that these projects can be 
implemented or that they will be successful were they to be 
implemented. In pursuing the proposed projects, the Company 
may ﬁnd itself in competition with companies with more 
substantial resources.
Prices and Demand
The Group’s earnings are intended to be principally derived from 
the mining and processing of metal bearing ores and are therefore 
related to the market prices of such metals and related products. 
Iron, iron ore and titanium dioxide are currently trading at levels 
that are signiﬁcantly lower than during recent years, and there is no 
certainty that these prices will be maintained. Although the Group’s 
anticipated costs of mining and production are expected to be 
relatively low by world standards, the Group’s ability to achieve or 
maintain earnings, pay dividends in the future and undertake 
capital expenditure may be affected if the price of iron, iron ore 
and titanium, dioxide remain at current levels.
The Group is targeting the Chinese market for a signiﬁcant 
proportion of its future sales. A decline in Chinese demand, and/or 
an increase in Chinese domestic production or other competition, 
could adversely affect the Group’s performance and prospects.
The Group’s Mineral Licences may be Challenged, Which may 
Prevent or Severely Curtail the Group’s Use of the Affected 
Mineral Deposits
The Group’s mineral rights may be challenged or impugned, and 
insurance for these rights may not be available, or the Group may 
elect not to be so insured because of high premium costs. The 
Group does not carry title insurance. Each sovereign state is the 
sole authority able to grant mineral exploration and/or exploitation 
rights, and the Group’s ability to maintain extraction rights on some 
of the Group’s properties is dependent, inter alia, on the Russian 
Government’s policy and rules for use of subsoil. Title to the land 
plots on which the Group has subsoil exploration and extraction 
rights may be affected by, among other things, undetected 
defects. In addition, a variety of factors beyond the Group’s control 
may preclude the Group from operating its mineral rights as 
permitted or not allow the Group to enforce its mineral rights with 
respect to any of its deposits despite having the right to explore 
and develop them.
The licensing regime in Russia for the exploration, extraction and 
production of minerals is governed primarily by the Subsoil Law 
and regulations promulgated thereunder. The Group’s licences 
provide that they may be revoked if the Group fails to comply with 
any of the licence requirements, such as minimum work 
commitments, if the Group does not make timely payments of 
levies and taxes for the use of the subsoil, if the Group 
systematically fails to provide information, if the immediate licence 
holders go bankrupt or if the Group fails to fulﬁl any capital 
expenditure or production obligations or both.
There have been press reports that the Russian Government is 
considering proposals involving the replacement of the current 
subsoil licensing system with a new system based on civil law 
regulated agreements between subsoil users and the state. It is not 
yet clear whether these proposals will be implemented and what 
effect this would have on the Group’s operations. There is a risk 
that the implementation of these or any other proposals which will 
change the Russian subsoil licensing system may have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business.
The Group’s Exploration, Development and Production Licences 
may be Suspended or Revoked Prior to their Expiration
Generally, compliance with various government regulations 
requires the Group to obtain permits issued by Russian 
governmental agencies. Some permits require periodic renewal or 
review of their conditions. The Group cannot predict whether the 
Group will be able to renew these permits or whether material 
changes in permit conditions will be imposed. Non-renewal of a 
permit may cause the Group to discontinue the operations 
requiring the permit, and the imposition of additional conditions on 
a permit may cause the Group to incur additional compliance costs, 
either of which could have a material adverse affect on the Group’s 
ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the 
Group may not be able to, or may voluntarily decide not to, comply, 
or may not have complied in all respects, with the licence 
requirements for some or all of its licences. If the Group fails to fulﬁl 
the speciﬁc terms of any of its licences or if the Group operates in 
the licence areas in a manner that violates Russian law, regulators 
may impose ﬁnes on the Group or suspend or revoke its licences, 
any of which could have a material adverse effect on its operations.
Reserves and Resources may be Subject to Restatement
The resource and reserve estimates contained on page 25 are 
estimates of the resources and reserves in the ground on the 
Group’s existing licensed territories. The Group’s ore resources and 
reserves are estimates based upon many factors, including:
the results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of the ore bodies;
past experience with mining properties; and the experience of the person making the reserve estimates. Because the Group’s ore resource and reserve estimates are 
calculated based on current estimates of production costs and 
product prices, they should not be interpreted as assurances of the 
economic life of the Group’s deposits or the proﬁtability of the 
Group’s future operations. Resource and reserve estimates may 
require revisions based on the deﬁnitive exploration ﬁgures and 
actual production experience. Furthermore, a sustained decline in 
relevant market prices could render ore resources and reserves 
containing lower grades and/or mineralisation uneconomic to 
recover and ultimately require a restatement of reserves and 
resources.
Any failure of the reserves and resources to meet the Group’s 
recovery expectations may have a materially adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. The 
mineral expert’s report on the mineral assets of the Group is a 
review based on data provided by the Group, much of which 
originated from Soviet research undertaken in the 1950s and 1960s. 
The data and its interpretation could be inaccurate resulting in 
higher levels of required initial investment. 
Payment and other Obligations
Under the exploration licences and other contractual agreements 
to which the Group companies are or may in the future become 
parties, such companies are or may become subject to payment 
and other obligations. If such obligations are not complied with 
when due, in addition to any other remedies which may be 
available to other parties, this could result in dilution or forfeiture 
of interests held by such companies.
From time to time some of the Russian companies in the Group 
may have negative net assets (as deﬁned under Russian 
accounting standards)
There are certain requirements under both the Federal law ‘On 
Limited Liability Companies’ and the Federal Law ‘On Joint Stock 
Companies’ that require companies to have net assets that are 
more than its charter capital. In common with a number of other 
groups in the Russian mining and exploration sector, a number of 
the Group’s subsidiaries may have negative net assets, especially 
those in the early stages of exploration and which are prior to the 
Directors’ Report continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
55
development, mining and/or production stage and those 
subsidiaries may, or may not, voluntarily decide not to rectify 
the situation. 
If a Group subsidiary has negative net assets, there is a risk that 
Russian tax authorities and other interested parties may bring a 
claim to liquidate such a company, but there are a number of 
examples where Russian courts have not upheld such claims, on the 
grounds that the relevant company has paid its debts as they fell 
due, and/or has subsequently become proﬁtable and/or has 
received a capital contribution to render that company negative 
asset positive (under Russian law). However, there is no guarantee 
that Russian Courts will continue to decide in this way, in which 
event one or more of the Group’s companies could be the subject 
of a court order to be liquidated which would, among other 
matters, result in the loss of any mineral licence held by such 
company and result in adverse consequences for the rest of the 
Group. Even if the Group does take any necessary steps available 
to it to remedy this situation to the extent permissible under 
Russian Law, there can be no certainty that the Russian tax 
authorities will not seek to bring a claim in any event.
An additional risk exists in respect of any of the Group’s joint 
venture participations, or any other investment of the Group which 
is less than a 100% subsidiary, which have negative net assets, since 
there can be no assurance that the Group’s partner(s) or the other 
shareholder(s) in such joint ventures will take the same steps as 
the Group to remedy a deﬁciency in such joint venture entity’s 
negative net assets in which case their share might have to be 
funded by the Group.
Currency Risk
The Company’s functional currency is GB Pounds and it presents 
its accounts in US Dollars (‘US$’). The majority of the Company’s 
subsidiaries have a US$ functional currency but a large part of 
the Group’s expenses is denominated in RUR which has been 
depreciating against the US Dollar for the last 6 months. The Group 
also has expenses and income denominated in other currencies, 
including those of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The 
Group’s ﬁnancial condition and results of operations could be 
adversely affected by changes in the exchange rates between 
currencies in which it operates.
The expenditure relating to the planned titanium sponge plant in 
China is expected to be met in part in Chinese yuan. Adverse 
movements in the US$/RMB exchange rate could impact the 
Group’s proﬁtability.
Counterparty Risk
The Group has US$257 million of cash and cash equivalents, the 
majority of which is deposited with major UK ﬁnancial institutions 
with credit ratings of Ba1 or above. For operational reasons, the 
Group holds deposits with banks in Russia, one of which, a related 
party, has no ofﬁcial credit rating. See note 38 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for further details.
Environmental Regulations
The Group’s operations are subject to the extensive environmental 
risks inherent in the mining and processing industry.
Although the Directors believe that the subsidiaries are in 
compliance in all material respects with any applicable 
environmental laws and regulations and hold all necessary 
approvals, licences and permits under those laws and regulations, 
there are certain risks inherent in their activities and those which 
the Group will undertake in the future, such as risks of accidental 
spills, leakages or other unforeseen circumstances, that could 
subject the Group to extensive liability. In addition, the Group is 
subject to checks, including spot checks, by various regulators 
including Rosprirodnazor, the environmental regulator in Russia.
Environmental legislation and permitting requirements are likely to 
evolve in a manner which will require stricter standards and 
enforcement, increased ﬁnes and penalties for non-compliance. 
However, the Group is unable to predict the effect of additional 
environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the 
future, including whether any such laws or regulations would 
materially increase the Group’s cost of doing business or affect its 
operations in any area.
During the conduct of operations the Group is subject to regular 
inspections and reporting requirements for a range of issues 
relating to environmental pollution, and must comply with 
maximum acceptable concentrations, determined by state 
authorities, for air quality, water quality, soils and sediments. Any 
issues identiﬁed in such inspections or reporting processes and/or 
any breach of these requirements could have adverse 
consequences for the Group.
Access rights to mining tenements, land rights and third 
party rights
There may be cases where the Group requires additional rights to 
access or to exploit future mining projects. 
In accordance with the Russian legislation and terms commonly 
included in licence agreements, a licence holder is obliged to 
obtain rights to the part of licensed area where certain geological 
works are carried out. This requires the licence holder obtaining 
lease agreements and mine allotment acts in respect of those areas 
to ensure it has all of the required land rights. The lease 
agreements must also be registered with the state to be 
enforceable (together, “Land Rights”). If the Land Rights are not 
obtained ﬁnes can be imposed on licence holders.
Obtaining the required Land Rights can be a long, drawn out and 
bureaucratic process for licence holders for reasons beyond their 
control. The Company and its subsidiaries may not always have the 
required Land Rights at the time of commencing their mining 
operations or for periods of time where agreements expire in 
relation to Land Rights.
Permitting
Both ahead of the commencement of operations by Aricom, 
including at Kuranakh where certain permits remain to be obtained, 
and during the conduct of operations, a range of permits are 
required to be obtained from different authorities and the OVOS 
must be approved by state environmental experts. Additionally 
certain activity must be discussed in advance with local 
communities and other interested persons.
Any failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, any permits or 
approvals could adversely affect the Group’s investment plans and/
or operations, which could in turn adversely affect the Group.
Operational Considerations
The Group’s operational targets are subject to the completion of 
planned operational goals on time and according to budget, and 
are dependent on the effective support of the Group’s personnel, 
systems, procedures and controls. Any failure of these may result in 
delays in the achievement of operational targets with a consequent 
material adverse impact on the business, operations and ﬁnancial 
performance of the Company.
The location of the Kuranakh, K&S, Garinskoye and Bolshoi Seym 
deposits means that climatic conditions have an impact on 
operations and, in particular, severe weather could disrupt the 
delivery of supplies, equipment and fuel. It is, therefore, possible 
that exploration and extraction activity levels might ﬂuctuate as a 
result of meteorological factors.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
56
Unscheduled interruptions in the Company’s operations due to 
mechanical or other failures or industrial relations related issues or 
problems or issues with the supply of goods or services could have 
a serious impact on the ﬁnancial performance of those operations.
Lack of Infrastructure may Adversely Affect the Group’s Ability 
to Develop its Resources
The Group’s current and proposed reserves and resources are 
situated in areas lacking infrastructure required to develop and 
operate the Group’s reserves and resources. The Group must invest 
heavily in the construction of the required mining and auxiliary 
infrastructure (such as roads, loading terminals, railways connecting 
to the BAM and/or Trans-Siberian railways and staff living quarters). 
Construction and operation of this infrastructure will require 
substantial capital expenditure by the Group and no assurance can 
be given that the market conditions will continue to make such 
investments viable.
Kuranakh and Bolshoi Seym are located in close proximity to the 
BAM railway, which is operated by a state owned company, OJSC 
Russian Railways. State-owned infrastructure in Russia largely dates 
back to Soviet times and much has not been adequately funded 
and maintained over the last 15-20 years. Particularly affected are 
the rail and road networks, building stocks and power generation 
and transmission. Currently, the Russian Government sets rail tariffs 
and may further increase these tariffs as it has done in the past. The 
Group could be adversely affected by insufﬁcient capacity on the 
BAM railway.
Although the construction of a cross-border rail bridge in close 
proximity to K&S may be beneﬁcial to the Group’s operations, there 
is no certainty that the necessary funding will be forthcoming or 
such a bridge will be constructed.
Labour
Certain of the Group’s operations are carried out under potentially 
hazardous conditions. Whilst the Group intends to continue to 
operate in accordance with relevant health and safety regulations 
and requirements, the Group remains susceptible to the possibility 
that liabilities might arise as a result of accidents or other 
workforce-related misfortunes, some of which may be beyond the 
Group’s control.
The Group is undertaking a substantial recruitment programme to 
staff its increasing operations. If the Group is unable to recruit the 
required personnel with the required skills, this could adversely 
affect the Group’s investment plans and/or operations, which could 
in turn adversely affect the Group. Signiﬁcant increases in labour 
costs could adversely affect the Group.
Uninsured Risks
The Group, as a participant in exploration and mining programmes, 
may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured 
against, which could exceed policy limits or against which it may 
elect not to be so insured because of high premium costs. The 
Group may incur a liability to third parties in excess of any 
insurance cover arising from pollution or other damage or injury.
The Group does not have full coverage for all of its plant and 
facilities, for business interruption, for third-party liability in respect 
of property, and for environmental damage arising from accidents 
on its property or relating to its operations. Until the Group 
decides to obtain full insurance coverage, there is a risk that losses 
and liabilities arising from such events could signiﬁcantly increase 
its costs and have a material adverse effect on its business, results 
of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Project Development Risks
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to 
manage effectively the expansion of its operations or that the 
Group’s current personnel, systems, procedures and controls will 
be adequate to support the Group’s operations. Any failure of 
management to manage effectively the Group’s growth and 
development could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
There is no certainty that all or any of the elements of the Group’s 
current strategy will develop as anticipated.
Dependence on Key Personnel
The Group’s business is dependent on retaining the services of a 
small number of key personnel of the appropriate calibre as the 
business develops. There is no assurance that the Group will be 
able to attract and retain such key personnel. The success of the 
Group is, and will continue to be to a signiﬁcant extent, dependent 
on the expertise and experience of the Directors and senior 
management and the loss of one or more could have a materially 
adverse effect on the Group.
Litigation
Legal proceedings may arise from time to time in the course of the 
Company’s business. The Directors cannot prevent litigation being 
brought against the Company or any of its subsidiaries in future 
from time to time.
Risks Relating to the Jurisdictions in Which the Group Operates
Economic, Political, Judicial, Administrative, Taxation or Other 
Regulatory Factors
The Group may be adversely affected by changes in economic, 
political, judicial, administrative, taxation or other regulatory 
factors, in the areas in which the Group will operate and holds its 
major assets, as well as other unforeseen matters. The jurisdictions 
in which the Company operates may in some cases have less 
established judicial systems, a more volatile political environment 
and/or more challenging trading conditions than in some other 
parts of the world. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government 
action could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business 
and prospects.
The Group is subject to a broad range of taxes imposed at the 
federal, regional and local levels, including but not limited to 
income tax, mineral extraction taxes, royalty tax, sales tax, property 
tax, social taxes and road use tax. Laws related to these taxes, such 
as the Russian Tax Code, have been in force for a short period 
relative to tax laws in more developed market economies; 
therefore, the implementation of these tax laws by different tax 
authorities and courts is often unclear and/or inconsistent. 
Accordingly, few precedents with regard to the interpretation of 
these laws have been established. The Group seeks legal and tax 
advice and seeks to comply with all the relevant tax laws and 
regulations to the best of its abilities. However, no assurances can 
be made that tax authorities and/or courts will apply various tax 
laws and regulations in a way consistent with that taken by the 
Group. If the tax authorities and/or courts adopt a different 
interpretation of various tax laws and regulations, the Group may 
have to pay signiﬁcantly higher taxes, and impose additional 
burdens and costs on the Group’s operations, including 
management resources, which could have a material adverse effect 
on the Group’s business.
The Group’s assets are located in Russia, a country which is still 
moving from a command to market-driven economy. While this 
process of change is establishing in Russia a more western-style 
business environment, there are still substantial differences 
between it and more developed economies and countries, 
including a volatile ﬁnancial system, political and/or economic 
instability and/or lack of transparency, and both these differences 
and the ongoing processes, could adversely affect the Group 
and its operations. Ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions 
have, on occasion, given rise to tensions, armed conﬂict and 
terrorist activity.
Directors’ Report continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
57
Any spread of violence or terrorism, or political measures taken to 
counter them, could hinder the operation and the expansion of the 
Group’s business. Various recent developments in Russia including 
the tightening of state control over the economy have caused some 
concern in relation to the investment climate in the country and no 
assurances can be given that various steps taken or being debated 
in the Russian Government will not affect investment into Russia or 
the public perception thereof.
China
The Company will be exposed to the Chinese economy and 
to the state of diplomatic relations between Russia and China. 
Deterioration in the Chinese economy and/or in the trading 
environment could adversely affect the trading position of the 
Company. Similarly the imposition of export controls in Russia 
or import controls in China could adversely affect the 
Company’s operations.
Legal and Regulatory Environment
There is no guarantee that the Group will be successful in all 
attempts to obtain mining licences. There is no guarantee of the 
terms of any future mining licence. The exploration and extraction 
activities of the Group are subject to various laws governing 
prospecting, development, production taxes, labour standards and 
occupational health, site safety, toxic substances and other matters. 
Although the Directors believe that the Group’s exploration 
activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable 
rules and regulations relevant to the current stage of development 
and that the Group holds all necessary approvals, licences and 
permits under those laws and regulations for its current activities, 
no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not 
be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied 
in a manner which could limit or curtail exploration, production or 
development. Amendments to current laws and regulations 
governing operations and activities of exploration for and 
extraction of mineral resources, or more stringent implementation 
thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the business, 
operations and ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
In some cases, existing or future licences cover, or will cover, only 
the extraction of speciﬁed minerals. In such cases, the exploitation 
of other minerals may require additional licences to be obtained, 
and there can be no certainty that these will be forthcoming.
Risks Relating to the Aricom Securities
Liquidity
Although the Aricom Securities are listed on the Ofﬁcial List, this 
should not be taken as implying that there will be a liquid market in 
the Aricom Securities. An investment in the Aricom securities may, 
therefore, in certain circumstances be difﬁcult to realise.
The Company can give no assurance that an active trading market 
for the Warrants will be sustained. Should the Warrant holders 
decide to exercise their Warrants, this would result in a dilution of 
the interests of the Shareholders at the time of the issue of any 
ordinary shares pursuant to such exercise.
Investment Risk
Prospective investors should be aware that the value of an 
investment in the Company may go down as well as up. In addition, 
there can be no certainty that the market price of an investment in 
the Company will fully reﬂect its underlying value. The price at 
which investors may dispose of their Aricom Securities may be 
inﬂuenced by a number of factors, some of which may be related to 
the Company and some not. Investors may realise less than the 
original amount invested.
Joint Venture Arrangements may not be Finalised
The Group has a minority interest in the Bolshoi Seym deposit, and 
the Bolshoi Seym joint venture arrangements are yet to be ﬁnalised.
The Group has a 49% interest in Uralmining, a Russian company 
holding the licence to develop the Bolshoi Seym deposit. The 
Group is in the process of negotiating a joint venture agreement 
with the proposed other participant in Uralmining, KMT, a company 
related to the Interros investment group, a large Russian private 
investment company. If implemented, the joint venture agreement 
will provide certain minority protections for Aricom. If the joint 
venture is not entered into, the Company will remain as a minority 
shareholder in Uralmining, without any additional contractual rights 
in respect of the Bolshoi Seym deposit.
The Titanium Sponge Project may not Proceed
In August 2008, Chinalco, the largest nonferrous metal company in 
China and owner of China’s largest titanium metal processing plant, 
signed an agreement with Aricom for the design and development 
of a titanium sponge production plant in China. In order to 
progress this project, additional equity contributions are required 
from both Aricom and Chinalco, and a project ﬁnance facility is also 
required. If the equity contributions or project ﬁnance are not made 
available the project will not proceed. 
If, at some stage, the capital expenditure requirements, operating 
costs or titanium sponge price levels are such that the project 
appears unproﬁtable, the project may not proceed.
Possible Merger with Peter Hambro Mining plc
Conditions to the Offer may not be Satisﬁed or Approved
The offer once made to Aricom shareholders will contain certain 
conditions and those conditions may not be satisﬁed. At the time, 
PHM may decide in its absolute discretion to waive or amend those 
conditions. Alternatively the offer may be terminated or may lapse. 
The offer may be made by PHM but not approved as required by 
the Court, if implemented by way of a scheme (the current 
intention) or by the required percentage of shareholders of Aricom 
or PHM or if FAS approval is not received. If this occurs the 
conditions may not be satisﬁed and the offer to Aricom 
shareholders may be terminated or may lapse.
Change of Control
There is a risk that certain contracts of the Group may contain 
change of control provisions and in connection with certain of 
those contracts, there is a risk that the proposed merger could 
constitute a change of control. There is a risk that a disgruntled 
party or creditor may bring an action claiming there has been a 
change of control. There is a risk that contracts where change of 
control provisions will be invoked that the Group cannot deal with 
those adverse effects before any proposed merger. These effects 
may have adverse consequences for the enlarged entity.
General
The risks noted above are not intended to be presented in any 
assumed order of priority.
Supplier Payment Policy
The Group does not follow any speciﬁc external code or standard 
on payment terms. Instead, responsibility for determining payment 
terms is delegated to the individual businesses within the Group 
which take into account local market and industry practice. As a 
Group, the policy for determining payment terms is either to agree 
terms of payment at the start of a binding contract or to ensure that 
the supplier is aware of the individual businesses’ usual payment 
terms. Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other 
legal obligations, and reﬂects local market practices. The Company 
is a holding company and, as such, has few suppliers. 
Trade creditor days of the Group at 31 December 2008 were 14 
days (2007: 23 days).
Charitable and Political Contributions
The Group did not make any charitable or political donations in 
2008 (2007: nil).
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 58
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Directors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at any time during the year under review are set out below:
Brian Egan Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Sir Malcolm Field Senior Non-Executive Director
Jay Hambro Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Peter Hambro Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director
Yuri Makarov Operations Director 
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Chairman
Martin Smith Technical Director
Tony Redman was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2009.
Directors’ Interests
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and connected parties in the share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2008, 31 December 
2008 were as follows:
1 January 31 December
2008 2008
Ordinary shares of £0.001 each
Sir Malcolm Field  1,205,000 1,205,000
Brian Egan – 107,622
Peter Hambro 92,601,729 87,601,729
Jay Hambro – 110,000
Sir Roderic Lyne  26,000 26,000
Yuri Makarov – 110,000
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy  92,779,094 87,779,094
Warrants
Sir Malcolm Field  35,000 35,000
Jay Hambro 135,000 135,000
No other Directors had an interest in the shares of the Company. As at 31 December 2008, the Directors held no interests in any other 
Group companies. There have been no changes in the above holdings since 31 December 2008.
The current share options held by Directors and the movement during the year is set out below: 
Number of Number of
shares under shares under
option as at Granted Exercised option as at
1 January during during 31 December
2008 the year the year 2008
Executive Directors
Jay Hambro 2,500,000 – – 2,500,000
Yuri Makarov 800,000 – – 800,000
Martin Smith 400,000 – – 400,000
Former Director
Peter Howes 400,000 – (400,000) –
Details of allocations made to Directors under the Companies Long Term Incentive Plan are given below:
Date of award Number
1
Price Term
Brian Egan October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Jay Hambro October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Yuri Makarov October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
Martin Smith October 2007 2,000,000 £0.62 3 years
October 2008 2,000,000 £0.20 3 years
1 The above allocations refer to LTIP units and not refer to the numbers of shares.
The above are maximum allocations, subject to the attainment of objectives. Further details of the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 52.
Directors’ Report continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
59
Appointment of Directors
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the 
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined 
Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 
or by the Board, on recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. A Director appointed by the Board holds ofﬁce only 
until the next following annual general meeting and is then eligible 
for election by the shareholders but is not taken into account in 
determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to 
retire by rotation at that meeting.
The Company may, in accordance with and subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by ordinary resolution of 
which special notice has been given remove any Director before 
the expiration of this term of ofﬁce. 
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company has made no qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions nor any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions 
for the beneﬁt of its Directors or the directors of its associated 
companies during the year ended 31 December 2008 or which 
remain in force at the date of this report other than Directors’ and 
Ofﬁcers’ Insurance.
Powers of Directors
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum of Association, the 
Articles of Association, the prevailing legislation and any directions 
given by special resolution, the business and affairs of the 
Company will be managed by the Directors who may exercise all 
such powers of the Company. The powers of Directors are further 
described in the Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board, 
copies of which are available on request, and in the Corporate 
Governance statement on pages 42 to 45.
The Company has authority to issue shares under its Articles of 
Association and it is intended that an ordinary resolution will be 
proposed at this year’s Annual General Meeting to authorise 
Directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate 
nominal amount of £415,064. This represents the aggregate of one 
third of the nominal value of the ordinary shares in issue as at the 
date of this report and of the ordinary shares subject to existing 
options. It is intended that a further resolution is to be proposed 
which will disapply the statutory pre-emption rights for issues of 
ordinary shares for certain purposes.
Further details of the above will be contained in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting.
Repurchase of Shares
The Company was granted authority to repurchase up to 5% of its 
issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting held on 18 April 
2008. This authority will expire at the conclusion of this year’s 
Annual General Meeting unless renewed at that meeting. The 
Company has not made use of this authority during the year under 
review. It is intended that the Board will seek shareholder approval 
at this year’s Annual General Meeting for the authority to 
repurchase up to 5% of the issued share capital.
Further details of the above will be contained in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting.
Amendment of Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of Shareholders.
Capital Structure
Details of the Company’s authorised and issued share capital, 
together with details of the movements in the Company’s issued 
share capital during the year are shown in note 30 to the accounts. 
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no 
rights to ﬁxed income (‘Shares’). 
Rights and obligations attaching to Shares
The rights attaching to the Shares are governed by the Articles 
of Association and prevailing legislation. There are no speciﬁc 
restrictions on the size of a holding.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any Shares, on a 
show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or 
being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative) 
shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present 
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held by 
the shareholder.
Restrictions on Voting
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or 
class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or 
other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains 
unpaid. Currently, all issued shares are fully paid. In addition, no 
member shall be entitled to vote if he failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Deadlines for Voting Rights
Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in 
respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard. 
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, will specify the 
deadline for appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Transfer of Shares
The transfer of shares, is governed by the general provisions of the 
Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Shares other than as 
set out in the Articles of Association and; (i) certain restrictions may 
from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, 
insider trading laws); and (ii) pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, ofﬁcers and 
employees of the Company require the approval of the Company 
to deal in the Shares.
Shareholder Agreements
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights or any arrangements by which, 
with the Company’s co-operation, ﬁnancial rights carried by 
securities are held by a person other than the holder of the 
securities. No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital. 
Shares Held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust
Shares held by the Aricom plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust abstain 
from voting.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
60
Notiﬁable Share Interests
At the date of this report the Company had been notiﬁed of the 
following direct and indirect interests in excess of 3% of its issued 
share capital:
Number of 
Shareholder shares held %
Lansdowne Partners Limited 109,770,746 9.28%
Malavasia Enterprises Inc. 102,981,366 8.71%
The Capital Group of Companies  100,833,005 8.52%
Pavel Maslovskiy and associates  87,779,094 7.42%
Peter Hambro and associates 87,601,729 7.41%
JPMorgan Asset Management  62,046,534 5.25%
Morstan Nominees Ltd 
(Morgan Stanley Group) 54,716,335 4.63%
Legal & General 52,012,101 4.40%
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd  42,934,621 3.63%
The Company has not received notiﬁcation that any other person 
holds 3% or more of the Company’s issued share capital.
Employees
The Group maintains a policy of providing employees with 
information about the Company and regular meetings are held 
between management and employees to allow exchanges of 
information and ideas.
The Group is committed to provide equal opportunity for 
individuals in all aspects of employment. The Group gives every 
consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons 
where the requirements of the job may be adequately ﬁlled by a 
disabled person. Where existing employees become disabled, it is 
the Company’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing 
employment under similar terms and conditions and to provide 
training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
Company Branches outside the UK
The Company has maintained a branch in China since August 2008.
Change of Control
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may 
cause a number of agreements to which the Company, or any of its 
trading subsidiaries, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, 
joint venture agreements, banking arrangements to take effect, 
alter or terminate. In the context of the potential impact on the 
Group none of these agreements is considered to be signiﬁcant.
Conﬂicts of Interest
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to 
authorise conﬂicts and potential conﬂicts of interest of directors 
where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect. 
Shareholders approved amendments to the Company’s Articles of 
Association at the Annual General meeting held on 15 April 2008 
which included provisions giving the Board the authority to 
authorise matters which may result in the Directors breaching their 
duty to avoid a conﬂict of interest. Directors of the Company who 
have an interest in matters under discussion at Board meetings are 
required to declare this interest and to abstain from voting on the 
relevant matters. Any related party transactions are approved by a 
committee of the Board consisting solely of independent Directors. 
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions 
when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
Directors’ Report continued
Director/Employee Agreements for compensation
In circumstances where a Director loses ofﬁce as a result of a 
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, certain 
Directors are entitled to six months’ pay as compensation for loss 
of ofﬁce.
Health, Safety and the Environment
The Board has established the Health, Safety and Environmental 
Committee which is responsible for Aricom’s Staff, the communities 
within which the Company operates and the environment impact of 
the Group.
Further details on the Group’s activities in this area are given in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 45.
Auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the 
Company at the date when this report was approved:
so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofﬁce 
as auditors and it is intended that a resolution to re-appoint them 
will be proposed at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc 
and signed on its behalf by:
Heather Williams FCIS
Company Secretary
25 February 2009 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
61
Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the ﬁnancial statements. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. The ﬁnancial statements for the Group 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that ﬁnancial 
statements present fairly for each ﬁnancial year the company’s 
ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows. This 
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the deﬁnitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set 
out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework 
for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In 
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting 
Standards. Directors are also required to:
properly select and apply accounting policies; present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRS is insufﬁcient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors’ 
report which complies with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements differs from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 104, conﬁrm that, to the best of their knowledge:
The Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and 
loss of the Group; and
The Directors’ Report, taken together with the Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review, includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisﬁed that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc 
and signed on its behalf by:
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy
Chairman
25 February 2009
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
62
Independent Auditors Report 
to the Members of Aricom plc
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Aricom plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 
41. These Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements of Aricom plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are 
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial 
statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group ﬁnancial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described 
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent 
with the Group ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the 
Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information presented in 
the Chairman’s Review, CEO’s Review and Financial Review that is 
cross referred from the Enhanced Business Review section of the 
Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as 
described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial statements. We 
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group 
ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant 
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the 
preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the Group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group 
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of 
the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of 
its loss for the year then ended;
the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation; 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
25 February 2009  Annual Report 2008
63
Aricom plc
2008 2007
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Revenue 6 9,674 4,938
Cost of sales (6,009) (3,153)
Impairment charge  8 (386,450) –
Gross (loss)/proﬁt         (382,785) 1,785
Distribution costs  (258) –
Administrative expenses:
Listing costs – (3,951)
Share based payments  36 (482) (1,086)
Other administrative costs  9 (30,407) (19,900)
Other operating income  200 475
Share of associate’s proﬁt/(loss)  19 850 (59)
Share of joint venture’s loss  20 (444) –
Operating loss         (413,326) (22,736)
Investment revenues  12 15,532 21,453
Finance costs 13 (23,224) (602)
Loss before tax         (421,018) (1,885)
Tax (charge)/beneﬁt  14 (5,582) 1,996
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (426,600) 111
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent  (427,377) 1,040
Minority interest  777 (929)
(426,600) 111
(Loss)/earnings per share
Basic 16 US$(0.38) US$0.00
Diluted 16 US$(0.38) US$0.00
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 64
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (15,138) 2,168
Equity element of deferred tax arising on share options  – 199
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity      (15,138) 2,367
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (426,600) 111
Total recognised income and expense for the year (441,738) 2,478
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent  (441,722) 3,208
Minority interests  (16) (730)
(441,738) 2,478 Annual Report 2008
65
Aricom plc
2008 2007
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill – 58
Other intangible assets  17 613 427
Property, plant and equipment  18 440,157 561,438
Investment in associates  19 3,704 2,854
Interest in joint ventures  20 20,387 –
Deferred tax asset  21 – 4,879
Other non-current assets  22 3,328 112
468,189 569,768
Current assets
Inventories 23 8,481 2,015
Trade and other receivables  24 44,190 29,077
Loan receivable from a related party  24 – 65,111
Short-term investments  25 – 91,791
Cash and cash equivalents  26 257,822 406,687
310,493 594,681
Total assets         778,682 1,164,449
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables  27 (14,993) (12,728)
Current tax liability  (1,182) (446)
(16,175) (13,174)
Net current assets         294,318 581,507
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability  21 (2,422) (5,014)
Other non-current liabilities  28 (111) (1,571)
Long-term provisions  29 (2,108) (2,294)
(4,641) (8,879)
Total liabilities        (20,816) (22,053)
Net assets         757,866 1,142,396
Equity
Share capital 30,32 2,265 2,147
Share premium account  32 1,183,520 1,130,638
Own shares 31,32 (24,801) (20,256)
Share option reserve  32 10,955 10,378
Translation reserve  32 (12,376) 1,969
Other reserves  32 29,600 9,900
Retained loss 32 (435,623) (8,307)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 753,540 1,126,469
Minority interest  32 4,326 15,927
Total equity 32 757,866 1,142,396
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 February 2009. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
G J Hambro    B Egan
Director     Director
25 February 2009    25 February 2009
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2008
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 66
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Net cash used in operating activities 34 (51,948) (12,866)
Investing activities
Interest received  16,487 16,505
Investment management fees paid  (186) –
Income received on derivative ﬁnancial instrument  – 637
Proceeds on disposal of short-term investments  113,328 10,770
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  98 6
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (108,493) (76,656)
Purchases of other non-current assets  (205) –
Acquisition of licences, net of cash acquired  33 (44,976) –
Acquisition of minority interest  – (11,237)
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  – (6,348)
Cash acquired upon acquisition of interest in Lapwing Limited  – 427
Purchase of short-term investments  (22,855) (99,346)
Purchase of option in Lapwing Limited – (19,700)
Loan to Lapwing Limited  – (27,600)
Loan advanced to Olis Constructions Limited  – (65,000)
Repayment of the remainder of a loan issued to Olis after completion of the acquisition 
of their 29.26% interest in Lapwing (excluding interest)  1,950 –
Loan advanced to associate  (2,953) (4,217)
Loans issued to employees  (640) –
Other loans issued  (1,011) –
Joint venture share capital contribution  20 (20,812) –
Repayment of loan issued 245 –
Net cash used in investing activities (70,023) (281,759)
Financing activities
Debt arrangement costs  – (557)
Proceeds on issue of shares  120 639,462
Listing costs – (3,951)
Share issue costs  (47) (24,916)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 73 610,038
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year     (121,898) 315,413
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 406,687 89,668
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (26,967) 1,606
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year       257,822 406,687 Annual Report 2008
67
Aricom plc
1 General Information
Aricom plc is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered ofﬁce is given on 
page 104. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors’ report on page 53 to 60.
These ﬁnancial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Group operates. The functional currency of the parent entity is GB Pound. Entities with functional currencies other than US Dollars are 
included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
2 Adoption of New and Revised Standards and Interpretations 
In the current year the Group has adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which is effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007. There was no impact of the adoption of IFRIC 11. 
Standards and amendments, applicable to the Group, which are effective for reporting periods beginning after the date of these 
ﬁnancial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IAS 1 – Amendment – Presentation of ﬁnancial statements: a revised presentation 1 January 2009
IAS 23 – Amendment – Borrowing costs 1 January 2009
IFRS 2 – Amendment – Share based payments: vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009
IFRS 8 – Operating segments 1 January 2009
The Directors are in the process of assessing the impact of adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods on the 
ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
Standards and amendments, applicable to the Group, which are effective for reporting periods beginning after the date of these ﬁnancial 
statements and that have not been endorsed by the EU.
IAS 27 – Amendment – Consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements 1 July 2009
IFRS 3 – Revised – Business combinations 1 July 2009
IFRS 1 & IAS 27 – Amendment – Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate 1 January 2009
The Directors are in the process of assessing the impact of adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods on the 
ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group ﬁnancial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments. The 
principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
As explained in the Financial Review on page 41, management assessed the Group’s ability to continue as going concern and these 
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Basis of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (and 
its subsidiaries) as at the balance sheet date. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating 
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year 
are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as 
appropriate. Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination or acquisition of ore deposits by 
way of a corporate vehicle, and the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Losses applicable to the 
minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against interests of the Group except to the extent that 
the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business Combinations and Goodwill
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their 
fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classiﬁed as held for resale in accordance with 
IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 2008
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 68
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the 
business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Purchases of a Minority Interest in a Controlled Entity
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, at the date of exchange, liabilities incurred or 
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for shares purchased in a controlled entity, plus any costs directly 
attributable to the transaction. The identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a controlled entity are recognised at fair value 
at the date of the exchange transaction, but only to the extent of the proportion of equity acquired.
Goodwill arising on the purchase of shares in a controlled entity is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess 
of the additional cost of shares over the increase of Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities recognised. 
If the increase in Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the 
cost of the shares purchase, the excess is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identiﬁable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially 
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is 
recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement 
and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to beneﬁt from the 
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the 
carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and 
then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised 
for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of 
the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Acquisition of Assets
Frequently, the acquisition of mining licences are effected through a non-operating corporate structure. As these structures do not 
represent a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the deﬁnition of a business combination. Accordingly the 
transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset. The net assets acquired are recognised at cost.
Where the Group has full control but does not own 100% of the assets, then a minority interest is recognised, the assets continue to be 
carried at cost and changes in those values are recognised in equity.
Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets represent licensed intellectual property purchased in relation to the processing of titanium sponge. These 
intangibles are measured at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, which is a period of up to 10 
years, but dependent upon the start-up date of the titanium sponge plant.
Investments in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but does not control or have joint control, 
through participation in the ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is the power to participate in the 
ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these ﬁnancial statements using the equity method of accounting 
except when classiﬁed as held for sale (see below). Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
Losses of the associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identiﬁable net assets of the associate at the date of 
acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the investment. Any deﬁciency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair 
values of the identiﬁable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in the income 
statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, proﬁts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in 
the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made 
for the impairment.
Interests in Joint-ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint 
control that is when the strategic ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint venture require the 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
69
Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Where a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the Group’s share of jointly controlled assets and 
any liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers are recognised in the ﬁnancial statements of the relevant entity and classiﬁed according 
to their nature. Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual 
basis. Income from the sale or use of the Group’s share of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, 
are recognised when it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transactions will ﬂow to/from the Group and their 
amount can be measured reliably. 
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as 
jointly controlled entities. The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method of accounting as described 
in ‘Investment in associates’ above. 
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Group’s interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate as described in ‘Investment in associates’ above. 
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, proﬁts and losses are accounted for as in ‘Investment in associates’ above. 
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and 
services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which 
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the ﬁnancial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount.
Revenue from engineering contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on engineering contracts, as set 
out below.
Engineering Contracts
Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of 
the contract activity at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion is measured by reference to estimates of work performed to date.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred 
where it is probable they will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Leasing
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
The G roup as Lessor
Equipment and other assets may be leased to contractors under an operating lease, for use in the construction of mining properties. 
Amounts due from lessees under these operating leases are set off against the cost of construction in the period to which they relate.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
The G roup as Lessee
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as 
a ﬁnance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless 
they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on 
borrowing costs (see page 70).
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Foreign Currencies 
The individual ﬁnancial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the results and ﬁnancial position of each Group 
company are expressed in US dollars, which is the presentation currency for the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, 
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet 
date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the 
date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
not retranslated.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 70
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income 
statement for the year. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the 
income statement for the year.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations which have a 
functional currency other than US dollars are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items 
are translated at the average exchange rates for the year, unless exchange rates ﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly during that year, in which case the 
exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised within equity and transferred to 
the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the year in which the operation is 
disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. 
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of speciﬁc borrowings 
pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss in the year in which they are incurred.
Retirement Beneﬁt Costs 
The Company does not operate a pension scheme. However, payments are made to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes for 
certain employees and these are charged as an expense as they fall due. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the 
initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax proﬁt nor 
the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group 
is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in 
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Exploration and Evaluation Expenditure
The costs of exploration properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring prospective properties and exploration rights, are 
capitalised as intangible assets. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is capitalised within exploration and evaluation properties until such time that the activities have 
reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially exploitable reserves when they are transferred to 
mining properties and leases. Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment in accordance with the 
indicators of impairment as set out in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Reserves. In circumstances where a property is 
abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs relating to the property are written off in the year.
Property, Plant and Equipment
M ining Properties and Leases
The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights are 
classiﬁed as tangible assets from the time that a resource estimate is available and it is the Group’s intention to exploit the value of the 
property through the development and production of the available resource. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
71
Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Pre-production expenditure is capitalised until the mining property is capable of commercial production. From that point, capitalised 
mining properties and lease costs are amortised on a unit of production basis over the total estimated remaining commercial reserves of 
each property or Group of properties.
Commercial reserves are proven and probable reserves. Changes in the commercial reserves affecting unit of production calculations are 
dealt with prospectively over the revised remaining reserves. 
Mining properties and leases are reviewed for impairment annually and any impairment charge is taken to the income 
statement accordingly.
For open pit operations the removal of overburden and waste materials, referred to as stripping, is required to obtain access to the 
ore body. 
Such costs when incurred prior to the commencement of production are deferred on the balance sheet, and charged to operating proﬁt 
over the life of the mine. 
When incurred after the commencement of commercial production such costs are deferred based on the ratio obtained by dividing the 
tonnage of the waste mined by the quantity of the ore mined (‘stripping ratio’). Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the 
extent that the current period stripping ratio exceeds the life-of-mine ratio for each mine. Such deferred costs are then amortised in 
subsequent periods to the extent that the period’s stripping ratio falls below the life-of-mine ratio. The life-of-mine ratio is based on the 
mineable reserves of the mine. 
The life-of-mine waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual mine’s pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally result 
in changes to the ratio. Changes in other technical and economic parameters that impact reserves will also have an impact on the 
life-of-mine ratio even if they do not affect the mine’s pit design. Changes to the life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively. 
Deferred stripping costs are included within non-current assets as ‘Deferred stripping costs’.
Other Property, Plant and Eq uipment
Other tangible ﬁxed assets are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all such tangible ﬁxed 
assets at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life or the life of the 
relevant licence, whichever is less, as follows:
Average life in years
Buildings 50
Plant and machinery  7–20
Ofﬁce equipment  3–10
Computer equipment  4–6
Until they are brought into use, ﬁxed assets and equipment to be installed are included within assets under construction.
The helicopter is recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation calculated at rate based on the actual ﬂight hours as a proportion of 
total recommended ﬂight hours.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and replacement of minor items of tangible ﬁxed assets are charged to the Income Statement as incurred. 
Renewals and asset improvements are capitalised. Upon sale or retirement of tangible ﬁxed assets, the cost and related accumulated 
depreciation are eliminated from the ﬁnancial statements. Any resulting gains or losses are included in the income statement.
I mpairment of Tangible and I ntangible Assets Excluding G oodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ﬂows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the 
relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Details of the assumptions used when assessing the impairment of the Group’s tangible assets, and the effect of those assumptions, can 
be found in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 72
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs
An obligation to incur site restoration and rehabilitation costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or 
ongoing production of a mining property. Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, 
discounted to their present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs 
arises. These costs are charged against proﬁts over the life of the mine, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the 
discount on the provision. Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as ﬁnancing costs.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or 
deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current period.
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where 
applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Cost of raw materials and consumables is determined on the ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out (FIFO) basis. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial Assets
Financial assets are classiﬁed into the following speciﬁed categories: ﬁnancial assets ‘at fair value through proﬁt or loss’, ‘held-to-maturity’ 
investments, ‘available-for-sale’ ﬁnancial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classiﬁcation depends on the nature and purpose of the 
ﬁnancial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. The Group does not hold any ﬁnancial assets which meet the deﬁnition 
of a held-to-maturity investment or available-for-sale ﬁnancial asset.
Financial Assets at Fair V alue Through Proﬁt or Loss
Financial assets are classiﬁed as ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss (‘FVTPL’) where the Group acquires the ﬁnancial asset 
principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, the ﬁnancial asset is a part of an identiﬁed portfolio of ﬁnancial instruments that the 
Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short term proﬁt taking as well as all derivatives that are not designated as 
effective hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss 
recognised in proﬁt or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in proﬁt or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the ﬁnancial asset.
Effective I nterest M ethod
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a ﬁnancial asset and of allocating interest income over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the 
ﬁnancial asset, or where appropriate, a shorter period.
Loans and Receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classiﬁed as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any 
impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition 
of interest would be immaterial.
I mpairment of Financial Assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are 
impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the ﬁnancial 
asset, the estimated future cash ﬂows of the investment have been impacted. For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated cash ﬂows, discounted at the original effective 
interest rate.
The carrying amount of the ﬁnancial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all ﬁnancial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is 
written off against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in proﬁt or loss.
Cash and Cash Eq uivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in proﬁt or loss when there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
I nvestments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned and are initially measured at fair value, 
including transaction costs.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
73
Aricom plc
3 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Other investments are classiﬁed as either held-for-trading or available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair 
value. Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net proﬁt or loss 
for the year. For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until 
the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
included in the proﬁt or loss for the year. Impairment losses recognised in proﬁt or loss for equity investments classiﬁed as available-for-
sale are not subsequently reversed through proﬁt or loss. Impairment losses recognised in proﬁt or loss for debt instruments classiﬁed as 
available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event 
occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Financial Liabilities and Equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial liabilities at ‘fair value through proﬁt or loss’ or other ﬁnancial liabilities.
Financial Liabilities at FV TPL
Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as FVTPL where the ﬁnancial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A ﬁnancial liability is classiﬁed as held for trading if:
it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the near future; or it is a part of an identiﬁed portfolio of ﬁnancial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term proﬁt-taking; or
it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedge instrument. A ﬁnancial liability other than a ﬁnancial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
such designation eliminates or signiﬁcantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or the ﬁnancial liability forms part of a group of ﬁnancial assets or ﬁnancial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information 
about the Group is provided internally on that basis; or
it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in proﬁt or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in proﬁt or loss incorporates any interest paid on the ﬁnancial liability.
Other Financial Liabilities
Other ﬁnancial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other ﬁnancial liabilities are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The effective interest 
method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a ﬁnancial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The 
effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the ﬁnancial liability, 
or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Trade Payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
rate method.
Eq uity I nstruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based Payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been 
applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees and under various contracts with third 
parties. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) at 
the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest, adjusted for the effect of non market-based 
vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model. The expected lives used in the models have been adjusted, based on 
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet 
date for cash-settled, share based payments.
Employee Beneﬁt Trust
The carrying value of shares held by the employee beneﬁt trust are recorded as treasury shares, shown as a deduction to 
shareholders’ equity.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 74
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
4 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, management has made the following 
judgements that have the most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
Impairment of Assets
The Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets are impaired. In making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash ﬂows are 
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit (‘CGU’). The recoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of 
their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying 
cash ﬂows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied within the value in use calculation. Subsequent changes to CGU 
allocation or estimates and assumptions in the value in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
Management has concluded that K&S and Garinskoye are a single CGU for the purposes of impairment as it is expected that ore from the 
Garinskoye ore body will be processed through the K&S plant and there would be no market for the pre-concentrate.
Provision for Restoration, Rehabilitation and Environmental Costs
Costs arising from site restoration works, and the decommissioning of plant, discounted to their present value, are provided for and 
capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises. The provision is based on estimates prepared 
by external consultants. Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for these costs. The ultimate costs of site restoration 
and decommissioning are uncertain, and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to relevant legal 
requirements, the emergence of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites. The expected timing and extent of 
expenditure can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels. As a result, there could be 
signiﬁcant adjustments to the provisions established which would affect future ﬁnancial results.
Assumptions Related to the Valuation of Share-based Payments
In order to value options granted, the Group has made judgements as to the volatility of its own ordinary shares, the probable life of the 
options granted and the time of exercise of those options. Aricom has also made a judgement as to which methodology to use in valuing 
the options in each case.
Estimation of Percentage Completion of Engineering Contracts at Giproruda
To estimate the percentage completion of Engineering Contracts and therefore determine the amount of contract revenue and associated 
costs to recognise requires that management makes an assessment of the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet 
date. The Directors consider that these estimates are made by suitably qualiﬁed project managers.
Tax Provisions 
Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgments to be made regarding the result of negotiations with and enquiries 
from tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions. The assessments made are based on advice from independent tax advisers and the status 
of ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities. 
Deferred Tax 
Recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to assess the likelihood that future tax proﬁts will be available which the deferred 
tax asset can be utilized to offset. This requires management to assess future proﬁts of the business and the likelihood and timing of 
these amounts. 
5 Foreign Currency Rates
The rates of exchange applicable to the year are as follows:
    2008
|
2007
Closing Average Closing Average
Russian Rouble: GB Pounds  42.62 45.86 49.01 51.04
Russian Rouble: US Dollars  29.38 24.85 24.55 25.58
US Dollar: GB Pounds  1.46 1.83 1.98 1.98
The representation of ﬁgures in US dollars should not be construed as meaning that underlying amounts can or will be settled in dollars.
6Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Revenue from operations
Pre-concentrate sales  501 –
Investment revenues (see note 12)  15,532 21,453
Engineering contracts revenue  9,173 4,938
Rental income (see note 15)  1,231 452
Total revenue 26,437 26,843
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
75
Aricom plc
7 Segmental Information
Business Segments 
For management purposes, during the year, the Group was organised into three operating divisions – mine development, engineering 
services and corporate. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. 
Principal activities are as follows:
Mine development – the development of the Group’s mines in Russia; Engineering services – activities conducted by the Group’s subsidiary, Giproruda. This entity was acquired during 2007 and was accounted for as an associate between 8 June 2007 and 12 July 2007, following which the Group received full voting rights and 
accounted for this investment as a subsidiary; and
Corporate – the head ofﬁce activities of the Group. Segment information about these businesses is presented below. 
Mine Engineering
development services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated
2008 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Revenue
External sales 501 9,173 – – 9,674
Intra-group sales  – 2,221 – (2,221) –
Total revenue 501 11,394 – (2,221) 9,674
Impairment charge  (386,450) – – – (386,450)
Result
Operating (loss)/proﬁt  (405,959) 3,287 (10,436) (624) (413,732)
Share of joint venture’s loss  – – (444) – (444)
Share of associate’s proﬁt  850––– 850
Segment result  (405,109) 3,287 (10,880) (624) (413,326)
Investment revenues  15,532
Finance costs (23,224)
Loss before tax  (421,018)
Tax charge (5,582)
Tax expense on joint venture’s and associate’s proﬁt  –
Loss after tax (426,600)
Mine Engineering
development services Corporate Eliminations Consolidated
2007 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Revenue
External sales – 4,938 – – 4,938
Intra-group sales  – 360 – (360) –
Total revenue – 5,298 – (360) 4,938
Result
Operating (loss)/proﬁt  (9,775) 1,271 (13,969) (204) (22,677)
Share of associate’s loss  (127) 100 – – (27)
Segment result  (22,704)
Investment revenues  21,453
Finance costs (602)
Loss before tax  (1,853)
Tax credit 1,996
Tax expense on associate’s proﬁt  (32)
Proﬁt after tax  111
All inter-segment transfers were made at prevailing market rates.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 76
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
7 Segmental Information continued
Other Information 
Mine Engineering
development services Corporate Consolidated
2008 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Capital additions  103,657 175 4,296 108,128
Acquisition of minority interest  110,707 – – 110,707
Acquisition of licences  53,931 – – 53,931
Depreciation and amortisation  2,404 399 15 2,818
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets  485,463 17,550 9,144 512,157
Investment in associate  3,704 – – 3,704
Investment in joint venture  – – 20,387 20,387
Unallocated assets  – – – 242,434
Consolidated total assets  778,682
Liabilities
Segment liabilities  (9,990) (1,291) (5,931) (17,212)
Unallocated liabilities  – – – (3,604)
Consolidated total liabilities  (20,816)
Mine Engineering
development services Corporate
(1)
Consolidated
2007 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Capital additions  49,841 59 4,108 54,008
Acquisition of minority interest  12,148 – – 12,148
Acquisition of licences  51,836 – – 51,836
Acquisition of subsidiary – assets acquired  – 12,165 – 12,165
Change in value of deferred consideration  18,492 – – 18,492
Change in estimated consideration  (7,456) – – (7,456)
Depreciation and amortisation  609 239 11 859
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets  569,787 16,100 65,357 651,244
Investment in associate  2,854 – – 2,854
Unallocated assets  – – – 510,351
Consolidated total assets  1,164,449
Liabilities
Segment liabilities  (9,765) (4,697) (2,131) (16,593)
Unallocated liabilities  – – – (5,460)
Consolidated total liabilities  (22,053)
1 Corporate assets include US$3.9 million capitalised in respect of the titanium sponge project. This project is managed by Corporate and thus these 
capitalised costs are recognised in that segment.
Unallocated Assets and Liabilities are as follows:
Unallocated assets
|
Unallocated liabilities
2008 2007 2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Unallocated assets/(liabilities)    
Cash equivalents  241,906 344,176 – –
Short-term investments   – 91,791 – –
Loan receivable from a related party  – 65,111 – –
Loan receivable from an associate  – 4,288 – –
Other receivables  528 106 – –
Current tax liability  – – (1,182) (446)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)  – 4,879 (2,422) (5,014)
Total unallocated assets/(liabilities) 242,434 510,351 (3,604) (5,460)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
77
Aricom plc
7 Segmental Information continued
Geographical Segments
The Group’s operations are located in Russia, China and the United Kingdom. The Group’s mine development division is located in Russia. 
The Group’s corporate activities are carried out in Russia and the United Kingdom.
The Group has certain treasury and management functions which are located in Cyprus. Transactions are mostly intra-Group, speciﬁcally 
intra-Group loans and the holding of investments in Group companies. These transactions are eliminated upon consolidation, and as such 
the Group does not report Cyprus as a separate geographic segment at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
The Group has a joint venture in China established in September 2008. The Group also has a representative ofﬁce in China.
All engineering sales revenues for the current and previous year were earned from customers located in Russia. All mine development 
revenue was earned from Chinese customers.
The following table is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets and additions to property, plant and equipment analysed by 
the geographical area in which the assets are located:
Unallocated
United corporate
Russia Kingdom China assets Total
2008 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Carrying amount of segment assets  506,047 1,248 28,953 242,434 778,682
Additions to property, plant and equipment  103,832 4,296 – – 108,128
Unallocated
United corporate
Russia Kingdom assets Total
2007 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Carrying amount of segment assets  588,741 65,357 510,351 1,164,449
Additions to property, plant and equipment  137,085 4,108 – 141,193
8Impairment 
Due to the current world economic crisis, falling commodity prices and the slow project ﬁnance market the Board has reviewed the 
Company’s portfolio of assets for impairment. 
The Group completed impairment testing for all of its cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) at 31 December 2008 and identiﬁed that a provision 
was required against certain CGUs due to a potential delay in the development of projects due to the unavailability of project ﬁnancing 
and/or weaker forecast iron ore prices. Following the decision to develop K&S and Garinskoye as a single project, they have been assessed 
as a single CGU. An impairment provision of US$86.5 million was recognised against the Kuranakh project and a provision of US$299.9 
million recognised in relation to the combined K&S and Garinskoye CGU. 
For the purposes of testing for impairment, recoverable amounts have been determined as value in use, being estimated future cash ﬂows 
discounted to their present value, based on a number of assumptions. The key assumptions are presented in the table below: 
Discount rate post-tax 15.5%
Discount rate pre-tax 19.4%
Average Russian inﬂation rate for the years 2009–2030 4.6%
Average RUR:US$ exchange rate for the years 2009–2030 48.2
Average titanomagnetite concentrate prices for the years 2009–2024 US$/tonne 77.8
Average ilmenite prices for the years 2009–2024 US$/tonne 125.3
Average pig iron prices for the years 2009–2030 US$/tonne 461.6
Forecast inﬂation rates and sales prices for titanomagnetite concentrate, ilmenite and pig iron were provided by independent sources. The 
impairment tests are particularity sensitive to changes in discount rate, commodity prices and foreign exchange rate. Changes to these 
assumptions would result in changes to impairment charges, which could be material.
9 Loss for the Year
The loss for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Staff costs (note 11)  18,772 11,446
Rent and utilities  3,201 1,209
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment expensed (note 18)  1,174 859
Travel and entertainment  2,403 1,594
Write down of inventory  1,170 –
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense  123 –
Loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets  201 134
Listing costs – 3,951
Listing expenses in 2007 represent costs associated with the admission of the Company’s ordinary shares and warrants to the Ofﬁcial List 
of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plc’s main Market for listed securities (the ‘Listing’) in 
October 2007. No new shares or warrants were issued at the time of Listing, and hence Listing costs have been recognised in the income 
statement, rather than directly in shareholders’ equity, as would have occurred if new shares had been issued at the time of Listing.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 78
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
10 Auditors’ Remuneration
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 334 260
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of previous years  88 71
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for the 
audit of subsidiaries statutory accounts pursuant to legislation 103 42
Total audit fees         525 373
Tax services 64 230
Fees for reporting accountants services  – 1,056
Other services
Interim review fee  84 51
Accounting advice  198 91
Offer assistance in preparation for Listing  – 141
Other services  57 –
Total non-audit fees         403 1,569
11 Staff Costs
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
2008 2007
Number Number
Mine development  472 147
Engineering services  157 72
Corporate 12 9
641 228
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
US$’000 US$’000
Wages and salaries  16,415 8,939
Pension costs 183 150
Social security and other beneﬁts  1,692 1,271
Share-based compensation plans  482 1,086
18,772 11,446
12 Investment Revenue
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents  13,546 14,327
Income on ﬁnancial assets carried at fair value through proﬁt and loss  1,413 3,351
Interest on investments held to maturity  1 5
Interest on other loans and receivables 572 865
Proﬁt arising on settlement of derivatives  – 363
15,532 18,911
Net foreign exchange gain  – 2,542
Total investment revenue  15,532 21,453
Related party income included in the above total investment revenues  2,933 2,668
13 Finance Costs
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Other ﬁnance costs  186 580
Net foreign exchange loss 22,636 –
Unwinding of discount on provisions and non-current liabilities  402 22
Total ﬁnance costs  23,224 602
There are no related party ﬁnance costs in the above total ﬁnance costs. Foreign exchange loss primarily relates to the foreign exchange 
differences on the Group’s Rouble denominated funds.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
79
Aricom plc
14 Tax
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Current tax (expense)  (2,709) (637)
Deferred tax (expense)/credit  (2,873) 2,633
(5,582) 1,996
UK corporation tax is calculated at the blended rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%) of the estimated assessable proﬁt for the year due to the change 
in the rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% on 6 April 2008.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. From 2009 the corporation tax rate in 
Russia changes from 24% to 20%. 
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the income statement as follows:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Loss before tax:  (421,018) (1,885)
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%)  (119,990) (566)
Tax effect of share of associates’ (proﬁt)/loss  (204) 40
Tax effect of share of jointly controlled entities’ loss 124 –
Tax effect of losses not recognised  10,847 213
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable proﬁt  99,361 1,323
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised  – (1,077)
Losses carried back  547 –
Effect in changes in tax rates  453 –
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions  19,226 1,127
Adjustments in respect of prior years  71 –
Other foreign exchange movements  1,776 –
Foreign exchange movements in respect of deductible temporary differences  (6,629) (1,460)
Beneﬁts from previously unrecognised temporary differences  – (1,596)
Tax expense/(credit) for the year  5,582 (1,996)
In addition to the amount charged to the income statements, in 2007 deferred tax relating to the equity component of share-based 
payments amounting to US$199,000 has been credited directly to equity (see note 21).
15 Operating Lease Arrangements
The Group as a Lessee
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year  2,886 689
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Within one year  1,381 1,044
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive  4,583 5,967
5,964 7,011
The Group as a Lessor
The Group earned property rental income during the year of US$1,231,000 (2007: US$452,000) on a building owned by a subsidiary of the 
Group, Giproruda. The lease contracts are at ﬁxed rates for a period not exceeding three months. At the balance sheet date, the Group 
had contracted with tenants for minimum lease payments due within the ﬁrst three months, totalling US$293,000 (2007: US$1,237,000 due 
within the next year). This rental income is shown net of the associated cost within other operating income.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 80
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
16 (Loss)/Earnings per Share
The calculation of the basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share is based on the following data:
(Loss)/Proﬁt
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
(Loss)/proﬁt for the purposes of basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
being net loss attributable to equity holders of the parent  (427,377) 1,040
Number of Shares
Number Number
‘000 ‘000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share 1,133,237 791,263
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares  – 12,447
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share  1,133,237 803,710
US$ US$
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share  (0.38) 0.00
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share  (0.38) 0.00
Basic and diluted EPS are the same at 31 December 2008 as the Group made a loss for the year then ended. As at 31 December 2008 the 
Group had 20,776,372 (2007: 21,176,372) potentially dilutive options over ordinary shares and 133,000,000 (2007: 133,000,000) potentially 
dilutive warrants.
17 Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets represent amounts paid during the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 to acquire licensed 
intellectual property in relation to the processing of titanium sponge. This amount will be reimbursed in full by the JV upon assignment of 
the licence. The Group committed to acquire further US$1.2 million of such intellectual property.
18 Property, Plant and Equipment
Mining
Land and Fixtures and Plant and properties Assets under
buildings equipment machinery and leases construction Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2008  16,769 3,269 5,405 446,534 90,941 562,918
Additions 756 7,686 11,213 – 88,473 108,128
Acquisition of minority interest (note 33)  – – – 110,707 – 110,707
Acquisition of licences (see note 33)  – 11 – 53,827 93 53,931
Disposals – (36) (154) (27) – (217)
Write-off of ﬁxed assets  –––– (156) (156)
Transfers – 9,163 3,603 (944) (11,822) –
Foreign currency exchange difference  (2,042) (202) (32) (57) (2,306) (4,639)
At 31 December 2008  15,483 19,891 20,035 610,040 165,223 830,672
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2008  (232) (330) (918) – – (1,480)
Depreciation charge for the year  (326) (846) (1,631) (15) – (2,818)
Eliminated on disposals  – 12 42 – – 54
Impairment – – – (306,010) (80,381) (386,391)
Foreign currency exchange difference  65 32 23 – – 120
At 31 December 2008  (493) (1,132) (2,484) (306,025) (80,381) (390,515)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2008  14,990 18,759 17,551 304,015 84,842 440,157
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
81
Aricom plc
18 Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Mining
Land and Fixtures and Plant and properties Assets under
buildings equipment machinery and leases construction Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2007  3,836 2,221 3,454 374,617 37,472 421,600
Additions 756 584 1,920 1,170 49,578 54,008
Revaluation of minority interest  – – – 12,148 – 12,148
Change in deferred consideration  – – – 18,492 – 18,492
Change in estimated consideration  – – – (7,456) – (7,456)
Acquisition of subsidiary  11,652 441 72 – – 12,165
Acquisition of licences  – 10 – 49,641 2,185 51,836
Disposals (91) (8) (45) (221) – (365)
Write-off of ﬁxed assets  –––– (144) (144)
Transfers – 7 – (1,857) 1,850 –
Foreign currency exchange difference  616 14 4 – – 634
At 31 December 2007  16,769 3,269 5,405 446,534 90,941 562,918
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2007  (22) (105) (495) – – (622)
Charge for the year  (206) (227) (426) – – (859)
Eliminated on disposals  1 2 3 – – 6
Foreign currency exchange difference  (5) –––– (5)
At 31 December 2007  (232) (330) (918) – – (1,480)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2007  16,537 2,939 4,487 446,534 90,941 561,438
At 31 December 2008, US$1,507,000 (2007: US$1,507,000) cumulative capitalised interest and borrowing costs were included within assets 
under construction in the above table. The effective rate of interest capitalised in 2008 was nil% (2007: nil%). Depreciation of US$1,644,000 
(2007: US$390,000) relating primarily to assets used in the construction of the Olekma plant was capitalised in the year. 
No assets were held under ﬁnance leases either at 31 December 2008 or 31 December 2007.
There are no restrictions on title and no property, plant and equipment has been pledged as security.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to US$81,660,000 (2007: US$36,749,000), including the commitment to contribute US$48.7 million to the share capital of the 
Titanium Sponge JV as disclosed in note 20.
19 Investment in Associates
Investments in associates held at 31 December 2008 relates to the Group’s 49% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of LLC 
Uralmining (‘Uralmining’), a company holding the licence to develop the Bolshoi Seym deposit. 
This investment was previously recognised as a ﬁnancial asset investment held at cost, as the Group did not exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over this entity due to the management arrangements in place. During July 2007 the Group lent amounts to Uralmining to fund its 
development programme, and signiﬁcant inﬂuence was obtained at this time. Details of loan amounts receivable from Uralmining at 
31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 are set out in note 24.
US$’000
At 1 January 2008  2,854
Share of associate’s proﬁt  850
At 31 December 2008  3,704
There was no revenue earned in 2008 (2007: nil).
US$’000
At 1 January 2007  –
Acquired 8,148
Transfer from Financial Asset Investments  2,981
Transfer to subsidiary  (8,216)
Share of associate’s loss  (59)
At 31 December 2007  2,854
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 82
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
19 Investment in Associates continued
Aggregated amounts relating to Uralmining are set out below. 
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Total assets 20,981 12,493
Total liabilities  (13,422) (6,669)
Net assets 7,559 5,824
Aricom share of net assets        3,704 2,854
Share of proﬁt/(loss)         850 (127)
20 Interest in Joint Ventures
On 12 August 2008 a JV contract was signed between Aricom plc and Chinalco and approved by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce. In 
accordance with the terms of the JV agreement, Aricom will hold 65% of the JV and 35% will be held by Chinalco, with the parties having 
joint control and contributing RMB 474.5 million (c US$69.5 million) and RMB 255.5 million (c US$37 million) respectively. The ﬁrst tranche 
of US$20.8 million was paid by the Group in September upon registration of the JV. The second tranche is scheduled to be paid by 
3 March 2009. 
US$’000
At 1 January 2008  –
Acquired on incorporation  20,812
Share of joint venture’s loss  (444)
Foreign currency exchange differences  19
At 31 December 2008  20,387
There was no revenue earned in 2008.
Aggregated amounts relating to the joint venture are set out below. 
2008
US$’000
Total assets 33,650
Total liabilities  (2,285)
Net assets 31,365
Aricom share of net assets         20,387
Expenses          (684)
Share of loss          (444)
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
reporting year.
Timing Unrealised
Accelerated Deferred mine difference Undistributed foreign
tax development in cost Share-Based proﬁts exchange
depreciation costs recognition Payments subsidiaries gains Tax losses Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 2008  (3,449) 4,857 (146) 473 (2,521) (946) 1,597 (135)
Credit/charge to income  14 (4,942) 290 (437) 2,330 946 (1,527) (3,326)
Effect of change in tax rate on 
income statement  465 20 (32) –––– 453
Exchange differences  896 – (395) (36) 191 – (70) 586
At 31 December 2008  (2,074) (65) (283) –––– (2,422)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
ﬁnancial reporting purposes.
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Deferred tax assets  – 4,879
Deferred tax liabilities  (2,422) (5,014)
(2,422) (135)
At 31 December 2008, the Group has unused tax losses of US$43,236,000 which primarily expire at the end of 2017. No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised in respect of these losses as there is not sufﬁcient certainty that there will be sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt against which to 
offset these losses in the next two years.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$18,247,200 in respect of temporary differences arising on certain capitalised 
development costs. A deferred tax asset of US$6,629,000 in respect of the Russian operations of the Group was reversed due to signiﬁcant 
strengthening of the US Dollar against the Russian Rouble during 2008.
The Russian corporation tax rate changed from 24% to 20% effective 1 January 2009. 
Temporary differences arising in connection with interest in associates are insigniﬁcant.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
83
Aricom plc
22 Other Non-current Assets
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Deferred stripping costs  2,453 –
VAT recoverable in Russia after more than one year 94 112
Loans receivable  434 –
Other non-current assets  347 –
3,328 112
Deferred stripping costs represent costs incurred and deferred based on the stripping ratio 4.94 for the current period to the extent it 
exceeds the life-of-mine ratio for Saikta mine of 1.38. Such deferred costs will be amortised in subsequent periods to the extent that the 
period’s stripping ratio falls below the life-of-mine ratio. 
Loans issued relate to amounts paid to employees of the Group during 2008.
VAT recoverable in Russia after more than one year as at 31 December 2008 principally relates to amounts paid in relation to prepayments 
for goods with long lead times which will not be recoverable until the goods have been delivered.
23 Inventories
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Work in progress  1,191 –
Materials 4,640 1,173
Spare parts 2,650 842
8,481 2,015
No inventories have been pledged as security. At 31 December 2008 work in progress has been written down to its net realisable value 
resulting in a charge to the income statement of US$1.17 million. 
24 Trade and Other Receivables
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Amounts due from customers under engineering contracts  2,351 426
Trade receivables  1,807 1,558
VAT recoverable  16,392 8,670
Other debtors  2,117 1,091
Prepayments and accrued income  15,155 13,044
Amounts owed by associate  6,368 4,288
44,190 29,077
Loan receivable from a related party  – 65,111
As at 31 December 2008 prepayments include US$12,862,000 (31 December 2007: US$10,822,000) in relation to ﬁxed assets.
Amounts due from customers under engineering contracts are due for settlement within one year, and relate to the long term contracts 
in progress.
Amounts included in trade receivables at 31 December 2008 relates to services performed under engineering contracts and invoiced to 
date. No amounts are past due at the reporting date. Trade receivables are due for settlement between one and three months.
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
25 Short-term Investments
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Financial assets at FVTPL  – 91,669
Held-to-maturity ﬁnancial asset: promissory note  – 122
– 91,791
In 2007 ﬁnancial assets carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss comprised highly-liquid investments under discretionary management 
service with a maturity of up to six years, and short-term deposits with varying maturities of between three to seven months. During 2008 
the Group disposed its ﬁnancial assets carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss and transferred funds to cash and cash equivalents. At 31 
December 2008 the Group did not hold any funds under discretionary management service and short-term deposits (2007: US$48,899,000 
and US$42,770,000 respectively).
The held-to-maturity ﬁnancial asset was a promissory note which matured in March 2008.
Further disclosures required under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures are set out in note 38.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 84
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
26 Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less 
and short-term highly-liquid investments in money market funds. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Bank accounts and deposits  72,299 84,248
Money market funds  185,523 288,044
Money market portfolio  – 34,395
257,822 406,687
Investments in money market funds are held for the purposes of diversiﬁcation of risk. Accordingly, as these funds are available on demand 
and have insigniﬁcant risk of change in value they are classiﬁed as cash equivalents. Further disclosures required under IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures are set out in note 38.
27 Trade and Other Payables 
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Trade creditors  3,933 1,987
Taxation and social security  908 541
Other creditors  2,172 2,250
Accruals and deferred income  3,749 3,502
Fixed asset creditors and accruals  4,231 4,448
14,993 12,728
For trade creditors the average credit period on purchases of goods and services is 14 days (2007: 30 days). At 31 December 2008, trade 
creditors which are due for settlement within three months total US$3,812,000 (2007: US$1,682,000). Trade creditors due for settlement 
between three months and one year total US$117,000 (2007: US$305,000).
Other creditors include the current portion of amounts owed to the Administration of Masanovskiy Region, as detailed in note 28. The 
current portion of this liability was US$914,000 at 31 December 2008 (2007: US$1,059,000), and will be settled in four to eight months.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
28 Other Non-current Liabilities
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Cash-settled share based payments (see note 36)  111 483
Other non-current liabilities  – 1,088
111 1,571
Other non-current liabilities at 31 December 2007 included the long-term portion of amounts owed to the Administration of Masanovskiy 
Region in connection with obligations arising under the Garinskoye licence of US$922,000. At 31 December 2008 all amounts payable to 
the Administration of Masanovskiy Region are due within one year and included in current liabilities.
29 Long-term Provisions
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Balance at the beginning of the year  2,294 –
Provision recognised in the year  – 2,294
Unwinding of discount  228 –
Exchange difference  (414)
Balance at the end of the year  2,108 2,294
The long-term provision recognised relates to mine closure, site and environmental restoration costs for Kuranakh, based on estimates 
provided by external consultants in 2007, which form part of the Technical Economic Model for Kuranakh. The expected timing of the cash 
outﬂows in respect of the provision is on the closure of mining operations expected to be after 2020. The provision recognised is for the 
present value of such costs.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
85
Aricom plc
30 Share Capital
    2008
|
2007
No of shares No of shares
’000 US$’000 ’000 US$’000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of £0.001 each  2,000,000 – 2,000,000 –
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 January 1,119,070 2,147 453,611 816
Issued during the year  63,794 118 665,459 1,331
1,182,864 2,265 1,119,070 2,147
Details of the ordinary shares in issue at the commencement of the year, ordinary shares issued during the year, and ordinary shares in 
issue at the year-end are given in the table below.
Date Description Price £ No of shares
1 January 2008 Number of ordinary shares in issue at the commencement of the period 1,119,069,960
5 February 2008 Issue of ordinary shares to PBO Handels GmbH (note 33) 0.6875 252,900
18 February 2008 Issue of ordinary shares to Olis Constructions Ltd (note 33) 0.705 28,265,903
5 March 2008 Exercise of share options granted to Mr Peter Howes on 31 December 2003 0.15 400,000
3 October 2008 Issue of ordinary shares to Myrtle Corporate Ltd and Ardoryna 
Commercial Ltd (note 33) 0.23 21,875,000
15 October 2008 Issue of ordinary shares to SG Hambros, the Company’s LTIP trustee 0.20 13,000,000
31 December 2008 Number of ordinary shares on issue at the end of the year 1,182,863,763
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income.
Warrants in Issue
On 4 June 2007, the Company issued 133 million units each comprising three ordinary shares and one tradable warrant. Each warrant 
confers the right to subscribe for one ordinary share at a price of 80 pence (subject to adjustment). These warrants expire on 9 June 2010.
Issue of Options
On 4 June 2007, the Company completed a private placement with the IFC which included the issue of an option to subscribe for 
17,076,372 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 74 pence per share (subject to adjustment). The option expires on 4 June 2015. Under the 
terms of the option agreement the expiry date may be modiﬁed if:
(a) any time after the gross revenue from operations of the Group exceeds US$40 million and the volume weighted average closing price 
exceeds 160% of the exercise price; or
(b) two years after the gross revenue from operations of the Group exceeds US$40 million and the volume weighted average closing price 
exceeds 130% of the exercise price.
31 Own Shares
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January  20,256 –
Acquired in the period  4,545 20,256
Balance at 31 December  24,801 20,256
Own shares represent ordinary shares held by the Aricom plc Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘EBT’) to provide beneﬁts to employees under the 
Long-Term Incentive Scheme. During the current year the EBT subscribed for 13,000,000 (2007: 16,000,000) shares in the Company, for 
consideration of US$4,545,000 (2007: US$20,256,000).
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 86
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
32 Reconciliation of Changes in Equity
Share
Share premium Own Retained Share option Translation Other Minority Total
capital account shares loss reserve reserve reserves interests equity
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 1 January 2008 2,147 1,130,638 (20,256) (8,307) 10,378 1,969 9,900 15,927 1,142,396
Loss for the period  – – – (427,377) – – – 777 (426,600)
Exchange differences 
on translation of 
foreign operations  ––––– (14,345) – (793) (15,138)
Shares acquired by EBT  22 4,523 (4,545) ––––––
Other shares issued  95 48,287–––––– 48,382
Expenses on issue of 
equity shares  – (47) –––––– (47)
Exercise of share option 
by P. Howes 1 119 – 61 (61) – – – 120
Acquisition of 29.26% minority 
interest in Garinskoye (note 33) –––––– 19,700 (11,585) 8,115
Share-based payments  –––– 638––– 638
Balance at 
31 December 
2008 2,265 1,183,520 (24,801) (435,623) 10,955 (12,376) 29,600 4,326 757,866
Share
Share premium Treasury Shares to Retained Share option Translation Other Minority Total
capital account shares be issued loss reserve reserve reserves interests equity
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Balance at 
1 January 2007 816 263,800 – 83,798 (9,628) 9,857 – – 178,762 527,405
Revaluation of 
minority interest ––––––– (9,246) 9,246 –
Acquisition of 
minority interest ––––––– 42,575 (183,481) (140,906)
Minority interest 
at date of
acquisition –––––––– 15,859 15,859
Total recognised 
income and
expense –––– 1,040 – 1,969 – (730) 2,279
Option purchased 
over minority
interest ––––––– (19,700) – (19,700)
Equity element
of deferred 
tax arising on 
share options ––––– 199––– 199
Share-based 
payments ––––– 603––– 603
Director’s options 
exercised –––– 281 (281) ––––
Shares issued in 
respect of deferred
consideration 130 102,160 – (83,798) ––––– 18,492
Shares acquired 
by EBT 33 20,223 (20,256) –––––––
Other shares 
issued 1,168 769,371––––––– 770,539
Expenses on issue 
of equity shares – (24,916) ––––––– (24,916)
Change in purchase
consideration of 
KS GOK ––––––– (3,729) (3,729) (7,458)
Balance at 
31 December 
2007 2,147 1,130,638 (20,256) – (8,307) 10,378 1,969 9,900 15,927 1,142,396
The treasury shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Aricom plc held by the EBT to satisfy awards under the Group’s long-term 
incentive plan (see note 36).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
87
Aricom plc
33 Acquisitions
Acquisition of Minority Shareholder’s Interest in Lapwing
On 17 January 2008, Aricom agreed to acquire the 0.1% ownership interest in Lapwing Limited (‘Lapwing’), the holding company that owns 
LLC Garinskiy Mining and Metallurgical Complex (‘GGMK’ or ‘Garinskiy’), which in turn holds the Garinskoye licence, from PBO Handelsges 
M.B.H. (‘PBOH’), one of the minority shareholders. In consideration for the acquisition of this minority interest Aricom issued 8.43 ordinary 
shares for every 1 Lapwing share held by PBOH, resulting in the issue of 252,900 ordinary shares on 5 February 2008 when the market 
value was £0.6875 per ordinary share. The total purchase consideration for the acquisition of this minority interest was US$0.3million. 
The transaction was completed on 5 February 2008, when the cost of net assets acquired other than the licence was US$0.04 million. The 
excess of the purchase consideration over this amount of $0.3m was allocated to Mining Properties and Leases in accordance with the 
Group’s accounting policy for acquiring minority interests in controlled assets. 
Acquisition of 29.26% Minority Interest in Lapwing and Settlement of Amounts Owed by Olis
On 15 February 2008, shareholder approval was obtained for the acquisition of Olis’s 29.26% interest in the issued share capital of 
Lapwing. The acquisition was completed on 15 February 2008, resulting in an increase in the 70.22% interest in the project held by Aricom 
UK at 31 December 2007 to 99.58%, including the 0.1% interest acquired on 5 February 2008 detailed above. 
The total consideration comprised the issue of 28,265,903 ordinary shares at a market value of £0.705 per share on 15 February 2008 (the 
‘Consideration shares’), the cash consideration comprising the net proceeds of the placing of 42,750,000 ordinary shares completed by 
the Company on 18 December 2007, less an agreed allocation of costs incurred in respect of this placing and the option premium of 
US$19.7 million paid in March 2007. 
Including acquisition costs, the total purchase consideration for the acquisition of this minority interest was US$122.1 million.
On 19 December 2007, the Group entered into a loan agreement with Olis, lending an amount of US$65 million. The loan bore interest at a 
rate of 5.2% per annum, and was repayable at the earlier of the date of completion of the proposed acquisition by Aricom from Olis of 
shares in Lapwing, and the maturity date of the loan, being 30 June 2008. 
The loan and respective interest were settled against the purchase consideration for the acquisition of Olis’ 29.26% ownership interest 
in Lapwing.
A summary of the total consideration and settlement of the loan outstanding is set out in the table below: 
US$’000 US$’000
Option premium paid in March 2007  19,700
Issue of the Consideration shares*  39,084
Cash proceeds from the placing shares  64,221
Agreed allocation of costs associated with the placing  (1,052)
63,169
Total consideration payable to Olis 121,953
Directly attributable legal costs  154
Total consideration  122,107
Cash consideration payable  63,169
The loan and respective interest outstanding on 15 February 2008  (65,543)
Residual amount payable by Olis to Aricom on 15 February 2008**  (2,374)
* At market value opening position and exchange rate at 15 February 2008.
** Including interest of US$0.1million charged in 2007 and US$0.4 million charged in 2008.
On 18 March 2008 Olis made a payment of US$2.4 million to settle the residual loan balance outstanding plus related accrued interest. 
The transaction completed on 15 February 2008 when the cost of the net assets acquired, other than the licence, was US$11.2 million. The 
excess of the purchase consideration over this amount was US$110.9 million which was allocated to Mining Properties and Leases in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for acquiring minority interests in controlled assets. 
Acquisition of Options to Acquire Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks Licences
On 25 March 2008 the Group entered into two option agreements enabling it, subject to all conditions precedent being met, to exercise 
options to purchase the entire share capital of Rumier Holdings Ltd and Guiner Enterprises Ltd, both of which are Cypriot registered 
companies (together the ‘Cypriot Companies’). 
The Cypriot Companies hold 100% investments in LLC Optima and LLC Ekvador respectively, both of which are Russian registered 
companies (together the ‘Russian Companies’). These Russian Companies held only the licences for the right to mine the Kostenginskoye 
and Garinskoye Flanks deposits respectively, and hence the acquisition was accounted for as an asset acquisition.
The sellers of the Cypriot companies were Myrtle Corporate Ltd and Ardoryna Commerical Ltd (the ‘Sellers’) which owned 51% and 49% 
respectively of the share capital of the Cypriot Companies. 
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 88
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
33 Acquisitions continued
The Group paid a total non refundable option premium of an aggregate of US$45 million cash to the Sellers to acquire the options. 
These options were exercised on 30 September 2008 and shares were issued on 3 October 2008. The combined consideration for both 
assets upon exercise of the options amounted to US$45 million cash paid for the options and 21,875,000 ordinary shares in the Company 
(10,937,500 for each asset) as detailed below: 
Consideration US$’000
Non refundable option premium  44,976
Issue of 21,875,000 ordinary shares in Aricom plc at the market value of £0.23*  8,955
Total 53,931
* At market value opening position and exchange rate at 30 September 2008.
34 Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
(a) Reconciliation of Operating Loss to Net Cash Outﬂow from Operating Activities
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Operating loss from continuing operations  (413,326) (22,736)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  2,818 859
Depreciation capitalised  (1,644) (390)
Loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets  201 134
Impairment provision  386,392 –
Impairment of goodwill  58 –
Write down of inventory to NRV  1,170 –
Share option and LTIP expense  482 1,086
Share of associates’ (proﬁt)/loss  (850) 59
Share of Jointly controlled entities loss  444 –
Listing costs – 3,951
Other non-cash adjustments  – 6
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital  (24,255) (17,031)
(Increase) in inventories  (11,253) (1,811)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables  (18,080) 14,785
Increase/(decrease) in payables  3,925 (8,619)
Cash used in operations before interest and tax  (49,663) (12,676)
Income tax paid  (2,285) (190)
Net cash used in operating activities  (51,948) (12,866)
(b) Major Non-Cash transactions
In February 2008 Aricom plc issued 28,518,803 ordinary shares as part of the consideration to acquire a further 29.36% of interest in the 
Garinskoye project. These ordinary shares were valued at US$39.4 million using the opening market value of a share and the exchange rate 
at the transaction date. 
The loan and interest receivable from Olis amounted to US$65.5 million at the transaction date and was offset against the cash part of 
consideration payable by Aricom as part of the acquisition from Olis of a further 29.26% of interest in Garinskoye project.
An option premium of US$19.7 million was paid in March 2007 to Olis to acquire its interest in the Garinskoye project and was included in 
total consideration at the transaction date. 
In October 2008 Aricom plc issued 21,875,000 ordinary shares as part of the consideration to acquire 100% of Kostenginskoye and 
Garinskoye ﬂanks licences. These ordinary shares were valued as US$8.96 million using the opening market value of a share and the 
exchange rate at the transaction date. 
Further details on these transactions are set out in note 33.
35 Contingent Liabilities
The Group is involved in legal proceedings with two minority shareholders in Lapwing, Gatnom Capital and Finance Ltd and 
O.M. Investments & Finance Ltd. The claim was ﬁled in September 2008 in Cyprus and the respondents are Lapwing and Aricom UK. 
Claimants allege their holdings in Lapwing were improperly diluted as the result of the issuance of additional shares following a September 
2007 shareholders’ meeting. Claimants have asked the court to dissolve Lapwing, or, alternatively, to order that their shares be purchased 
at a price allegedly previously agreed upon or to be determined by an expert appointed by the court.
The Group’s defence is due to be submitted on March 12, 2009. Management believes that the claim is of a limited merit and therefore 
does not represent a material threat to the Group. 
At 31 December 2007, the Group was involved in two related legal proceedings. Both of these proceedings were concluded in the 
Group’s favour. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
89
Aricom plc
36 Share-based Payments
Equity-settled Directors’ Share Option Scheme
The Company has a share option scheme for Directors of the Group. These options over ordinary shares were issued in accordance with 
the Aricom plc Share Option Scheme. Options granted under the Share Option Scheme are not subject to performance criteria. Options 
are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group. There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria 
for share options during the period.
No options over ordinary shares were granted in 2008 and no further options will be granted under the Share Option Scheme.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows.
At 3 1 December 20 0 8
Options Outstanding 
Exercise outstanding Granted Forfeited Exercised at
price 1 January during during during 31 December
Date of grant Date exercisable £ 2008 the year the year the year 2008
31/12/2003 31/12/2006 to 28/03/2008 0.15 400,000 – – (400,000) –
19/07/2006 19/07/2009 to 19/01/2012 0.42 3,700,000––– 3,700,000
4,100,000 – – (400,000) 3,700,000
At 31 December 2007
Options Outstanding 
Exercise outstanding Granted Forfeited Exercised at
price 1 January during during during 31 December
Date of grant Date exercisable £ 2007 the year the year the year 2007
31/12/2003 31/12/2006 to 31/12/2013 0.15 1,000,000 – – (1,000,000) –
31/12/2003 31/12/2006 to 28/03/2008 0.15 400,000––– 400,000
31/12/2003 31/12/2006 to 28/02/2007 0.15 850,000 – – (850,000) –
19/07/2006 19/07/2009 to 19/01/2012 0.42 4,100,000 – (400,000) – 3,700,000
6,350,000 – (400,000) (1,850,000) 4,100,000
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had a weighted average exercise price of £0.42 and a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 3.6 years.
At 31 December 2008, the intrinsic value of the options granted on 19 July 2006, for which the vesting period had started is zero. 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model were as follows:
Options 
granted 
19 July
2006
Weighted average share price GBP  0.44
Weighted average exercise price GBP  0.42
Expected volatility %  92.00
Expected life in years  3.25
Risk-free rate %  4.83
Expected dividends GBP  0.00
Fair value per option GBP 0.279
For options granted 19 July 2006 the expected volatility of the ordinary shares has been computed by calculating the standard deviation 
of the return index on a daily basis by reference to the expected time for exercising the option. This was achieved using the historic price 
of the quoted ordinary shares over a restricted period for which the Group was listed on AIM (ie 2 years 7 months and 18 days).
The Group recognised total expenses of US$638,000 in 2008 (2007: US$603,000) related to equity settled share based 
payment transactions.
Cash Settled Long-Term Incentive Plan and Employee Beneﬁt Trust
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group established a long-term incentive plan (‘LTIP’) to operate in conjunction with an 
employee beneﬁt trust (‘EBT’), which holds shares in Aricom plc for the beneﬁt of employees (the participants).
In October 2007, the EBT subscribed for 16 million shares in Aricom plc, at a price of £0.62 per ordinary share (£9,920,000). The acquisition 
of these shares by the EBT was funded via a loan made by Aricom Treasury UK Limited to the EBT. In 2008 this loan was transferred to 
Aricom Services Limited. The loan is due for repayment in October 2017, or any other date agreed between the parties. Of the ordinary 
shares held by the EBT, 11 million have been allocated under the LTIP to Directors and members of senior management. In May 2008, a 
further 1 million have been allocated under the LTIP to a member of senior management.
In October 2008, the EBT subscribed for 13 million shares in Aricom plc, at a price of £0.20 per ordinary share (£2,600,000). The acquisition 
of these shares by the EBT was funded via a loan made by Aricom Services Limited to the EBT. The loan is due for repayment in October 
2018, or any other date agreed between the parties. Of the ordinary shares held by the EBT, a further 17 million have been allocated under 
the LTIP to Directors and members of senior management.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 90
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
36 Share-based Payments continued
The LTIP has a qualiﬁcation period of three years and a number of non-market performance related conditions which need to be satisﬁed 
for the LTIP to vest. The shares in Aricom plc will be held by the EBT on behalf of the participants for the vesting period, and should the 
Remuneration Committee advise the Trustees that the LTIP objectives have been successfully achieved, the shares will be sold, and any 
gains from this sale net of repaying the loan to Aricom Services Limited will be passed on to the participants. 
The fair value of awards issued under the LTIP is determined using the Black-Scholes model at the balance sheet date using the 
assumptions detailed in the table below. 
Awards Awards Awards
issued in issued in issued in
October 2007 May 2008 October 2008 
Weighted average share price GBP  0.076 0.076 0.076
Weighted average exercise price GBP  0.62 0.80 0.20
Expected volatility %  109.35 109.35 99.03
Expected life in years  3 2.5 3
Risk-free rate %  1.50 1.50 2.13
Expected dividends GBP  0.00 0.00 0.00
Fair value per award GBP  0.0096 0.0073 0.0845
The Group has recorded a credit of US$156,000 in 2008 (2007: an expense of US$483,000). The intrinsic value at 31 December 2008 was 
zero (2007: US$3,056,000).
37 Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes
The Group does not operate any retirement beneﬁt schemes, instead making deﬁned contributions to employees’ personal 
pension schemes. 
The total cost charged to income of US$183,000 (2007: US$150,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group 
during the year. 
38 Financial Instruments
Capital and Liquidity Risk Management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return 
to stakeholders. The capital structure of the Group at 31 December 2008 consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to 
equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 32.
The Group did not hold any debt as at either 31 December 2008 or 31 December 2007.
Externally Imposed Capital Requirement
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Details of signiﬁcant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of asset, ﬁnancial liability and equity instrument are disclosed 
in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Categories of Financial Instruments
Carrying Carrying
value value
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  257,822 406,687
Fair value through proﬁt or loss
Short-term ﬁnancial assets investments  – 91,669
Held-to-maturity ﬁnancial asset  – 122
Loans and receivables  27,703 72,461
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost – trade and other payables  (15,104) (13,421)
Financial Risk Management Objectives
The Board of Directors monitors the ﬁnancial risks relating to the operations of the Group. These risks include market risk (primarily 
currency and interest rate risk) and credit risk. 
Foreign Currency Risk Management
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk associated with ﬂuctuations in the relative value of US dollars, GB pounds , Russian roubles 
and Chinese RMB. The Group’s investment revenues are currently in US dollars, and prospective revenues from operations will be 
denominated and settled in US dollars. A proportion of capital and operational expenditure has been, and is expected to be, incurred 
in Russian roubles. Accordingly, the Group’s ﬁnancial results may be affected by ﬂuctuations in the exchange rate between the Russian 
rouble and the US dollar. These risks are mitigated to the extent considered necessary by the Board of Directors through a combination 
of holding the relevant currencies and entering into forward contracts.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
91
Aricom plc
38 Financial Instruments continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
Assets
|
Liabilities
2008 2007 2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Russian Roubles  41,170 57,634 7,524 8,622
US Dollars 2,365 81,458 3,239 1,624
GB Pounds 1,008 – 63 –
Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to exchange rate movements between US dollars, Russian roubles and GB pounds. The following table 
details the Group’s sensitivity to a 20% (2007: 5%) change in exchange rates of functional currencies of the Group’s companies against the 
relevant foreign currencies. The 20% rate represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign currency rates.
US dollars currency impact
|
Rouble currency impact
|
GB pound currency impact
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Proﬁt or loss 88 3,009 5,384 1,856 152 2
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency measured as impact by per cent change has decreased during the current year mainly due to 
the decreased holdings of Russian rouble cash equivalents. However, due to the higher sensitivity rate applied the overall impact is higher 
in 2008. The Group’s policy is to hold a portion of its cash equivalents in roubles to cover its exposure arising on capital and operational 
expenditure incurred in Russian roubles. When the Russian rouble started to weaken rapidly at the end of 2008 the Group reduced the 
portion held in Russian roubles. 
Interest Rate Risk Management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through the holding of cash and cash equivalents, including monies invested into money market 
funds. The interest rates attached to these instruments are at ﬂoating rates. The Group also holds amounts on deposit with ﬁxed rates of 
interest attached. The mix between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial assets limits the Group’s interest rate risk. The Group’s exposure to 
interest rates on these ﬁnancial assets is detailed in the interest rate sensitivity section of this note. 
Interest Rate Sensitivity
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for the average balance of interest bearing 
ﬁnancial asset investments held during the year. An increase/decrease of 1% in interest rates has been applied in this analysis. 
If interest rates had been 1% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s loss for the year ended 31 December 
2008 would decrease/increase by $2,578,000 (2007: the Group’s proﬁt reported for the year ended 31 December 2007 would increase/
decrease by US$3,380,000).
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group. The Group 
has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties 
are monitored by the Board of Directors, and limits have been established to ensure that the aggregate value of transactions is spread 
amongst approved counterparties.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash equivalents represent investments in 
money market funds and amounts held on deposit with ﬁnancial institutions.
The credit risk on liquid funds held in current accounts and available on demand is limited because our counterparties are primarily banks 
with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The credit risk on money market funds is limited because the counterparties are investment funds with high credit-ratings assigned by 
international credit-rating agencies. These investment funds are managed in accordance with approved investment criteria, requiring that 
investments have certain credit ratings and limiting the concentration of investment in any one security.
For operational reasons the Group holds amounts on deposit with banks located in Russia, one of which is a related party, as detailed in 
note 39. At 31 December 2008, amounts held on deposit with this bank were US$19,298,000 maturing in January–February 2009 and 
representing 6.3% of total monetary assets held by the Group.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 92
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
38 Financial Instruments continued
The table below details major counterparties at the balance sheet date, the associated credit ratings of the counterparty and details the 
investment guidelines where appropriate. These, excluding related parties, represent 73% of total monetary assets held by the Group at 
31 December 2008 (65% at 31 December 2007). The table below excludes any cash balances held on current accounts.
Carrying Carrying 
amount at amount at 
31 December 31 December
2008 2007
Type of ﬁnancial asset Counterparty Currency Rating US$’000 US$’000
Cash equivalent UBS –JP Morgan liquidity fund
(1)
USD AAAm 27,287 49,492
Cash equivalent HypoVereinsbank –deposit accounts USD A+ 18,432 –
Cash equivalent Goldman Sachs – Liquid Reserves Fund USD
(2)
USD AAAm 52,495 51,441
Cash equivalent Morgan Stanley – Liquid Reserves Fund USD
(2)
USD AAAm 8,488 102,982
Cash equivalent RBS Asset Management – Global Treasury Fund USD
(2)
USD AAf 65,266 124,761
Cash equivalent RBS Asset Management – Global Treasury Fund GBP
(2)
GBP AAf 31,982 8,861
Cash equivalent Barclays Bank LLC – deposit accounts USD Ba1 17,797 –
Short-term ﬁnancial 
assets at FVTPL Expo Bank – deposit accounts Roubles Baa2.ru – 31,166
Cash equivalent Asia Paciﬁc Bank
(3)
 – deposit accounts USD – 19,298 –
Short-term ﬁnancial 
assets at FVTPL Asia Paciﬁc Bank – deposits accounts Roubles – – 11,078
Short-term ﬁnancial 
assets at FVTPL UBS – money market portfolio, bonds USD AAA- – 48,899
Total 241,045 428,680
1 For securities that carry a long-term rating, the Sub-Fund’s investments will generally be restricted to securities rated at least A2 by Moody’s Investors 
Services(‘Moody’s’) or A by Standard & Poor’s Corporation (‘S&P’). For securities that carry a short-term rating the quality will be at least Prime-1 as rated 
by Moody’s or A1 by S&P. The Sub-Fund may also invest in unrated securities which are in the opinion of the Investment Manager of comparable quality. 
The Investment Manager will seek to maintain the AAA-rating assigned by at least two rating agencies. 
2 The minimum investment criteria for these funds require that investments have a minimum rating of A-1 (S&P) or P-1 (Moody’s). A minimum of 50% of the 
portfolio is invested in securities rated A-1+ by S&P. The investment managers are permitted to invest in ﬁxed rate securities with maturities up to 397 
days, and ﬂoating rate notes with maturities up to two years. However, the weighted average maturity of the fund must be kept below 60 days.
3 Amounts held on deposit with Asia-Paciﬁc Bank, which is a related party as detailed in note 39, mature in January-February 2009 and attract interest at a 
rate of 10% per annum. No ofﬁcial rating of Asia-Paciﬁc Bank is available.
Trade receivables consist mostly of amounts outstanding under engineering contracts held by a subsidiary in Russia. A credit evaluation 
is performed on these customers prior to the commencement of these contracts. There were no balances past due at the reporting 
period end. 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained, is limited to the carrying 
amount of ﬁnancial assets recorded in the ﬁnancial statements.
Liquidity Risk Management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors. At 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 the 
Group did not hold any external borrowings and the Group’s principal ﬁnancial liabilities were trade and other payables (see note 27 for 
maturity details). The Board of Directors monitors the level of liquid assets available to the Group and the level of funding required to meet 
its short, medium and long-term requirements. 
39 Related Party Transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its other related parties are disclosed below. All of the arrangements were 
carried out at arm’s length and have been reviewed by independent members of the Board.
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Related Parties
Peter Hambro Mining plc and its subsidiaries are considered to be related parties due to Mr Peter Hambro, Mr Jay Hambro and Dr Pavel 
Maslovskiy’s shareholdings and directorships in those companies and in Aricom plc.
Mr Peter Hambro is a Director and the beneﬁcial owner of Peter Hambro Limited.
Expobank LLC and OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank (former LLC Amurpromstroybank) are considered related parties as Mr Peter Hambro and Dr 
Pavel Maslovskiy have an interest in these companies. From July 2008, Expobank LLC ceased to be a related party as at that time it was 
acquired by Barclays Bank PLC.
Up to 15 February 2008 Olis was considered to be a related party due its ownership interest in Lapwing, a subsidiary of the Group as it 
held 29.26% ownership interest in Lapwing (as set out in note 33).
A subsidiary of CJSC PhosAgro (‘PhosAgro’), namely Apatit OJSC (‘Apatit’) is considered to be a related party due to PhosAgro’s minority 
interest and signiﬁcant inﬂuence in Giproruda. 
Uralmining is an associate company (see note 19).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008
93
Aricom plc
39 Related Party Transactions continued
Banking Arrangements with LLC Expobankand OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank
The Group has bank accounts with LLC Expobank and OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank.
The bank balances at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 are set out below:
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
LLC Expobank  – 39,892
OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank  19,298 11,078
During the year the Group earned interest on the balances held on accounts with the above banks of US$2,933,000 (2007: US$2,668,000).
The bank charges incurred with LLC Expobank and OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank during the year ended 31 December 2008 were US$61,000 
(2007: US$104,000). 
At 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there were no loans outstanding from LLC Expobank and OJSC Asia-Paciﬁc Bank. 
In July 2008, Barclays Bank PLC acquired 100% of LLC Expobank and so Expobank is no longer a related party.
Loan Provided to Associate
The Group provided Uralmining with a loan (see notes 19 and 24 for details). The interest accrued on the loan is US$428,000 for the year 
ended 31 December 2008 (2007: US$45,000).
Trading Transactions
In addition to the transactions described above there were transactions (set out below) that related to the day to day operation  
of business:
Amounts owed by   Amounts owed to 
Sales
|
Purchases
|
related parties
|
related parties
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Peter Hambro Mining plc  
and its subsidiaries
Peter Hambro Mining plc  32 14 405 441 – – 26 8
OJSC Irgiredmet  – – 672 61 – – 14 –
CJSC MC Peter Hambro Mining  – – 913 1,206 10 – 1,389 1,441
LLC NPGF Regis  14 7 1,316 308 1 2 511 –
LLC Obereg CHOP  11 – 278 165 10 – 34 –
CJSC Peter Hambro Mining Engineering 13 2 5,714 2,712 0 1 – 18
PHM SNG – 5 – – – 2 – –
CJSC Pokrovsky Rudnik  95 80 417 197 177 99 146 179
CJSC Malomyrskiy Rudnik 16 – – – 16 – – –
LLC Tokurskiy Rudnik  54 – – – – – – –
Dalgeologia 52 – 3,654 – – – 495 –
Kapstroy 8,814 1,558 37,684 23,730 319 114 626 1,960
Other related parties
Peter Hambro Limited  – 10 467 481 – – 63 20
Apatit OJSC 2,120 831 – – 757 381 – –
Andrey Kostava  – – – – – 102 – –
Odolgo 48 23 43 – 8 – – –
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories speciﬁed in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Short-term employee beneﬁts  2,533 3,006
Post-employment beneﬁts 131 119
Cash-settled awards under LTIP  (98) 483
Share-based payments (refer to note 36)  638 603
3,204 4,211
The main elements of the remuneration of the Directors were paid in sterling and are set out in the audited section of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director was £491,000 (2007: £526,000). 
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 94
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
40 Events after the Balance Sheet Date
On 6 February 2009 the respective Independent Committees of the Board of Directors of Peter Hambro Mining plc (‘PHM’) and Aricom 
announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended merger of the two companies by which all of the issued 
share capital of Aricom will be acquired by PHM, in exchange for shares in PHM. The merger is conditional upon, among other things, 
certain Russian regulatory conditions being fulﬁlled to the reasonable satisfaction of both companies, and passing of the necessary 
resolutions by the shareholders of both companies and the sanction of the court.
The merger provides for the acquisition of Aricom shares to be effected by way of a court sanctioned scheme of arrangement under 
Part 26 of the Companies Act involving a capital reduction of Aricom under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Scheme’). 
The purpose of the Scheme is to enable PHM to acquire the whole of the issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Aricom. Under 
the terms of the Scheme, if the Scheme becomes effective, all Aricom shares will be cancelled and Aricom shareholders will receive one 
fully paid new PHM share in exchange for 16 fully paid Aricom shares.
The merger values each Aricom share at 36.6 pence using the closing price per PHM share on 4 February 2009 of 585 pence, at 30.9 pence 
using the closing price of PHM shares on 5 February 2009 of 495 pence, and 24.9 pence using the closing price per PHM share on 
8 January 2009 of 398 pence.
41 Group Companies 
Percentage of equity owned
Subsidiary Country of incorporation Principal activity 2008 2007
Brasenose Services Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Russian Titan Company Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Kapucius Services Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Dardanius Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Arﬁn Limited Cyprus Financing 100% 100%
Metellus Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Lapwing Limited Cyprus Holding company 99.58% 70.22%
Expokom Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Tenaviva Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Esimanor Limited Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Rumier Holdings Lts Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Guiner Enterprises LTD Cyprus Holding company 100% 100%
Aricom UK Limited Great Britain Holding company 100% 100%
Aricom Treasury UK Limited Great Britain Financing 100% 100%
Aricom Finance UK Limited Great Britain Financing 100% 100%
Aricom B Finance plc Great Britain Holding company 100% 100%
Aricom B Limited Great Britain Holding company 100% 100%
Aricom B Roubles Treasury Limited Great Britain Financing 100% 100%
Aricom Roubles Treasury UK Limited Great Britain Financing 100% 100%
Aricom Services Limited Great Britain Service company 100% 100%
Ariva HK Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100%
Ariti HK Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100%
LLC Aricom Russia Management company 100% 100%
LLC Olekminsky Rudnik Russia Mining 100% 100%
LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Mining 100% 100%
LLC Rubicon Russia Development company 100% 100%
CJSC SGMTP Russia Development company 100% 100%
LLC TOK Russia Dormant 100% 100%
OJSC Giproruda Russia Engineering services 70.28% 70.28%
LLC Garinsky Mining & Metallurgical Complex Russia Mining 99.58% 70.22%
LLC Kostenginskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Mining 100% 100%
LLC Orlovo-Sokhatinsky Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Mining 100% 100%
Joint-venture
Heilongjiang Jiatal Titanium Co., Ltd China Production 65% –
Associate
LLC Uralmining Russia Mining 49% 49%
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2008 continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
95
Parent Company Financial Statements 2008
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). The parent company ﬁnancial statements are 
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the company and of the proﬁt or loss of the company for that 
period. In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the directors are 
required to:
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed;
Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the company and enable them to ensure 
that the parent company ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
96
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of 
Aricom plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise 
the Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 9. These 
parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the group ﬁnancial statements of 
Aricom plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the 
information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described 
as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you 
whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the 
parent company ﬁnancial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not 
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as 
described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited parent company ﬁnancial statements. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
parent company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not 
extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements. It also includes an assessment of the 
signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the 
preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent 
company ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2008;
the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
25 February 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Aricom plc Annual Report 2008
97
Aricom plc
2008 2007
Notes US$’000 US$’000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets  4 613 427
Tangible assets  5 6,194 4,290
Investments 6 724,692 925,285
731,499 930,002
Current assets
Debtors: due within one year  7 518 152,988
Cash at bank and in hand  32,452 90,462
32,970 243,450
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  8 (6,042) (4,305)
Net current assets         26,928 239,145
Total assets less current liabilities       758,427 1,169,147
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  8 (80) (518)
Provisions for deferred taxation        (828) (1,124)
Net assets         757,519 1,167,505
Capital and Reserves
Called up equity share capital  3 2,265 2,147
Share premium  3 1,183,520 1,130,638
Share option reserve  3 10,955 10,378
Translation reserve  3 (75,210) 1,525
Other reserves  3 22,200 –
Proﬁt and loss account  3 (386,211) 22,817
Equity Shareholders’ Funds        757,519 1,167,505
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 February 2009. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
G J Hambro    B Egan
Director     Director
25 February 2009    25 February 2009
Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December 2008
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 98
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Accounting Policies
The Aricom plc (the ‘Company’) balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally 
accepted accounting principles (‘UK GAAP’) and in accordance with UK Company law. The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below. These have been applied consistently throughout the year and the 
preceding year.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act, the proﬁt and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented as part of these 
ﬁnancial statements. The loss after tax for the year of the Parent Company was US$409,089,000 (2007: proﬁt of US$25,600,000).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash ﬂow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash 
Flow Statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from providing ﬁnancial instrument disclosures under the terms of FRS 25 Financial 
instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
2 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets represent licensed intellectual property purchased in relation to the processing of titanium sponge. These 
intangibles are measured at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, which is a period of up to 
10 years, but dependent upon the start-up date of the Titanium Sponge Plant.
Other Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation
Other tangible ﬁxed assets are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all such tangible ﬁxed 
assets at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life or the life of the 
relevant licence, whichever is less, as follows:
Average life in years
Ofﬁce equipment  3–10
Computer equipment  3–6
Until they are brought into use ﬁxed assets and equipment to be installed are included within assets under construction.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and replacement of minor items of tangible ﬁxed assets are charged to the proﬁt and loss account. 
Renewals and betterments are capitalised. Upon sale or retirement of tangible ﬁxed assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation 
are eliminated from the Financial Statements. Any resulting gains or losses are included in the proﬁt and loss account.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets Excluding Goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are 
independent from other assets, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ﬂows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the 
relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Finance Costs
Finance costs of ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate of the 
carrying amount.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of tangible ﬁxed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets. 
The commencement of the capitalisation begins when both ﬁnance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred and activities 
that are necessary to get the assets ready for use are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are 
necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete. Annual Report 2008
99
Aricom plc
2 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Foreign Currencies
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, transactions in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value 
was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in proﬁt and 
loss for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in proﬁt and 
loss for the period. 
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the proﬁt and loss when there is 
objective evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
I nvestments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned and are initially measured at cost, including 
transaction costs.
Other investments are classiﬁed as either held-for-trading or available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair 
value. Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net proﬁt or loss 
for the period. For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until 
the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
included in the proﬁt or loss for the period. Impairment losses recognised in proﬁt or loss for equity investments classiﬁed as available-for-
sale are not subsequently reversed through proﬁt or loss. Impairment losses recognised in proﬁt or loss for debt instruments classiﬁed as 
available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event 
occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Cash and Cash Eq uivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value.
Taxation
Provision is made for all foreseeable taxation liabilities.
Deferred taxation is calculated so as to recognise the expected future tax consequences of transactions and events recognised in the 
ﬁnancial statements of the current and previous periods with the following exceptions:
Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been declared and accrued as receivables; and
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be taxable proﬁt from which the future reversal of the timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates 
and laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Pensions
The Company does not operate either a deﬁned beneﬁt or a deﬁned contribution scheme for its employees. Contributions are made to 
individuals’ personal pension schemes where applicable under the terms of their employment contracts.
Share-based Payments
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment. In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has 
been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees and under various contracts with third 
parties. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) at 
the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-
based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes or binomial model as deemed most appropriate for each individual issue. The expected 
lives used in the models have been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet 
date for cash-settled, share-based payments.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 100
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
3 Company Combined Statement of Reserves and Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders’ Funds
Share Share Shares to Share option Proﬁt and Translation Other Restated
Capital Premium be issued reserve loss account reserve reserves Total
(1)
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 2008  2,147 1,130,638 – 10,378 22,817 1,525 – 1,167,505
Total recognised income  –––– (409,089) (76,735) – (485,824)
Share-based payments*  ––– 638––– 638
Directors’ options exercised  – – – (61) 61–––
Shares acquired by EBT  22 4,523––––– 4,545
Other shares issued  96 48,406––––– 48,502
Payment from a subsidiary in respect 
of the issue of shares  –––––– 22,200 22,200
Share issue costs incurred in the year  – (47) ––––– (47)
At 31 December 2008  2,265 1,183,520 – 10,955 (386,211) (75,210) 22,200 757,519
At 1 January 2007  816 263,800 83,798 9,857 (3,064) – – 355,207
Total recognised income  –––– 25,600 1,525 – 27,125
Recognition of tax on equity element 
of Directors options  ––– 199––– 199
Share-based payments*  ––– 603––– 603
Directors’ options exercised  – – – (281) 281–––
Shares issued in respect of 
deferred consideration  130 102,160 (83,798) –––– 18,492
Shares acquired by EBT  33 20,223––––– 20,256
Other shares issued  1,168 769,371––––– 770,539
Share issue costs incurred in the year  – (24,916) ––––– (24,916)
At 31 December 2007  2,147 1,130,638 – 10,378 22,817 1,525 – 1,167,505
* Please see note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Please see note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding the share capital.
Please see note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for shares acquired by EBT.
4 Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets represent amounts paid during the years ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 to acquire licensed 
intellectual property in relation to the processing of titanium sponge. The useful life of these intangibles will be determined upon the start 
of production.
At 31 December 2008, the Company had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible ﬁxed assets amounting to 
US$1,160,000.
5 Tangible Fixed Assets
Equipment, Other Assets
ﬁxtures and ﬁxed under
ﬁttings assets construction Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Cost or valuation
Cost at 1 January 2008  109 176 4,042 4,327
Additions 45 – 3,864 3,909
Disposals (2) – – (2)
Assets written off  (2) – – (2)
Translation difference  (38) (50) (1,906) (1,994)
At 31 December 2008  112 126 6,000 6,238
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2008  (37) – – (37)
Charge for the year  (13) – – (13)
Disposals 2–– 2
Assets written off  2–– 2
Impairment losses  – – (11) (11)
Translation difference  11 – 2 13
At 31 December 2008  (35) – (9) (44)
Net book value
At 31 December 2008  77 126 5,991 6,194
At 31 December 2007  72 176 4,042 4,290
At 31 December 2008, US$118,000 (2007: US$118,000) cumulative capitalised interest and borrowing costs were included within assets 
under construction in the above table.
At 31 December 2008, the Company had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of tangible ﬁxed assets amounting 
to US$8,005,000.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Annual Report 2008
101
Aricom plc
6Investments
Investments Investments
in Group into joint Other
companies ventures investments Total
US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 2008  922,144 – 3,141 925,285
Additions 670,707 20,892 408 692,007
Disposals (484,879) – (5) (484,884)
Impairment provision  (403,131) – – (403,131)
Reclasses 155 – (155) –
Translation difference  – (3,723) (862) (4,585)
At 31 December 2008  704,996 17,169 2,527 724,692
Additions to investments in Group companies during the current year represent the cost of the Company’s investment into joint ventures 
during the year and capital injections into Group companies. Part of the capital injections were made in the course of the Group 
restructuring, when the Company invested shares held in some Cyprus subsidiaries (shown in the disposals) into Aricom UK Ltd, the UK 
subsidiary, in exchange for the Aricom UK Ltd shares allotment. 
Signiﬁcant changes to the Company’s investment in Group companies are outlined below:
(i) The Company acquired 0.1% in Lapwing, Group subsidiary, for US$0.3 million in consideration for issue of 252,900 shares on 5 February 
2008. See note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. The investment was transferred to Aricom UK Ltd (see (iv) later).
(ii) The Company acquired 29.26% in Lapwing, Group subsidiary, for US$102.4 million on 15 February 2008. The Company issued 
28,265,903 shares, which accounted for US$39.1 million and the remaining US$63.2 million were settled in cash by Aricom Treasury UK 
Ltd and compensated by Aricom plc during February 2008. See note 33 for details. The investment was transferred to Aricom UK Ltd 
(see (iv) later).
(iii)The Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Chinalco and contributed an initial US$20.8 million. See note 20 for details.
(iv) The Company transferred investments in Group companies at book value US$484.7 million in exchange for the allotment of shares in 
Aricom UK Ltd booked at US$428.1 million (with the difference affecting translation reserve) and contributed US$15 million in cash to 
the share capital of Aricom UK Ltd. 
(v) The Company acquired shares in Aricom Treasury UK Ltd, another UK subsidiary, amounting to US$125 million in exchange for assigned 
loans provided to Group companies.
(vi) The Company identiﬁed that impairment provision is required against the investments in Aricom UK Ltd and Aricom Finance UK Ltd 
due to the impairment of the underlying investments held in the Kuranakh project and in combined K&S and Garinskoye project (see 
note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details).
Other investments at 31 December 2008 relate primarily to the Company’s investment in Bolshoi Seym.
See note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for capital commitments the Company had entered into regarding joint 
venture contracts.
7Debtors
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
VAT recoverable within one year  200 889
Amounts due from Group companies  208 151,888
Prepayments and accrued income  104 202
Other debtors  6 9
518 152,988
The Directors estimate that the carrying amount of debtors approximates their fair value.
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 102
Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
8 Creditors
2008 2007
US$’000 US$’000
Trade creditors  362 206
Tax 232 46
Social security  104 25
Other creditors  528 20
Accruals and deferred income  4,580 3,870
Amounts due to Group companies  236 138
6,042 4,305
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Cash-settled share-based payments  80 352
Other creditors  – 166
80 518
The Directors estimate that the carrying amount of creditors approximates their fair value.
9 Subsequent Events
Subsequent events have been disclosed in note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
103
The following deﬁnitions apply throughout this Report unless the 
context requires otherwise:
‘Aricom’ or the ‘Company’ – Aricom plc, and/or where applicable, 
other members of the Group
‘Aricom Securities’ – Shares and/or Warrants
‘Aricom UK’ – Aricom UK Limited, a wholly owned UK subsidiary of 
the Company
‘BAM Railway’ – Baikal Amur Railway
‘Board’ – The board of Directors of the Company
‘Bolshoi Seym’ – An iron ore and ilmenite deposit located in the 
Tyndinskiy district of the Amur region, in which the Company has 
an indirect 49 %. interest
‘Chinalco’ – Aluminium Corporation of China
‘Combined Code’ – The Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance
‘Dalgeophysica’ – Russian State geological Consultancy Company 
FGGUP Dalgeophysica, Aricom drilling exploration subcontractor
‘EAO’ – Evreyskaya Avtonomnaya Oblast in Russia
‘EBT’ – Employee Beneﬁt Trust
‘FAS’ – The Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service
‘Fe’ – Iron
‘Garinsky’ or ‘GGMK’ – LLC Garinsky Mining & Metallurgical 
Complex (formerly LLC AmurMining)
‘Garinskoye’ – An iron ore deposit ﬁeld situated in the Mazanovsky 
Administrative District in the Amur Region in Russia’s Far East
‘Giproruda’ – OJSC Institute for Engineering of Ore Mining 
Enterprises Giproruda, a Russian engineering company, a 
subsidiary of the Company
‘GKZ’ – State Committee for Reserves and Resources of the 
Russian Federation
‘IFC’ – International Finance Corporation
‘ilmenite’ – A black or dark brown mineral which is a major 
source of titanium and used as a feedstock for the production 
of titanium dioxide
‘JORC’ – The Australian Code for Reporting Exploration Results, 
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, 2004 version
‘K&S’ – The Kimkanskoye and Sutaraskoye iron ore deposits ﬁeld 
located in the EAO in the south-western part of Russia’s Far East
‘Kapstroy’ – LLC Kapstroy, a subsidiary of PHM
‘Kimkanskoye’ – An iron ore deposit ﬁeld located in the 
Obluchenski district of the EAO in the south-western part 
of Russia’s Far East, constituting part of K&S
‘KS GOK’ – LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat
‘Kuranakh’ – Titanomagnetite deposit ﬁeld located in the Tynda 
district of the Amur Region, in Russia’s Far East
‘Kuranakh mine’ – The Kuranakh titanomagnetite deposit, the 
licence to develop which is held by LLC Olekminsky Rudnik
‘kV’ – Kilovolts
‘Lapwing’ – Lapwing Limited
‘LSE’ – London Stock Exchange
‘LTIP’ – Long Term Incentive Plan
‘LLC Aricom’ – LLC Aricom, a wholly-owned Russian subsidiary of 
Aricom plc
‘magnetite’ – A ferromagnetic material form of iron oxide which is 
a valuable source of iron ore
‘mt’ – Million tonnes
‘mtpa’ – Million tonnes per annum
‘OJSC’ – Open Joint Stock Company
‘Olekminsky Rudnik’ – LLC Olekminsky Rudnik, a Russian company 
which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
‘Olis’ – Olis Constructions Limited
‘OVOS’ – The Russian equivalent of an Environment Impact 
Assessment report
‘Philotus’ – Philotus Holdings Limited
‘PHM’ – Peter Hambro Mining plc
‘PHME’ – Peter Hambro Mining Engineering, a subsidiary of PHM
‘Sutarskoye’ – An iron ore deposit ﬁeld located in the Obluchenski 
district of the EAO in the south-western part of Russia’s Far East, 
constituting part of K&S
‘t’ – Tonnes
‘TiO
2
’ – Titanium dioxide
‘tpa’ – Tonnes per annum
‘Units’ – Units each comprising 3 ordinary shares and 1 Warrant 
issued pursuant to the 2007 Placing
‘Uralmining’ – LLC Uralmining, a Russian company which won the 
auction for, and has been issued, the licence to exploit the Bolshoi 
Seym titanomagnetite ore deposit
‘WAI’ – Wardell Armstrong International Ltd, mining, mineral and 
alternative energy consultants
All references in this document to laws and regulations are to 
English laws and regulations, unless otherwise stated, or as the 
context otherwise requires. Unless otherwise stated, references to 
categories of reserves and resources are to Russian categories of 
reserves and resources.
All references to reserves and resources, capital expenditure, loans 
and valuations in this document are to 100%. thereof, unless 
otherwise stated, notwithstanding that in certain cases the Group’s 
percentage interest may be less than this.
Deﬁnitions and Glossary of Technical Terms
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
104
Directors and Advisers
Directors
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy
Chairman
Mr Peter Hambro
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Mr Jay Hambro
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Mr Brian Egan
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Mr Yuri Makarov
Operations Director
Mr Martin Smith
Technical Director
Sir Malcolm Field
Senior Non-Executive Director
Sir Roderic Lyne
Non-Executive Director
Tony Redman
Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary and registered ofﬁce
Heather Williams FCIS
10-11 Grosvenor Place
London 
SW1X 7HH
Registered number
4897906
Principal place of business
10-11 Grosvenor Place
London 
SW1X 7HH
Joint Brokers
Canaccord Adams Limited
Cardinal Place
80 Victoria Street
London
SW1E 5JL
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3BZ
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland
119/121 Victoria Street
London 
SW1E 6RA
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersﬁeld
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA  www.aricom.plc.uk
10-11 Grosvenor Place
London SW1X 7HH
T: +44 (0)20 7201 8939
F: +44 (0)20 7201 8938
