 Essential to 
our customers’ success
Annual Report and  
Accounts 2014 Contents
Strategic Report
Results & highlights 1
Chairman’s Statement 2
Phoenix at a glance 4
Chief Executive’s Review 7
Market trends 11
What we do 12
Our business model 13
Our strategy 15
Business and Financial Review 19
Principal risks and uncertainties 26
Operational Review 28
Our Governance
Board of Directors 32
Corporate Governance 34
Nomination Committee Report 38
Audit Committee Report 40
Remuneration Committee Report 44
Report of the Directors 58
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 61
Corporate Social Responsibility 62
Our Financials
Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Group Financial Statements 64
Consolidated Statement of Income 68
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income/(Expense) 69
Consolidated Balance Sheet 70
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 71
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 73
Independent Auditors’ Report on the  
Company Financial Statements 110
Company Balance Sheet 112
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 113
Five Year Summary 119
Shareholder Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 120
Advisers and Financial Calendar 124
Follow us at phoenix.co.uk Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
1
Results & highlights
Financial Results
Underlying:
• Group revenues £233.4m (2013: £250.0m)
• Underlying
(1)
 EBITDA
(3)
 £30.5m (2013: £33.0m)
•  Net debt (including finance leases) significantly 
reduced to £56.1m (2013: £71.3m)
•  Underlying
(1)
 profit from operations £17.7m (2013: 
£19.0m) 
• Underlying
(2)
 profit before tax £12.6m (2013: £14.9m)
•  Underlying
(2)
 diluted earnings per share 12.1p (2013: 
13.9p)
•  Proposed final dividend of 1.0p (2013: 4.0p) per share 
and total dividend of 2.6p (2013: 7.7p) per share 
Statutory:
• Loss before tax £29.2m (2013: £58.8m loss)
• Diluted loss per share 40.0p (2013: 79.1p loss)
• Basic loss per share 40.0p (2013: 79.1p loss)
• Non-recurring costs £40.8m (2013: £72.1m)
 
(1)  Underlying is adjusted for non-recurring items £40.6m (2013: £71.8m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
(2)  Underlying is adjusted for non-recurring items £40.8m (2013: £72.1m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
(3)  EBITDA is Group underlying
(1)
 profit from operations £17.7m (2013: £19.0m) 
plus depreciation £12.3m (2013: £13.8m) plus share option costs £0.5m 
(2013: £0.2m)
Operational Overview:
Financial performance: 
• Net debt reduced to lowest for seven years by 
combination of equity placing and improved working 
capital management
• Revenue and profitability adversely impacted by a 
previously announced supplier contract termination
• One-off non-cash charge of £33.1m for impairment 
of goodwill and intangible assets in respect of 
the Partner cash generating unit (31 March 2013: 
£68.1m impairment in Managed Services)
Operations now increasingly stable and 
important achievements secured across  
the Group:
• Managed Services returned to profitability
• CloudSure UK cloud platform launched, 
complementing significant existing hosting 
capabilities
• Several of our largest Business Continuity client 
mandates successfully renewed
Management and Board strengthened and 
funds raised to better position Phoenix  
for growth:
• Steve Vaughan appointed in March 2014 as 
Chief Executive, bringing 30 years of tech sector 
experience to the Group
• Robin Taylor appointed as a Non-Executive 
member of the Board
• Successful placing raised £8.3m net, accelerating 
debt reduction and enhancing Balance Sheet 
flexibility
• Final dividend reduced this year and dividend 
policy for future years to be more closely linked to 
business performance
Clear and focused three year strategy for 
Phoenix drawn up and being implemented:
• Focus on emerging opportunity to provide Cloud 
services to middle market customers in both 
Business Continuity and Managed Services 
segments
• Service lines and sales approach to focus on 
making Phoenix increasingly essential to its 
customers’ IT operations
• Scale and reach of the Group’s Partner segment 
will support these efforts Chairman’s Statement
This year, this is not an easy statement for me to write as 
I look back on a year filled with no small share of challenge. 
It is right for me to talk about those challenges, but at the 
same time I do want to focus attention very clearly on our 
Group’s future. 
Overall, trading this year has been disappointing. Difficult 
trading conditions combined with the loss of a supplier 
contract negatively impacted the financial performance. 
Revenue for the year was £233.4m (2013: £250.0m), a 6.7% 
reduction from the prior year. Our profitability also reduced, 
with underlying operating profit of £17.7m (2013: £19.0m) 
and underlying EBITDA of £30.5m (2013: £33.0m). However 
at 31 March 2014 we can point to a net debt (including 
finance leases) of £56.1m: a reduction of £15.2m on the 
prior year, aided by our equity placing and by improvements 
in working capital management.
Our energy as a Board is now focused on repositioning the 
Group so it is better placed to compete in the markets we 
address. Phoenix IT has a strong heritage and excellent 
experience in the UK IT services market. Whilst this year has 
not been without challenge, a good number of the right kinds 
of achievement have also been made. On 17 March 2014, we 
raised £8.3m net proceeds in an equity placing. We have 
achieved Platinum Partner status with Hewlett Packard, 
and have been named BT ICT Partner of the Year. We have 
increased the level of business with some customers to the 
largest it has ever been. New services, such as CloudSure 
UK, our cloud infrastructure service, are bringing new 
customers to the Group and re-energising our team’s belief 
in what Phoenix IT can achieve.
What we must do now is ensure that all of these assets, 
relationships and differentiators are pointed squarely at 
where the opportunities lie. This is what Steve sets out in his 
first Chief Executive’s Review.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.0p per share 
(2013: 4.0p per share) which, if approved at the Annual 
General Meeting of the Group, will be paid on 29 September 
2014 to Shareholders on the register as at 22 August 2014. 
Combined with the interim dividend of 1.6p per share  
(2013: 3.7p per share) paid on 8 January 2014, this results 
in a total dividend for the year of 2.6p per share (2013: 7.7p 
per share).
Looking ahead, the Board has resolved to realign its dividend 
policy. This year we have resolved to favour the further 
reduction of our debt ahead of dividend payment. In future 
years we will seek to operate a new dividend policy which 
will be aligned with measures of the underlying performance 
of the Group.
Board Changes
We have a strengthened management team in place to take 
the Group forward. That team is headed by Steve Vaughan 
who joined our Board on 12 March 2014 as Chief Executive. 
Steve has already achieved a great deal in his first few 
months, most notably the development of a plan to improve 
the Group’s fortunes. Steve brings to Phoenix IT over  
30 years of experience in the technology sector, including a 
14 year career at EDS (UK). Steve has built, bolstered and 
energised several public companies, including Synstar plc 
from 2001 to 2005; Communisis plc from 2006 to 2010; and 
served between July 2013 and February 2014 as Chairman 
of Charteris plc, leading that firm’ s successful sale. My Board 
colleagues and I are pleased to welcome him to the Group.
Turning to other changes, on 30 October 2013 David Warnock 
stepped down from our Board as a Non-Executive Director. 
Robin Taylor was appointed as a new Non-Executive 
member of our Board on 1 November 2013 and I am 
delighted that Robin has also taken the role of Chairman  
of our Audit Committee. I have also changed my role, 
moving from Executive to Non-Executive Chairman on  
1 April 2014.
Finally, we have one further change to announce. With effect 
from 10 June 2014, Brian Sellwood is stepping down from 
his Non-Executive position on our Board. On behalf of the 
Board, I want to thank both he and David warmly for their 
many contributions.
2 Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Employees
I would like to thank each of our employees for their 
continued commitment and energy this year and wish 
them all the very best for the year ahead.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Group will be held on 
25 September 2014 at 09.30, and will take place at our 
Group’s office at Oakwell Way, Birstall, Leeds.
Outlook
I believe that the future is more assured today than it 
has been for many months. We now have a strong, 
focused executive and senior management team in place,  
a plan to drive the business forward and a lower net debt 
position than for many years.
Peter Bertram
Non-Executive Chairman
9 June 2014
“I believe that the future is more assured today  
than it has been for many months. 
”
3 4 5
We keep businesses going
Our Business Continuity business helps customers avoid significant disruption to their business 
when things go wrong - from IT maintenance to loss of a building, we help keep them delivering. 
We help customers create a more resilient business. Our flexible remote working solutions enable 
customer staff to work from virtually any location, uninterrupted.
We make businesses more agile 
Our Managed Services business provides hardware support and helps customers run their 
businesses from wherever and whenever they want to. We implement Cloud-based or virtual 
environments for our customers in the middle market. We provide a complete range of services, 
from the desktop through the network to hosting and the cloud. Few organisations have the 
experience that we do in designing and delivering right-sized solutions.
 
We help our partners deliver more
Our Partner business manages highly complex, business critical IT service processes for our 
partners’ customers, to make them perform better and be more efficient. Our ‘Enterprise strength 
and scale IT solutions’ better manage the difficult, dispersed, manual IT service processes on our 
channel partners’ behalf, optimising and streamlining these processes to create efficiency and 
unlock value.
We are one of the UK’s leading providers of IT infrastructure 
services. We provide essential services to help customers  
run and grow their businesses. From our own teams and  
hubs based in the UK, we deliver services and solutions 
designed to empower our customers to improve and optimise 
day-to-day operational tasks, reduce risk and control costs.
Phoenix at a glance 4 5
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
We provide our services 
to over 3,300 businesses 
in the UK and have built 
and grown a world-class 
capability that serves 
customers at multiple 
stages of their IT services 
needs. This enables us to 
develop and maintain strong 
and profitable customer 
relationships.
Revenue
£233.4m
(2013: £250.0m)
Business Continuity
Partner
Managed Services
22%
29%
49%
Underlying profit from 
operations
£17.7m
(2013: £19.0m)
Business Continuity Partner
Managed Services
60%
6%
34%
Revenue
£114.4m
(2013: £113.3m)
Revenue
£68.4m
(2013: £84.7m)
Revenue
£50.6m
(2013: £52.0m)
By successfully 
blending the 
capabilities of these 
three areas, we provide 
a seamless IT 
infrastructure service. 6
 “A new strategy to generate 
meaningful, sustainable and 
ultimately profitable change.”
Being essential Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
7
Chief Executive’s 
Review
I joined the Group as Chief Executive on 12 March 2014.  
A few days later, the Company successfully raised £8.3m in  
net new money from Shareholders. This was an important 
development for two reasons. Firstly, it strengthened the balance 
sheet. Secondly, the fundraising epitomises a new resolve by the 
Board to commit to a long term improvement strategy. 
I have used my first few months in the Group to review its 
performance thoroughly, assess its strengths and  
weaknesses, and devise a strategy to improve its fortunes.  
A sale or break-up is not the right approach for Phoenix.  
In this review I outline why, and why now is the time  
to implement a new strategy to generate meaningful, 
sustainable and ultimately profitable change. 8 9
Why the Group fits together
The foundation to our strategy must be a clearly  
articulated plan to exploit the capabilities of the Group’s 
three segments - Business Continuity, Managed Services 
and Partner.
The Business Continuity and Managed Services segments 
largely address a similar marketplace: medium-sized 
customers, over 2,300 of them. We define medium-sized 
customers, or the middle market, as customers with 
between 100 and 5,000 IT users. These two segments 
complement each other because both are concerned with 
the converging Cloud-based market. The middle market 
is beginning to adopt the Cloud for infrastructure services, 
provided by Managed Services and at the same time 
Business Continuity is increasingly being provided through 
the Cloud: remote online backup, mirrored data centres and 
so on. According to IDC, spend on Cloud by the middle 
market will grow at over 20% annually. Over time we should 
expect these two segments to fully converge in the Cloud.
The Partner segment adds over £100m of revenue and 
important capabilities to the Group. Partner adds scale to 
our offerings in the other two segments, allowing us credibly 
to offer ‘Enterprise strength IT for the middle market’. Some 
of the skills we currently use in Managed Services can also 
be of value in some of our Partner contracts if deployed 
properly - this is unexploited opportunity.
A strategy that successfully blends the capabilities of these 
three segments has the potential to unlock considerable 
value. That value is not reflected in the current share price. 
In my view this does not represent a fair price for a business 
that has high levels of annuity revenue and a reduced net 
debt position. 
Review findings
In my review of the Group I have been impressed by our 
scale - we have hosting capacity for nearly 2,000 racks in 
our infrastructure. Our service desks across Partner and 
Managed Services combined, took nearly 300,000 calls 
during the year. I have also been impressed by the benefits 
we bring to customers and by what we might be capable of 
doing for them in the future. Despite those positives, there 
has been scant attention paid to the quality of some of our 
delivery, assessment of contract profitability and lack of 
discipline on return on the valuable capital we employed. 
A series of restructurings have left a Group that is overly 
complicated in structure and too diverse in the services 
provided - it needs to better focus.
Two issues come to the fore. The first is the need for stability 
and a long term direction so that the business can develop 
towards a clearly understood objective without constant 
upheaval and distraction. We need a clearly articulated 
strategy. The second is the need to deliver on our promises. 
For too long, there have been disappointments, shortfalls 
and surprises. These have undermined investor confidence 
and the faith of our customers and employees. The Group 
needs to get back to basics and build much stronger 
foundations.
A new strategy
Our strategy makes clear to our customers, investors  
and employees that Phoenix has the offering and capability 
to address the way IT services will develop over the next 
few years. 
We will approach our two channels to market - large 
System Integration partners and medium-sized companies 
& public bodies - by providing services that sit at the heart 
of our customers’ business. We will become an essential 
foundation for their own success. Where we do this and 
work with our customers to develop forward looking, resilient 
infrastructure, we will create the most value. Our mission, 
therefore is:
To become an essential ingredient in our customers’ 
success by providing scalable, resilient, forward looking 
IT managed services.
By being essential to our customers, we will add to those 
who already see us as their trusted adviser. This is the best 
way to maintain strong business and to make increased 
profits based on the quality of the service that we provide. 
Trust, once earned, will also allow us to grow relationships in 
size, and broaden them by selling additional services.
This trust will be earned by responding to the key trends 
in the market as we see them and improving the value 
we deliver to customers. Our Managed Services and 
Business Continuity segments will converge as our middle 
market customers exploit Cloud-based services. In our 
Partner business, we want increasingly to move away 
from headcount-based provision towards service level 
agreements. This will improve retention, profitability and 
competitiveness in this segment.
We need strong foundations to build on, and we need to 
concentrate on the basics to build well. So in this sense 
the message of ‘being essential’ works well for Phoenix IT 
too. The plan for delivering our strategy has this theme 
throughout - focus on the basics, eliminate complexity, 
concentrate investment and resources on the important 
parts of the business. 
Chief Executive’s Review
8 8 9
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Delivering the strategy
Our plan to implement the strategy of ‘becoming essential’ 
runs for three years. During that time real change and 
improvement can be delivered without looking too far ahead 
in the context of a fast changing market for technology. 
Each of the three years has a distinct focus.
The focus for year 1 will be stability, efficiency and 
quality. Our aim for this period will be to generate cash, 
improve the efficiency and reliability of the business, thereby 
improving its profitability, and to lay the foundations for 
changes to the sales process in year 2. Convergence of 
Managed Services and Business Continuity will only occur if 
we can cross-sell between the two segments, so year 1 will 
also need to prove our abilities here.
The focus for year 2 will be account management and 
standardised services. Account management is the best 
way to achieve cross-selling systematically. To achieve this 
we need a more standardised set of services, making us 
easier to do business with. We will grow the middle market 
business using these standard services, and show good 
examples of converting Business Continuity customers to 
a fuller range of services. Account management will also 
help to move the Partner business away from headcount 
related revenues towards a more compelling service-based 
model. The outcome will be profit growth (not necessarily 
revenue growth) and better cash generation. Return on 
Capital Employed will be a very important metric to show 
that we have an improving infrastructure through which we 
can drive long term profit growth.
The focus for year 3 will be integrated services. With an 
account management model bedded down, we will be able 
to credibly build a business that offers customers greater 
value than our competitors. For example, as the Business 
Continuity and Managed Services segments converge, our 
account management model needs to convert clients to 
additional services in a systematic way. Our proposition of 
Enterprise strength IT for the middle market will emphasise 
those client relationships where we provide a managed 
service for a range of infrastructure requirements, including 
delivery of projects to improve that infrastructure, making 
it more resilient and forward looking. In the same way, our 
Partner business will concern itself more with transformation 
of services when they transfer to us, making them more 
efficient and responsive. 
“Our mission, therefore is: 
To become an essential 
ingredient in our customers’ 
success by providing 
scalable, resilient,  
forward looking IT  
managed services.”
The investment case
In recent years the Phoenix strategy has not been properly 
articulated or carefully implemented. We are now at a point 
where that has to change. There are plenty of opportunities 
to improve and develop from within, and there are trends 
in the market that we can exploit better than many of our 
competitors. It will not be a straightforward or a risk-free 
path, but the potential to create sustainable Shareholder 
value over a three year timeframe is good, based upon a 
strong order book and good use of capital employed and 
a proper use of the strong, complementary fit to our three 
interlinked segments. 
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive
9 June 2014
“There are plenty of opportunities to improve and develop 
from within, and there are trends in the market, that we can 
exploit better than many of our competitors.”
9 10
 “The key trend in our market 
is the rapid development of 
Cloud-based services.”
Being essential Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
11
Market trends
Phoenix delivers IT managed services to 
customers in the UK. All our services relate 
to the IT infrastructure part of our clients’ 
spending. 
The market is changing. Leading market 
analysts say it is growing at the rate of 
inflation at best and there is long-term decline 
in some of our historic service lines, such 
as mobile disaster recovery and hardware 
break fix. These trends are affecting our 
business with end customers, and also the 
work traditionally subcontracted to us by our 
System Integrator customers in the Partner 
business. Therefore, we must improve our 
efficiency and develop new, higher value 
service lines to replace lost revenue and 
grow our profits. There are encouraging 
trends in the market which indicate where to 
direct this change in focus.
The key trend in our market is the rapid 
development of Cloud-based services. 
The Cloud is a combination of internet 
based servers, storage and network 
technologies that allow computing power, 
data and applications to be consumed 
on a utility basis and on any device. The 
increased availability of high capacity data 
communications, strong security protocols 
and the development of the necessary 
software and hardware architectures have 
each enabled this shift to the Cloud to take 
hold. Cloud services can either be delivered 
en-masse (Public) or to a single business 
(Private). Security and data residency are 
key considerations for firms considering 
moving to the Cloud. According to IDC 
research, about 50% of mid-sized firms plan 
to implement either Public or Private Cloud 
solutions in the next twelve months. They 
predict spending on Cloud solutions by the 
middle market to grow three-fold over the 
next seven years.
Cloud-based services open up an entirely 
new way for businesses to think about and 
consume IT.  At its simplest, the Cloud brings 
a new balance to IT purchasing. It enables 
businesses to purchase only those services 
they really need: quickly, safely, flexibly and 
in the knowledge that they are secure and 
highly dependable. All IT requirements, from 
email and office applications, right through 
to sophisticated and complex business 
critical applications, can be bought in from 
Cloud service providers like Phoenix IT. 
Cloud-based IT also provides a new way to 
provide Business Continuity. Early adoption 
of the Cloud was driven by large, global or 
government IT users. As these technologies 
mature, they are being increasingly adopted 
by smaller users in our target customer base.
A second and supportive trend is an 
end to the era of large total outsourcing 
deals where one big service provider was 
contracted to provide all of a customer’s IT. 
These deals are increasingly broken up 
and acquired in parts which might now 
be of a small enough size for Phoenix to 
bid for directly. Research from Gigaom 
highlights that deals in the £3-6m range 
have increased by 21% in the last year.  
This increases our addressable market.
Underlying all of this, our key customer 
decision makers - CIOs - are focusing 
increasingly on making a difference to their 
businesses by delivering change, growth and 
collaboration, rather than just cost reduction. 
By finding ways to help CIOs deliver real 
transformation to their business, we will 
create a value-based, enduring proposition. 12 13
What we do
Our Business Continuity segment helps customers avoid 
significant disruption to their businesses when things go 
wrong. Whether it’s a minor issue, such as short term IT 
maintenance, or something significant, like the loss of a major 
building, we provide back-up resources and alternative work 
locations that can be brought on stream very quickly to keep 
our customers’ business going. We are pleased to have been 
awarded Business Continuity Provider of the Year 2014 by the 
European Business Continuity Institute.
The main customers for Business Continuity are in the middle 
market and the size of our operations fits this customer 
base well. We also offer dedicated seat recovery, which is a 
significant niche service to much larger customers, notably the 
tier 1 financial services firms around London and Edinburgh. 
Our recovery centres in Farnborough, Romford and Hamilton 
are mostly devoted to specially equipped trading floor and 
back office system recovery for these firms, and with 2,821 
positions at the year end, we are a leading provider of these 
facilities.
Our Managed Services segment is also largely involved with 
customers in the middle market. Historically this business 
has grown from providing hardware break/fix, support desks, 
hosting and monitoring services to become increasingly 
involved in the implementation of Cloud-based or virtual 
environments. Even where clients are not yet ready to embrace 
the Cloud, their decisions are influenced by the need to move 
in that direction. The combination of our extensive investment 
in this segment, and the scale provided in combination with 
our other segments increases the efficacy of our proposition 
here. We have hosting capacity for nearly 2,000 racks in our 
infrastructure, and our service desks took nearly 300,000 
calls during the year. In essence, we offer enterprise-quality 
IT services to the middle market. 
In our Partner segment, we work with large IT service 
providers to become an essential part of their service to 
their end customers. We do this by managing the difficult, 
dispersed, mainly manual IT service processes on their behalf, 
making them better and more efficient. Currently, much of 
this business is headcount related, however in places we 
contract to provide a service level, and even in one case to 
develop and rollout an infrastructure management solution 
which we then run.
Phoenix is split into three segments, 
reflecting our different services and 
customers. In each segment, we 
provide services that run our clients’ IT 
infrastructure, but with a different focus 
and capability per segment. In each 
case, the services that we provide are in 
general based in the UK, and we deliver 
them from our own sites in the UK.  
This is seen by many of our customers 
as an important differentiator for us. 12 13
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Our business 
model
Phoenix IT has invested considerably in infrastructure. 
This investment begins with a range of Business Continuity 
centres across the country providing work-area recovery 
and stand-by computing power. In our Managed Services 
business, we own most of our data centre capacity and 
manage it through a network of control centres, all of which 
provides very high availability services that can be deployed 
to a wide variety of customer needs. All of this is based in 
the UK.
It is our investment in staff and processes that differentiates 
the Phoenix IT business model. In Business Continuity, our 
team is very skilled in planning and rehearsing recovery 
requirements, including using our own proprietary 
ShadowPlanner software. In Managed Services, we design 
and implement customer system requirements and then 
manage them actively during the contract in many cases. 
Our service is far more than simply data centre space.  
In our Partner business we frequently contract to take on a 
workforce delivering hands-on IT services and then to improve 
the way those services are delivered to make them more 
efficient. Our ability to deliver this improvement in working, 
across all our segments, is a key way that we deliver value.
In each of our segments, the foundation 
of our business model is the long-term 
contract. In most cases (about 74%), 
our customers engage our services for a 
period of several years, with three years 
being the average term. In some cases, 
our contracts can last for ten years. 
This positions us well to win additional 
business from our clients in the form of 
implementation projects, product sales 
and short term labour requirements. 
Where we have been astute at doing 
this, our average contract value, and 
often the margin, increases during the 
engagement. 14
 “The plan for delivering our 
strategy has this theme 
throughout - focus on the 
basics, eliminate complexity, 
concentrate investment and 
resources on the important 
parts of the business.”
Being essential Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
15
Our strategy
Phoenix IT’s new strategy to become essential to our customers covers the development of the Group for 
the next three years; properly exploits the considerable capabilities we have in IT infrastructure service and 
is aligned to emerging market trends.
In this document we set out a strategy that meets all those tests, exploiting the considerable capabilities 
we have in IT infrastructure services. The first cornerstone of our strategy is to be clear about why the three 
parts of Phoenix fit together, and how each adds to the value of the Group. As well as being separately 
important businesses, they come together so that they are more valuable jointly, and develop so as to 
increase the value of the whole.
Why the parts fit together
We keep our customers’ computers going, whether 
someone has forgotten their password, or their 
data centre has burned down. We also help our 
customers to improve their IT infrastructure to take 
advantage of new developments in technology, 
particularly where these can help our customers to 
succeed in their business goals. We can help them 
to save money, to work more flexibly, to convert 
fixed to variable cost, and to deploy applications 
that give them competitive advantage. This is a 
compelling proposition that speaks, in part and as a 
whole, to a particular target market.
The Business Continuity and Managed Services 
segments on the whole address a generally similar 
marketplace – medium-sized customers. These 
two segments also fit well together because they 
are both concerned with the converging opportunity 
that is the Cloud. Managed Services is increasingly 
involved with the implementation of Cloud-based 
or virtual environments. Business Continuity is also 
increasingly being provided through the Cloud - 
remote online backup, mirrored data centres and 
so on. Over time we should expect these two 
segments to converge fully.
The Partner segment brings considerable scale to the 
Group. Without it we could not offer the full range of 
geography , technology and infrastructure that we do.  
We maintain extensive supplier relationships, 
including Platinum partner status with both Hewlett 
Packard and Microsoft, partly because of this scale. 
As well as being profitable in its own right, the Partner 
segment increases our ability to address the middle 
market with strong, differentiated propositions - 
‘Enterprise strength IT for the middle market’. 
The Partner segment also gives us an excellent 
channel into large public sector deals, bolstering 
exposure to public IT spend which currently is 
under-represented in Business Continuity and 
Managed Services. 
How we expect the segments  
to develop
Our customers in the middle market tend not to 
be at the leading edge in their adoption of new 
technology. We have seen the development of large 
scale virtual infrastructures in global organisations 
for both day-to-day infrastructure needs, and to 
provide for resilience and Business Continuity. We 
are now beginning to see the same trends take 
hold in the middle market, with customers building 
resilience into infrastructure designs by using the 
Cloud as the way to provide Business Continuity. 
We expect this trend to accelerate over the next few 
years.
Phoenix IT is well placed, perhaps uniquely  
placed, in the UK to exploit this convergence.  
We are already a significant player in the Business 
Continuity marketplace. We have a wide range of 
skills and existing customers in Managed Services 
providing key components of the Cloud. Our new 
strategy will focus our energies in these segments 
on capitalising on this trend.
The strategy for our Partner business must be to 
remain relevant, competitive and efficient in what 
we do - the provision of dispersed, difficult to 
manage, mainly manual IT processes to our large 
outsource partners. Much of this business currently 
is contracted on a resource basis, which does 
not make value easy to measure or to provide.  
Our new strategy will see us move increasingly 
towards contracting Partner work on a service 
level basis, not just headcount. Our skills from the 
Managed Services segment will help us to offer 
this and experience shows that we deliver better 
services, make better margins and retain customers 
for longer when we do this.  Positioning the Group to make this happen
Delivery of our strategy will require a concerted effort to 
align everything we do to one mission. The mission we have 
chosen is:
To become an essential ingredient in our customers’ 
success by providing scalable, resilient, forward looking 
IT managed services.
By being essential to our customers, we will earn the status 
of trusted adviser. This is the best way to maintain strong 
business and to make profits based on the quality of the 
service that we provide. 
Our plan describes how each aspect of Phoenix will align 
towards the goal of ‘becoming essential’. As the plan is 
executed, it will be possible to measure our progress based 
on these developments.
Evolving our service portfolio towards 
‘becoming essential’
Phoenix already has a strong portfolio of services. This is 
shown by the wide variety of customers that buy from us, 
and renew with us regularly. To deliver real growth, however, 
this portfolio must be more focused. 
The Group tries to do too many things. As a result, our 
impact is diluted. Our chosen set of services should be  
well-matched and joined-up and focused on three key 
attributes: scalable, resilient and forward looking. During 
year 1 we will review our portfolio, and if necessary withdraw 
from offerings that do not conform to these attributes. We 
will also seek to add new services at the top end of the 
value hierarchy. There is no shortage of ideas - IT security 
and technical architecture planning to name just two. Some 
will be developed internally; others, later in the plan, may be 
gained by small bolt-on acquisitions.
Our portfolio of services must become more relevant to 
our customers’ business agendas. By that token, we can 
already describe how we expect, in general terms, each of 
our service lines to develop.
In Business Continuity, we expect our business to expand 
rapidly in online data backup. There is scope for expansion 
of dedicated seat recovery in London. The provision of fully 
mirrored data centre facilities for medium-sized customers 
will become part of our standard portfolio in due course. 
Our existing CloudSure UK platform, or something very 
like it, will form part of the resilience solution for smaller 
Business Continuity customers. Although we anticipate that 
customers will continue to buy mobile disaster recovery  
for some time to come, ‘Resilience as a Service’ will become 
our greater focus over the three year time frame.
In Managed Services, we expect our services to develop 
into a more integrated set of infrastructure management 
services. We add more value when we wrap a whole 
service package around commodity facilities like floor 
space in the data centre or network bandwidth. Service 
desk, skilled technical support and upgrades, remote 
network management and online back-up are all part of 
this package, and will become our standard way of doing 
business. Our new CloudSure UK platform for smaller 
customers to access Cloud-based services is a good 
example of this packaged approach. We will develop our 
services along similar lines for the bulk of our customers, 
who are somewhat larger than the current CloudSure UK  
implementation can service. Taken together, this will provide 
a comprehensive version of ‘Infrastructure as a service’ to 
complement the development of ‘Resilience as a service’ in 
Business Continuity.
In Partner, our aim should be to ‘own the call’ in our 
relationships. We will aim to take the IT support call ourselves, 
assign it to the most appropriate resource, and see that 
work through to the end of the process. We already have 
these services in our portfolio, but they need to be tailored 
to suit the large fixed-site environment more commonly 
encountered in our Partner business. We now have some 
good case studies of Partner customers selecting our 
technology for managing service, and we should see more 
of this over time.
Evolving the sales model towards 
‘becoming essential’
We need to get much better at selling a range of services 
to our customers. We need to sell services which make a 
virtue of the fact that we have both a Business Continuity 
and Managed Services offering. We need to expand 
the range of relationships we have built up in the Partner 
business, and grow new ones. At present, we find  
this difficult.
Account Management is the right model for a business of 
this type and it will be the cornerstone for delivering a cross-
selling strategy. Account Management means that each 
customer has a single identified individual (the Account 
Manager) who is responsible both for the delivery of 
service to that customer, and the identification and delivery 
of new sales to that customer. The Account Manager is 
incentivised on the profit from their customer, or group of 
customers. They are responsible for selling and delivering all 
of Phoenix services, to help the customer to transform their 
IT to improve its efficiency, availability and resilience. In this 
way they become the face of the ‘trusted adviser’ status for 
which we will now aim.
Our strategy
16 Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Account Management will take time to implement. 
The organisation needs to change to support this role, 
we need more of our technical skills close to the customer, 
management information needs refining to get a truer 
picture of customer profitability. There is also a considerable 
staff training and development process to complete. It will 
take a year to put these foundations in place.
In year 2, we will be ready to implement Account 
Management. Some accounts and individuals can be early 
adopters during year 1, particularly in our Partner business. 
Our technical support staff need to be organised correctly 
to support Account Managers in their role, and we can 
migrate this structure during year 1 as well.
Once Account Management is in place, we will be  
well-placed in year 3 to fully merge the Business Continuity 
and Managed Services segments from a customer point 
of view. There will still be distinct delivery components, but 
customers will be managed in a uniform way to ensure  
that we exploit the convergence of buying behaviour 
between Business Continuity and other infrastructure 
elements in the middle market. Growth will be easier in our 
Partner business too.
Evolving the business model towards 
‘becoming essential’
Most of our business is on long term contracts with good 
payment terms. We will do nothing to alter that. However, 
we do need to get much better at adding additional projects 
and incremental services to that base. More importantly, we 
need to run the business with a focus on delivering profit 
rather than simply a pursuit of revenue. 
This will be a fundamental change in the way that managers 
and salesmen are rewarded at Phoenix, and will be 
implemented at once. Experience has shown that this 
drives considerable behavioural change and improvement 
in the business model. Efficiency and high margin add-
on business will receive the attention that they deserve. 
High revenue, low margin business such as product sales 
absolutely have a part to play if by winning this business we 
can further a client relationship but it ceases to become the 
be-all-and-end-all of any sales process. 
Selective use of cash collection targets in parts of the 
business should also improve our working capital employed. 
Investment decisions will be improved by a rigorous 
use of Return on Capital Employed as 
the measure of success 
in our capital intensive business areas. This behavioural 
change takes time to take effect, but over the three year term 
of the strategy, it should drive considerable improvement.
As we move into year 2 and 3, we will put considerable 
effort into delivering more standardised services. At present, 
much of what we do is bespoke. While this is a good 
approach to large customer requirements, it is far too costly 
for the vast bulk of our customers and makes it harder to 
sell. More standardised services will reduce our own costs, 
accelerate time to market and make it easier for customers 
to engage with us.
Evolving our culture towards  
‘becoming essential’
It is no surprise, given the recent history of Phoenix, that 
the culture within the business needs attention. Fortunately, 
we can improve it over the coming year with some relatively 
simple actions. Having a clearly articulated strategy will be  
a big part of this process. We will avoid disruptive  
upheavals and endless changes in priorities. Stability has a 
powerful effect.
However, some particular focus will be needed to develop 
a culture of highest quality and continuous improvement 
in our service delivery. We need to get more technical 
people closer to the customer so they can talk about future 
developments and encourage that sought-after ‘trusted 
partner’ status. We need to get rather better at giving our 
staff clear responsibilities, holding people accountable for 
those responsibilities, and recognising those who excel. 
There are several concrete steps to take quickly to reinforce 
these changes. We will definitely not embark on a major 
reorganisation. However, our delivery teams need to have 
a clear ‘line of sight’ to the customer and we have already 
made one or two tweaks to improve this. The behaviour 
change, with better focus on efficiency and quality, should 
become visible during the year . We will improve management 
information throughout the Group. 
The key change needed from all of these developments 
must be the end to surprises. Phoenix has a poor record for 
delivering unexpected bad news. With the strategy we have 
developed, in time we can bring this to an end, and deliver 
what we have said we will deliver.
”
“By being essential to our customers, 
we will earn the status of trusted adviser. This is the best 
way to maintain strong business and to make profits based 
on the quality of the service that we provide. 
17 18
 “A successful equity placing, 
along with tight working 
capital management, has 
given us the lowest year 
end net debt position for 
seven years.”
Being essential Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
19
Business and  
Financial Review
Summary of Results
On 17 March 2014, the Group successfully 
completed an equity placing which raised £8.3m 
of net proceeds. These proceeds, along with tight 
working capital management, helped to bring our 
year end net debt to £56.1m, £15.2m lower than 
at the previous year end. This took our net debt to 
EBITDA ratio to less than 2 times at 1.84. This is the 
lowest year end net debt position the Group has 
had for 7 years. 
Profit performance was, however, disappointing 
with underlying EBITDA down by 7.9% to 
£30.5m. The Group suffered revenue attrition 
following the termination of a supplier contract 
which restricted the sale of certain products 
and services to some of our customers. The 
year did, however, see the return to profit  
of our Managed Services business and the launch of  
our new Cloud platform – CloudSure UK. 
Revenue for the year was £233.4m, a 6.7% 
reduction from £250.0m last year. Underlying profit 
from operations
(3)
 decreased to £17.7m for the year 
compared to £19.0m last year. Underlying EBITDA
(2) 
was £30.5m compared to £33.0m last year.
In October we announced that we had lost the 
major supplier contract referred to above, which 
affected the revenue and operating profit in both 
our Partner and Managed Services segments. 
In addition, revenue decreased in the Managed 
Services segment due to the continued wind down 
of a large labour-only professional services contract 
to one customer. This contract was at a relatively 
low margin and therefore this did not significantly 
adversely affect the profit in the segment. In 
addition to these two events, revenue and profit 
also reduced as a result of contract attrition and 
negotiated contract renewal discounts in the Partner 
and Business Continuity segments. However, 
significant contract wins and a one off contract to 
transition services and transfer intellectual property 
to a customer that was insourcing its services at 
the end of a contract in the Partner segment, offset 
some of this reduction.
Underlying profit before tax
(4)
 reduced year-on-year 
as a result of the lower underlying profitability as 
explained above and increased finance costs which 
is explained in further detail below.
Non-recurring items in the year were £40.8m  
(2013: £72.1m), relating to an impairment of 
goodwill and intangibles in the Partner business, 
costs relating to reorganising the Group and items 
relating to the previously announced supplier 
contract termination. 
The Group renegotiated its banking arrangements 
at the beginning of the financial year and continues 
to operate well within its facility and financial 
covenants. On 17 March 2014, the Group 
successfully completed a placing of 7,547,934 
ordinary shares with institutional investors which 
raised net proceeds of £8.3m. 
Net debt (including finance leases) at 31 March 
2014 was £56.1m which was a significant 
reduction from £71.3m at 31 March 2013. This 
reduction is as a result of improved working capital 
management throughout the year along with the 
acceleration of debt reduction brought about by 
the equity placing. 20 21
A summary of the Group’s financial performance for the year 
is provided in the table below:
Underlying
(1) 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Change
Revenue 233.4 250.0 (6.7%)
Underlying EBITDA
(2)
30.5 33.0 (7.9%)
Underlying profit from  
operations
(3)
17.7 19.0 (7.3%)
Underlying finance costs 5.1 4.1 (22.8%)
Underlying profit before tax
(4)
12.6 14.9 (15.7%)
Underlying profit after tax
(4)
9.6 11.0 (13.2%)
Underlying diluted earnings 
per share
(4)
12.1p 13.9p (1.8p)
Dividend 2.6p 7.7p (5.1p)
Statutory
Loss before tax (29.2) (58.8) £29.6m
Loss from operations (23.9) (54.4) £30.5m
Diluted loss per share (40.0p) (79.1p) 39.1p
Basic loss per share (40.0p) (79.1p) 39.1p
Non-recurring costs 40.8 72.1 43.5%
Other Key Performance Indicators
Net Debt  
(including finance leases)
(56.1) (71.3) £15.2m
Annual contract value 181.0 191.9 (£10.9m)
Order book 304.9 318.6 (£13.7m)
(1)  To assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, 
statutory profit has been adjusted to exclude non-recurring items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles
(2)  EBITDA is Group underlying profit from operations £17.7m (2013: £19.0m) plus 
depreciation £12.3m (2013: £13.8m) plus share option cost £0.5m (2013: £0.2m)
(3)   Underlying - adjusted for non-recurring items £40.6m (2013: £71.8m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
(4)  Underlying - adjusted for non-recurring items £40.8m (2013: £72.1m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
Segmental review
We have re-aligned our business segments this year to be 
in line with our internal reporting and recognition of profits. 
The major differences are that we no longer recognise 
a profit on the provision of field services from the Partner 
segment to the Managed Services and Business Continuity 
segments. In addition we now classify our revenues 
between the segments in the first instance according to 
the type of customer by splitting the business between 
sales to Partners and sales directly to end users. We then 
split the end user market between Managed Services and 
Business Continuity. In this way we have slightly redefined 
our segments to ensure they are now in line with the internal 
management of the business. 
The Group is therefore comprised of three segments at  
the end of the year: Business Continuity, Managed Services 
and Partner. These performed as follows for the year under 
review.
Business Continuity
Year ended 
31 March 
2014
Year ended 
31 March 
2013*
Change
Revenue £50.6m £52.0m (£1.4m)
Underlying profit from  
operations 
£12.4m £13.2m (£0.8m)
Underlying operating 
margin
24.5% 25.4%
Order book £85.6m £85.1m £0.5m
Annual contract value £51.1m £51.9m (£0.8m)
* 31 March 2013 has been restated to be calculated on a comparable basis to  
31 March 2014
Business Continuity provides the design, implementation 
and hosting of work area / IT disaster recovery services 
and business resilience and data backup. The business 
also provides Business Continuity and IT Service Continuity 
consulting and on-going program management.
The underlying contract base has remained reasonably 
stable in the year and several of our largest contracts have 
been successfully renegotiated to significantly add to future 
revenues for the segment. Certain customers renewed 
at reduced contract scope or terms in addition to some 
contract attrition. This has had the effect of reducing revenue 
by £1.4m in the year to £50.6m. Order book has increased 
slightly, despite being reduced by the year’s revenue, and 
annual contract value has decreased slightly, both reflecting 
the effect of the contract renewals. 
Underlying profit from operations decreased by 6.1% to 
£12.4m (2013: £13.2m), largely as a result of the reduced 
revenue. Underlying operating margin has remained broadly 
flat at 24.5% compared to 25.4% last year.
The business provides both syndicated and dedicated work 
area solutions. Syndicated seat utilisation increased in the 
year to 50.1% from 48.4% in the year ended 31 March 2013. 
This increase is mostly as a result of an increase in the number 
of positions sold, combined with the impact of the closure of 
our Old Street facility in London. Dedicated seat utilisation 
reduced to 89.3% from 95.6% at 31 March 2013 mostly due 
to an increase in capacity at one of our sites.
Business and Financial Review 20 21
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Managed Services
Year ended 
31 March 
2014
Year ended 
31 March 
2013*
Change
Revenue £68.4m £84.7m (£16.3m)
Underlying profit/(loss) 
from operations 
£1.2m (£0.8m) £2.0m
Underlying operating 
margin
1.7% (0.9%)
Order book £54.0m £56.7m (£2.7m)
Annual contract value £35.8m £37.9m (£2.1m)
* 31 March 2013 has been restated to be calculated on a comparable basis to  
31 March 2014
The Managed Services business comprises the provision 
of managed services, professional services and hosting 
services together with product sales directly to end users in 
the middle market.
Revenues reduced by £16.3m to £68.4m (2013: £84.7m) 
largely as a result of the continued reduction in one large 
labour-only, low margin, professional services contract.  
In addition, during the year, two contracts moved from  
being a direct sale to end users to being sales via  
partners and, as a result, were transferred from the 
Managed Services segment to the Partner segment. 
Managed Services was also impacted by a loss of revenue 
as a result of the loss of the supplier contract that restricted 
the sale of certain products and services to some of our 
customers. This loss will continue to have an impact on  
our results during the current year, as the loss of revenue 
was mostly annuity based, and has contributed to the 
reduction in the order book and the annual contract value of 
£2.7m and £2.1m.
Managed Services generated a profit from operations in  
the year of £1.2m, an improvement of £2.0m from  
the loss from operations the segment made last year.  
The improvement in the segment’ s profitability is the result of 
an ongoing focus on cost reduction during the year. The new 
management team have continued to improve processes 
around commercial pricing, particularly at the contract 
renewal stage. Particular attention has also been placed on 
replacing lower margin co-location hosting contracts with 
higher margin managed hosting contracts during the year.
During the second half of the year, the business launched 
CloudSure UK, a next generation enterprise class 
infrastructure that will enable us to deliver IT resources as 
a service. CloudSure UK will be delivered exclusively from 
Phoenix IT’s UK data centres and includes the elements of a 
Cloud offering that our customers most frequently request, 
in a secure, private, Cloud environment.
Partner
Year ended 
31 March 
2014
Year ended 
31 March 
2013*
Change
Revenue £114.4m £113.3m £1.1m
Underlying profit from  
operations 
£7.0m £9.0m (£2.0m)
Underlying operating 
margin
6.1% 7.9%
Order book £165.3m £176.8m (£11.5m)
Annual contract value £94.1m £102.1m (£8.0m)
* 31 March 2013 has been restated to be calculated on a comparable basis to  
31 March 2014
The Partner business provides a full range of IT support 
services to large systems integrators and other outsourcers. 
Partner revenue has increased from £113.3m to £114.4m 
in the year ended 31 March 2014. Revenue in this segment 
has benefited from the transfers from the Managed 
Services segment referred to above and also from desk 
side support contract wins in the current year and the 
full year effect of those won in the previous financial year.  
The Partner segment also benefited from a one-off contract 
to transition services and transfer intellectual property  
to a customer who was insourcing their services at the 
end of a contract. However, the segment has suffered this 
year from contract attrition largely as a result of the supplier 
contract termination discussed previously. This supplier 
contract termination is a key factor in the £11.5m reduction 
in the order book and the £8.0m decrease in the annual 
contract value.
The underlying operating margin has reduced from 7.9% 
to 6.1%. Contract attrition at the beginning of the year 
on some higher margin annuity contracts and later in the 
year as a result of the supplier contract termination has 
adversely affected the margin in the year. The syndicated 
nature of some areas of our service delivery cost base 
leads to difficulties in reducing our costs in line with revenue 
reductions.
Earnings and Dividends
Underlying diluted earnings per share
(4)
 decreased by 12.9% 
to 12.1p (2013: 13.9p). On a statutory basis, the diluted loss 
per share was 40.0p (2013: 79.1p loss) and the basic loss 
per share was 40.0p (2013: 79.1p loss).
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.0p per share 
(2013: 4.0p) which, combined with the interim dividend of 
1.6p per share (2013: 3.7p), would give a total dividend per 
share for the year of 2.6p (2013: 7.7p). If approved, the final 
dividend will be paid on 29 September 2014 to Shareholders 
on the register at 22 August 2014. 22 23
Investment Income and Finance Costs
Underlying finance costs, net of investment income, 
increased by £1.0m in the year to £5.1m (2013: £4.1m). 
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans increased by £0.8m 
in the year as a result of the increased margin payable on 
the Group’s banking facility following the renegotiation of the 
Group’s banking arrangements in May 2013. Other items 
included in finance costs are finance lease interest of £0.2m 
(2013: £0.2m), net pension income of £nil (2013: £0.1m) and 
amortisation of loan issue costs of £0.7m (2013: £0.5m).
Non-recurring interest costs were £0.2m (2013: £0.3m) 
and relate to the £0.1m write-off of unamortised loan costs 
resulting from the repayment of the Group’s previous debt 
facility in advance of its due date and £0.1m swap break 
fee as a result of the early termination of one of the Group 
interest rate hedges. 
Non-recurring Items
Total non-recurring items during the year were £40.8m 
(2013: £72.1m). A full analysis of non-recurring items is set 
out in note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
are also summarised in the table below.
Charge to income 
statement
Cash paid in 
the year
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Impairment of goodwill 
and other intangible 
assets (a)
(33.1) (68.1) - -
Costs of reorganisation 
of the Group (b)
(4.8) (1.7) (2.8) (4.9)
Contract provisions (c) (2.7) (0.5) (1.4) (1.2)
Impairment loss on  
property held for sale 
- (0.1) - -
Legal and professional 
fees in relation to  
pension equalisation 
- (0.1) - (0.2)
Costs relating to the 
restatement 
- (1.3) (0.6) (0.7)
Non-recurring interest 
costs (d)
(0.2) (0.3) (0.3) -
Total non-recurring 
items
(40.8) (72.1) (5.1) (7.0)
The net charge for non-recurring items in the year of £40.8m 
(2013: £72.1m) related to the following:
(a)  An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and 
intangible assets in the Partner segment of £33.1m 
(2013: £68.1m impairment in the Managed Services 
segment). Following the supplier contract termination in 
the year, the Group undertook a review of the carrying 
value of assets in the Partner Cash Generating Unit 
(“CGU”). The review concluded that the goodwill and 
intangible assets being carried in the Partner CGU 
relates to certain contracts which have been diminishing 
over time. Whilst the value in use of the Partner CGU 
would support the carrying value of some goodwill, 
the reduction of these contracts to which the goodwill 
specifically related has led management to fully impair 
the goodwill and intangible assets as detailed in note 
15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b)  In the year, a further £4.8m (2013: £1.7m) of charges 
relating to the reorganisation of the Group were 
incurred. During the reorganisation higher revenue 
attrition levels led to surplus inventory, which has  
now been recorded at its net realisable value where  
it is deemed to be lower than cost, resulting in a 
£2.4m (2013: £nil) write-off of excess inventory  
held in the Group. In addition to the inventory  
write-off, £1.2m (2013: £1.6m) has been charged  
in respect of headcount reductions. Further items of 
£1.2m (2013: £0.1m) were also incurred in the year.
(c)  Following the announced supplier contract termination, 
a review of the Group’s contract portfolio and related 
balances was carried out and a non-recurring expense of 
£2.7m (2013: £0.5m) has been recorded; £1.2m of this 
relates to a provision relating to a contract which ends 
in April 2015, which requires a provision for expected 
lifetime contract losses. The contract incurred a loss of 
£0.3m in the year ended 31 March 2014. Further items 
mostly relate to the write-off of current assets as a result 
of the supplier contract termination.
(d)  On 31 May 2013 the Group successfully refinanced its 
debt facilities and repaid its existing facility in advance 
of its due date resulting in the write-off of unamortised 
loan costs of £0.1m (2013: £nil). On 26 June 2013 the 
Group terminated a £10.0m swap arrangement with an 
existing lender and replaced this with a new £10.0m 
swap arrangement with the same lender. The cost of 
early termination will be expensed over the period of the 
outgoing arrangement resulting in a £0.1m (2013: £nil) 
charge in the year.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 the Group paid a total 
of £5.1m (2013: £7.0m) of cash in respect of non-recurring 
items. Of this £5.1m, £1.0m related to non-recurring items 
charged in the year ended 31 March 2014 and £4.1m 
related to non-recurring items charged in the year ended 31 
March 2013 or before.
Interest rate swaps
At the beginning of the year the Group had three interest 
rate swaps split equally amongst three of its lenders  
hedging £30.0m until 29 April 2014 and £15.0m between 
30 April 2014 and 30 April 2016.
On 26 June 2013 the Group entered into an additional 
£10.0m of interest rate swap contracts with two of its 
Business and Financial Review 22 23
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
existing lenders to hedge the risks associated with interest 
rate fluctuations on variable rates in respect of its £40.0m 
term loan. The new swap arrangements, under which the 
Group receives interest at a variable rate and pays interest 
at a fixed rate, hedge an additional £5.0m with each lender 
from 30 April 2014 to 30 April 2016. 
On the same date, the Group also terminated a £10.0m 
swap arrangement with an existing lender and replaced 
this with a new £10.0m swap arrangement with the 
same lender. The new swap arrangement, under which  
the Group receives interest at a variable rate and pays 
interest at a fixed rate, hedges £10.0m from 26 June 2013 
to 29 May 2015. 
The Group monitors movements in the swap market and 
has hedged the risk associated with interest fluctuations  
on £30.0m of the facility. The amount hedged by interest 
swap arrangements will reduce by £10.0m to £20.0m on 
29 May 2015 and the remaining arrangements are due to 
expire on 30 April 2016. The weighted average interest rate 
on all of the Group’s fixed interest rate swap arrangements 
is 2.5%. 
Taxation
The underlying
(4)
 effective tax rate for the year was 24.0% 
compared to the 2013 rate of 26.3%. On a statutory basis, 
the taxation charge for the year was £1.1m (2013: £0.8m), 
a full analysis of which is set out in note 12. 
The Finance Act 2013 was enacted during the year and 
included a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 
23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 
1 April 2015. The impact on the annual effective rate is a 
reduction of 0.2% (2013: 0.2%).
Net Debt and cash flow
Net debt (including finance leases) decreased by £15.2m 
to £56.1m at 31 March 2014. Net cash from operating 
activities, which is set out in more detail in note 35 of the 
Financial Statements, increased to £19.4m in the year (2013: 
£15.8m) largely due to improved management of working 
capital during the year. The working capital benefit has been 
partly offset by increased interest paid in the year, of which 
£2.4m relates to the one off loan issue costs incurred in 
order to refinance the Group’s debt facilities in May 2013.
Net cash used in investing activities decreased to £7.8m 
net of proceeds on disposals (2013: £8.8m) and largely 
relates to capital expenditure incurred in the year. An 
additional £2.2m of capital expenditure has been financed 
by finance leases (2013: £0.8m). The Group has expanded 
its hosting capacity in the Managed Services segment and 
during the year launched CloudSure UK, a next generation 
enterprise class infrastructure that will enable the Group to 
deliver IT resources as a service. Furthermore, the Group 
has continued to invest in capital expenditure to support 
customer contracts in both the Business Continuity and 
Managed Services segments and has maintained the 
ongoing level of maintenance expenditure, which is in line 
with expenditure in previous financial years. A further £0.9m 
(2013: £1.3m) of capital expenditure had been incurred but 
not paid for at 31 March 2014. 
Net cash generated from financing activities in the year 
was £1.2m which reflects a significant improvement on 
the £6.2m of net cash used in financing activities in the 
previous financial year. This was largely due to a lower  
level of dividends paid during the year and the net 
proceeds of the share placing. Phoenix IT Group plc issued  
7,547,934 new ordinary shares of 1 pence each at a price 
of 114 pence per Placing Share during the year. The placing 
raised net proceeds after fees of £8.3m. The placing was 
affected through a structure which resulted in a merger 
reserve arising under Section 612 of the Companies Act 
2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the 
structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal 
value of the share capital issued was transferred from the 
merger reserve to retained losses.
Borrowing Facilities 
At 31 March 2014 the Group had total available facilities 
of £100.0m, consisting of a £50.0m revolving credit facility, 
a £40.0m term loan, and a £10.0m overdraft. At the year 
end, the Group had, excluding any unamortised loan issue 
costs, £44.5m (2013: £85.0m) drawn down on the revolving 
credit facility, a £40.0m (2013: nil) term loan and £28.8m 
(2013: £16.0m) of cash and cash equivalents; the Group’s 
net bank borrowings were £55.7m (2013: £69.0m). Further 
details of the Group’s current banking facility are set out in 
note 25 of the Financial Statements.
At 31 March 2014 the leverage financial ratio (net 
debt:EBITDA) was 1.84x and the interest cover ratio 
(EBITDA:net finance costs) was 6.66x, both within the 
covenant limits. 
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out above along with the financial position 
of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities. In addition, notes 18 and 19 to the Financial 
Statements include the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposure to market, credit 
and liquidity risk. 
Alongside the factors noted above, the Directors have  24 25
considered the Group’s future cash forecasts and revenue 
projections for a period in excess of 12 months from the 
date of signing the Accounts, which they believe are based 
on prudent market data and past experience. Reasonably 
possible sensitivities have been carried out on these 
projections which have taken into account the principal risks 
and uncertainties of the Group. 
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has an acceptable 
level of headroom within the new facility and covenants. 
The Directors therefore have formed a judgement that 
at the time of approving these Financial Statements, 
there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial 
Statements.
Assets Held for Sale
The Group has several freehold properties that continue 
to be held for sale. Despite active marketing throughout 
the year, none of the properties were sold. Independent 
valuations were performed on the properties at 31 March 
2014 which indicated that the book value of the assets was 
appropriate and as such no impairment has been recorded 
(2013: £0.1m impairment). 
Pension Schemes
The Group currently has two Defined Benefit pension 
schemes, being the “FPP scheme” and “ICM scheme.” 
During the year, the Group has recognised a liability for the 
FPP scheme arising from the transfer of employees under 
TUPE (Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment)) 
Regulations. The Group began accruing pension benefits 
and paying regular contributions in the previous financial 
year, however the assets and liabilities both individually and 
in aggregate, were not deemed material and as such no 
disclosure was made. The assets and liabilities have now 
been recognised on the Group balance sheet. The FPP 
pension deficit at 31 March 2014 was £0.1m (2013: £nil) and 
further details relating to the pension scheme are presented 
in note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The ICM scheme pension surplus at 31 March 2014 was 
£1.9m (2013: £nil) and this has been recognised as an asset 
on the balance sheet as the Group has an unconditional right 
to a refund of any scheme surplus; further details relating 
to this pension scheme are also presented in note 10. The 
Group made incremental contributions of £1.6m into the 
ICM scheme in the year. The last triennial actuarial review of 
the ICM pension in April 2012 identified that the Group has a 
deficit of £6.5m on a funding basis (compared to the IAS19 
accounting basis shown in note 10). The Group agreed with 
the trustees that it would aim to eliminate the deficit over a 
four year period and the Group will contribute £1.7m to the 
defined benefit pension scheme annually.
Treasury Policies and Objectives 
The Group operates within policies and guidelines approved 
by the Board using conventional financial instruments and 
specified derivatives. It is the Board’s preference to manage 
market risks without the use of derivatives but they will be 
used where necessary and appropriate to reduce the levels 
of volatility to both income and equity. The use of derivatives 
is strictly controlled and they are not permitted to be used 
for speculative or trading purposes.
The Group’s main treasury risks relate to the availability of 
funds to meet its future requirements. The Group’s policy 
with respect to facilities is to ensure that these are sufficient 
to cover the expected needs of the Group, having reflected 
the inherent uncertainty of projections and forecasts.
Whilst the Group maintains uncommitted facilities to maintain 
short-term flexibility its principal debt funding comprises 
committed bank facilities which are detailed above. 
Business and Financial Review 24 25
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Key Performance 
Indicators  
(‘KPIs’)
Annual contract value
This represents the annualised value of the Group’s contracted 
revenue in place at any given time. Annual contract value 
decreased in the year by 5.7% to £181.0m (2013: £191.9m).
Order book value
This represents the minimum value of the Group’s contracted 
revenue in place at any given time. Order book value decreased 
in the year by 4.3% to £304.9m (2013: £318.6m).
Net debt (including finance leases)
The Group monitors the net debt position in order to ensure 
it has sufficient facilities to support future growth. Net debt 
(including finance leases) decreased by £15.2m to £56.1m at 
31 March 2014 (2013: £71.3m).
We intend to increase the number of non-financial KPIs used 
within the Group during the coming year and expect to be able 
to more fully report on both financial and non-financial KPIs in 
the future.
(1)  To assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, statutory 
profit has been adjusted to exclude non-recurring items and amortisation of acquired 
intangibles
(2)  EBITDA is Group underlying profit from operations £17.7m (2013: £19.0m) 
plus depreciation £12.3m (2013: £13.8m) plus share option cost £0.5m  
(2013: £0.2m)
(3)   Underlying - adjusted for non-recurring items £40.6m (2013: £71.8m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
(4)   Underlying - adjusted for non-recurring items £40.8m (2013: £72.1m) and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m)
Jane Aikman
Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer
9 June 2014
The Group uses a number of KPIs 
to monitor the performance of the 
business. The more important KPIs are 
set out below.
Profitability
The Group’s principal profitability KPIs are underlying
(1)
 
profit from operations and underlying
(1)
 diluted earnings per 
share. Underlying profit from operations
(3)
 decreased in the 
year by 7.3% to £17.7m (2013: £19.0m) while underlying 
diluted earnings per share
(4)
 have decreased by 12.9% to 
12.1p (2013: 13.9p).
Underlying EBITDA
(2)
 
This represents the Group’s underlying profit from 
operations
(3)
 plus depreciation plus share option expense. 
Group underlying EBITDA decreased from £33.0m at 31 
March 2013 to £30.5m at 31 March 2014. 
Operating margin
This represents the Group’ s underlying profit from operations
(3)
 
divided by Group revenues. For the year ended 31 March 
2014, Group underlying operating margin
(3)
 remained 
consistent with the prior year at 7.6% (2013: 7.6%). 26 27
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Macroeconomic risk
The Group may be negatively 
affected by economic 
conditions in its principal 
markets in the UK.
The volatility of these markets may 
result in reduced levels of demand 
for our products and services, a 
lengthening of the decision making 
cycle between prospect and new 
contract, a greater risk of customers 
defaulting on payment terms and 
an increased risk of inventory 
obsolescence.
The Group has a high proportion of long-term contracted 
annuity business, meaning that we could withstand a certain 
level of reduced demand for our products and services.
The Group has a broad spread of customers across several 
different market sectors.
We have policies in place to ensure that customers are 
given an appropriate level of credit based on their trading 
history and financial status and a prudent approach is 
adopted towards credit control.
Technological change
Some of the markets within 
which the Group operates 
are subject to operational and 
technological change.
We must continue to react and 
adapt to meet the requirements 
of our customers in a changing 
technological marketplace. Failure 
to change our customer offerings, 
systems and infrastructure quickly 
enough in response to these 
changes in technology may limit our 
ability to serve our customers and 
restrict our ability to execute our 
strategy, resulting in a reduction of 
future profitability and cash flow.
We have access to key forward looking industry trends 
through our key vendor relationships, which are mostly at 
Gold and Platinum levels.
We closely monitor industry developments and attend and 
participate in appropriate industry events.
We work closely with our existing customers to understand 
their strategies and changing needs to assist us to develop 
new products and services and long-term customer 
relationships that will enable us to differentiate our products 
and services and protect our margins.
Loss of key locations
The Group is dependent on a 
number of facilities in strategic 
locations around the UK.
The loss of a significant operational 
site (primary datacentre or 
Business Continuity Centre) 
through fire, natural catastrophe, 
act of vandalism or critical failure 
could cause damage to the 
Group’s reputation and damage to 
customers’ businesses potentially 
leading to a reduction in future 
profitability and cash flow.
Primary sites that are critical to the Group’s success have 
been identified and provisions put in place to manage the 
impact of any disruptive events. 
A programme of maintenance and testing is used including 
scenario tests which are conducted on an annual basis 
to simulate the loss of a Business Continuity Centre. The 
Business Continuity business has ISO22301 accreditation. 
Service delivery risk 
The Group is reliant on the 
delivery of goods and services 
to agreed specification, 
timetable and contract 
specification. 
The management of contractual 
relationships with customers 
entails potential risks including 
mis-pricing, failure to appreciate 
risks being taken on and poor 
control of costs or service 
delivery.
Failure to deliver good customer 
service can be caused by failures 
in supply and quality requirements 
and also the effectiveness of 
communication and response.
Deterioration in quality or service 
levels on contracts may cause 
serious reputation damage with 
financial consequences such as the 
loss of a customer and the cost of 
damages or litigation.
We are committed to continue to develop processes to 
ensure that services delivered to customers are of an 
appropriate standard and comply with the appropriate 
contract terms and conditions.
The Group has ISO9001, ISO14001, ISO27001 and 
ISO22301. We also have an ongoing roll out of the ITIL 
processes across the service delivery organisation.
Health and Safety 
A major health and safety 
incident could occur which 
would impact our customers or 
employees. 
Potential loss of life or major injury, 
the imposition of substantial penalties 
or other actions that could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, financial condition, results 
of operations and future prospects.
We have health and safety reporting in place across the 
Group and this receives Executive level attention. We are 
committed to the continued improvement of our health 
and safety practices across the Group with the planned 
introduction of full near miss and potential hazard reporting 
in the coming year.
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Group’s risk management systems, which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate 
potential material risks to the achievement of the Group’s strategic and business objectives. The table below lists the principal risks and 
uncertainties that may affect the Group in the short to medium term and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken to provide 
a reasonable level of protection against them. The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all risks and 
uncertainties that may arise. 26 27
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Data protection and back-up 
The Group holds a significant 
volume of confidential data. 
Failure to comply with data privacy 
regulations and standards or 
weakness in internet security may 
result in a major data privacy breach 
causing reputational damage to our 
brands and financial loss.
Breach of IT security may cause 
data to be lost, corrupted or 
accessed by un-authorised users, 
impacting the Group’s reputation. 
This could give rise to legal or 
regulatory penalties as well as 
commercial costs.
The Group has ISO27001 accreditation across its key 
operational sites. 
We have processes and procedures in place to monitor 
effectiveness of customer back-up and are continually 
upgrading security equipment and software and 
improvements in physical security processes. Penetration 
testing is performed on a regular basis to test the security 
of our sites and data. Thorough investigations are carried 
out of any incidents arising and corrective action is taken.
Employee risk
The on-going success of 
the Group is dependent on 
attracting and retaining high 
quality senior management and 
staff. Retaining and attracting 
good people is key to delivering 
superior performance and 
customer service.
Excessive staff turnover is likely 
to impact the Group’s ability to 
maintain the appropriate quality 
of service to our customers and 
ultimately impact our financial 
performance adversely.
We are committed to addressing the issue of loss of 
key staff and have implemented short and long-term 
management incentives and, where necessary, retention 
initiatives. Effective communication with employees has 
become a focus, informing them of the strategy, progress 
and policies of the Group. We have a renewed focus on the 
areas of training, appraisal and development to ensure that 
our colleagues see a good future with the Group.
Key supplier and customer 
relationships
A number of the Group 
subsidiaries derive a substantial 
part of their revenue from key 
suppliers and customers. 
The Group benefits from close 
commercial relationships with a 
number of key customers and 
suppliers. 
The loss of any of these key 
customers or suppliers, or a 
significant worsening in commercial 
terms, could result in a material 
impact on the Group’s results.
The Group continues to invest resources aimed at 
maintaining strong relationships to drive value and to 
minimise risk for both itself and its key customers and 
suppliers.
The Group as a whole trades with a very broad supplier 
and customer base and there is no significant customer 
dependency.
Pension Obligations
The Group’s defined benefit 
pension funds are exposed to 
the risk of changes in interest 
rates and the market values of 
investments, as well as inflation 
and the increasing longevity of 
scheme members.
The recent volatility in worldwide 
equity markets has highlighted the 
risk of retirement obligations.
This volatility may result in higher 
cash contributions to cover funding 
shortfalls.
These risks are mitigated by paying contributions into 
the funds and through balanced investment strategies, 
designed to avoid a material worsening of the current 
surplus or deficit in each fund. 
The Group has closed its largest defined benefit pension 
schemes to new members and to future accrual.
Assumptions to calculate the funding position of the pension 
funds are set using the recommendations of actuaries.
The Board discusses pension fund strategy as part of the 
three-year pension valuation cycle.
Liquidity risk
The Group may fail to comply 
with its financial and/or non- 
financial covenants in its existing 
banking facility. Consequently 
the Group may not have access 
to sufficient funds.
Failure to comply with existing 
banking or a renegotiation of this 
facility at a higher margin would 
adversely impact the Group’s 
liquidity position and ability to meet 
payments when they fall due and 
limit the Group’s ability to execute its 
strategy.
The Group maintains strong relationships with banks and 
Shareholders in order to maintain access to funds. 
Additional equity was raised during the year from the 
placing of ordinary shares.
There is a strong focus on management of our leverage 
and maintenance of sufficient cash balances to fund our 
working capital which is monitored by the Board.
Interest rate risk
Borrowings incur variable interest 
rates based on market rates. 
Market rates could fluctuate 
significantly and are likely to 
increase in the near future.
Costs could increase thereby 
reducing future profitability and 
cash flows.
Current and forward interest rate exposure is actively 
monitored in line with the Group’s hedging policy. Interest 
rate swaps are used to mitigate interest rate risk. 
The Group entered into interest rate swaps in June 2013 
which hedge £30m of the Group’s drawn facility until May 
2015 and £20m until April 2016.
Financial control risk
Financial controls could be 
inadequate and as such do 
not ensure accurate and timely 
financial information.
A failure to maintain sufficient 
financial controls may lead to 
reputational damage, financial loss 
or incorrect financial information 
being used to manage the business.
Strengthening of the internal audit function and a revised risk 
based approach on the Group’s new risk review process.
New Audit Committee Chairman with recent and relevant 
financial experience appointed during the year.
Restructuring of the Group’s Finance function and the 
recruitment of experienced employees.
Established a new centralised shared services function with 
a single finance system and common processes.
An external audit is performed on the Financial Statements. 28 29
Operational Review
Being an essential ingredient
For over 35 years Phoenix IT has become an increasingly 
‘essential ingredient’ in the success of our customers’ 
growth, helping them to achieve their potential, often 
resulting in their growth towards leadership positions in their 
industries.
Working behind the scenes, yet essentially, we help to 
design, build and deploy IT solutions to some of the most 
business-critical and complex challenges, helping to keep 
our customers ahead.
In a world where everything is connected and moving at 
increasing speed, Phoenix IT provides dynamic end-to-end 
solutions that can host services in the Cloud, simplify 
desktop management, and build secure, reliable networks. 
Our business availability services keep you working at all 
times.
Whatever your challenges, our professional experts can 
advise, plan and deploy , while our considerable infrastructure 
and nationwide network of engineers are there for you when 
you need them.
Joining things up to unlock more
Phoenix IT serves customers through the three parts of the 
Group: Business Continuity, Managed Services and Partner.
We address the demands of business growth by scaling 
resources as your business expands. We will be with you 
every step of your development – integrating our services to 
simplify growing complexity in your organisation.
We keep your systems running, whether you have forgotten 
your password, or your data centre has flooded out.  
Our always-on Cloud services let you work where and when 
you want, and pay for resources only when you need them.
Phoenix IT plays a significant role in enabling organisations to succeed.
We are where leading organisations from the UK come to improve their business-
critical IT infrastructures including business continuity, hosting, cloud and fully 
managed IT services.
PHOENIX IT -
AMAZINGLY
ESSENTIAL
in scalable IT 
solutions
THIS YEAR WE
SERVED OVER 
3,300
businesses in the UK
We are where you are
28
regional sites
and business continuity
centres in the UK
2,300 staff trained 
to keep your 
systems going
PHOENIX IT HAS BEEN NAMED  
BUSINESS  CONTINUITY  
PROVIDER  OF THE YEAR   
AT EUROPEAN  BCI AWARDS 2014 
For Phoenix Virtual Disaster Recovery (VDR) platform
WE MAINTAIN  
2,100  
ticket machines at the 
UK’s railway stations 28 29
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Phoenix IT helps customers around 
the UK keep going, and get back 
on track when disaster hits.
When customers face significant disruption to 
their business, Phoenix IT is there to help. We 
can replace your systems quickly, give you a 
new place to work, keep your data safe and 
always online, or parachute in new computing 
power from the Cloud. Our award-winning 
Cloud-based recovery services are the best in 
the business.
Phoenix creates more resilient organisations, 
helping get customers back to business quickly 
by ensuring mission-critical data, applications 
and infrastructures are fully available.
What we offer
• Cloud Data Backup and Recovery
• Cloud to Cloud Backup and Recovery
• Virtual Disaster Recovery
• Data Replication
• Phoenix Data Mirror
• Data Discovery
• Emergency Office
• Mobile IT Recovery
• Ship to Site Recovery
• Network Recovery
•  Email Recovery
Our Business Continuity Solutions 
keep organisations going
Stops trouble 
brewing
Phoenix IT is protecting 
Martson’s brewing group 
to keep the beer flowing 
across the UK with 
more effective business 
continuity planning.
30%
of all SMS text 
messages sent in the 
UK are handled through 
Phoenix IT’s own UK 
based Data Centres
48,000
The number of people who continue to enjoy council 
services in the borough of Melton.
Phoenix IT’s work area recovery is helping Melton 
Borough Council to keep serving its population.
KEEPING THE LIGHTS ON
FOR UK BUSINESS
Phoenix IT is looking after  
Haven Power by designing their  
business continuity plans to enable  
UK organisations to stay open for business
IN FY2013/14
53,296 
people used our BC 
centres to help keep 
their businesses going.
We managed  
529 TBYTES  
of data in  
our centres 30 31
Operational Review
Phoenix IT has unrivalled experience 
and capability to help customers 
run their organisations wherever 
and whenever they want to.
We go way beyond simply providing hardware 
support - we implement Cloud-based or virtual 
environments for our customers in the middle 
market. With our scale, we bring ‘Enterprise 
strength IT to the middle market’.
We provide a complete range of services, from 
the desktop through the network to hosting 
and the Cloud. Few organisations have the 
experience that we have in designing and 
delivering right-sized solutions.
Phoenix creates more flexibility and agility, 
helping mid-sized organisations in need of 
innovation & flexibility in IT infrastructure. Our new 
CloudSure UK service brings Cloud computing 
and applications as a service within the reach of 
small and medium-sized customers.
What we offer
• Outsourcing Feasibility
• Business Case and Justification
• Multi-source or Insource
• Strategic Consulting
• IT Consulting
• Infrastructure – Assessment and Audit
• Business Continuity Consulting
• Infrastructure Optimisation
• Hosting
• Cloud Services
• Virtualisation
• Hosted Desktop
• Managed IT Lifecycle
• Desktop and Lifecycle
• Phoenix Data Centres
Our Managed Services
make organisations more agile
24/7
Phoenix IT keeps 
Welcome Break 
Motorway Services 
going all day, every day.
 
 UK’S NUCLEAR  
 CAPACITY
Phoenix IT helped Cape to seamlessly relocate its UK 
Headquarters to a new IT infrastructure – providing 
business as usual.
SAFEST HANDS
for a $1bn insurance firm
Phoenix IT relocates, 
refreshes and upgrades 
IT infrastructure for 
Markel International, one 
of the world’s leading 
insurance organisations.
BETTER BAU  
AT PHONES4U
With 500 stores and 36,000 mobile devices
available for demonstration, Phoenix IT  
takes care of this major retailer’s entire 
back-office, IT infrastructure and stock  
management systems.
FIRST 
CHOICE
Getting people 
on holiday, easier with 
improved hardware  
and IT support for  
First Choice.
DELIVERING 
BEST IN CLASS
Phoenix IT helps 
Berkshire College to 
completely overhaul 
their IT capabilities to a 
21
st
 century standard.
87%
Ensuring  30 31
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Phoenix IT manages highly complex, 
business critical IT service processes 
for our partners’ customers, to make 
them perform better and be more 
efficient.
We manage the difficult, dispersed, manual 
IT service processes on our channel partners’ 
behalf. We bring strong experience of how to 
carry out these processes better, faster and to 
more demanding service levels than before. 
Our partner customers include most of the 
largest Systems Integrators at work in the UK, 
and their end customers, to whom we deliver, 
include global corporations, government, 
numerous high street brands and key parts of 
the transport infrastructure.
What we offer
• Deskside Support on Customer Sites
• Customer Service Desks
• UK-wide Field Engineering
• Bespoke Help-desk Services
• Large Scale Roll-out Programs
Our Partner Business
helps partners deliver at scale
FCO
Phoenix IT and Detica 
work together to provide 
the IT all over the  
world for the  
Foreign and 
Commonwealth  
Office
MAKING  
SMALL WORK  
OF BIG DATA
Phoenix IT is trusted to manage  
secure data networks for  
big government agencies
CALL 
CENTRES
Our support  
desks took 
293,296 
calls in  
2013/14.
VOTED BEST IN  
THE BUSINESS
NAMED BT ICT  
PARTNER OF THE YEAR  
FOR 2014
1 st
We  
can house 
1,996 
racks in our data  
centres
TENOVUS -
Managing 600GB 
of data for a leading 
cancer charity in Wales 32 33
Peter Bertram
Non-Executive Chairman
Peter reverted to his role as Non-
Executive Chairman on 1 April 2014 
after the appointment of Steve Vaughan 
as Chief Executive. Prior to 1 April 
2014 Peter served as Executive 
Chairman since 4 October 2012  
after serving as Non-Executive 
Chairman from 1 October 2011  
and as Executive Chairman from  
22 November 2007. He joined Phoenix 
in October 2004 as Non-Executive 
Chairman. Peter was Chief Executive 
of Azlan Group plc from 1998 until its 
takeover in 2003 and was previously 
the Non-Executive Chairman of 
AttentiV Systems Group plc. He is also 
Chairman of Ten Alps plc and Non-
Executive Director of Microgen plc.  
He is a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales. Since Peter reverted to his role 
as Non-Executive Chairman he is also 
a member of the Audit Committee.
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive
Steve has over 30 years of experience 
in the technology sector. During 
a 14 year career with EDS (UK) 
Ltd, he held a number of senior 
executive roles. He was subsequently  
Chief Executive of Synstar plc from 
2001 to 2005, where he implemented 
a major change programme culminating 
in the acquisition of the business by 
Hewlett Packard. In his position as 
Chief Executive of Communisis plc from 
2006 until 2010, Steve successfully 
launched a new strategy which gave 
rise to a significant turnaround in the 
company’s performance. From July 
2013 to February 2014, Steve was 
Chairman of Charteris plc and led its 
successful sale to French group Sword 
through an agreed cash offer. Steve 
is also a Non-Executive Director of 
Progressive Equity Research Ltd.
Jane Aikman
Chief Operating Officer & 
Chief Financial Officer
Jane joined the Phoenix Board as 
Chief Financial Officer on 6 August 
2012 and became Chief Operating 
Officer & Chief Financial Officer on 
4 October 2012. Previously Jane was 
Chief Financial Officer of Infinis plc, 
Wilson Bowden plc and Pressac plc. 
She spent five years in South East Asia 
with Asia Pulp and Paper Co Limited 
and three years as an internal audit 
manager with GEC Alsthom. Jane 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young and has a degree 
in civil engineering from Birmingham 
University. Jane is a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee of Halma plc.
Board of Directors
32 32 33
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
David Garman
Senior Non-Executive Director
David joined Phoenix as a Non-
Executive Director on 1 December 
2008. David is Chairman of Options 
Holdings Group Limited, the Senior 
Independent Director of Mouchel 
Limited and a Director of several 
other private companies. David was 
until October 2008 Group Chief 
Executive of TDG plc which he joined 
in 1999 from Associated British 
Foods plc where he was an Executive 
Director having previously held senior 
positions in a number of leading UK 
food companies. Between 2004 and 
2011 he was the Senior Independent 
Director of Carillion plc. David is Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and 
the Nomination Committee, and a 
member of the Audit Committee.
Brian Sellwood*
Non-Executive Director
Brian joined Phoenix as a Non-
Executive Director on 1 April 2006 
after working with IBM where he 
held a variety of senior positions 
and was instrumental in establishing 
IBM’s Global Services business in 
Europe. Brian is a member of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
*Brian Sellwood stepped down from the Board on  
10 June 2014.
Robin Taylor
Non-Executive Director
Robin joined Phoenix as a Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the 
Audit Committee on 1 November 2013, 
bringing many years’ experience as a 
plc director. Robin is currently a Non-
Executive Director of EMIS Group plc 
and Fusionex International plc and was 
formerly Chief Financial Officer of main 
market publicly listed companies Intec 
Telecom Systems plc, ITNET plc and 
JBA Holdings plc. Prior to that, Robin 
held a variety of financial and general 
management roles in both Europe and 
North America. Robin is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland. Robin is also a member 
of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee. 
33 34 35
The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued 
in 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council (the “Code”) for which the Board is accountable to Shareholders. 
The Board has sought to comply with the main and supporting principles with due regard to the size and needs of the 
Company and with reference to best practice.
Statement of Compliance
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2014, the 
Company has been in compliance with the principles set 
out in the Code save in relation to Section A.3.1 of the 
Code concerning the appointment of Peter Bertram as 
Executive Chairman on 4 October 2012 having previously 
acted as an Executive Director of the Company. At the  
time the Board considered that, as a result of the 
resignation of David Courtley (the then CEO) and  
Steve Clutton (the then CFO) (the details of which are set 
out on page 16 in the 2013 Annual Report) it was important 
to return to a period of stability as quickly as possible and 
accordingly appointed Peter Bertram (who had previously 
served as Executive Chairman from 22 November 2007 
to 1 October 2011) as Executive Chairman. Since the 
appointment of Steve Vaughan as Chief Executive,  
Peter Bertram reverted to his role as Non-Executive 
Chairman on 1 April 2014 and as such ensured that the 
Company is now fully in compliance with the Code.
Further explanation of how the main principles of the Code 
have been applied, including the composition and operation 
of the Board, the remuneration of the Directors, relations 
with Shareholders and procedures for financial reporting and 
internal control, is set out below and in the Remuneration 
Committee Report and in the Audit Committee Report.
How the Board Works
The Board of Directors
The Group is controlled by a Board of Directors which 
meets regularly and currently comprises two Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. All the Non-
Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be 
independent of management and free from any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement. 
A clear and formalised division of responsibility at the head 
of the Group is established, agreed in writing and approved 
by the Board. 
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors 
and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as 
Directors of the Company. The Non-Executive Chairman’s 
other main commitments are disclosed on page 56 of the 
Report.
The Board Process
The Board normally schedules at least 9 meetings throughout 
the year. Additional meetings are held as and when required. 
In advance of each meeting the Directors are provided with 
or have full and timely access to information in relation to the 
matters to be discussed.
At Board meetings, the Directors receive presentations 
from the Senior Executives on the implementation of the 
Company’s strategies and the Board receives regular 
updates on changes to the business, and legislative and 
regulatory environments.
The Board is responsible to the Shareholders for the 
proper management of the Group and for its system of 
corporate governance. It receives information on a monthly 
basis to enable it to review trading performance, forecasts 
and strategy and it has a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for its decision. The most significant of these are:
•  changes to the structure, size and composition of  
the Board;
•  consideration of the independence of Non-Executive 
Directors;
•  review of management structure and senior 
management responsibilities;
•  with the assistance of the Remuneration Committee, 
approval of remuneration policies across the Group;
•  approval of strategic plans, profit plans and budgets 
and any material changes to them;
•  oversight of the Group’s operations ensuring 
competent and prudent management, sound planning, 
an adequate system of internal control and adequate 
accounting and other records;
•  final approval of annual accounts and accounting 
policies;
• approval of the dividend policy;
•  approval of the acquisition or disposal of subsidiaries 
and major investments and capital projects;
•  delegation of the Board’s powers and authorities, 
including the division of responsibilities between the 
Executive Chairman (since 1 April 2014 the Chief 
Executive) and the Chief Operating Officer & Chief 
Financial Officer; and
•  receiving reports on the views of the Company’s 
Shareholders.
Corporate Governance 34 35
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Operational management of the Group is delegated to the 
Chief Executive (prior to the appointment of Steve Vaughan 
as Chief Executive this was Peter Bertram in his then 
capacity as Executive Chairman) and the Chief Operating 
Officer & Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives a regular flow of information to enable it 
to discharge its duties, including a monthly report detailing 
current and forecasted trading results and treasury positions. 
It also receives regular updates on Shareholders’ views as 
part of the monthly report, and more formal briefings on 
Shareholders’ views are given to the Board following the 
presentation of the Company’s interim and annual results. 
Board papers are generally distributed not less than five days 
in advance of the relevant meeting to allow the Directors 
to fully prepare for meetings, and minutes of Committee 
meetings are circulated. The Board is kept fully informed of 
developments within the Company’s businesses through 
regular presentations by divisional management. Induction 
programmes for newly-appointed Directors are devised to 
ensure that Directors spend time with divisional management 
and can visit operational sites.
The Non-Executive Directors regularly meet independently 
of management.
Procedures exist to allow the Directors to seek independent 
legal advice in respect of their duties at the Company’s 
expense where the circumstances are appropriate. All 
Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a 
qualified Solicitor.
Committees of the Board
The following three Committees constitute the principal 
Committees, each of which deals with specific aspects of 
the Group’s affairs in accordance with their written terms of 
reference, which have been reviewed in light of the Code 
and are available on request and on the Group’s website. 
All Committees and all Directors have the authority to seek 
information from any Group Director or employee and to 
obtain professional advice. The Company Secretary also 
acts as secretary to each Committee.
The Audit Committee - The Audit Committee’s purpose 
is to assist the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities 
for financial reporting and corporate control and to  
provide a forum for reporting by the external Auditor.  
The Committee, chaired by Brian Sellwood up to 31 October 
2013 and from 1 November 2013 by Robin Taylor, meets at 
least three times a year. 
A report on its activities is given on pages 40 to 43.
The Remuneration Committee - The Remuneration 
Committee is chaired by David Garman. It is responsible 
for reviewing remuneration arrangements for members of 
the Board, and all senior reports of the Chief Executive  
(up to 1 April 2014 the Executive Chairman) and the  
Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, for 
providing general guidance on aspects of remuneration 
policy throughout the Group and for the Group’s Share 
Incentive Plans. 
A report on its activities is given on pages 44 to 57.
The Nomination Committee - The Nomination Committee 
is chaired by David Garman. The Committee is responsible 
for effective succession planning and proposes candidates 
to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure 
of the Board. The Committee determines the terms of 
reference of new appointments and uses independent 
external advisers to identify suitable candidates. 
A report on its activities is given on pages 38 to 39.
Effectiveness
Board Performance and Evaluation
During the year the Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
undertook an evaluation of the performance of the Board and 
of its Committees. The Nomination Committee concluded 
that overall the Board and its Committees operated 
effectively. The Board considered that the evaluation 
process was satisfactory. 
Board Appointments
Every decision to appoint Directors to the Board is 
taken by the entire Board in a formal meeting on a 
recommendation from the Nomination Committee.  
The Nomination Committee consults with professional 
advisers and uses the services of external recruitment 
consultants when appropriate. New members of the  
Board are provided with initial induction and ongoing training 
appropriate to the individual’s needs in respect of their role 
and duties as Directors of a listed company.
The service agreements of the Executive Directors and 
the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
are available for inspection at the registered offices of the 
Company during normal business hours, including the  
15 minutes immediately prior to the AGM. 
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are required to submit themselves for  
re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years. 
Details of the Directors who are up for re-election are set out 
in the Nomination Committee Report on page 39. 36 37
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings
The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director in the year to 31 March 2014 was  
as follows:
Board Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Chairman
P Bertram 9 9 - - - - - -
Executive Directors
S Vaughan
(1)
1 1 - - - - - -
J Aikman 9 9 - - - - - -
Non-Executive Directors
B Sellwood
(2)
9 9 3 3 2 2 5 5
D Garman 9 9 3 3 2 2 5 5
D Warnock
(3)
5 4 1 1 1 1 3 2
R Taylor
(4)
4 4 2 2 1 1 - -
(1) S Vaughan joined the Board on 12 March 2014 
(2) B Sellwood resigned fom the Board on 10 June 2014
(3) D Warnock resigned from the Board on 30 October 2013 
(4) R Taylor joined the Board on 1 November 2013
Communication with Shareholders
The Company values the views of its Shareholders 
and recognises their interests in the Group’s strategy 
and performance. It holds briefings with institutional 
fund managers, analysts and other investors, primarily 
following the announcement of interim and preliminary 
results, as well as at other times during the year as may 
be appropriate. The Company’s programme of investor 
relations activities is designed to ensure that the investing 
community receives a balanced and consistent view of  
the Group’s performance. All Shareholders are welcome  
to attend the Annual General Meeting, at which the  
Board of Directors will be available to answer questions 
from Shareholders.
Provision E.1.2 of the Code requires the Board to ensure 
that its members and, in particular, the Non-Executive 
Directors develop an understanding of the views of major 
Shareholders about the Company. During the year the 
Chairman has met with a range of major Shareholders to 
discuss governance and strategy. The Senior Non-Executive 
Director has been available for all such meetings if requested. 
The views of major Shareholders are communicated to the 
Board as a whole by the Chairman. In addition, the Board 
receives reports from the Company’s broker communicating 
feedback from major Shareholders. The Board also reviews 
analyst coverage of the Company every month.
Internal Control
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, is 
responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control. Formal responsibility for risk 
matters set out in the Group risk register is divided between 
the Board and the Audit Committee. 
During the year, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of 
the systems of internal control and risk management based 
on a review of significant risks identified, the results and 
other reports from management as well as the internal and 
external audit reports. Following the review and an update 
of the risk management process, the Board concluded 
that the systems are appropriate for the Group but the 
Board continues to seek to ensure that steps are taken to 
embed internal control and risk management further into the 
operations of the Group’s business and to deal with any 
areas of improvement which come to its attention, as set 
out in the Audit Committee Report.
The Group’s Internal Audit function and key elements of 
the internal control system and the information used during 
the review are described on pages 40 to 41 of the Audit 
Committee Report.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties within the 
business are set out on pages 26 to 27.
36 36 37
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Capital Structure
Details of the Company’s capital structure are set out in the 
Report of the Directors on page 58.
Auditor Independence
The Company has a formal policy designed to ensure that 
the Auditor’s independence is not compromised by them 
undertaking inappropriate non-audit work. All significant 
non-audit work commissioned from the external Auditor 
requires the Audit Committee’s formal approval. The 
external Auditor is only selected to undertake non-audit 
work where the nature of the advice makes it more timely 
and cost effective to select advisers who already have a 
good understanding of the Group. 
The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of the 
nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by  
the external Auditor to satisfy itself that there is no effect on  
the Auditor’s independence. There were minimal fees paid 
for non-audit work during the year.
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes 
disclosure of the remuneration of the audit firm during the 
year including an analysis of the audit services. 
By order of the Board
Dirk Toulmin – Van Sittert
Company Secretary
9 June 2014
37 38 39
Members of the Committee
The Nomination Committee (“the Committee”) comprises:
• David Garman (“the Chairman”)
• Robin Taylor
•  Brian Sellwood was a member of this Committee up to 
10 June 2014 when he left office.
•  David Warnock was a member of this Committee up to 
30 October 2013 when he left office.
Appointment and Role
The Committee is appointed by the Board. The Chairman 
of the Board attends the Committee by invitation unless the 
Committee is considering matters related to the Chairman 
of the Board in which event the Chairman of the Board does 
not attend. The Chairman does not chair or attend when the 
Committee is considering matters relating to his position, 
in which circumstances the Committee is chaired by the 
Chairman of the Board.
The Committee reviews the composition of the Board and 
makes recommendations on the Board’s membership.  
The Committee also monitors succession planning for 
Directors and evaluates Board and Committee performance. 
The Committee furthermore determines terms of reference 
of new appointments and uses independent external 
advisers to identify suitable candidates. The Committee also 
ensures that future changes in the Board’s membership are 
anticipated and properly managed, and that in the event 
of unforeseen changes, management and oversight of the 
Group’s business and strategy will not be disrupted.
The Committee interviews shortlisted candidates before 
recommending appointments for Board approval, prior 
to any appointment being made. During the recent 
recruitment of our new Chief Executive, Steve Vaughan, 
major Shareholders’ views were also sought throughout the 
selection process.
Succession Planning 
During the year the Committee considered the appointment 
of Steve Vaughan and Robin Taylor as Chief Executive and 
Non-Executive Director respectively. Both were appointed by 
the Board following recommendation by the Committee and 
a formal selection process conducted with the assistance 
of independent external recruitment specialists having no 
other connections with the Company. The process involved 
a shortlist of candidates being prepared by the Nomination 
Committee from which the Board then made the appointment 
after interviewing the candidates in line with the established 
Committee practice. Due to the Group’s need for long term 
stability and growth, it was of importance for the Group to 
ensure that, in the appointment of the Chief Executive, the 
right candidate was identified and appointed and as a result 
the appointment was only made early in March 2014 after 
completion of a thorough recruitment process. Once the 
appointment was made the new Chief Executive was able 
to start immediately.
Notwithstanding the fact that the Services Agreement 
entered into between Peter Bertram and the Company 
when he was appointed as Executive Chairman contained 
a stipulation that confirmed Peter Bertram’s reversion to his 
role as Non-Executive Chairman (should he so elect) at the 
appointment of a Chief Executive, the Committee considered 
and recommended the reversion of Peter Bertram to his 
role as Non-Executive Chairman when Steve Vaughan was 
appointed as Chief Executive. The Board appointed Peter 
Bertram with effect from 1 April 2014 as Non-Executive 
Chairman following the recommendation of the Committee.
Board Performance and Evaluation
The Chairman of the Committee undertook an evaluation of 
the performance of the Board and its Committees while the 
Chairman’s performance was evaluated by the Chairman 
of the Board. It was concluded that overall the Board 
and its Committees operated effectively. However, 
Nomination  
Committee Report
38 38 39
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
there were specific recommendations for enhancing the 
Board’s effectiveness which have been actioned, notably 
the appointment of a new Audit Committee Chairman, 
succession planning and particularly the commencement 
of the recruitment process for the appointment of a new 
Chief Executive and a commitment to establish clarity with 
regard to future strategic priorities. The Board accepted 
the conclusion of the Chairman. During the evaluation the 
Chairman specifically took into account:
•  the identification of the Board and Committee’s  
main priorities;
•  the dynamics of the Board and Committees, including 
the engagement of Directors in the affairs of the Group;
• the environment in the boardroom;
• the Board’s oversight of operations;
•  the management of time, planning of the annual cycle 
of work and agenda;
•  the management of risk, review and testing of risk 
management policies; and
• the composition and performance of the Committees.
Directors Standing for Re-election
No Directors are due to retire by rotation this year but  
in the interests of providing some degree of rotation,  
Peter Bertram, Jane Aikman and David Garman offer 
themselves for re-appointment to the Board at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Steve Vaughan  
who joined the Company on 12 March 2014 and Robin 
Taylor who joined the Company on 1 November 2013 also 
offer themselves for election to the Board at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Chairman considers that:
•  each Director (other than the Chairman) subject to  
re-election continues to operate as an effective member 
of the Board; and
•  each Director (other than the Chairman) subject to  
re-election has the skill, knowledge and experience that 
enables them to discharge their duties properly and 
contribute to the effective operation of the Board. 
In relation to the re-election of the Chairman, the Chairman 
of the Board considers that:
•  the Chairman continues to operate as an effective 
member of the Board; and
•  the Chairman has the skill, knowledge and experience 
that enables him to discharge his duties properly and 
contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Committee, recommends 
their re-appointments on the grounds of the experience and 
knowledge that each bring to the Company.
This report of the Committee was approved by the 
Committee for release on 10 June 2014 and signed on its  
behalf by:
David Garman
Chairman, Nomination Committee
9 June 2014
39 40 41
Composition
The Audit Committee comprised three independent  
Non-Executive Directors - Robin Taylor, David Garman  
and Brian Sellwood as at 31 March 2014. Biographical 
details and remuneration are set out on pages 33 and 52 
respectively. 
We had some changes during the year with  
David Warnock stepping down from the Board with 
effect from 30 October 2013. I joined the Board from  
1 November 2013, becoming the Chairman of the  
Audit Committee with Brian Sellwood stepping down  
but remaining as a Non-Executive Director and a member of 
the Audit Committee. 
The Board believes that the current members of the 
Committee have sufficient skills, qualifications and 
experience to discharge their duties in accordance with  
the Terms of Reference and in particular that at least  
one of the members has recent and relevant financial 
experience in accordance with the Code provision C.3.1. 
The Terms of Reference for the Committee were reviewed 
during the year and are in line with current best practice 
and approved by the Board. Members are offered training to 
ensure such skills are up to date and our external Auditors 
have recently held an update seminar for Audit Committee 
members.
Meetings
The Audit Committee met three times during the year 
ended 31 March 2014. Two of these meetings were 
specifically designed to approve announcements and 
trading statements of the Company for the half and  
full year. 
The Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial 
Officer and senior members of our external Auditors 
attended all meetings and the Chief Executive attended 
those meetings following the date of his appointment.
Role, responsibilities and related activities 
of the Audit Committee
In light of the accounting irregularities discovered in the prior 
year, a primary focus of the Audit Committee has been to 
support and oversee the significant improvements to the 
Group’s internal control arrangements, in particular the 
strengthening of the Group’s internal control processes and 
the centralisation of the Group’s finance function. A new 
accounting system has been implemented, bringing the 
Group onto the same system, resulting in more efficient, 
controls focused processes. The Audit Committee has 
also reviewed and monitored the implementation of the 
recommendations made by KPMG, who undertook an 
internal audit effectiveness review in the prior year. 
Throughout the year both the Board and the Audit Committee 
have monitored movements in working capital and the 
forecast and actual cash flow of the Group to ensure that 
there was a clear link between profit and cash and that there 
was sufficient liquidity maintained for the Group’s activities.
This year has seen the introduction of a number of relevant 
regulatory changes including the updated UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued in September 2012 which has 
increased the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. We 
have met these enhanced responsibilities by ensuring that 
we are effective in our monitoring and review role and have 
provided specific assurance to the Board on the integrity 
of the interim and full year Financial Statements of the 
Group, results announcements of the Company and any 
other formal announcement relating to the Group’s financial 
performance. 
During the year, we reviewed the integrity of the 31 March 
Report and Financial Statements, the half-year Interim 
Results and the Interim Management Statements, including 
the significant financial reporting judgements contained 
therein. 
In reviewing the interim and annual Financial Statements 
and in determining whether they were fair, balanced 
and understandable, we considered the work and 
recommendations of management, including a paper 
prepared by the Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial 
Officer on key judgements. In addition, we received reports 
from the external Auditors setting out their view on the 
accounting treatments and judgements included in the 
Financial Statements. The external Auditors’ reports are 
based on a full audit of the annual Financial Statements 
and a review of the interim Financial Statements.
Audit Committee Report 40 41
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee were as follows:
Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issues were addressed by the Committee
Goodwill impairment
During the year, management reported to the Committee the 
results of its impairment review, which determined whether the 
recoverable amount of goodwill was higher than its carrying 
amount in the Accounts. The review concluded that the goodwill 
being carried in the Partner business relates to certain contracts 
in the Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) which have been diminishing 
over time. Whilst the value in use of the Partner CGU would 
support the carrying value of some goodwill, the reduction of 
the contracts to which the goodwill specifically related has led 
management to fully impair the goodwill and intangible assets as 
detailed in note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We reviewed and challenged management’s key assumptions, 
including the approved budget for the year ending 31 March 2015 
and management’s projections for the following two years, long-
term growth rates and discount rates, to understand their impact 
on the CGUs’ recoverable amounts. 
The Auditor explained their audit procedures to test management’s 
impairment assessment and considered the disclosures on the 
subject. 
We were satisfied with the treatment proposed and the impairment 
disclosures in the Financial Statements. Refer to page 92 for 
further details.
Provisioning
The reasonableness of provisions for future obligations.
We have reviewed management’s estimates involved in 
recording provisions and considered their judgements regarding 
future results and events. The Auditor has explained their 
audit procedures to test management’s assumptions used to 
determine provisions. We are satisfied that provisions in place at 
31 March 2014 are reasonable.
Accounting for non-recurring items
The Group has an established policy of separately disclosing 
items that are either exceptional or detract from the readers’ 
understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
We considered management’s presentation of separately 
disclosed items and having considered the matter, the Committee 
agreed to adopt management’s proposed presentation. Refer to 
page 22 for further details.
Going concern
The appropriateness of preparing the Group Financial Statements 
for the half year and full year on a going concern basis.
We considered papers prepared by management, which 
reviewed the Group’s future cash forecasts and revenue 
projections, the committed facility, facility headroom and 
covenant testing. Taking this into account, along with the external 
Auditors’ review of these papers, the Committee concluded that 
the Directors’ recommendation to prepare Accounts on a going 
concern basis was appropriate.
The effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
Audit function
Our work included a review of the following:
•  The Internal Audit function’s terms of reference, 
reporting lines and access to the Audit Committee and 
all members of the Board; 
•  Internal Audit’ s plans and its achievement of the planned 
activity;
•  The results of key audits and other significant findings, 
the adequacy of management’s response and the 
timeliness of Resolution; and
•  The statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and 
experience and timeliness of reporting.
While we believe there has been a considerable improvement 
in the Internal Audit function during the year, there are  
plans to further enhance this function during the next  
12 months including strengthening the team and combining 
it with the management and monitoring of other key risks in 
the Group.
The Group’s systems for internal financial 
control and risk management
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee,  
is responsible for maintaining the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems to ensure that the nature 
and extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned with its 
strategic objectives. Internal control systems are designed 
to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risk to 
which it is exposed. By their nature, however, internal control 
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
During the year the risk management process has been 
updated to ensure that it adequately identifies, evaluates, 
manages and monitors the risks facing the business going 
forward. In addition, the Internal Audit plan is determined 
by reference to the primary business risks. Those risks 
identified as significant in addition to the associated 
mitigating controls were reviewed by the Audit Committee 
on behalf of the Board. 42 43
Audit Committee Report
Management consider that the following control systems 
have all been in place throughout the year and up to the date 
of this report. These have been considered and monitored 
by the Audit Committee and the Board:
•  Ongoing procedures to identify, evaluate and manage 
significant risks faced by the business in accordance 
with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal 
Controls and procedures to monitor the control systems 
in place to reduce these risks to an acceptable level;
•  Clearly defined management structure and delegation 
of authority to Committees of the Board and the 
Executive Directors;
•  Clearly documented internal procedures set out in the 
Group’s ISO9001 accredited quality manual;
•  High recruitment standards and formal career 
development and training to ensure the integrity and 
competence of staff;
•  Regular and comprehensive information provided  
to management, covering financial performance  
and key performance indicators, including non-financial 
measures;
•  A budgeting process covering budgets for the coming 
year which are approved by the Board;
•  Procedures for the approval of capital expenditure, 
investments and acquisitions;
•  Monthly monitoring and reforecasting of results 
against budget, with major variances followed up and 
management action taken where appropriate;
•  Regular internal audits of key processes and 
procedures under the Group’s ISO9001 accredited 
quality assurance process; and
•  Review of risks & uncertainties facing the business. 
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control, the Audit Committee has used information drawn 
from a number of different sources:
• Internal Audit reports
•  Monitoring management’ s responsiveness to the findings 
and recommendations of the Head of Internal Audit
• Reports from Internal Audit advisers
• Discussions with the external Auditors.
In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group has a 
thorough assurance process in place in respect of the 
preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial 
reports. The finance department, who have the appropriate 
qualifications, are responsible for preparing the Group 
Financial Statements. All financial information published by 
the Group is subject to approval by the Committee.
Following the review of the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control, the Board, with advice from the Committee, 
concluded that the systems are in accordance with the 
Turnbull guidance. 
Improvements in both internal control and risk management 
will continue to be implemented and embedded across 
the Group and this area will remain a key point of focus for 
the Audit Committee. Further details of risk management 
frameworks and specific material risks and uncertainties 
facing the business can be found on pages 26 to 27
External audit
The Board appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”) 
as Auditor of the Group with effect from 3 October 2012 
and following their re-election at the 2013 AGM, they 
continued to act as external Auditors throughout the year. 
PwC were appointed without any tendering process on 
the grounds that in the circumstances of the accounting 
irregularities that came to light in September 2012 there 
was insufficient time to undertake such a process and that 
the experience and known capabilities of PwC merited 
their prompt appointment. The Committee has noted the 
recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at 
least every 10 years and will carry out a review every 5 years 
with a view as to whether the external audit should go out to 
tender before the 10 year period. 
The Audit Committee has kept under review:
•  The qualification, expertise and resources of the 
external Auditors, the effectiveness of the audit 
process including the external Auditor’s quality control 
procedures
•  The independence and objectivity of the external 
Auditor taking into account relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements and the relationship with 
the audit firm as a whole, including the provision of  
non-audit services
•  Compliance with the Group’s policy on audit fees and 
fees for other non-audit services, which follows the 
recommendation from the EU to cap non-audit service 
fees at 70% of the audit fee.
In order to assess the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the Committee:
•  Reviewed the Audit plan and shared any feedback on 
the process with the external Auditor; 
•  Challenged the Auditor’s approach in light of the 
accounting irregularities in the year ended 31 March 
2013;
•  Evaluated the timely identification and Resolution of 
areas of accounting judgement by management of the 
Auditor; 
•  Reviewed the quality and timeliness of papers and 
reports analysing those judgements; and
•  Held separate meetings with the external Auditor in the 
absence of management to discuss further issues.
42 42 43
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
PwC continue to comply with the partner rotation 
requirement set out in the Ethical Standards for auditors. 
There are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of 
external Auditors. 
We believe that the relationship is working well and we have 
recommended to the Board that PwC be re-appointed. 
There were minimal fees paid for non-audit services to the 
Auditors PwC during the year.
The Group’s ‘whistleblowing’ policy
The Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements by 
which employees may raise concerns regarding potential 
impropriety in confidence and ensured these concerns were 
investigated appropriately.
Overview
As a result of its work during the year the Audit Committee 
has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its 
Terms of Reference and has ensured the independence 
and objectivity of the external Auditor. It also provides 
comfort that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the 
work of the Audit Committee. 
Robin Taylor
Chairman, Audit Committee
9 June 2014 
43 44 45
Annual Statement
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration Committee’s (“the Committee”) report (“the 
Report”) for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Following recent changes in the law that came into force 
on 1 October 2013 and subsequent guidance covering  
the reporting of Directors’ remuneration, this report is divided 
into the following two sections which we believe provides 
Shareholders with a comprehensive, clear and informative 
report:
• Directors’ Remuneration Policy
•  Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (“the Policy”)  
contains details of the remuneration policy that we  
propose will apply from the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
on 25 September 2014 (“the AGM”). The Policy will be  
subject to a binding vote at the AGM. If approved by 
Shareholders, the Policy will take effect from the date  
of the AGM and will apply until a subsequent remuneration 
policy is approved.
The Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report sets out details 
of how our existing Director’s Remuneration Policy was 
implemented in the year ended 31 March 2014 and how 
we intend for the Policy to be implemented in the year 
ended 31 March 2015. It details the base salary, benefits 
and incentives awarded to Executive Directors and the fees 
paid to Non-Executive Directors during the year ended  
31 March 2014. This will be subject to an advisory vote at 
the AGM. 
Members of the Committee
The Committee comprises:
• David Garman (Chairman)
• Robin Taylor (since 1 November 2013)
•  Brian Sellwood was a member of the Committee up to 
10 June 2014 when he left office
•  David Warnock was a member of the Committee up to 
30 October 2013 when he left office
About the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee members are appointed by 
the Board. The UK Corporate Governance Code provides 
that all members of the Committee should be independent 
Non-Executive Directors. It is considered that each 
member of the Committee is independent and that each 
has the relevant skills and experience to fulfil their role.  
For further details see the Directors’ biographies on  
pages 32 and 33.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Committee 
for determining the framework and broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors and their senior 
direct reports as designated and makes recommendations 
thereon to the Board within agreed terms of reference.  
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
The structure and levels of remuneration of the Group’s 
Executive Directors are critically important to the Group 
successfully achieving its strategic aims. The Committee sets 
the strategy, structure and levels of Directors’ remuneration 
and reviews the remuneration of the other members of the 
senior management team. We do this in the context of  
the Group’s strategy and goals. In doing so, we aim to align 
the financial interests of the Executive Directors with those 
of our Shareholders.
In addition to setting the remuneration structure and levels for 
the new Directors detailed below, the Committee reviewed 
the remuneration packages for all Executive Directors to 
assess whether they were appropriate in helping the Group 
achieve its objectives. 
The Committee has recognised the continued need to 
incentivise and retain key staff. As a result, awards were 
granted to some members of senior management in June 
and December 2013 under the Group’s Performance 
Share Plan 2004 (“the PSP”) (in addition to the award to  
Steve Vaughan, the new Chief Executive, on his appointment).
The Committee also carries out an annual review of the 
Group’s overall remuneration policy. It has also reviewed the 
revised remuneration reporting regulations and prepared 
this Report.
Remuneration  
Committee Report 44 45
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Changes to the Board
On 12 March 2014 Steve Vaughan was appointed as  
Chief Executive. Details of his remuneration package are set 
out on page 51. Following Steve Vaughan’s appointment, 
from 1 April 2014 Peter Bertram reverted back to his previous 
role as Non-Executive Chairman. Details of his remuneration 
package are set out on page 52. On 1 November 2013 
Robin Taylor was appointed as Non-Executive Director.  
The Committee set his remuneration package in line with 
both Group policy and David Warnock, his predecessor.
2014 Remuneration
The year ended 31 March 2014 was a challenging one  
for the Group and the Committee has ensured that 
Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements reflect this.  
During the year the Group’s Executive Directors received 
no bonuses or salary increases, and the only awards made 
to Executive Directors under the PSP were those made to 
Steve Vaughan, our new Chief Executive, on appointment. 
Furthermore there have been no significant changes made 
to the existing Directors’ Remuneration Policy during the 
year ended 31 March 2014.
2015 Remuneration
For the year ending 31 March 2015 the Committee 
determined it appropriate to retain the same incentive 
structures and levels which applied in the prior year . However , 
as a result of the 2004 Performance Share Plan reaching the 
end of its 10 year life, Shareholder approval is being sought 
for a replacement plan which has been updated for best 
practice at the forthcoming AGM. The Committee feels that 
the structure is appropriate in helping the Group meet its 
objectives as set out on pages 8 and 9. 
Compliance with regulations 
This Report has been prepared by the Committee and 
approved by the Board for the year ended 31 March 
2014 in accordance with the requirements of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 
2008 (the “Accounting Regulations”) under the Companies 
Act 2006, as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2012) and the 
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. 
The Act requires the Auditor to report to the Company’s 
members on certain parts of the Report and to state whether 
in their opinion those parts of the Report have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. 
The Report therefore highlights those parts which have 
been audited.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee continues to take an active interest in 
Shareholder views on our executive remuneration policy 
and is mindful of the concerns of Shareholders and other 
stakeholders. Major Shareholders and representative bodies 
were consulted on the proposed 2014 Performance Share 
Plan. Furthermore, this is the first Report written under the 
new rules and the Committee welcomes any comments 
that Shareholders may have to help improve the Report in 
future years.
In the meantime, I hope that this Report meets with 
Shareholder approval at the AGM where the Policy will 
be put to a binding Shareholder vote and the Directors’ 
Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory 
Shareholder vote.
In conclusion, we firmly believe that our Policy continues to 
be uncomplicated, performance-related and aligned with the 
strategic goal of the Group in delivering Shareholder value. 
David Garman
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  46 47
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Subject to Shareholder approval, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy set out in this Report will take effect 
and become binding on 25 September 2014. 
Remuneration Policy Overview
The Policy is designed to ensure that Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration is competitive and linked to both 
individual performance and business performance.  
In addition, the Group’s policy is to provide appropriate 
incentives to encourage enhanced performance and to 
reward contributions to the success of the Group in a fair 
and responsible manner. This will ensure the Group is able 
to attract, engage, motivate and retain Executive Directors of 
the quality required to manage the Group’s future success.
In order to achieve this, remuneration packages comprise 
a fixed element made up of basic salary, benefits and 
pensions and a variable “at risk” element which reflects Group 
performance and individual achievement made up of an annual 
performance related bonus and participation in the PSP . The 
performance-related elements form a significant proportion of 
the total Executive Directors’ remuneration packages.
Following a review in the year, the Committee is satisfied 
that the Policy, which is designed to ensure that Executive 
Directors’ total remuneration is competitive, performance-
linked and provides appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance, remains appropriate. 
Remuneration Future Policy Table 
The table below summarises the Policy, the components 
of which are unchanged from the prior year. Subject to 
Shareholder approval, it will apply to any remuneration and 
loss of office payments made to Directors from the AGM 
and Annual Bonus plans implemented and PSP awards 
made from that date onwards: 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
 Basic Salary
–  Supports the recruitment, retention 
and motivation of Executive 
Directors of the calibre required to 
operate and develop the Group’ s 
business and to develop and 
deliver the Group’ s strategy.
–  Provides an appropriate level 
of basic fixed income avoiding 
excessive risk taking arising from 
over reliance on variable income.
–  Determined by taking 
account of rates of salary 
for similar roles in selected 
groups of comparable 
companies.
–  Normally reviewed annually, 
with changes effected from 
1 April.
–  Normally paid in cash on 
a monthly basis which is 
pensionable.
–  No maximum salary or 
salary increase applies.
–  Annual increases normally 
linked to those of the wider 
workforce.
–  If there is a significant 
increase in responsibility, 
change in scope of a role, 
or size of the business 
then the basic salary may 
increase by more than 
this level. 
–  Not performance related.
 Benefits
–  To provide market-competitive 
non-cash benefits.
–  Provide insured benefits to 
support the individual and their 
family during periods of ill health, 
accidents or death. 
–  Provide car allowances to 
facilitate effective travel to enable 
appropriate performance of 
duties.
–  Executive Directors receive 
benefits.
–  Benefits provided through 
third party providers.
–  Benefits consist primarily 
of car allowance, car fuel 
benefits, death in service 
assurance, income protection 
in the event of long-term ill 
health, and private medical 
insurance.
–  Benefits may vary from 
role to role and are set at a 
level which the Committee 
considers provide a 
sufficient level of benefit 
based on the role and 
individual circumstances.
–  Not performance related.
 Pension
–  Provides competitive retirement 
benefits in order to help attract and 
retain Executive Directors of the 
calibre required to help deliver the 
Group’ s strategy.
–  To provide Executive Directors 
with an opportunity to build up 
income after retirement.
–  Defined contribution or salary 
supplement.
–  Up to 20% of basic salary. –  Not performance related. 46 47
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
(1)  Selection of performance measures – Annual Bonus - The performance measures under 
the bonus scheme are selected annually to reflect KPIs and strategic priorities for the 
Group and operating businesses.
(2)  PSP - The Committee operates the PSP in accordance with the plan rules and the Listing 
Rules and the Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a 
number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
(3)  Selection of performance measures – PSP - The Committee’s policy is to set performance 
targets aligned to the delivery of Shareholder return which are both stretching and 
achievable and the maximum outcomes are only available for outstanding performance. 
(4)  All employee share plans - Executive Directors may also participate in any all-employee 
share plan operated by the Company, up to HMRC prevailing limits.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
 Annual Bonus
–  Provides focus on delivering/
exceeding annual budget.
–  Incentivises and rewards strong 
performance and helps retain key 
executives and is aligned to the 
Group’s risk profile. 
–  Performance targets are 
set and approved by the 
Committee in the first quarter 
of the financial year.
–  The Committee assess actual 
performance compared to the 
performance targets following 
completion of the financial year.
–  Normally payable in cash.
–  Non-pensionable.
–  Maximum: 100% of salary. –  Performance period: 
1 year.
–  Majority based on profit 
related targets.
–  Minority based on 
strategic and personal 
objectives.
–  Clawback pr ovisions 
apply.
 Performance Share Plan
–  Aligned to main strategic 
objectives of delivering long term 
value creation for Shareholders.
–  Align Executive Directors’ 
interests with those of 
Shareholders.
–  Rewards and helps retain key 
executives and is aligned to the 
Group’s risk profile.
–  PSP awards with a three year 
vesting period.
–  Annual grant of nil cost 
options or conditional share 
awards to Executive Directors 
and senior management.
–  Awards are also normally 
made on appointment of a 
new Executive Director.
Annual Grant Policy to apply 
under normal circumstances:
–  Up to 100% of salary p.a.
Maximum Annual Limit for 
exceptional performance:
–  150% of salary p.a.
Exceptional Limit – where 
required to ensure 
appointment of an external 
candidate for example:
–  200% of salary p.a.
–  Performance period: 
normally 3 years.
–  Performance conditions 
linked to relative 
Shareholder return and/or 
financial related metrics.
–  Clawback pr ovisions 
apply.
  Share Ownership Guidelines
–  To provide alignment of interests 
between Executive Directors and 
Shareholders.
–  Executive Directors are 
expected to meet a 
meaningful shareholding 
guideline through the 
retention of vested share 
awards under the PSP and/or 
shares purchased.
–  Aim to hold a shareholding 
equal to 100% of base 
salary.
–  Not performance related.
  Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
–  Reflects time commitment of 
each role.
–  Reflects fees paid by similarly 
sized companies.
–  Cash fee normally paid 
monthly.
–  Additional fees may be 
payable for chairing a 
Committee.
–  Three month notice periods.
–  No maximum fee or fee 
increase applies.
–  Annual increases normally 
linked to those of the wider 
workforce.
–  If there is a significant 
increase in responsibility, 
change in scope of a role, 
or size of the business 
then the fee may increase 
by more than this level. 
–  Not performance related. 48 49
Remuneration Committee Report
Illustration of our remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2015
The bar charts below set out an illustration of the potential total remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2015 for each 
Executive Director based on their current roles at different levels of performance under the Policy, as a percentage of the 
total remuneration opportunity and as a total value. Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director:
Scenario Description
Fixed –  Salary, benefits and pension
–  No annual bonus
On target –  Salary, benefits and pension
–  Annual bonus of 50% of salary
–  PSP award (50% of normal grant)
Maximum –  Salary, benefits and pension
–  Annual bonus of 100% of salary
–  PSP award (100% of normal grant)
Steve Vaughan – Chief Executive
Jane Aikman – Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer
Value of package (£)
Fixed
On target
Maximum
 0 0.2m 0.4m 0.6m 0.8m 1m 1.2m 1.4m
Value of package (£)
Fixed
On target
Maximum
 0 0.2m 0.4m 0.6m 0.8m 1m 1.2m 1.4m
Fixed %
On target %
Maximum % 
Salary 84 45 31
Pension 13 7 5
Benefits 3 2 2
Bonus - 23 31
LTIPs - 23 31
Total% 100 100 100
Fixed %
On target %
Maximum % 
Salary 80 44 31
Pension 16 9 5
Benefits 4 3 2
Bonus - 22 31
LTIPs - 22 31
Total% 100 100 100
£414,500
£408,000
£764,500
£733,000
£1,114,500
£1,058,000
(1)   The fixed performance scenario comprises the fixed elements of remuneration only, including salary, pension and estimated benefits as per FY2014.
(2)  The on target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity (100% of salary only), and the on target level of PSP vesting is assumed to be 50% of 
the face value assuming a normal grant level (100% of salary only). These values are included in addition to the components/values of fixed remuneration.
(3)  Maximum performance assumes a full bonus pay out (100% of salary only) and the full face value of the PSP (100% of salary only) vesting in addition to the fixed 
components of remuneration.
(4) No share price growth has been factored into the calculations. 48 49
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Approach to recruitment and promotions 
The Committee’s objective is to attract candidates  
of the appropriate calibre at competitive salaries.  
When determining the remuneration of a newly-appointed 
Executive Director, the Committee will apply the Policy. 
Therefore base salary levels would be set at an appropriate 
level to reflect the individual’s experience and market rate 
and incentive pay would be limited to the maximum levels 
stated in the Remuneration Future Policy Table. 
Where the Executive Director forfeits awards, incentives  
or pay from a previous employer, the Committee  
may consider offering awards in compensation for the 
value foregone. This will be made either as an award  
under an existing PSP or a bespoke award under the  
Listing Rules exemption available for this purpose.  
It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these  
awards would be consistent with awards forfeited  
in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance 
conditions.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable 
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed to pay out according to its original terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or 
incidental expenses as appropriate.
In all instances of Executive Director recruitment, the 
Committee will apply the following principles:
•  Offer a package which is sufficiently competitive to 
attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors to help 
deliver the long-term strategic goals of the Group;
•  Take into account advice received from independent 
sources on the rates of salary and other benefits 
for similar roles in a selected group of comparable 
companies; and
•  Ensure that the performance-related element of 
remuneration aligns the Executives’ interests with those 
of Shareholders.
In accordance with the Remuneration Future Policy Table on 
page 46, new Non-Executive Directors will be paid a base 
fee plus fees for chairing certain Committees.
Executive Directors’ Non-Executive 
Appointments 
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors may, 
by agreement with the Board, serve as Non-Executives of 
one other company and retain any fees payable for their 
services.
Service Contracts
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, including 
arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered 
by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and 
motivate Executive Directors of the quality required to 
manage the Company. The Committee considers that a 
rolling contract with a 12 month notice period is normally 
appropriate. 
Material Provisions
The details of Directors’ service contracts on 31 March 2014 are set out below:
Contract start 
date
Notice period by 
Company
Notice period  
by Director
Unexpired term  
of contract
Executive Directors
(1)
Steve Vaughan March 2014 12 months 12 months N/A
Jane Aikman August 2012 12 months 6 months N/A
Non-Executive Directors
(2)
Peter Bertram April 2014
(3)
 3 months 3 months 12 months
Brian Sellwood May 2012 3 months 3 months 14 months
David Garman December 2011 3 months 3 months 9 months
Robin Taylor November 2013 3 months 3 months 32 months
There is no default retirement age. 
(1)  Executive Directors are employed on a continuous employment basis. Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a fixed term of 3 years.
(2)  Peter Bertram (since 1 April 2014 in his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman), Brian Sellwood, David Garman and Robin Taylor have letters of appointment terminable by 
either party on three months’ notice. Copies of their letters of appointment are available on request. Details of payments made to those Directors who left office during the 
year are also set out in the Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report.
(3)  Peter Bertram reverted to his previous role as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 April 2014. His appointment is for a period of 12 months. Prior to this, Peter’s notice period 
was 6 months under his contract as Executive Chairman. 50 51
Remuneration Committee Report
Exit Payments Policy
Post-termination restrictions exist for a period of 6 months 
after termination. The Group may pay salary and the value of 
contractual benefits in lieu of any unexpired period of notice 
and would seek to apply the principles of mitigation following 
termination and the right to make termination payments on 
a monthly basis.
An annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period  
of the financial year served although it will be pro-rated for  
time and paid at the normal payout date. Any share-based 
entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the 
Company’s share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances (death, disability, injury, ill-health, the 
participant’s employing company ceasing to be under 
the control of the Company or any other reason that the 
Committee determines appropriate),  “good leaver” status 
may be applied.  For good leavers, awards will normally vest 
at the normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance conditions at that time and reduced 
pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period 
actually served. However, the Remuneration Committee has 
the discretion to determine that awards vest at cessation of 
employment and/or not to pro-rate awards.
In addition to the above, the Committee may agree that the 
Company will meet legal/other expenses as appropriate.
Consideration of Shareholder views
The Committee continues to take an active interest in 
Shareholder views on our remuneration policy and is mindful 
of the concerns of Shareholders and other stakeholders.  
The Committee takes into account the views of Shareholders 
when formulating the Policy. 
Major Shareholders and representative bodies were 
consulted in respect of the proposed 2014 Performance 
Share Plan which is being introduced as a result of the 2004 
PSP reaching the end of its 10 year life.
Consideration of pay and conditions for 
the wider Group.
The Committee has not specifically canvassed the views of 
the Company’s employees on the Policy, although the views 
of employees on matters that include pay and conditions 
generally are canvassed through management feedback. 
When setting the policy for Directors’ remuneration, 
the Committee has regard to the pay and employment 
considerations elsewhere within the Group. This includes 
consideration of:
• Wider economic conditions; 
• Salary increases for the wider workforce;
• Overall spend on Annual Bonus;
•  Participation levels in the Annual Bonus and any PSPs;
• Group-wide pay and benefit offerings; and
•  Any other relevant factors as determined by  
the Committee. 50 51
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 March 2015
Executive Directors
Base salary & benefits
The basic salaries for the Executive Directors from 1 April 2014 are as follows:
Executive Director From 1 April 2014 
£’000s
From 1 April 2013* 
£’000s
% Increase
Steve Vaughan 350 350 -
Jane Aikman 325 325 -
* Or date of appointment where later (Steve Vaughan was appointed as Chief Executive on 12 March 2014)
Executive Directors may continue to receive certain benefits such as a company car (or equivalent allowance), life assurance 
and private medical insurance.
Pensions
The Executive Directors will be entitled to receive personal 
pension contributions up to 20% of basic salary, or salary 
in lieu. Steve Vaughan will receive a 15% payment in lieu of 
pension contributions while Jane Aikman will receive 20% 
company pension contributions.
Annual bonus
For 2014/15, the maximum bonus potential will continue to 
be set at 100% of salary with 75% to be based on profit 
related targets and 25% to be based on net debt related 
targets. Targets have not been disclosed as they are 
deemed to be commercially sensitive although the targets, 
and the performance against the targets, will be disclosed 
next year.
Long term incentives
As a result of the current PSP (2004 Performance  
Share Plan) reaching the end of its 10 year life, Shareholder 
consent for a new plan, based on the existing arrangements 
but updated in a number of areas to comply with best 
practice (including the reduction of award limits and 
introduction of claw-back) will be sought at the 2014 AGM. 
Reflecting market practice for a FTSE SmallCap company, 
the individual annual award limits under the current 2004 
PSP will, subject to Shareholder approval, be reduced in the 
2014 PSP from 175% of salary to 150% of salary. Further, 
the exceptional limit of 400% of salary in the current PSP will 
be reduced to 200% of salary. That said, actual award levels 
to Executive Directors are expected to be in the region of 
100% of base salary. 
Consistent with past awards under the 2004 PSP, the 
performance awards to be granted in 2014 to Executive 
Directors will be based on relative TSR measured against 
the constituents of the FTSE All-Share (excluding FTSE 
100 companies and investment trusts) as at the date of 
grant. 25% of an award will vest if the Company’s TSR is 
at a median of the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator 
group, with full vesting of an award for upper quartile 
performance. A sliding scale operates between these 
points. In addition, an award will only vest if the Directors 
are satisfied that the underlying financial performance of 
the Company has been satisfactory over the performance 
period. The Committee will review performance metrics 
and targets for future awards to ensure they remain 
appropriately linked to the business strategy. As such,  
the Committee may consider the introduction of a  
financial-based target (e.g. Earnings Per Share) for part  
of future awards to the extent that robust three year  
targets can be set.
Awards will be subject to clawback provisions.
Further details of the 2014 PSP can be found in the Notice 
of AGM.
  52 53
Non-Executive Directors
Current fee levels are as follows:
Non-Executive Director Position 2015
£’000s
2014
£’000s
Peter Bertram Chairman of the Board 125 350*
Brian Sellwood
(1)
Non-Executive Director 42 42
David Garman Chair of the Remuneration Committee 45 45
Robin Taylor Chair of the Audit Committee 42 18**
* Peter Bertram received remuneration as an Executive Chairman for 2014.
** Robin Taylor was only appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 November 2013. 
From 1 April 2014, the Non-Executive Directors’ fees were not increased.
Directors’ Remuneration – single figure of total remuneration 
The table below sets out a single figure of remuneration for each of the Directors in respect of the years ended 31 March 
2013 and 2014.
£’000s Salary/fees Annual Bonus Benefits Pension Share awards Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Executive Directors
Steve Vaughan
(2)
19 - - - 1 - 3 - - - 23 -
Peter Bertram
(3)
350 235 - - 28 12 - - - - 378 247
Jane Aikman
(4)
325 212 - - 22 14 65 43 - - 412 269
David Courtley
(5)
- 245 - - - 10 - - - - - 255
Steve Clutton
(6)
- 45 - - - 4 - 9 - - - 58
Non-Executive Directors
Brian Sellwood
(1)
42 42 - - - - - - - - 42 42
David Garman 45 43 - - - - - - - - 45 43
David Warnock
(7)
22 37 - - - - - - - - 22 37
Robin Taylor
(8)
18 - - - - - - - - - 18 -
Annual Bonus award for 2013/14
Of the Executive Directors employed in the year under review, only Jane Aikman participated in the Annual Bonus scheme. 
Steve Vaughan, who was appointed on 12 March 2014, did not participate in the 2014 Annual Bonus scheme, but will do 
so going forward.
Bonus targets were determined by reference to a stretching performance target set in relation to EBITDA. No bonus was 
paid to Jane Aikman for the year ended 31 March 2014 due to the performance target not being met.
(1) Brian Sellwood left office on 10 June 2014.
(2) Steve Vaughan was appointed as Chief Executive on 12 March 2014.
(3) Peter Bertram reverted to his role as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 April 2014.
(4) Jane Aikman was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 6 August 2012 and took on the additional role of Chief Operating Officer from 4 October 2012.
(5) David Courtley stepped down from the Board as Chief Executive on 4 October 2012.
(6) Steve Clutton stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 25 May 2012.
(7) David Warnock stepped down from the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 30 October 2013.
(8) Robin Taylor was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 November 2013.
Remuneration Committee Report 52 53
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
PSP awards with a performance period ending in the year ended 31 March 2014
The PSP awards granted on 7 June 2010 were based on relative TSR performance to 7 June 2013 as follows:
Metric Performance condition Threshold 
target
Stretch 
target
Actual % Vesting
Relative TSR Relative TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE All-Share (excluding 
FTSE 100 companies and investment trusts) 
as at the date of grant. 25% of an award will 
vest if the Company’s TSR is at a median of 
the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator 
group, with full vesting of an award for upper 
quartile performance. A sliding scale operates 
between these points. 
Median Upper quartile Below median 0%
Based on the vesting percentage above, details of the shares under award and the value at vesting is as follows:
Director Number of shares at grant Number of shares vested Number of shares lapsed Value at vesting
Peter Bertram 73,000 - (73,000) £nil
PSP awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2014
Steve Vaughan was appointed Chief Executive on 12 March 2014. As part of his recruitment package, he received a PSP 
award over 500,000 shares on 18 March 2014.
Director Scheme Date of 
grant
Basis of 
award
Maximum 
shares 
under 
award
Share 
price at 
grant
Vesting  
period
Performance condition
Steve 
Vaughan
2004 PSP 18/03/14 150% of 
salary
500,000 125.0p 18/03/14 
to 
18/03/17
Relative TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE All-Share 
(excluding FTSE 100 companies 
and investment trusts) as at the 
date of grant. 25% of an award 
will vest if the Company’s TSR is 
at a median of the ranking of the 
TSRs of the comparator group, with 
full vesting of an award for upper 
quartile performance. A sliding scale 
operates between these points. 
Payments to former Directors and compensation for loss of office 
There were no payments to past Directors who were not in position as a Director at the time a relevant payment was 
accrued. There were also no loss of office payments made within the year. 54 55
TSR performance graph
The graph below shows the Group’s TSR performance compared to the FTSE Small Cap and the FTSE All Share indices. 
The graph covers the period from 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2014 and the values show the share price growth plus 
reinvested dividends from a hypothetical £100 holding of Ordinary Shares in the Group and in the indices at the start of the 
period. The FTSE Small Cap Index has been selected as a comparator because the Group believes it is the most meaningful 
market index for comparison.
Total Shareholder return
Historic Chief Executive Remuneration
The table below summarises the total pay for each of the persons who have performed the role of Chief Executive or 
Executive Chairman for the previous five financial years. The single figure of total remuneration has been calculated using 
the same methodology as that used in the single figure of total remuneration table on page 52.
2010 
£’000
2011 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Nick Robinson
(1)
358 359 132 - -
David Courtley
(2)
- - 311 255 -
Peter Bertram
(3)
- - - 247 378
Steve Vaughan
(4)
- - - - 23
None of the persons listed in the table above have received an Annual Bonus or PSP payout in the period covered.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to Group employees
The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration (excluding PSPs and pensions) of the person(s) performing the 
role of Chief Executive and that of our employees as a whole, excluding increases based on promotion/change of role.
Change in basic salary 
2013 to 2014
Change in benefits 
2013 to 2014
Change in bonus 
2013 to 2014
Chief Executive
(5)
0% 0% 0%
Group employees 0% 0% 0%
 
(1)  Nick Robinson became Chief Executive on 21 November 2008, having been Non-Executive Deputy Chairman since 1 January 2008. He resigned on 28 July 2011.
(2) David Courtley became Chief Executive on 1 August 2011. He resigned on 4 October 2012.
(3)  Peter Bertram became Executive Chairman on 4 October 2012 from his previous role as Non-Executive Chairman. The figures included in the above table only include the 
remuneration received from this date. From 1 April 2014 he reverted back to his role as Non-Executive Chairman.
(4) Steve Vaughan became Chief Executive on 12 March 2014.
(5) See the Historic Chief Executive Remuneration table above for details of who has performed the role of Chief Executive.
Remuneration Committee Report 54 55
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below sets out the total remuneration for Group employees as compared to other significant distributions  
and payments.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Total remuneration of Group employees 96.6 90.3
Dividends paid 4.2 8.2
Directors’ Interests
Directors had the following beneficial and family interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2014. 
There have been no changes between the end of the financial year and the date of this report other than as indicated.
% of salary 
under share 
ownership 
guideline 
(100% of 
salary)
Legally Owned PSP awards SIP Total
2014 2013* Unvested Vested Restricted 2014
Steve Vaughan - - 500,000 - - 500,000 No
Jane Aikman - - 500,000 - - 500,000 No
Peter Bertram 40,000 40,000 400,000
(1)
- - 440,000 N/A
Brian Sellwood 4,932 4,932 - - - 4,932 N/A
David Garman 30,000 30,000 - - - 30,000 N/A
Robin Taylor - - - - - - N/A
David Warnock
(2)
100,000 100,000 - - - 100,000 N/A
Within a reasonable time of their appointment the Group expects Executive Directors to purchase and maintain such 
number of shares in the Group as is broadly equivalent to the total value of their base salary.
Dilution 
At the end of the financial year the total number of awards granted, less lapsed, over new issue shares under the share 
schemes since listing was 4.7% of the issued share capital.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year
Subject to Shareholder approval, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out in this Report will take effect and become 
binding on 25 September 2014. 
(1) Peter Bertram relinquished these awards when he reverted to his role as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 April 2014.
(2) David Warnock stepped down from the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 30 October 2013.
* or date of appointment if later 56 57
Share Awards 
The interests of the Directors in awards over ordinary shares under the PSP were as follows. 
Grant date End of 
performance 
condition 
period and 
earliest 
exercise date
Expiry date Base average 
share 
price TSR 
Performance 
condition (p) 
Awards held 
at 31 March 
2013
Granted 
during year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Awards 
held at 
31 March 
2014
Executive Directors
Peter Bertram
07/06/10 07/06/13 06/06/20 258.1 73,000 - (73,000)
(1)
-
08/12/12 08/12/15 07/12/22 161.7 400,000
(2)
- - 400,000
473,000 - (73,000) 400,000
Steve Vaughan
18/03/14 18/03/17 17/03/24 119.8 - 500,000 - 500,000
- 500,000 - 500,000
Jane Aikman
14/08/12
(3)
14/08/15 13/08/22 148.4 466,321 - - 466,321
08/12/12 08/12/15 07/12/22 161.7 33,679 - - 33,679
500,000 - - 500,000
The exercise price on all awards is nil p.
During the year to 31 March 2014, the Group’s share price varied between 110.25p and 172.75p and ended the year at 
123.0p. The share price on 3 June 2013 was 163.0p, on 4 December 2013 it was 128.5p and on 18 March 2014 it was 
125.0p.
Executive Directors’ external appointments
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors may, by agreement with the Board, serve as Non-Executives of other 
companies and retain any fees payable for their services.
The following Executive Directors served as Non-Executive Directors elsewhere and received fees or other benefits for the 
period covered by this Report as follows: 
Company Fees 
£’000s
Peter Bertram Ten Alps plc 50
Microgen plc 50
Steve Vaughan Progressive Equity Research Limited nil
Jane Aikman Halma plc 52
(1)  The performance targets in respect of the 2010 PSP awards were not met and as a result, the awards lapsed.
(2)  Peter Bertram was appointed Executive Chairman with effect from 4 October 2012. As part of his Executive Chairman package, he received a PSP award over 400,000 
shares on 8 December 2012. On 1 April 2014 he reverted back to his role as Non-Executive Chairman and relinquished the 2012 award in full.
(3)  Performance targets attached to awards are determined by relative TSR performance targets normally measured over a three year period from grant, measured against 
FTSE All Share companies (excluding FTSE 100 companies and investment trusts) struck at the date of grant. 25% of an award vests if the Group’s TSR is at a median of 
the ranking of the TSRs of the comparator group, with full vesting of an award for upper quartile performance. Following consultation with the Group’s major investors, it 
was agreed that the TSR performance period for Jane Aikman’s August 2012 PSP award should start from 3 September 2012 (the date of the Group’s announcement in 
respect of accounting irregularities) rather than from the date of grant.
Remuneration Committee Report 56 57
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Replacement of the Performance Share Plan 2004 and renewal of the Share Incentive 
Plan 2004
Due to the fact that the Group’s Performance Share Plan and Share Incentive Plans 2004 are both coming to an end 
during 2014 Resolutions 16 and 17 have been included in the Notice of AGM. The Resolutions seek Shareholders 
approval for a replacement Performance Share Plan to be known as Phoenix IT Group PLC 2014 Performance Share Plan  
(“2014 PSP”) and renewal of the existing Share Incentive Plan to become the Phoenix IT Group PLC Share Incentive Plan 
(“2014 SIP”). The Committee believes that a new Performance Share Plan and an updated Share Incentive Plan will result 
in strategically-focused equity-based long-term incentive arrangements that will improve the alignment of interests between 
employees and Shareholders.
The proposed 2014 PSP will be used for the Company’s Executive Directors and senior management. Under the proposed 
2014 PSP the maximum annual grant limit will be 150% with an exceptional limit of 200%. Awards to Executive Directors will 
always be subject to performance conditions with a minimum performance period of 3 years. The proposed rules also now 
include clawback provisions. A summary of the principal terms of the 2014 PSP together with details of the performance 
conditions proposed for the first awards under the 2014 PSP to the Company’s Executive Directors, is set out in the 
Appendix to the Notice of AGM.
Under the proposed 2014 SIP, participating employees in the UK may be awarded free shares in the Company worth up 
to £3,600 per year. Participating employees in the UK may also invest up to £1,800 (pre-tax) in the Company’s shares; 
these are called “Partnership Shares”. Matching shares may also be awarded to a participating employee in the UK  
who purchases Partnership Shares. Up to two matching shares may be awarded per Partnership Share purchased.  
A summary of the principal terms of the 2014 SIP is set out in the Appendix to the Notice of AGM.
External Advisers
The Committee is able to obtain independent professional advice from remuneration and other consultants in order to carry 
out its duties. During the year New Bridge Street (part of Aon plc) served as the independent adviser to the Committee 
in the area of Directors’ remuneration. New Bridge Street advised on remuneration related issues for Executive Directors 
and the wider senior management population. In addition, they monitored the long-term incentive performance targets.  
New Bridge Street are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct which has been considered 
when drafting this Report. Separately, the actuarial division of Aon plc also advised the Group during the year in relation to 
certain pension scheme matters.
Total fees paid during the year to Aon plc for advice provided to the Committee was £24,500. The Committee is satisfied 
that the advice provided by New Bridge Street is independent.
Shareholder Engagement
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
% votes in favour % votes against Number of votes 
withheld
Resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 90.36% 9.64% 1,399
In conclusion, we firmly believe that our remuneration policy continues to be uncomplicated, performance-related and 
aligned with the strategic goal of the Group in delivering Shareholders value. We hope to receive your support at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Audited sections of the Report
The audited sections of this Report are the single figure of total remuneration table on page 52, the compensation for loss 
of office disclosure on page 53, the Directors’ Interests table on page 55 and the Share Awards table on page 56.
This Remuneration Committee Report has been approved by the Committee for release on 10 June 2014 and signed on 
its behalf by:
David Garman
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
9 June 2014 58 59
Phoenix IT Group plc is incorporated as a public limited 
company and is registered in England with the registered 
number 03476115 and registered address at Lakeside 
House, The Lakes, Bedford Road, Northampton, 
Northamptonshire, NN4 7HD, United Kingdom.
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
Financial Statements for the Group and the Company for 
the year ended 31 March 2014. References to Phoenix, the 
“Group”, and the “Company”, “we” or “our” are to Phoenix IT 
Group plc, and its subsidiary companies where appropriate. 
Strategic Report
A review of the development of the Group’s business during 
the year, the principal activities, risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group and future prospects and developments 
are included in the Chairman’s Statement and the Strategic 
Report which should be read in conjunction with this report.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial 
and other risks, a review of which is provided in the 
Strategic Report and note 19 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Dividends
The Directors propose a final dividend of 1.0p per ordinary 
share which, subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, will be paid on 29 September 2014 to Shareholders 
on the register at 22 August 2014. The shares will go ex 
dividend on 20 August 2014. The final dividend together 
with the interim dividend of 1.6p per ordinary share paid in 
January 2014 makes a total dividend per ordinary share of 
2.6p (2013: 7.7p).
Capital Structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with details 
of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year are shown in note 9 to the Company 
Financial Statements. At 31 March 2014 the Company’s 
issued share capital comprised 83,027,284 ordinary shares 
of 1 pence each with no right to fixed income. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at the general meetings of the 
Company.
During the year Phoenix IT Group plc issued 7,547,934 new 
ordinary shares of 1 pence each at a price of 114 pence per 
Placing Share by means of a cash box structure which is 
characterised for Companies Act 2006 purposes as an issue  
for non-cash consideration. This allowed the Company to issue 
the new shares under the exemption from the pre-emption 
requirements of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 
provided by section 565 of the Companies Act 2006. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed 
by the Company’s Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 
39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Directors have authority to allot the Company’s 
ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£251,298 (being approximately one-third of the Company’s 
issued share capital at 31 May 2013) and the power to 
disapply pre-emption rights in respect of the allotment 
of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £37,740 
(representing 5% of the Company’s issued share capital at 
31 May 2013). In addition, the Directors have authority, on 
behalf of the Company, to make market purchases of up to 
3,773,968 ordinary shares of the Company (representing 
5% of the Company’s issued share capital at 31 May 2013). 
These authorities were conferred by approval of separate 
Resolutions at the Company’s last Annual General Meeting 
and are due to expire at the end of the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. Separate Resolutions to renew these 
authorities will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
on 25 September 2014. Details of these Resolutions are 
set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is 
shown on pages 120 and 121 (Resolutions 12, 13 and 14).
Directors
The following Directors served during the year and up 
to the date of this report unless otherwise stated are  
Peter Bertram (Executive Chairman up to 31 March 
2014 and Non-Executive Chairman since 1 April 2014), 
Steve Vaughan (Chief Executive from 12 March 2014), 
Jane Aikman (Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial 
Officer), David Garman (Senior Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee), David Warnock (Non-Executive 
Director (left office on 30 October 2013)), Brian Sellwood 
(Chairman of the Audit Committee up to 31 October 
2013 and Non-Executive Director until 10 June 2014),  
Robin Taylor (Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee since 1 November 2013).
Biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33. 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration, the terms of their Service 
Contracts, their interests in the shares of the Company and 
their share options are given in the Remuneration Committee 
Report of the Directors 58 59
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Report on pages 49 to 56. Details of appointments are set 
out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 38. 
With regard to the appointment and replacement of 
Directors the Company is governed by the Articles of 
Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Companies Act and related legislation. The Articles of 
Association may be amended by special Resolution of the 
Shareholders.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for  
re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years. 
The Directors who are up for re-election are listed in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 39.
The Board, which is responsible for the management of 
the business, may exercise all the powers of the Company 
subject to the provisions of the relevant legislation and the 
Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association read 
together with the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies of 
which are available on request. 
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were  
made during the year and remain in force at the date of this 
report.
Substantial Shareholders
As at 31 March 2014 the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosures and Transparency 
Rules that the following Shareholders had an interest of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Ordinary Shares of 1p each % of issued share capital
Toscafund Investment Management 22,652,704 27.28%
Aberforth Partners LLP 20,710,324 24.94%
Herald Investment Management Ltd 7,053,028 8.49%
Legal & General Investment Management 5,549,304 6.68%
Schroder Investment Management 5,361,890 6.46%
Majedie Asset Management 4,518,333 5.44%
During the period between 31 March 2014 and 9 June 2014 the Company did not receive further notifications under 
Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Employment and Environmental Matters
Details of the Group’s Employment and Environmental 
Policies, including information regarding greenhouse gas 
emissions, are summarised in the Corporate and Social 
Responsibility Report on pages 62 and 63.
Change of Control
The Group’s bank facilities agreement contains provisions 
entitling the counterparty to terminate the contractual 
agreements in the event of a change of control of the Group. 
The Group’s Performance Share Plan contains provisions 
relating to the vesting and exercise (subject to the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee) of rewards in the event of 
a change of control. 
Fixed Assets
In the opinion of the Board there is no material difference 
between the book value and the current open market value 
of the Group’s interest in land and buildings, and as such, 
the Board have not undertaken a valuation of land and 
buildings in the year.
Auditors
An ordinary Resolution to reappoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor of the Company is to 
be submitted to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval 
of this Annual Report confirms that:
•  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; 
and
•  the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting (together with 
explanatory notes) to be held on 25 September 2014 
at Phoenix House, Oakwell Way, Oakwell Park, Birstall,  
West Yorkshire, WF17 9LU has been sent to Shareholders 
with this Annual Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting sets out details of 
the business to be considered at the AGM and contains 
explanatory notes on such business. This has been 
dispatched to Shareholders and can be found on our 
corporate website:  
www.phoenix.co.uk/about/investor-relations. 60 61
The 2014 AGM will include, (Resolutions 13 to 15 as 
special business):
Authority to Allot Shares (Resolution 12)
The Directors are seeking authority under Section 551 of 
the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to allot shares up to 
an aggregate nominal value of £276,757. This amount 
represents approximately one-third of the total ordinary 
share capital as at 31 May 2013. The authority will be in 
substitution for the previous authority taken at last year’s 
Annual General Meeting and will expire on the earlier of 
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 
24 December 2015.
The Directors have no present intention to make any such 
issue of shares, other than in respect of shares that may be 
issued pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes, 
but consider it is desirable for them to be given this authority 
by Shareholders. As at 9 June 2014, the Company held no 
treasury shares.
Disapplication of Pre-Emptive Rights (Resolution 13)
The Directors are seeking authority from Shareholders to 
allot ordinary shares for cash other than on a pre-emptive 
basis (as required by Section 561 of the Act) in limited 
circumstances. The Directors recommend that Section 
561 of the Act should not apply to any allotment of shares 
in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-
emptive offer in favour of Shareholders in accordance 
with normal practice in the UK, nor to an issue for cash of 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £41,513 which 
is equivalent to 5% of the Company’s issued share capital 
as at 9 June 2014. The authority sought will expire on the 
earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 
or 24 December 2015.
As at 9 June 2014 there were a total of 2,591,194 options 
to subscribe for equity shares in the Company outstanding, 
representing 3.1% of the Company’s issued share capital. 
If the full authority sought by this Resolution is used, this 
number of outstanding options would represent 3.0% of the 
Company’s issued share capital.
Authority to make Market Purchases of Shares 
(Resolution 14)
The Directors are seeking authority to make market 
purchases, pursuant to section 701 of the Act, of shares 
up to 4,151,364 ordinary shares which is equivalent to 5% 
of the Company’s issued share capital as at 9 June 2014 
on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may 
determine, provided that the amount paid for each share 
(exclusive of expenses) will not be more than 5% above 
the average middle market quotation for ordinary shares 
as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock 
Exchange plc for the five business days before the date 
on which the contract for the purchase is made and in any 
event not less than 1p per ordinary share. The authority 
sought will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 
next Annual General Meeting or 24 December 2015.
The Directors have no present intention to make any 
such market purchases but consider it is desirable for 
them to be given this opportunity by Shareholders.  
The authority will only be exercised if to do so would result 
in an increase in earnings per share and is in the best 
interests of Shareholders generally.
Notice of General Meetings (Resolution 15)
It is proposed that the Shareholders should approve the 
continued ability of the Company to hold general meetings 
(other than the Annual General Meeting) on 14 clear 
days’ Notice in accordance with Section 307A of the Act.  
This provision increases the notice period for general 
meetings of the Company to 21 days unless the Company 
has approval from its Shareholders by Resolution in general 
meeting to call such meetings on 14 days’ notice.
The Resolution is valid up to the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company and so will need to be renewed 
annually. The shorter notice period would not be used as a 
matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the 
flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is 
thought to be to the advantage of Shareholders as a whole.
Replacement of the Performance Share Plan 2004 and 
renewal of the Share Incentive Plan 2004 (Resolutions 
16 and 17)
Due to the fact that the Group’s Performance Share Plan 
and Share Incentive Plan 2004 are both coming to an end 
during 2014 Resolutions 16 and 17 have been included.
Resolution 16 seeks authority from Shareholders for the 
implementation of a new long-term incentive arrangement 
currently intended to be used for the Company’s Executive 
Directors and senior management. The proposed Phoenix 
IT Group PLC 2014 Performance Share Plan would replace 
the Company’s existing performance share plan, which 
is due to expire in November 2014. A summary of the 
principal terms of the 2014 PSP together with details of the 
performance conditions proposed for the first awards under 
the 2014 PSP to the Company’s Executive Directors, is set 
out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 17 seeks authority from Shareholders to extend 
the life and update the terms of the existing Phoenix IT Group 
Share Incentive Plan timetabled to expire in November 2014 
to become the Phoenix IT Group PLC 2014 Share Incentive 
Plan. A summary of the principal terms of the 2014 SIP is set 
out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to use their vote at this 
year’s AGM either by attending the meeting in person or by 
completing and returning the Form of Proxy in accordance 
with the instructions set out in the form. Completing and 
returning the Form of Proxy will not prevent Shareholders 
from attending and voting at the meeting. 
The Board of the Company recommends that Shareholders 
vote in favour of the Resolutions to be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting and is of the opinion that they are 
in the best interests of security holders as a whole.
By order of the Board
Dirk Toulmin – Van Sittert
Company Secretary
9 June 2014
Report of the Directors 60 61
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial 
Statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and the 
Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). In preparing the Group Financial Statements, the 
Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).  
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, 
the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether the IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
Financial Statements; and
•  prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
and the Remuneration Committee Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for Shareholders to 
assess a company’s performance, business model and 
strategy.
Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are 
listed on pages 32 and 33 confirm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
•  the Group Financial Statements, prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
•  the management report, which is incorporated into 
the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.  
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties of 
the Group is set out on pages 26 and 27.
Statement on Disclosure to Auditors
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 
2006, each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of 
their knowledge:
•  there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and
•  he or she has taken all steps the he or she ought 
to have taken as a Director in order to make him or 
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that 
information.
On behalf of the Board
Peter Bertram
Non-Executive Chairman
9 June 2014
Directors’ Responsibility 
Statement 62 63
Corporate Social  
Responsibility
Policy Statement 
The Board continues to recognise the importance of 
corporate and social responsibility. Sustainable business 
practices and social responsibility therefore continue to be 
key to the Group’s agenda and as such we continuously 
seek to improve our existing policies and practices. 
The Environment 
We recognise that we are part of a wider community of 
employees, Shareholders, customers, suppliers and others. 
The Group therefore continues to work on environmental 
impact and improve energy efficiency in all its operations. 
As part of this process:
•  Facilities and building refurbishment projects look to 
utilise plant and equipment selected from the Energy 
Technology Product List published by the Department 
of Energy and Climate Change. 
•  The Group entered into a new two year electricity supply 
contract during July 2014 on a green 100% renewable 
tariff extending the existing renewable tariff policy.
•  We continue to monitor the Group’ s energy consumption 
using half hourly metering data, especially in our data 
centres and business continuity estate.
•  The Group continues to use the framework of 
ISO14001:2004 Environmental Management System 
to enable us to further develop and implement 
environmental policies and objectives.
•  We selected as our standard fleet vehicles, cars that 
are 21% more fuel efficient with 17.6% lower emissions 
than the vehicles they replace. We are also actively 
investigating telemetric vehicle tracking that will allow 
for the monitoring of and encouragement of ecologically 
responsible driving styles and optimisation of journey 
plans to ensure better fuel efficiency.
•  The Group implements a technology lifecycle 
management programme with a primary objective of 
determining a sustainable and ethical management of 
equipment refurbishments and recycling with disposal 
landfill only available as a last resort.
•  Our equipment recycling programme includes working 
through our suppliers with prison services in creating 
workshops and rehabilitation opportunities for offenders 
thus training them for future employment.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
In compliance with The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Director’ s Reports) Regulations 2013 our Group has included 
this report on material greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions 
using tonnes of CO
2
-equivalent (“tCO
2
e”) to report emission 
data of the Group’s operations in the UK. The methodology 
used to calculate our emissions is in compliance with the 
“environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance” and the 
UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting (June 2013) issued by the Department for 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”). GHG 
emissions have been determined on the basis of measured 
or estimated energy and fuel use, multiplied by the emission 
factors supplied by Ricardo - AEA on behalf of Defra.
GHG emissions have been reported for the Group’s UK 
property portfolio which consists of freehold and leasehold 
properties. There are no properties outside of the UK other 
than 1 small development office in Lahore, Pakistan, for which 
GHG emission data is not available. GHG emission data for 
the Group’s head office at Lakeside House, Northampton, 
have also not been included as the premises is fully serviced 
in a shared building where the Landlord does not yet have 
the ability to separate GHG emissions on a per tenant basis.
We collected data on gas and electricity consumption as 
this is deemed to be where a significant proportion of the 
Group’s emissions arise. We have not included emissions 
for refrigeration gas losses and fuel use from back-up 
generators as they contribute, in aggregate, to less than 5% 
of the overall Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 
The GHG emissions are split in Scope 1 (direct emissions 
from sources which the Group owns or control) and Scope 
2 (indirect emissions relating solely to the generation of 
purchased electricity that is consumed by the owned or 
controlled equipment or operations of the Group).
Scope 1 emissions were calculated from data on stationary 
energy use and Scope 2 emissions were calculated from 
electricity consumption data. 
Highlights
•  The total GHG Scope 1 and 2 emissions during the year 
were 29,372 tCO
2
e. Electricity emissions accounted for 
74.58% of emissions.
•  The total Scope 1 and 2 energy used during the year 
was 51.6 MWh, 95.22% of which was electricity. 62 63
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
•  Gas consumption went down by 13.35% as a result of 
our office consolidation programme. 
•  Total electricity consumption is up by 3.45% driven by 
an increase in rack space sold in our data centres.
The amount of carbon emissions in the year ended  
31 March 2014 is set out in the table below:
2014 
tCO
2
e
2013 
tCO
2
e
Scope1 
Combustion of fuel and opera-
tion of facilities – natural gas
Combustion of fuel cars and 
vans - diesel & petrol
454
7,012
524
N/A
(1)
Scope 2 – Electricity 21,906 21,866
Total Scope 1 and 2 emis-
sions 29,372 22,390
Intensity metric: tCO
2
e per 
£m of turnover 126.06 89.56
We intend to further improve our environmental reporting by 
including in our Annual Report and Accounts for 2014/2015 
Scope 3 emissions sources in so far as possible which will 
include business travel and accommodation.
Our People
We recognise the importance and value of our colleagues 
all of whom are playing a pivotal and vital role in providing 
the best solutions for our customers and ensuring the future 
success of the Group. In order to help our colleagues to 
achieve their goals and to retain the very best talent, we 
remain committed to:
•  ensuring that we provide a healthy and safe environment 
for our employees;
•  conducting regular health and safety reviews and 
training across our portfolio;
•  being an equal opportunities employer;
•  ensuring that we have policies and practices in place 
that treat all employees fairly and equally;
•  continuing to nurture the talents of our employees and 
the benefit they bring to our business; 
•  providing continuous training and coaching; 
•  considering the ability and talents of internal colleagues 
before recruiting externally; and
•  providing continuous and effective communication and 
consultation with all employees and informing them of 
the progress and policies of the Group.
We updated our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and 
implemented a robust Audit Schedule to ensure continuous 
compliance with our legal and regulatory obligations. 
Communications across all our sites were improved and 
have promoted a positive safety culture. Quarterly health and 
safety meetings are taking place across business units during 
which all aspects of health and safety are discussed, accident 
statistics shared, compliance monitored and reporting 
encouraged. Emphasis is also placed on our operational 
employees to ensure that they receive the necessary task/
hazard training in the areas of their work activities.
We have continued to implement our human resource 
policies and procedures to ensure that we recruit, retain 
and develop a diverse and high calibre workforce regardless 
of race, gender, religion, age, culture, sexual orientation, 
disability or background.
A 24 hour a day confidential helpline manned by professional 
counsellors is also available to all our employees to help them 
with information and advice covering a range of topics from 
health, family, money matters to work related issues. 
All managers remain responsible to ensure that the Group’s 
policy on equal opportunities is applied in all areas of 
recruitment including job design, recruitment advertising and 
selection methods. If one of our colleagues should become 
disabled while in our employment, we shall do our best to retain 
them, including consulting with them about their requirements, 
making reasonable and appropriate adjustments, and provide 
alternative and suitable working conditions. We also remain 
committed to provide training, career development and 
promotion for any disabled person we may employ.
During the year the Group employed 1,890 male and 
396 female employees, 6 of which are Executive Directors. 
1 of the Executive Directors is female. 123 males and 
13 females are senior managers.
With the support of our management teams through 
formal and informal meetings, briefing groups, internal 
announcements and the intranet we continue to provide 
effective communication and consultation with all employees. 
This also allows us to take the views of our colleagues into 
account in the making of decisions that are likely to affect 
their interest.
Our employees continue to benefit from the opportunity 
to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company 
through participation in share ownership arrangements 
which include a Performance Share Plan and a Share 
Incentive Plan (both of which will be renewed under 
Resolutions 16 and 17 on page 60 of this Report).
The Phoenix Online Shop which provides employees with 
discounts on products and supplies from over 4,000 high 
street, niche and specialist retailers continues to be available 
to all our employees. 
Human rights
No specific information about human rights issues has been 
included in this report since it is not considered necessary 
for an understanding of the development, performance or 
position of the Group’s business activities. However, we will 
consider how the Group can contribute to the advancement 
of human rights in 2014/15. 
(1)  Detailed information for FY12/13 is unfortunately not available but based on Group operating trends we are of the view that combustion for fuel used by cars and vans will 
be broadly in line with FY13/14 combustion levels. 64 65
Report on the Group Financial Statements
Our opinion 
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements, defined 
below:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Group’s profit 
and cash flows for the year then ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in 
the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Group Financial Statements, which are prepared by 
Phoenix IT Group plc, comprise:
•  the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014;
•  the Consolidated Statement of Income and 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income/
(Expense) for the year then ended;
•  the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then 
ended; and
•  the notes to the Group Financial Statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies 
and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
What an audit of Financial Statements 
involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of:
•  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
•  the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and 
•  the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report and Accounts (‘Annual 
Report’) to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
Group Financial Statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us 
to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole 
to be £0.9 million. This is based on an average three year 
measure of adjusted EBITDA which is profit before interest 
and tax, adjusted for depreciation, share based payment 
charges and non-recurring items including amortisation.  
In our view, this is the most relevant measure of underlying 
performance and excludes the effect of volatility from our 
determination.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£40,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that,  
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Independent  
Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Phoenix IT Group plc 64 65
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group is structured along three business segments 
being Business Continuity, Managed Services and Partner. 
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of a 
number of reporting units, comprising the group’s operating 
businesses, centralised functions and holding companies 
within these segments. 
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be performed 
on the reporting units. Accordingly, of the Group’s reporting 
units, we identified four, being Phoenix IT Continuity 
and Resilience Services, Phoenix IT Managed Services,  
Phoenix IT Services and the non-operating Group corporate 
cost centre, which, in our view required an audit of their 
complete financial information due to the fact they were 
financially significant. These included the three largest 
trading entities which contributed 96% of consolidated 
revenues and 96% of consolidated adjusted EBITDA. This, 
together with additional procedures performed at the Group 
level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on 
the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment assessment
The Group holds material goodwill and other intangible assets 
on the balance sheet. Loss of key contracts during the year 
indicated there was an increased risk of impairment and an 
impairment charge has been recognised in the Partner segment.
We focused on this area because the determination of whether 
or not an impairment charge was necessary involved significant 
management judgement about the future results of the business 
segments, including future cash flow projections using revenue, 
margin and cost projections. The cash flow projections were 
extrapolated using assumptions for discount and long term 
growth rates.
We challenged management’s assumptions used for the 
impairment recognised in the year in the Partner segment 
including specifically the cash flow projections and value in use 
calculation as at 31 March 2014.
In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the 
remaining carrying value of goodwill and other intangible 
assets our audit work involved obtaining evidence regarding its 
recoverable amount and how it compared to the amount at which 
goodwill was recorded.
We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow forecasts, and 
compared them to the underlying assumptions in the latest 
Board approved budgets. We challenged the Directors’ key 
assumptions for discount and long term growth rates. We also 
performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash 
flow forecasts which included future revenue, margin and cost 
projections in management’s budget. 
We considered the appropriateness of the Group’s disclosures 
in respect of impairment assessment, and whether disclosures 
about the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions properly 
reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Provisioning
The Financial Statements include a number of provisions, 
which require a level of judgement, in particular restructuring, 
onerous contracts and dilapidations. We focused on these areas 
due to the subjective nature of the estimates involved and the 
requirement for management to make judgements regarding 
future results and events and the assumptions used to determine 
these provisions.
We evaluated management’s valuation of obligations at the year 
end by testing the supporting calculations and also evaluated 
the likelihood of the occurrence of the future results and events 
reflected in management’s valuation.
We tested management’s assumptions used in determining the 
provisions and assessed the completeness of the provisions 
through an assessment of the estimated costs or recoverability  
of assets. 
We tested the underlying calculations in the provision models and 
agreed amounts to supporting documentation such as contracts 
and third party information.
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors 
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in 
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that 
are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in 
these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against 
available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we 
considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us 
to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required 
particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete 
list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We 
discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. 
Their report on those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements is 
set out on page 41 66 67
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Phoenix IT Group plc
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for non-recurring items
The Group has recognised non-recurring items in the year 
totalling £40.8 million including impairment of goodwill, excess 
inventory write off, exceptional contract charges and Group 
restructuring costs.
We focused on this area because the decision to classify 
items of income and expenditure as non-recurring is inherently 
judgemental and is considered significant in the context of 
the Group’s Financial Statements due to the presentation of 
underlying and non-underlying results on the face of the income 
statement.
We evaluated the nature of the costs classified as non-recurring 
and challenged management’s judgements around the 
classification. We assessed the impact of material contract losses 
during the year which resulted in excess inventory write offs.
We tested the accuracy, validity and categorisation of a selection 
of the non-recurring costs.
We assessed the consistency of the disclosure included in 
the Financial Statements, specifically the non-recurring items’ 
accounting policy and note 7 to the Group Financial Statements 
on non-recurring items, with the findings from our work.
Fraud in revenue recognition
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition because of the pressure management may feel to 
achieve the planned results. We focused on the timing of revenue 
recognition because of the inherent complexities over fulfilment of 
contractual arrangements.
We evaluated the management controls in place over revenue, 
including business performance reviews at an operating company 
and Group level.
For each material revenue stream we tested the timing of revenue 
recognition, taking into account contractual obligations. We 
tested manual journal adjustments made to revenue accounts 
and obtained appropriate evidence for such entries. 
Risk of management override of internal controls
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this. 
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, 
including the arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate 
actions, and interviewed senior management and the Group’s 
internal audit function. We examined the significant accounting 
estimates and judgements relevant to the Financial Statements 
for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud. We tested key reconciliations 
and manual journal entries based on certain risk criteria including 
size and nature. We also incorporated unpredictability into our 
approach by testing some lower value items.
Going Concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the 
Directors’ statement, set out on pages 23 and 24, in 
relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s 
Financial Statements using the going concern basis of 
accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the 
Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and 
that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year 
from the date the Financial Statements were signed. As part 
of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of 
the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Group Financial Statements; and
•  the information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 34 to 37 in the  
Annual Report with respect to internal control  
and risk management systems and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.  66 67
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit.  
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law have not been made. We 
have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement 
has not been prepared by the Parent Company. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part 
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
On page 61 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code 
Provision C.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the 
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. On page 41, as required by C.3.8 of the 
Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues 
that it considered in relation to the Financial Statements, 
and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  the statement given by the Directors is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
•  the section of the Annual Report describing the work 
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited Group Financial Statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
•  is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Responsibilities for the Financial 
Statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, 
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or 
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into 
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company 
Financial Statements of Phoenix IT Group plc for the 
year ended 31 March 2014 and on the information in the 
Remuneration Committee Report that is described as 
having been audited.
Miles Saunders 
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Milton Keynes
9 June 2014 68 69
Consolidated Statement of Income 
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Note
Before  
amortisation  
& non- 
recurring 
items  
£m
2014 
Amortisation 
& non- 
recurring 
items  
(note 7)  
£m
Total  
£m
Before 
amortisation 
& non- 
recurring 
items 
£m
2013 
Amortisation 
& non- 
recurring 
items  
(note 7)  
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue 5 233.4 - 233.4 250.0 - 250.0
Profit/(loss) from operations 
before amortisation of  
intangibles
17.7 (40.6) (22.9) 19.0 (71.8) (52.8)
Amortisation of intangibles 16 - (1.0) (1.0) - (1.6) (1.6)
Profit/(loss) from operations 8 17.7 (41.6) (23.9) 19.0 (73.4) (54.4)
Finance costs 11 (5.1) (0.2) (5.3) (4.1) (0.3) (4.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 12.6 (41.8) (29.2) 14.9 (73.7) (58.8)
Taxation 12 (3.0) 1.9 (1.1) (3.9) 3.1 (0.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year 34 9.6 (39.9) (30.3) 11.0 (70.6) (59.6)
Earnings/(loss) per share  
Basic 13 12.6p (40.0p) 14.5p (79.1p)
Diluted 13 12.1p (40.0p) 13.9p (79.1p) 68 69
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income/(Expense)
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Loss for the year 34 (30.3) (59.6)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Movement in defined benefit pension scheme 10 0.2 (0.8)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently 12 - 0.1
0.2 (0.7)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Gain arising in respect of cash flow hedges 33 0.7 -
Tax on items that may be reclassified subsequently 12 (0.2) -
0.5 -
Other comprehensive income/(expenditure) for the year, net of tax 0.7 (0.7)
Total comprehensive expenditure for the year (29.6) (60.3) 70 71
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
As at 31 March 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 81.2 114.2
Other intangible assets 16 1.2 2.3
Property, plant and equipment 17 56.1 59.0
Retirement benefit asset 10 1.9 -
140.4 175.5
Current assets
Inventories 22 7.3 10.6
Trade and other receivables 23 53.2 62.8
Current tax assets 0.3 2.2
Deferred tax assets 29 0.9 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents 24 28.8 16.0
90.5 92.5
Assets held for sale 20 1.0 1.0
91.5 93.5
Total assets 231.9 269.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 26 (51.6) (47.4)
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 27 (0.7) (1.4)
Other loans - (0.4)
Provisions 28 (3.8) (4.0)
Deferred revenue (41.3) (51.3)
(97.4) (104.5)
Net current liabilities (5.9) (11.0)
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 27 (1.5) (0.7)
Bank loans 25 (82.7) (84.8)
Provisions 28 (6.8) (8.1)
Derivative financial instruments 18 (0.8) (1.4)
Deferred revenue (0.7) (1.8)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (4.0) (5.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 10 (0.1) -
(96.6) (101.9)
Total liabilities (194.0) (206.4)
Net assets 37.9 62.6
Equity
Share capital 30 0.8 0.8
Share premium account 31 37.7 37.6
Merger reserve 32 57.5 57.5
Other reserves 33 2.7 1.5
Retained losses 34 (60.8) (34.8)
Total equity 37.9 62.6
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 9 June 2014. They were 
signed on its behalf by:
Jane Aikman
Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer 70 71
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Note
Share 
capital 
  
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Merger 
reserve  
 
£m
Other  
reserves 
 
£m
Retained 
earnings/
(losses) 
£m
Total  
equity 
 
£m
At 1 April 2012 0.8 37.6 57.5 1.5 33.6 131.0
Loss for the year - - - - (59.6) (59.6)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 10 - - - - (0.8) (0.8)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 12 - - - - 0.1 0.1
Total comprehensive expenditure - - - - (60.3) (60.3)
Share option expense 39 - - - 0.2 - 0.2
Dividends 14 - - - - (8.2) (8.2)
Deferred tax on share options 12 - - - (0.1) - (0.1)
Transfer to retained earnings on exercise of 
share options
- - - (0.1) 0.1 -
Total transactions with owners - - - - (8.1) (8.1)
At 1 April 2013 0.8 37.6 57.5 1.5 (34.8) 62.6
Loss for the year - - - - (30.3) (30.3)
Gain recognised on cash flow hedge - - - 0.7 - 0.7
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme 10 - - - - 0.2 0.2
Tax on items taken directly to equity 12 - - - (0.2) - (0.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expenditure) - - - 0.5 (30.1) (29.6)
Exercise of share options - 0.1 - - - 0.1
Share option expense 39 - - - 0.7 - 0.7
Dividends 14 - - - - (4.2) (4.2)
Issue of share capital 30,32 - - 8.3 - - 8.3
Transfer of premium on issue of shares 32,34 - - (8.3) - 8.3 -
Total transactions with owners - 0.1 - 0.7 4.1 4.9
At 31 March 2014 0.8 37.7 57.5 2.7 (60.8) 37.9 72 73
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 March 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Net cash from operating activities 35 19.4 15.8
Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (7.9) (9.8)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3
Proceeds on disposal of asset held for sale 20 - 0.7
Net cash used in investing activities (7.8) (8.8)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 14 (4.2) (8.2)
Repayment of revolving credit facility 25 (90.0) -
New term loan raised 25 40.0 -
New revolving credit facility raised 25 50.0 -
Net (repayment)/drawdown on revolving credit facility (0.5) 5.0
New other loan raised - 1.0
Repayment of other loan (0.4) (0.6)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (2.1) (3.4)
Issue of share capital 30 8.4 -
Net cash generated/(used) in financing activities 1.2 (6.2)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 12.8 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 16.0 15.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 28.8 16.0 72 73
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014
1. General information
Phoenix IT Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.  
The address of the registered office is given on page 124. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities 
are set out in note 6 and in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31.
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates. 
2. Adoption of new and revised standards 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the annual Financial Statements for the year ended  
31 March 2013, except as described below.
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the year 
ending 31 March 2014 and have been adopted in these Financial Statements:
•  IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (amended) – amended to revise the way other comprehensive income is 
presented to distinguish between those items that may be reclassified (or recycled) to profit or loss at a future point in 
time and those items that will never be reclassified. The amendment affected presentation only and had no impact on 
the Group’s financial position or performance. IAS 1 has also been amended to clarify the requirements for comparative 
information; this has not had an impact on the Group’s Financial Statements.
•  IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment (amended) – amended to clarify the treatment of major spare parts and servicing 
equipment, this change has not had an effect on the Group’s Financial Statements.
•  IAS 19 Employee benefits (revised) – revised to provide a clearer indication of an entity’s obligations resulting from the 
provision of defined benefit plans and how those obligations will affect its financial position, financial performance and 
cash flow. The revision includes: 
 •  The replacement of the expected return on pension plan assets and interest expense on pension plan liabilities with 
a single net interest component calculated on the net defined benefit liability or asset using the discount rate used 
to determine the defined benefit obligation; and
 •  Additional disclosures to explain the characteristics of a company’s defined benefit plans, the amounts recognised 
in the Financial Statements and the risk arising from these plans.
  The revision requires retrospective adoption but as the effect on the net interest cost and other comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 is not material, the comparative figures have not been restated. The finance cost 
disclosure has been restated to net the £1.1m interest cost on the defined pension scheme liabilities against the 
£1.2m investment income relating to the expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets for the year ended  
31 March 2013 under a new heading called net interest on defined benefit liabilities. Also, the disclosure required in note 
10 has been updated to reflect the changes to IAS 19 Employee benefits (revised).
•  IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation (amended) – amended to clarify that income taxes arising from distributions 
to equity holders are accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. This change has not had a material 
impact on the Group’s Financial Statements.
•  IAS 34 Interim financial reporting (amended) – amended to clarify the requirements relating to segment information 
for total assets and liabilities for each reportable segment to enhance consistency with the requirements in IFRS 8 
Operating Segments. This has not had an effect on the Group’s operating segments disclosed in the Group’s Financial 
Statements.
•  IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures (amended) – amended to enhance the disclosures required relating to the 
offsetting of assets and liabilities. This change has not had a material impact on the Group’s Financial Statements.
•  IFRS 13 Fair value measurement – aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise 
definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.  
The introduction of the standard has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial position or performance.  
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures which are given in note 18. 74 75
2. Adoption of new and revised standards continued
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to 
existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group. Those of which are considered 
relevant to the Group’s operations are as follows:
Accounting periods  
beginning on or after
• IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment (amended) 1 July 2014
• IAS 19 Employee benefits (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IAS 24 Related party disclosures (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
   (previously IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate Financial Statements’) 1 January 2014
•  IAS 32 Financial instruments presentation 
   Amendments relating to the offsetting of assets and liabilities 1 January 2014 
•  IAS 36 Impairment of assets (amended) 1 January 2014
•  IAS 38 Intangible assets (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement (amended) 1 January 2014
•  IFRS 2 Share-based payment (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IFRS 3 Business combinations (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures (amended) 1 January 2018
•  IFRS 8 Operating segments (amended) 1 July 2014
•  IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018
•  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
•  IFRS 13 Fair value measurement (amended) 1 July 2014
The adoption of these standards is not expected to have a material impact on the reported results or Financial Statements.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the defined benefit 
pension scheme (note 10), derivative financial instruments (note 18), assets held for sale (note 20) and share based payments 
(note 39). The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence 
and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the 
group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They cease to be consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred 
for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration agreement. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed on a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of  
non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the 
fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 74 75
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements. Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 31.
Assets held for sale
Cash-flows and expenditure that relate to assets classified as held for sale are shown separately from continuing operations.
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation 
is charged on assets classified as held for sale.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Where an asset held for sale has not sold within one year, the asset may remain classified as held for sale provided that the 
delay is caused by events or circumstances beyond the Group’s control and management are still committed to the sale 
and the above criteria are still met.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually with cash generating units assessed by 
segment (see note 15). Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit for the year and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on 
disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as adopted by the European Union has been retained 
at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under 
UK GAAP in the year ended 31 March 1999 and earlier periods has not been reinstated and is not included in determining 
any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Where a contract contains several elements, the individual elements are accounted for separately where appropriate and 
revenue thereon is measured at the fair value of the consideration received.
Provision is made for all anticipated contract losses as soon as they are identified.
Product revenue
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on 
delivery of goods.
Contract revenue
For fixed-fee maintenance contracts the revenue arising is spread evenly over the term of the contract. The amount by which 
revenue differs from payments on account is shown under receivables as accrued income, or under payables as deferred 
revenue, as appropriate. Costs related to the delivery of services under these contracts are charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Income as they arise (typically these contracts are annual and costs arise evenly over the contract term).  
An element of costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract are deferred and recorded 
within current assets. These costs are then recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight line basis 
over the remaining contractual term. These costs are directly attributable to specific contracts, relate to future activity, will 
generate future economic benefits and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
If the performance pattern is other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output 
or consumption basis. 76 77
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Other revenues
Other revenues are recognised when receivable following delivery of a service.
Leasing
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair  
value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.  
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on 
the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the year.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those 
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period in which they are incurred.
Retirement benefit costs 
Defined contribution pension schemes
The principal subsidiary undertakings contribute to a number of Group personal pension plans in respect of certain employees. 
These plans are defined contribution plans and the annual charge to the statement of income is the contributions payable in 
the year. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals 
or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes; one was entered into during the previous year resulting from the 
transfer of employees under TUPE (Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment)) Regulations. Since the transfer the 
employees have been accruing pension benefits and the Group has been paying regular contributions into the scheme. The 
ICM Computer Group Pension and Assurance Scheme has been closed to future service accrual.
The costs of providing pensions under the defined benefit funded pension scheme are estimated on the basis of independent 
actuarial advice, with full actuarial valuations carried out on a triennial basis, and updated at each balance sheet date.
The operating and finance costs of the scheme are recognised separately within the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income/(Expense). 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. represents the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. 
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to the present value of economic benefits available on the refunds and 
reduction in future contributions to the plan.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 76 77
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Short-term employee benefits
The cost of short-term accumulating balances is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income over the period during 
which the entitlement is earned, at an average pay rate plus social security costs. Differences between the entitlement 
earned and the entitlement actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Taxation
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and 
is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets 
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Income, except when it relates to items 
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and recognised impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition 
for its intended use.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than freehold land, over their estimated useful lives, using 
the straight-line method, on the following bases:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold property  Period of lease
Fixtures and equipment 2 to 5 years
Motor vehicles 4 years
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same 
basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in other operating charges.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Development costs
Expenditure incurred in the development of software products or enhancements and their related intellectual property rights 
is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the 
costs can be reliably measured. Development costs not meeting these criteria, and all research costs, are expensed in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over 
five years being their useful economic lives once the related software product or enhancement is available for use. 78 79
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair value and are amortised on a 
systematic basis over their estimated useful lives on the following bases:
Value of brand name   15 years
Customer contracts and relationships 5 to 10 years
Impairment policy
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication 
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for 
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have 
not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is immediately 
recognised as an expense.
Where an impairment loss on assets, other than goodwill, subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset  
(cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is immediately recognised in the Consolidated 
Consolidated Statement of Income.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Service stocks, other than consumable stocks, are provided against over four years so as to reduce their value to nil at the 
end of the period. Consumable stocks are expensed as they are purchased.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is 
established when there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and 
general economic conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements  
entered into.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 78 79
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of direct issue costs. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accrual basis to the Consolidated Statement of Income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying 
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments are any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its 
liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. The fair values of interest rate swaps are determined 
by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item 
being hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the 
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an 
ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in 
equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Income for the period.
Cash flow hedges 
Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedges of future 
cash flows are recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income where relevant. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement. For hedges that result in 
the recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Provisions and contingent liabilities
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. The provision is discounted to its present value where the effect is material.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations which arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Onerous contract provision
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Restructuring provision
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and 
has raised a valid expectation to those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan.  
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those 
amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Dilapidation provision
The provision relates to the obligation to reinstate certain properties to their former condition at the end of the lease term. 80 81
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items are items of income or expenditure that, in management’s judgement, should be disclosed separately 
on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size. Such items are included within the statement of income 
caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements or 
on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments. In accordance with the transitional 
provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of  
1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based 
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of options that will 
eventually vest.
The fair value of the share-based payments (except for the total Shareholder return scheme) is measured by the use of the 
Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the total Shareholder return (TSR) share-based payment scheme is measured by 
the use of a Stochastic model. The expected life used in these models have been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Shares purchased through the employee benefit trust (EBT) are held at cost and are deducted from Shareholders’ equity. 
The right to a dividend on these shares has been waived. 
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Information about such 
judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements are:
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items are items of income or expenditure that, in management’ s judgement, should be disclosed separately on 
the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance 
and significantly distort the comparability of financial performance between periods. Items of income or expense that are 
considered by management for designation as non-recurring items include such items as significant restructuring and 
impairments of assets. Details of non-recurring items are included in note 7.
Valuation of intangible assets and useful life
The Group holds goodwill and other intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Following the supplier contract 
termination in the year, the Group undertook a review of the carrying value of assets in the Partner Cash Generating Unit 
(“CGU”). The review concluded that, the goodwill being carried in the Partner CGU relates to certain contracts which have 
been diminishing over time. Whilst the value in use of the Partner CGU would support the carrying value of some goodwill, 
the reduction of the contracts to which the goodwill specifically related has led management to fully impair the goodwill and 
intangible assets as detailed in note 15. For the remaining goodwill and other intangible assets, management has made 
assumptions in relation to the potential future cash flows, discount rates and long term growth rates to determine the value 
in use by CGU. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 80 81
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
3. Significant accounting policies continued 
Provisions
Onerous contract provision
The onerous contract provision has been derived on the basis of the most recent assessment of the likely net unavoidable 
costs to the end of the contract term. Management have considered the future costs of the contracts which can be 
determined with a high degree of accuracy. However, the future economic benefits expected to be received are based on 
forecasts which include uncertainties with regards to revenue assumptions. Detailed sensitivity analysis has been carried 
out on these calculations and management is confident the liability is the best estimate of the net unavoidable costs.  
The total provisions are disclosed in note 28.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Restructuring provision
The Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring which is management’s best estimate of the Group’s 
liability. The total provisions are disclosed in note 28.
Dilapidation provisions
Dilapidation provisions have been derived on the basis of the most recent assessment of likely cost. Many of these obligations 
will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict accurately. In making these assessments, the Group 
has sought the aid of independent experts where appropriate. The total provisions are disclosed in note 28.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
Retirement benefits
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes which have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 – 
Employee Benefits. Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to various assumptions including 
future pay rises in excess of inflation, employer and pensioner demographics and the future expected return on assets.  
The Group determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions 
to be in line with UK practice generally, but the application of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the 
amounts reflected in the Financial Statements. Further details can be found in note 10.
Derivative financial instruments
IAS 39 requires interest rate swap contracts to be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair 
value of derivatives are recorded each period in reserves when specific hedge accounting criteria are met. The fair values of 
derivative instruments are determined using forward price curves. Forward price curves represent the Group’s estimates of 
the prices at which a buyer or seller could contract today for delivery or settlement of the contracts at future dates and are 
therefore subjective. Further details can be found in note 18.
5. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenue - continuing operations:
Product 20.2 20.0
Contract 172.4 188.3
Other revenues 40.8 41.7
233.4 250.0 82 83
6. Segmental reporting
The Board, who is considered to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker, has determined its operating segments by business 
line, based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. The Principal activities are as follows:
Business Continuity Provision of business continuity and IT disaster recovery services
Managed Services Provision of information technology services and systems
Partner Provision of information technology services, networking support and infrastructure services
We have re-aligned our business segments this year to be in line with our internal reporting and recognition of profits.  
The major differences are that we no longer recognise a profit on the provision of field services from the Partner segment to 
the Managed Services and Business Continuity segments. In addition we now classify our revenues between the segments 
in the first instance according to the type of customer by splitting the business between sales to Partners and sales directly 
to end users. We then split the end user market between Managed Services and Business Continuity. In this way we have 
slightly redefined our segments to ensure they are now in line with the internal management of the business. The prior year 
revenue and profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items split between segments has 
been restated accordingly.
The Group’s operations are based entirely in the UK. The Group has no significant concentration of sales to a particular 
individual external customer.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable 
basis. Corporate costs relate to central Group costs, including finance, legal and employee costs that are not directly 
attributable to the operating segments.
Inter segment turnover has been eliminated.
Year ended 31 March 2014
Business  
Continuity
£m
Managed 
Services
£m
Partner 
£m
Corporate
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 50.6 68.4 114.4 - 233.4
Profit/(loss) from operations before amortisation of 
intangibles and non-recurring items 12.4 1.2 7.0 (2.9) 17.7
Amortisation of other intangible assets
Non-recurring items
(1.0)
(40.6)
Loss from operations (23.9)
Finance costs including non-recurring items (5.3)
Loss before tax (29.2)
Capital expenditure on segment assets
Depreciation and amortisation in year
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment of other intangible assets
3.9
8.4
-
-
4.3
3.7
-
-
1.5
1.2
33.0
0.1
-
-
-
-
9.7
13.3
33.0
0.1
Balance sheet
Segment assets
Unallocated assets
125.8 38.0 38.0 0.1 201.9
30.0
Total assets 231.9
Segment liabilities
Unallocated liabilities
(42.8) (24.5) (43.3) 0.1 (110.5)
(83.5)
Total liabilities (194.0)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 82 83
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Business  
Continuity
Managed 
Services Partner 
(restated) (restated) (restated) Corporate Total
Year ended 31 March 2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 52.0 84.7 113.3 - 250.0
Profit/(loss) from operations before amortisation of 
intangibles and non-recurring items 13.2 (0.8) 9.0 (2.4) 19.0
Amortisation of other intangible assets
Non-recurring items
(1.6)
(71.8)
Loss from operations (54.4)
Finance costs including non-recurring item (4.4)
Loss before tax (58.8)
Capital expenditure on segment assets
Depreciation and amortisation in year
Impairment loss recognised on property held for sale
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment of other intangible assets
4.8
9.1
-
-
-
3.9
5.0
0.1
67.2
0.9
1.5
1.3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10.2
15.4
0.1
67.2
0.9
Balance sheet
Segment assets
Unallocated assets
131.1 41.3 77.3 0.1 249.8
19.2
Total assets 269.0
Segment liabilities
Unallocated liabilities
(45.4) (29.7) (44.5) (0.6) (120.2)
(86.2)
Total liabilities (206.4)
The analysis of total assets and liabilities excludes inter-segment balances. Unallocated assets comprise of taxation and 
cash and cash equivalents and unallocated liabilities comprise of bank loans and overdrafts and derivative financial liabilities.
6. Segmental reporting continued 84 85
7. Non-recurring items
 2014 2013
£m £m
Impairment loss on property held for sale (note 20) - (0.1)
Legal and professional fees in relation to pension equalisation (a) - (0.1)
Costs of reorganisation of the Group (b) (4.8) (1.7)
Contract provisions (c) (2.7) (0.5)
Impairment of goodwill (note 15) (33.0) (67.2)
Impairment of other intangible assets (note 16) (0.1) (0.9)
Costs relating to the restatement (d) - (1.3)
(40.6) (71.8)
Non-recurring items included in finance costs:
Refinancing finance costs (e) (0.2) -
Non-recurring interest costs (f) - (0.3)
(40.8) (72.1)
Non-recurring items in the years ending 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 comprise:
(a)  The assumption regarding the 1997 effective date of the equalisation of retirement ages between men and women was challenged 
by the Trustees of the scheme who believed that the effective date of equalisation may be 2005. The Group sought direction from 
the courts during the year and the case was resolved in the Company’s favour avoiding the need for further legal costs in the year 
(2013: £0.1m).
(b)  In the year , a further £4.8m (2013: £1.7m) of charges relating to the reorganisation of the Group were incurred. During the reorganisation 
higher attrition levels led to surplus inventory, which has now been recorded at its net realisable value where it is deemed to be lower 
than cost, resulting in a £2.4m (2013: £nil) write-off of excess inventory held in the Group. In addition to the inventory write-off, £1.2m 
(2013: £1.6m) has been charged in respect of headcount reductions. Further items of £1.2m (2013: £0.1m) were also incurred in the 
year.
(c)  Following the supplier contract termination, a review of the Group’s contract portfolio and related balances was carried out and 
a non-recurring expense of £2.7m (2013: £0.5m) has been recorded; £1.2m of this relates to a contract with 1 year to run which 
requires a provision for expected lifetime contract losses. The contract incurred a loss of £0.3m in the year ended 31 March 2014. 
Further items relate to the write-off of current assets in respect of the previously announced supplier contract termination.
(d)  There have been no costs incurred in the year in relation to the independent forensic investigation (2013: £1.3m).
(e)  On 31 May 2013, the Group successfully refinanced its bank facilities with its existing lenders. Un-amortised loan costs of £0.1m and 
swap break costs of £0.1m have been incurred in the year (2013: £nil).
(f)  The accounting irregularities and subsequent restatement increased the historic margin on the banking facility, thus crystallising a 
further £0.3m of interest costs in the prior year. No further costs have been incurred in the year.
8. Loss from operations
2014 2013
£m £m
Revenue 233.4 250.0
Raw materials and consumables (5.7) (7.1)
Staff costs (note 9) (96.6) (90.3)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 17) (12.3) (13.8)
Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 16) (1.0) (1.6)
Impairment of goodwill (note 15) (33.0) (67.2)
Impairment of intangible assets (note 16) (0.1) (0.9)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment - (0.3)
Inventory write-off (note 22) (3.6) -
Other operating charges (105.0) (123.2)
(23.9) (54.4)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 84 85
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
The following fees were paid or are payable to the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP:
2014 2013
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent Company  
and Consolidated Financial Statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services to the Group:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
Total audit fees 0.2 0.2
Other services - 1.1
Total non-audit fees - 1.1
0.2 1.3
Other services represent fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for their independent forensic investigation into the accounting 
irregularities and a review of the Group’s accounting and control processes.
9. Staff costs
2014 2013
£m £m
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 83.1 78.4
Social security costs 9.9 9.3
Other pension costs (note 10) 3.1 2.4
Share-based payments (note 39) 0.5 0.2
96.6 90.3
The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) was:
Number Number
Business Continuity 237 196
Managed Services 493 418
Partner 1,599 1,636
Central administration 15 15
2,344 2,265
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in 
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the 
Remuneration Committee Report on page 52.
2014 2013
£m £m
Directors
Short-term employee benefits 0.9 0.9
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Termination benefits - 0.3
Share based payments 0.3 (0.1)
1.3 1.2
10. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. The assets of this scheme are held separately from 
those of the Group.
Pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Defined contribution scheme 2.5 2.4
8. Loss from operations continued 86 87
10. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes; the Federated Pension Plan (“FPP scheme”) and the ICM 
Computer Group Pension and Assurance Scheme (“ICM scheme”), for certain of its employees. The FPP scheme was 
entered into during the previous year resulting from the transfer of employees under TUPE (Transfer of Undertakings 
(Protection of Employment)) Regulations. Since the transfer, the employees have been accruing pension benefits and the 
Group has been paying regular contributions into the scheme.
The ICM scheme was closed to future service accrual with an effective date of 30 September 2010. Members of this scheme 
have been invited to make contributions into the defined contribution plan. In calculating the defined benefit obligation under 
IAS 19 the actuary has assumed that the equalisation of retirement benefits between men and women was effective from 
1997. This assumption was challenged by the trustees of the scheme who believed that the effective date of equalisation 
may be 2005. The Group sought direction from the courts during the year and the case was resolved in the Company’s 
favour.
The defined benefit schemes are administered by separate funds that are legally separate from the Company. The trustees 
of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme. 
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund. Under the 
ICM scheme the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 1.25% and 1.67% of final salary, multiplied 
by number of years of pensionable service, on attainment of a retirement age of 65. No other post retirement benefits are 
provided. The schemes are both funded.
The schemes typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, inflation risk and longevity risk:
Investment risk
The present value of the defined benefit plans’ liabilities is calculated using a discount rate determined by 
reference to high quality corporate bond yields. If the return on plan assets is below this rate, it will create a 
plan deficit. Currently the plans have a relatively balanced investment in equity securities and debt instruments.
The investment return in relation to equity securities is variable and as such they are considered riskier 
investments. This results in ‘the equity risk premium’ which is included in the yield on the equity investment 
and compensates investors for the additional risk of holding this type of investment. There is significant 
uncertainty about the expected size of this risk premium and this risk is managed by holding assets which are 
less risky in nature but have a corresponding lower return. 
This risk of default on the assets invested in bonds is considered to be small.
Inflation risk
The defined benefit plans’ liabilities are linked to inflation, a higher inflation rate would lead to higher liabilities. 
The majority of the plans’ assets are either unaffected by or loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an 
increase in inflation will also increase any deficit or reduce any surplus.
Longevity risk
The present value of the defined benefit plans’ liabilities is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the 
mortality of plan participants. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans’ 
liability.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the ICM scheme’s defined benefit obligation was carried out at 6 April 2012 and 
updated to 31 March 2014 by a qualified independent actuary for IAS 19 purposes. The projected unit method was used in 
all valuations and assets were taken into account using market values in both schemes.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 86 87
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
10. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The weighted average major assumptions used by the actuaries were:
2014 2013
% %
Discount rate 4.47 4.70
Expected rate of salary increases 4.10 4.15
Future pension increases 3.17 3.25
Inflation (RPI) 3.49 3.50
Inflation (CPI) 2.62 2.50
Mortality tables used 100% of S1PxA
With CMI_2011
Improvements
(1.2% pa)
100% of S1PxA
With CMI_2011
improvements
(1.2% pa)
and
110% of PNxA00
(1.0% pa)
-
The Group uses CPI as the measure for inflation in increasing deferred pensions prior to retirement.
The current life expectancies post retirement (in years) underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the defined benefit 
pension schemes are:
2014 2013
Male Female Male Female
Member currently age 65 22.8 25.1 22.5 24.7
Member currently age 40 24.6 27.0 24.6 27.0
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Net interest on defined benefit assets/(liabilities) - (0.1)
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income/(Expense) in respect of the defined benefit 
schemes are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Remeasurement losses (1.2) (0.7)
Return on assets less interest income (0.4) 1.7
Recognition/(non-recognition) of surplus 1.8 (1.8)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes 0.2 (0.8)
The amounts included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (28.4) (25.0)
Fair value of scheme assets 30.2 26.8
Surplus in plan 1.8 1.8
Unrecognised surplus - (1.8)
Net defined benefit asset 1.8 -
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet:
Retirement benefit asset 1.9 -
Retirement benefit obligation (0.1) -
1.8 -
At 31 March 2013, the Group did not recognise the £1.8m surplus on the ICM scheme, this has been reversed at  
31 March 2014 as the Group has an unconditional right to a refund.  88 89
10. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The Group expects to contribute £1.7m (2013: £1.7m) to the ICM scheme in the next financial year to eliminate the deficit 
over a four year period. There is no deficit recovery plan in place for the FPP scheme.
FPP scheme
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 April 2013 and 2012 - -
Current service cost 0.6 -
Contributions by plan participants 0.1 -
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
Actuarial gains from changes in financial assumptions (0.1) -
Actuarial losses from experience adjustments 0.2 -
Benefits received 0.8 -
At 31 March 2014 and 2013 1.6 -
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 April 2013 and 2012 - -
Contributions by the employer 0.6 -
Contributions by plan participants 0.1 -
Benefits received 0.8 -
At 31 March 2014 and 2013 1.5 -
ICM scheme
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 April 2013 and 2012 25.0 23.4
Interest cost 1.2 1.1
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions - (0.3)
Actuarial losses from changes in financial assumptions 1.1 0.9
Actuarial losses from experience adjustments - 0.1
Benefits paid (0.5) (0.2)
At 31 March 2014 and 2013 26.8 25.0
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 April 2013 and 2012 26.8 22.6
Interest income 1.2 1.2
Contributions by the employer 1.6 1.5
Return on assets less interest income (0.4) 1.7
Benefits paid (0.5) (0.2)
At 31 March 2014 and 2013 28.7 26.8
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 88 89
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
The major categories and fair values of the FPP and ICM schemes’ assets at the balance sheet date for each category are 
as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Equities 15.2 13.5
Bonds 14.5 13.1
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.2
30.2 26.8
The schemes’ assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied or other 
assets used by the Group. All equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption
Impact on 
scheme liabilities 
£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5ppts Increase by 3.5
Inflation Increase by 0.25ppts Increase by 1.1
Mortality Mortality improvements increased from a long term rate of 1.2% to 1.5% Increase by 0.4
The sensitivity to the mortality assumptions represents the following life expectancies post retirement (in years):
2014
Male Female
Member currently age 65 22.8 25.1
Member currently age 40 24.6 27.0
11. Finance costs
2014 2013
£m £m
Finance costs:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (4.2) (3.4)
Interest on obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (0.2) (0.2)
Amortisation of loan issue costs (0.7) (0.5)
Other interest (0.2) (0.1)
Net interest on defined benefit liabilities - 0.1
(5.3) (4.1)
Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 0.2 -
Total interest expense excluding non-recurring items (5.1) (4.1)
Non-recurring finance costs:
Refinancing finance costs (0.2) -
Non-recurring interest costs - (0.3)
(0.2) (0.3)
Total finance costs (5.3) (4.4)
The net interest on defined benefit liabilities for the year is £nil (2013: £0.1m). The IAS 19 Employment benefits amendment 
requires retrospective adoption. As a result, the finance cost disclosure has been amended to net the £1.1m interest cost on 
the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities against the £1.2m investment income related to the expected return on defined 
benefit pension scheme assets for the year ended 31 March 2013. 
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are 
calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 6.090% (2013: 5.060%) to expenditure on such assets.
10. Retirement benefit schemes continued 90 91
12. Taxation
The tax charge on loss from operations for the year was as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 1.2 1.5
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.1 0.7
Total current tax 1.3 2.2
Deferred tax (note 29):
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.2) (0.5)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.1) (0.8)
Change of rate 0.1 (0.1)
Total deferred tax (0.2) (1.4)
Tax expense for the year 1.1 0.8
Corporation tax is calculated at 23% (2013: 24%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. 
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the Consolidated Statement of Income as follows:
2014 2013
£m % £m %
Loss before tax (29.2) (58.8)
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 23% (2013: 24%) (6.7) 23.0 (14.1) 24.0
Effects of:
Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 7.8 (26.5) 15.0 (25.6)
Income not taxable in determining taxable profit (0.2) 0.7 (0.2) 0.3
Tax adjustments relating to share options 0.1 (0.6) 0.3 (0.6)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods - 0.1 (0.1) 0.3
Change in tax rate 0.1 (0.2) (0.1) 0.2
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 1.1 (3.5) 0.8 (1.4)
The underlying
(1)
 effective tax rate of 24.0% (2013: 26.3%) is based on the forecast annual effective rate applied to underlying
(1)
 
profit before tax for the year and takes into account the impact of the enactment of the Finance Act 2013 which includes a 
reduction in the rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015. This has reduced 
the deferred tax asset by £0.1m (2013: £nil). The impact on the effective tax rate is a reduction of 0.2%.
The Group’s total tax charge of £1.1m represents an effective rate of (3.5%) (March 2013: (1.4%)). The reduction from the 
underlying
(1)
 effective tax rate of 24.0% to the effective tax rate of (3.5%) reflects the tax impact of some of the non-recurring 
items, being the impairment of goodwill, which is not deductible for taxation purposes.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued
(1) 
Underlying – adjusted for non-recurring items £40.8m (2013: £72.1m) and amortisation of acquired intangibles £1.0m (2013: £1.6m). 90 91
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
12. Taxation continued
In addition to the amount charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income, the following amounts have been charged/
(credited) directly to equity:
2014 2013
£m £m
Deferred tax (note 29):
Tax on share options - 0.1
Tax on actuarial losses - (0.1)
Tax on cash flow hedge 0.2 -
0.2 -
13. Earnings per share
2014 2013
Underlying earnings per share excluding amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items
Basic 12.6p 14.5p
Diluted 12.1p 13.9p
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Earnings
2014 2013
£m £m
Loss for the purposes of basic earnings/(loss) per share and diluted earnings/(loss) per share being 
net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (30.3) (59.6)
Amortisation of intangibles 1.0 1.6
Non-recurring items 40.8 72.1
Tax on amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items (1.9) (3.1)
Earnings for the purposes of underlying earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity hold-
ers of the parent excluding amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items 9.6 11.0
Number of shares
2014
m
2013
m
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 75.6 75.4
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares:
Share options 2.9 3.0
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted  
earnings per share 78.5 78.4
14. Dividends
2014 2013
£m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to Shareholders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 4.00p (2012: 7.20p) per share 3.0 5.4
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 1.60p (2013: 3.70p) per share 1.2 2.8
4.2 8.2
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 1.00p (2013: 4.00p) per share 0.8 3.0 92 93
14. Dividends continued
The interim dividend was recommended by the Board on 26 November 2013 and was paid on 8 January 2014.
The proposed final dividend was recommended by the Board on 9 June 2014 and if approved will be paid on  
29 September 2014. 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly has not 
been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
15. Goodwill
£m
Cost and carrying amount
At 1 April 2012 181.4
Impairment of goodwill (67.2)
At 1 April 2013 114.2
Impairment of goodwill (33.0)
At 31 March 2014 81.2
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (“CGU”s) that are 
expected to benefit from that business combination. CGUs represent the Group’s operating segments by business line, 
based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. After the recognition of impairment losses, the carrying 
amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
31 March 2014 31 March 2013
Business 
Continuity
Managed 
Services Partner Total
Business 
Continuity
Managed 
Services Partner Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 81.2 - - 81.2 81.2 - 33.0 114.2
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment at 31 March or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might 
be impaired. 
Impairment loss
A £33.1m impairment charge was recognised as a non-recurring expense in the year; £33.0m related to goodwill and 
£0.1m related to other intangible assets (2013: £67.2m impairment of goodwill and £0.9m impairment of other intangible 
assets were recognised in the Managed Services CGU). Following the supplier contract termination, the Group undertook a 
review of the carrying value of assets in the Partner CGU. The review concluded that the goodwill and other intangible assets 
being carried in the Partner CGU relates to certain contracts which have been diminishing over time. Whilst the value in use 
of the Partner CGU would support the carrying value of some goodwill, the reduction of the contracts to which the goodwill 
specifically related has led management to fully impair the goodwill and intangible assets.
Impairment review
An impairment review has been performed at 31 March 2014 for the remaining carrying value of each CGU. The recoverable 
amount of a CGU is determined on value in use calculations, the key assumptions used in determining the value in use 
calculations are set out below.
Cash flow projections
The Group prepares risk-adjusted cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent detailed financial budget approved 
by the Directors. The cash flow projections reflect the Directors’ expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth and capital 
expenditure, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance. Cash flows beyond the one year 
period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 92 93
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Discount rate
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents the Group pre-tax weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risk 
profile of the individual CGU.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rates are determined with reference to current market conditions, external forecasts and historical 
trends for the Group’s key end markets. The Directors have made the judgement that this long-term growth rate does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the industry.
The assumptions used for each CGU are set out below:
At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013
Business 
Continuity
Managed 
Services Partner 
Business 
Continuity
Managed 
Services Partner
% % % % % %
Growth rate 2.25 N/A N/A 2.25 2.25 2.25
Pre-tax discount rate 11.0 N/A N/A 11.0 12.0 12.0
In assessing goodwill for impairment as at 31 March 2014, the Directors made use of the most recent detailed calculations 
of the recoverable amount of the Group’s CGUs. Those calculations resulted in recoverable amounts exceeding the carrying 
values for each of the Group’s CGUs. 
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions 
Whilst the Directors consider that their assumptions are realistic, it is possible that an impairment would be identified if any 
of the above key assumptions were changed significantly. The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to a change in the key 
assumptions used. Based on the Group’s sensitivity analysis, an increase in the discount rate in the most sensitive CGU 
of 4.6% or a decrease in the forecast EBITDA of 29.0% (in isolation) would lead to the carrying amount of the CGU being 
equal to its recoverable amount. 
Using a discounted cash flow methodology necessarily involves making numerous estimates and assumptions regarding 
revenue growth, operating margins, tax rates, appropriate discount rates, capital expenditure levels and working capital 
requirements. These estimates will likely differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows, and it is possible that 
these differences could be material. In addition, judgements are applied by the Directors in determining the level of cash-
generating unit identified for impairment testing and the criteria used to determine which assets should be aggregated.  
A difference in assumptions could affect whether an impairment is recorded and the extent of any impairment loss. 
Changes in business activities or structure may also result in changes to the level of testing in future periods. Further, future 
events could cause the Group to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with a given 
operation have become impaired. 
16. Other intangible assets
Customer 
contracts &  
relationships
£m
Computer 
software  
development
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2012, 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 20.4 1.0 21.4
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2012 16.4 0.2 16.6
Charge for the year 1.4 0.2 1.6
Impairment (note 7) 0.9 - 0.9
At 1 April 2013 18.7 0.4 19.1
Charge for the year 0.8 0.2 1.0
Impairment (note 7) 0.1 - 0.1
At 31 March 2014 19.6 0.6 20.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 0.8 0.4 1.2
At 31 March 2013 1.7 0.6 2.3
At 31 March 2012 4.0 0.8 4.8
Following the supplier contract termination, the Group undertook a review of the carrying value of assets in the Partner CGU 
resulting in an impairment charge of £0.1m to fully write down its other intangible assets. See note 15 for further details.
15. Goodwill continued 94 95
17. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold 
property 
£m
Short 
leasehold 
properties 
£m
Fixtures 
and 
equipment 
£m
Motor 
Vehicles 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2012 20.8 9.0 87.6 0.6 118.0
Reclassifications - (0.2) 0.2 - -
Reclassified from held for sale (note 20) 0.7 - - - 0.7
Additions - 2.0 8.1 0.1 10.2
Disposals - - (1.8) - (1.8)
At 1 April 2013 21.5 10.8 94.1 0.7 127.1
Reclassifications (1.3) (0.3) 0.8 - (0.8)
Additions 0.2 1.0 8.5 - 9.7
Disposals - (1.2) (7.0) - (8.2)
At 31 March 2014 20.4 10.3 96.4 0.7 127.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2012 2.1 4.5 48.3 0.4 55.3
Reclassified from held for sale (note 20) 0.2 - - - 0.2
Charge for the year 0.3 0.9 12.5 0.1 13.8
Disposals - - (1.2) - (1.2)
At 1 April 2013 2.6 5.4 59.6 0.5 68.1
Reclassifications (0.6) - - - (0.6)
Charge for the year 0.3 1.0 11.0 - 12.3
Disposals - (1.2) (6.9) - (8.1)
At 31 March 2014 2.3 5.2 63.7 0.5 71.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 18.1 5.1 32.7 0.2 56.1
At 31 March 2013 18.9 5.4 34.5 0.2 59.0
At 31 March 2012 18.7 4.5 39.3 0.2 62.7
Included in the current year reclassifications are amounts to re-analyse assets between classes and between cost and 
accumulated depreciation and £0.2m relating to reclassifications between balance sheet accounts. 
Included in freehold property is land at cost of £4.3m (2013: £4.3m) which is not depreciated. 
Included in additions to fixtures and equipment was £2.2m (2013: £0.8m) that were financed by new finance leases and 
hire purchase contracts.
The net book value of fixtures and equipment includes £4.8m (2013: £5.0m) in respect of assets held under finance leases 
and hire purchase contracts.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had entered into contractual capital commitments amounting to £0.5m (2013: £0.7m).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 94 95
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
18. Derivative financial instruments 
2014 2013
Liability Liability
Fair value Notional Fair value Notional
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps
0.8 30.0 1.4 30.0
At the beginning of the year the Group had three interest rate swaps split equally amongst three of its lenders hedging 
£30.0m until 29 April 2014 and £15.0m between 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2016. 
On 26 June 2013 the Group entered into additional £10.0m interest rate swap contracts with two of its existing lenders 
to hedge the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on variable rates in respect of its £40.0m term loan. The new 
swap arrangements, under which the Group receives interest at a variable rate and pays interest at a fixed rate, hedge an 
additional £5.0m with each lender from 30 April 2014 to 30 April 2016. 
On the same date, the Group also terminated a £10.0m swap arrangement with an existing lender and replaced this with a 
new £10.0m swap arrangement with the same lender. The new swap arrangement, under which the Group receives interest 
at a variable rate and pays interest at a fixed rate, hedges £10.0m from 26 June 2013 to 29 May 2015. 
The amount hedged by interest swap arrangements will reduce by £10.0m to £20.0m on 29 May 2015 and the remaining 
arrangements are due to expire on 30 April 2016. The weighted average interest rate on all of the Group’s fixed interest rate 
swap arrangements is 2.462% (2013: 2.665%).  
The Group has recognised a £0.1m non-recurring expense as a result of terminating its existing interest rate swap contract.
Fair value measurements
Financial instruments that are measured at fair value subsequent to their initial recognition are grouped into levels 1 to 3 
based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
•  Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities;
•  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level  
1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
•  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or 
liability that are not based on observable market data.
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and  
non-recurring basis are:
Financial assets/financial 
liabilities
Basis Fair value Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation technique and 
key inputs
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets held for sale Non-recurring Asset: 1.0 Asset: 1.0 Level 2 The market approach has 
been used to value the 
properties by observing 
prices for similar properties.
Interest rate swaps Recurring Liability: (0.8) Liability: (1.4) Level 2 They are valued using the 
hypothetical derivative 
technique which incorporates 
observable market interest 
rates.
There were no financial instruments measured at fair value included in level 1 or level 3 and there were no transfers between 
categories during the year. 96 97
19. Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk),  
credit risk and liquidity risk.
Funding and treasury risk management is carried out under a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the Board. 
The Board is responsible for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the 
authority of which may be delegated. The Group accounting function provides regular update reports of treasury activity to 
the Board of Directors. 
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Capital risk management
The Group seeks to match long term assets with long term funding and short term assets with short term funding. 
Equity, retained profits and long term fixed interest debt are used primarily to finance intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment. Short term borrowings are required primarily to finance current assets.
The Group capitalisation policy seeks to maintain a strong credit rating and an appropriate funding structure whilst 
safeguarding the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Group’s capital structure consists of net debt and total equity. The following analysis summarises the components 
which the Group manages as capital:
2014 2013
£m £m
Net debt 56.1 71.3
Total equity 37.9 62.6
Market risk
(a) Foreign exchange risk
The Group publishes its Consolidated Financial Statements in sterling but also conducts some business in foreign currencies, 
mainly the US Dollar. As a result it is subject to foreign exchange currency risk due to exchange rate movements, which will 
affect the Group’s transaction costs. 
The Board periodically reviews the net exchange risk and implements strategies as appropriate. Due to the relative stability 
of the foreign currencies in which the Group deal and size of the foreign exchange transactions, the Group does not hedge 
the foreign exchange risk as the potential exposure is considered not to be material to the Group’s results.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
Assets Liabilities
2014 2013 2014 2014
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar 1.5 0.2 0.2 1.4
Norwegian Kroner 0.1 0.2 - -
1.6 0.4 0.2 1.4
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy aims to manage the interest cost of the Group within the constraints of its budget and its financial 
covenants. At the year end £54.5m of the Group’ s borrowings were subject to a floating rate. The Group monitors movements 
in the swap market and so took out interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on £30.0m 
of the revolving credit facility.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 96 97
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
The table below sets out the carrying amount of borrowings that are exposed to interest rate risk:
2014 2013
£m £m
Fixed interest rate borrowings 30.0 30.0
Floating interest rate borrowings 54.5 55.0
Total borrowings 84.5 85.0
The contractual maturity of these borrowings can be found in note 25.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the 
Group. The Group monitors its credit exposures to its counterparties via their credit rating, where applicable, or through 
other publicly available financial information and its own trading records.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or group of counterparties having 
similar characteristics. The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are connected entities. 
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and 
unrelated. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks 
with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The carrying amounts of financial assets recorded in the Financial Statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its liquidity requirements by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing 
facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. All borrowing is agreed and monitored by the Board 
of Directors. The Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities are shown in note 25. The Group has a policy of pooling 
Group cash flows in order to maximise the return on surplus cash and also utilise cash within the Group. 
The following is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative 
financial instruments as at the balance sheet date. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows:
Due within 
one year 
£m
Due  
between 
one and 
two years 
£m
Due  
between 
two and 
three years 
£m
Due in over 
three years 
£m
Total 
£m
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 4.0 4.0 85.5 - 93.5
Finance lease liabilities 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.7 2.4
Other non interest-bearing liabilities 41.8 0.2 0.1 0.2 42.3
46.6 4.7 86.0 0.9 138.2
Derivative financial instruments
Net settled interest rate swaps 0.5 0.3 - - 0.8
Total as at 31 March 2014 47.1 5.0 86.0 0.9 139.0
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 2.9 86.2 - - 89.1
Finance lease liabilities 1.5 0.6 0.1 - 2.2
Other loan 0.4 - - - 0.4
Other non interest-bearing liabilities 37.2 0.7 - - 37.9
42.0 87.5 0.1 - 129.6
Derivative financial instruments
Net settled interest rate swaps 0.7 0.4 0.3 - 1.4
Total as at 31 March 2013 42.7 87.9 0.4 - 131.0
Notional interest is included for the period from the year end up to the contractual maturity date of the debt, calculated on 
the amount of debt drawn down at the year end.
19. Financial risk management continued 98 99
19. Financial risk management continued
Floating rate interest has been estimated using a future interest rate curve as at 31 March. The cash flow movements in the 
interest rate swap are expected to affect the Consolidated Statement of Income in the same period in which they occur.
Sensitivity analysis
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following 
analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK interest rates 
and the US dollar, Euro and Norwegian Kroner to sterling exchange rates on the Group’s financial instruments.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other  
post-retirement benefits obligations and provisions.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates 
of the debt and the derivative portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant on 
the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 respectively.
The following table shows the illustrative effect on the Consolidated Statement of Income and items that are recognised 
directly in equity that would result from reasonably possible movements in changes in UK interest rates, before the effects 
of tax.
2014 2013
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Income 
-/+ £m
Equity 
-/+ £m
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Income 
-/+ £m
Equity 
-/+ £m
UK interest rates +/- 0.50ppts 0.3 - 0.3 -
US dollar exchange rate +/- 10% 0.2 - - -
A 10% change in the Euro and Norwegian Kroner to sterling exchange rates has a minimal impact on the Consolidated 
Statement of Income and equity.
20. Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale of £1.0m (2013: £1.0m) consist of properties held in the Managed Services division.
During the prior year, one of the properties classed as held for sale was sold for £0.7m. Another property was brought back 
into use and was reclassified to property, plant and equipment at its carrying amount of £0.5m (see note 17). 
The remainder of the assets were classed as held for sale from 31 March 2008. Due to market conditions outside of the 
Group’s control they remained unsold at 31 March 2014. Management are still committed to selling the remaining assets, 
are actively marketing them at a price reasonable given the change in market conditions and anticipate the sale will occur 
in the next financial year.
An impairment loss of £nil (2013: £0.1m) has been recognised in the year on properties held for sale and reflects the 
difference between their carrying value and their estimated fair value in the market less costs of sale. 
21. Subsidiaries
A list of the significant subsidiaries included within the Group accounts, including the name, country of incorporation and 
proportion of ownership interest, is given in note 4 to the individual Company Financial Statements on page 115.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 98 99
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
22. Inventories
2014 2013
£m £m
Service stocks 7.3 10.6
During the year £4.5m (2013: £5.8m) was recognised as an expense to the Consolidated Statement of Income in relation 
to the systematic write down of service stock over the period of its consumption within the business. An inventory write off 
of £3.6m (2013: £nil) was also charged to non-recurring, £2.4m of which related to excess inventory held in the Group as 
a result of higher attrition levels during the reorganisation. This inventory has now been recorded at its net realisable value 
where it is deemed to be lower than cost.
23. Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date comprise:
2014 2013
£m £m
Included within current assets:
Trade receivables 36.5 41.7
Other receivables 0.7 4.2
Prepayments and accrued income 16.0 16.9
53.2 62.8
The Group’s trade receivables are stated after allowances for bad and doubtful debts based on management’s assessment 
of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Balance at the beginning of the year
0.9 2.2
Increase in provision 
0.5 1.2
Amounts utilised 
(0.5) (2.5)
Balance at the end of the year
0.9 0.9
As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of £5.5m (2013: £5.8m) were past due but not impaired. The ageing of these trade 
receivables from due date is as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Under 30 days 3.0 3.6
30 – 60 days 1.1 1.0
60 – 90 days - 0.4
90 – 120 days 1.2 0.2
Over 120 days 0.2 0.6
Total 5.5 5.8
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and 
unrelated. Therefore, the Directors believe the credit quality of the assets that are neither past due nor impaired are good 
and no further provision is required.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value due to their 
short maturities. 100 101
24. Cash and cash equivalents
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
28.8 16.0
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
Net cash and cash equivalents are held in the following currencies; those held in currencies other than sterling have been 
converted into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Sterling
27.2 15.7
US Dollar
1.5 0.1
Norwegian Kroner
0.1 0.2
28.8 16.0
25. Bank loans
The following table analyses bank borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts: 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current: 
Bank loans 82.7 84.8
Total borrowings 82.7 84.8
Total borrowings are repayable as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
In more than one year but not more than two years - 84.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 82.7 -
82.7 84.8
All bank borrowings are denominated in sterling and are stated net of unamortised issue costs.
The Group refinanced its facilities on 31 May 2013 and entered into a £40.0m term loan and a £50.0m revolving credit 
facility with its existing lenders; Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Clydesdale Bank 
plc. The limit on the revolving credit facility will be reduced by £5.0m on 30 November 2014 to £45.0m and a further £5.0m 
on 30 November 2015 taking the facility to £40.0m. The term loan and remaining £40.0m on the revolving credit facility is 
due for repayment in full on 30 June 2016. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus margin, where the margin is dependent upon 
the Group’s net debt: EBITDA ratio ranging from 2.85 to 3.95%. The Company and certain subsidiaries (as guarantor) have 
entered into a composite guarantee in favour of the syndicated lenders on account of the Company and certain subsidiaries 
(as principal).
The Directors estimate the fair value of the Group’s bank borrowings to be equivalent to its book value. At 31 March 2014, 
of the total committed borrowing facilities of £90.0m (2013: £90.0m), the Group had available £5.5m (2013: £5.0m) of 
undrawn facilities.
In addition the Group has an uncommitted overdraft facility at the Balance Sheet date of £10.0m which has been reduced 
by £2.5m to £7.5m from 1 April 2014 and by a further £2.5m to £5.0m from 1 August 2014. This facility was undrawn at 
31 March 2014.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 100 101
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
26. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables principally comprise the following amounts: 
2014 2013
£m £m
Included within non-current liabilities:
Other payables 4.0 5.1
Included within current liabilities:
Trade payables 18.4 22.3
Other payables 10.7 4.8
Social security and other taxes 8.9 9.0
Accruals 13.6 11.3
51.6 47.4
As at 31 March 2014, trade payables of the Group were equivalent to 43 days (2013: 53 days).
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
27. Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts
Minimum lease payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts:
Within one year 0.8 1.5 0.7 1.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.6 0.7 1.5 0.7
2.4 2.2 2.2 2.1
Less: future finance charges (0.2) (0.1)
Present value of lease obligations 2.2 2.1
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (0.7) (1.4)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 1.5 0.7
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases and hire purchase contracts. 
The average term is 5 years. Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no 
arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
All lease and hire purchase obligations are denominated in sterling.
There is no material difference between the minimum lease payments and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease and hire purchase obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are secured by the lessors’ charges over the 
leased assets. 102 103
28. Provisions
2014 2013
£m £m
Onerous contract provision 4.3 5.2
Restructuring provision 1.1 1.6
Dilapidation provision 5.2 5.3
10.6 12.1
Current 3.8 4.0
Non-current 6.8 8.1
10.6 12.1
Onerous  
contract
provision 
£m
Restructuring
provision 
£m
Dilapidation
provision 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at the start of the year 5.2 1.6 5.3 12.1
Additional provision in the year 1.3 1.2 0.2 2.7
Reclassification of provision 0.2 - (0.2) -
Utilisation of provision (1.9) (1.3) (0.1) (3.3)
Reversal of provision (0.5) (0.4) - (0.9)
Balance at the end of the year 4.3 1.1 5.2 10.6
Included in the onerous contract provision is £2.6m (2013: £4.2m) relating to a single loss making contract for a licensed 
co-location facility. The contract has 2 years left until expiry and the provision represents management’s best estimate of 
the Group’s liability. The onerous contract provision also includes £0.8m in relation to a contract with 1 year to run which 
requires a provision for expected lifetime contract losses and an onerous lease provision relating to leasehold properties 
which end between June 2014 and February 2016.
The restructuring provision is management’s best estimate in relation to redundancy costs which have been incurred as a 
result of the reorganisation. It is expected to be used within the next 12 months.
The dilapidations provision relates to the obligation to reinstate certain properties to their former condition at the end of their 
leases which end between January 2015 and September 2022.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 102 103
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
29. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the 
current and prior year.
Accelerated Share Retirement 
Intangible tax option benefit
Hedging assets depreciation costs Provisions obligations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2012 0.3 (0.3) (1.9) 0.7 0.4 0.3 (0.5)
Credit/(charge) to income - - 1.1 (0.2) 0.9 (0.4) 1.4
(Charge)/credit to equity - - - (0.1) - 0.1 -
At 1 April 2013 0.3 (0.3) (0.8) 0.4 1.3 - 0.9
Credit/(charge) to income - 0.2 0.5 - - (0.4) 0.3
(Charge)/credit to equity (0.2) - - - - - (0.2)
Effect of change in tax rate
 - statement of income - - 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) - (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 0.1 (0.1) (0.2) 0.3 1.2 (0.4) 0.9
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the 
analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
2014 2013
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 1.6 2.0
Deferred tax liabilities (0.7) (1.1)
0.9 0.9
A net deferred tax asset of £0.9m (2013: £0.9m) has been recognised as the Group considers it is probable that there will 
be sufficient taxable profits for the future deductions to be utilised.
At 31 March 2014 £0.3m (2013: £1.5m) of the deferred tax asset and £0.6m (2013: £0.9m) of the deferred tax liability is 
expected to be settled after more than one year.
At 31 March 2014 the Group had capital losses carried forward in respect of which no deferred tax assets were recognised 
amounting to £2.7m (2013: £3.6m). The Group’s capital losses have no expiry date restrictions.
30. Share capital
Allotted 
and fully 
paid
Number £m
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 April 2012 and 1 April 2013 75,380,350 0.8
New shares issued 7,547,934 -
Exercise of share options 99,000 -
At 31 March 2014 83,027,284 0.8
On 17 March 2014, a total of 7,547,934 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1 pence each were issued at a price 
of 114 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of £8.6m. These shares were fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects 
with the existing ordinary shares of the Company, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, 
made or paid after the date of issue.
A total of 65,978 Ordinary Shares are held by the employee benefit trust (2013: 61,468), for which the right to receive 
dividends has been waived.
The Company has one class of ordinary share capital which carries no right to fixed income. 104 105
31. Share premium account
£m
At 1 April 2012 and 1 April 2013 37.6
Exercise of share options 0.1
At 31 March 2014 37.7
32. Merger reserve 
£m
At 1 April 2012 and 1 April 2013 57.5
Premium on issue of shares 8.6
Share issue costs (0.3)
Transfer to retained losses (8.3)
At 31 March 2014 57.5
In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions 
is recorded as a merger reserve. The reserve is not distributable but can be used to make a bonus issue on fully paid shares 
or to make a transfer to retained earnings/(losses), an amount equal to the amount that has become realised, on either the 
disposal or write down of the related investment.
On 17 March 2014, Phoenix IT Group plc issued 7,547,934 new ordinary shares of 1 pence each at a price of 114 pence 
per placing share. The placing raised net proceeds after fees of £8.3m. The Placing was effected through a structure which 
resulted in a merger reserve arising under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds 
through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued was transferred 
from the merger reserve to retained losses.  
33. Other reserves
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Share option 
reserve 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 April 2012 (1.1) 2.6 1.5
Share option expense - 0.2 0.2
Transfer to retained earnings on exercise of share options - (0.1) (0.1)
Deferred tax on share option reserve - (0.1) (0.1)
At 1 April 2013 (1.1) 2.6 1.5
Share option expense - 0.7 0.7
Gain recognised on cash flow hedges 0.7 - 0.7
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (0.2) - (0.2)
At 31 March 2014 (0.6) 3.3 2.7
Other reserves are shown net of taxation, as appropriate.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash flow hedges.  
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in profit or loss when the hedged transaction impacts 
the profit or loss, or is included as a basis adjustment to the non-financial hedged item, consistent with the applicable 
accounting policy.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 104 105
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
33. Other reserves continued
Share option reserve
The share option reserve represents amounts expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Income in connection with 
awards made under the Group’s share option scheme less exercises or lapses of any non TSR awards.
34. Retained earnings/(losses)
£m
At 1 April 2012 33.6
Movement on defined benefit pension schemes (0.8)
Deferred tax on pension reserve 0.1
Exercise of share options 0.1
Loss for the year (59.6)
Dividends (8.2)
At 1 April 2013 (34.8)
Movement on defined benefit pension schemes 0.2
Loss for the year (30.3)
Transfer from merger reserve 8.3
Dividends (4.2)
At 31 March 2014 (60.8)
35. Notes to the cash flow statement
2014 2013
£m £m
Loss from operations (23.9) (54.4)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12.3 13.8
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 0.3
Impairment of property held for sale - 0.1
Impairment of goodwill 33.0 67.2
Impairment of other intangible assets 0.1 0.9
Amortisation of intangibles 1.0 1.6
Share option costs 0.7 0.2
Retirement benefit - difference between contribution and amounts charged (1.5) (1.5)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 21.7 28.2
Decrease in inventories 3.3 2.5
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 9.6 (5.3)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 2.6 (4.9)
Decrease in deferred income (11.1) (2.7)
Cash generated by operations 26.1 17.8
Income taxes refund 0.6 1.6
Interest paid (7.3) (3.6)
Net cash from operating activities 19.4 15.8
Included in interest paid was £2.4m (2013: £nil) relating to loan issue costs incurred in order to refinance the Group’s debt 
facilities and £0.3m (2013: £nil) as a result of the increased margin payable on the banking facility following the accounting 
irregularities and subsequent restatement. 106 107
36. Reconciliation of net borrowings
2014 2013
£m £m
Increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year 12.8 0.8
Movement in borrowings 2.4 (3.3)
Movement in net borrowings during the year 15.2 (2.5)
Net borrowings brought forward (71.3) (68.8)
Net borrowings carried forward (56.1) (71.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 28.8 16.0
Other current borrowings (0.7) (1.8)
Non-current borrowings (84.2) (85.5)
Net borrowings carried forward (56.1) (71.3)
37. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2014 2013
£m £m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 8.7 8.7
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Within one year 13.3 11.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 33.0 31.6
After five years 16.1 18.2
62.4 61.5
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for land and buildings, fixtures and fittings, equipment 
and motor vehicles.
38. Contingent liabilities
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress. The Group takes 
legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, 
based on advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be 
made. The Group has no material claims or actions as at 31 March 2014 (31 March 2013: £nil), other than an outstanding 
potential claim relating to the prior year which the Board believe is fully covered by insurance. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 106 107
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
39. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option plans
The Group has operated the following equity-settled share option plans during the year:
Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) Plan
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Post flotation, no further awards have been made under the EMI plan.
The general terms and conditions of each plan are as follows:
EMI PSP
Exercise price: All grants under the EMI plan were made 
at prices higher than the agreed market 
price of the Company’s shares at the 
date of grant. 
All awards made under the PSP have a 
nil exercise price. The number of options 
granted to eligible Group employees is 
determined as a proportion of base salary 
using the average of the middle market 
quotes for the Company’s shares for the 
three days immediately prior to grant.
Vesting period: Vesting of all EMI plan options was 
conditional upon the flotation of the 
Company. Consequently, all the EMI 
plan options vested in November 2004.
Three years from the date of grant.
Lapse date: All EMI plan options automatically 
lapse if they remain unexercised after 
a period of ten years from the date of 
grant, being 16 May 2003. Furthermore, 
options are forfeited if the option holder 
ceases to be a Group employee before 
exercising the option.
PSP options lapse if they remain 
unexercised after a period of ten years 
from the date of grant. Furthermore, 
options are forfeited if the option holder 
ceases to be a Group employee before 
exercising the option.
Performance conditions: None. i) Scheme 1: EPS
The PSP awards are subject to 
achieving a performance condition 
related to average annual growth in 
either EPS or profit growth over a 
three-year period of between 5 and 
20% per annum. This results in between 
20 and 100% of the options granted 
vesting. Performance between these 
points is on a progressive scale.
ii) Scheme 2: TSR
The extent to which options vest depend 
on the Group’s performance over the 
three-year period following the award 
date. The PSP awards are subject to the 
Group’s total Shareholder return (TSR) 
performance which will be measured 
against the companies comprising 
the FTSE All Share Index (excluding 
FTSE 100 Index and investment trust 
companies). 108 109
39. Share-based payments continued
EMI
2014 2013
Options
Weighted
average
exercise 
price Options
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
Balance at the start of the year 99,500 82p 108,500 79p
Exercised during the year (99,000) 82p - -
Forfeited during the year (500) 96p (9,000) 51p
Outstanding at the end of the year - - 99,500 82p
Exercisable at the end of the year - - 99,500 82p
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 134p for EMI.
On 15 May 2013, all remaining options under the EMI scheme lapsed.
PSP
2014 2013
Options
Weighted
average
exercise 
price Options
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
Balance at the start of the year 2,709,452 - 3,204,876 -
Granted during the year 1,385,000 - 1,805,000 -
Exercised during the year (8,215) - (39,327) -
Forfeited during the year (677,043) - (1,497,097) -
Expired during the year (418,000) - (764,000) -
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,991,194 - 2,709,452 -
Exercisable at the end of the year 36,409 - 61,453 -
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 151p for PSP .
The options outstanding at 31 March 2014 had a weighted average exercise price of nil p, and a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 9 years. In 2013 options were granted on 14 August 2012 and 7 December 2012. On 25 October 2012 
the options granted on 14 August 2012 were modified to reflect an averaging period of 1 month beginning 3 September 
2012 rather than the 3 months prior to the grant date. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on  
14 August 2012 and 7 December 2012 was £1.7m. Including the incremental fair value as a result of the modification, the 
aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted during the year was £1.9m.
In the year, options were granted on 3 June 2013, 4 December 2013 and 18 March 2014. The aggregate of the estimated 
fair values of the options granted on those dates was £1.2m.
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with 
the following assumptions and inputs:
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 108 109
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
2014 2013
Weighted average share price £1.48 £1.95
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil
Expected volatility 42% 39%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Weighted average risk-free rate n/a n/a
Weighted average dividend yield 4.62% 5.62%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous  
three years and by comparison with comparable companies. 
Other share-based plans
The Company introduced a Share Incentive Plan on flotation. All employees were entitled to apply for free shares up to a 
value of £1,250 depending on their period of service. The Company issued 259,558 shares in connection with this award.
In addition, employees are able to buy shares by deduction from their pre-tax salary. Under the current SIP legislation this 
is restricted to a maximum of £1,500 in each tax year or, if less, 10% of salary. From 6 April 2014 the maximum value that 
can be purchased has increased to £1,800 in each tax year or, if less, 10% of salary.
The Group recognised total expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income of £0.5m relating to equity-settled  
share-based payment transactions in 2014 (2013: £0.2m).
40. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are disclosed in note 17 to the individual Company Financial Statements. Transactions with Directors who are the key 
management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Report.
39. Share-based payments continued 110 111
Report on the parent company Financial 
Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion the Financial Statements, defined below:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in 
the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The parent company Financial Statements (the “Financial 
Statements”), which are prepared by Phoenix IT Group plc, 
comprise:
•  Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014;
•  the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting 
framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual 
Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than in 
the notes to the Financial Statements. These are cross-
referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified 
as audited.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of:
•  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
•  the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the Directors; and
•  the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with,  
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Financial Statements; and
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
Independent  
Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Phoenix IT Group plc 110 111
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•  we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by 
the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by 
us; or
•  the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited Financial Statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Responsibilities for the Financial 
Statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on  
the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable  
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, 
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or 
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into 
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group Financial 
Statements of Phoenix IT Group plc for the year ended  
31 March 2014.
Miles Saunders (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Milton Keynes
9 June 2014 112 113
Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 March 2014
2014 2013
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 175.0 184.4
Current assets
Debtors 5 66.6 68.7
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.6
66.8 69.3
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 6 (38.6) (46.2)
Net current assets 28.2 23.1
Total assets less current liabilities 203.2 207.5
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (82.7) (84.8)
Provisions for liabilities 8 (0.3) -
Net assets 120.2 122.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 0.8 0.8
Share premium account 10 37.7 37.6
Merger reserve 11 57.5 57.5
Hedging reserve 12 (0.7) (1.4)
Share option reserve 13 3.3 2.6
Profit and loss account 14 21.6 25.6
Total Shareholders’ funds 15 120.2 122.7
The Financial Statements of Phoenix IT Group plc (registered number 03476115) were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 9 June 2014. They were signed on its behalf by:
Jane Aikman
Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer 112 113
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
1. Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the measurement of share based 
payments and the revaluation of certain financial instruments and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. As permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Company 
has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Directors have presented the Financial Statements on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company and 
Group will have sufficient resources to meet liabilities as they fall due for at least the next 12 months.
In forming their view the Directors have considered the forecasts prepared and the facilities available from the Group’s 
bankers for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of these accounts. Based on these forecasts and after taking into 
consideration all relevant matters that should be taken into consideration, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to present the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year 
and the preceding year.
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of 
transaction. Exchange differences are taken into account in arriving at the operating result. 
Taxation
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, 
and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred 
tax is also dealt with in equity.
Investments
Investments are included in the balance sheet at cost less any provision for permanent impairment.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 114 115
1. Accounting Policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered 
into.
Trade creditors are recognised initially at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of direct issue costs. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accrual basis to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments are any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its 
liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, less any direct issue costs. Finance charges and direct 
issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss using the effective interest method and are added 
to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based payments’. In accordance with the transitional 
provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of  
1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based 
on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, estimates regarding the future probability of service, and non-market performance conditions being 
met are revised on a basis consistent with recent experience. Any resultant revisions of original estimates are recorded 
as an adjustment to the cost of investments in employing Group entities or in the profit and loss, as appropriate, and the 
share option reserve.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to interest rate movements. The Company does not 
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable 
commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting variable rate to fixed rate or vice versa. Interest 
differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting new interest payable over the period of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is 
marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time. 
2. Staff costs
The Directors were the only employees during the year and they received all of their remuneration, as disclosed in the 
Remuneration Committee Report on page 52, from Phoenix IT Services Limited, a subsidiary entity.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 114 115
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
3. Profit of Parent Company
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company is not 
presented as part of these accounts. The Parent Company’s loss after tax for the financial year amounted to £8.1m  
(2013: profit after tax of £6.2m).
The fees paid or are payable to the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the Company and 
the Consolidated Financial Statements is shown in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4. Investments
Total
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2013 185.6
Additions in respect of share-based payments 0.3
At 31 March 2014 185.9
Accumulated impairment
At 1 April 2013 1.2
Impairment 9.7
At 31 March 2014 10.9
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 175.0
At 31 March 2013 184.4
At 31 March 2014 the Company held directly or indirectly 100% of the allotted share capital of the following principal 
undertakings which are all included in the consolidation:
Name of subsidiary Country of registration
Class of share 
capital held Nature of business
Phoenix IT Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary Provision of information 
technology services
Trend Network Services England and Wales Ordinary Provision of information 
technology, networking 
support and infrastructure 
services
Phoenix IT Continuity and Resilience Services 
Limited (formerly ICM Business Continuity 
Services Limited)
England and Wales Ordinary Provision of business 
continuity and IT disaster 
recovery services
Phoenix IT Continuity Consulting Limited 
(formerly ICM Continuity Consulting Limited)
England and Wales Ordinary Software development and 
support
Phoenix IT Managed Services Limited 
(formerly Servo Limited)
England and Wales Ordinary Provision of information 
technology services and 
systems
Phoenix IT Computer Group (Scotland) 
Limited (formerly ICM Computer Group 
(Scotland) Limited)
Scotland Ordinary Provision of information 
technology services and 
systems
Aghoco 1000 Limited England and Wales Ordinary Provision of information 
technology services
5. Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 17) 64.4 66.4
Prepayments 2.0 2.1
Deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2
66.6 68.7
The deferred tax asset relates to accelerated capital allowances and deferred tax on share options. 116 117
6. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
2014 2013
£m £m
Trade creditors 0.1 0.9
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 17) 36.4 42.2
Social security and other taxes 0.1 0.1
Accruals 1.2 1.6
Hedging liability 0.8 1.4
38.6 46.2
7. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
2014 2013
£m £m
Bank loans 82.7 84.8
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
In more than one year but not more than two years - 84.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 82.7 -
82.7 84.8
The Group refinanced its facilities on 31 May 2013 and entered into a £40.0m term loan and a £50.0m revolving credit 
facility with its existing lenders; Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Clydesdale 
Bank plc. The limit on the revolving credit facility will be reduced by £5.0m on 30 November 2014 to £45.0m and a 
further £5.0m on 30 November 2015 taking the facility to £40.0m. The term loan and remaining £40.0m on the revolving  
credit facility is due for repayment in full in June 2016. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus margin, where the margin is 
dependent upon the Group’s net debt: EBITDA ratio ranging from 2.85 to 3.95%. The Company and certain subsidiaries  
(as guarantor) have entered into a composite guarantee in favour of the syndicated lenders on account of the Company and 
certain subsidiaries (as principal).
8. Provisions for liabilities
£m
At 1 April 2013 -
Additional provision in the year 0.3
At 31 March 2014 0.3
The restructuring provision is management’s best estimate in relation to redundancy costs which have incurred as a result 
of the reorganisation. It is expected to be used within the next 12 months.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 116 117
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
9. Called up share capital
Allotted 
and fully 
paid
Number £m
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 April 2013 75,380,350 0.8
New shares issued 7,547,934 -
Exercise of share options 99,000 -
At 31 March 2014 83,027,284 0.8
On 17 March 2014, Phoenix IT Group plc issued 7,547,934 new ordinary shares of 1 pence each at a price of 114 pence 
per placing share. The placing raised net proceeds after fees of £8.3m. The Placing was effected through a structure which 
resulted in a merger reserve arising under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds 
through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued was transferred from 
the merger reserve to the profit and loss account. These shares were fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with the 
existing ordinary shares of the Company, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made 
or paid after the date of issue.
10. Share premium account
£m
At 1 April 2013 37.6
Exercise of share options 0.1
At 31 March 2014 37.7
11. Merger reserve
£m
At 1 April 2013 57.5
Premium on issue of shares 8.6
Share issue costs (0.3)
Transfer to profit and loss account (8.3)
At 31 March 2014 57.5
12. Hedging reserve
£m
At 1 April 2013 (1.4)
Gain recognised on cash flow hedge 0.7
At 31 March 2014 (0.7)
13. Share option reserve
£m
At 1 April 2013 2.6
Share option expense 0.7
At 31 March 2014 3.3
14. Profit and loss account
£m
At 1 April 2013 25.6
Loss for the year (8.1)
Transfer from merger reserve 8.3
Dividends (note 14 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) (4.2)
At 31 March 2014 21.6 118 119
15. Reconciliation of movements in Shareholders’ funds
2014 2013
£m £m
Opening Shareholders’ funds 122.7 124.5
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (8.1) 6.2
Dividends (note 14 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) (4.2) (8.2)
110.4 122.5
Exercise of share options 0.1 -
Gain recognised on cash flow hedge 0.7 -
Share option expense 0.7 0.2
Premium on issue of shares 8.6 -
Share issue costs (0.3) -
Closing Shareholders’ funds 120.2 122.7
16. Share-based payments
Details of share options granted by Group companies to employees, and that remain outstanding, over the 
Company’s shares are set out in note 39 to the Phoenix IT Group plc Consolidated Financial Statements on page 107.  
The Company recognised a charge of £0.3m to the profit and loss account relating to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions in 2014 (2013: credit of £0.2m) which is recharged from Phoenix IT Services Limited (a subsidiary of the 
Company) as the employees’ contracts of employment are with this Company.
17. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are below.
Amounts owed by related parties 2014 2013
£m £m
Phoenix IT Services Limited 37.4 37.1
ICM Computer Group Limited 27.0 27.0
Phoenix IT Managed Services Limited (formerly Servo Limited) - 2.3
64.4 66.4
Amounts owed to related parties 2014 2013
£m £m
Trend Network Services (19.4) (19.9)
Phoenix International Holdings Limited (0.6) (0.6)
Phoenix IT Continuity and Resilience Services Limited (formerly ICM Business Continuity Services 
Limited)
(11.4) (21.3)
Phoenix IT Continuity Consulting Limited (formerly ICM Continuity Consulting Limited) (0.8) (0.4)
Phoenix IT Managed Services Limited (formerly Servo Limited) (4.2) -
(36.4) (42.2)
The transactions with related parties include the receipt of dividends from subsidiaries totalling £10.0m and loans,  
as above both payable by the company to subsidiaries and repayable to the company by subsidiaries, which carry  
no interest and are repayable on demand. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.  
No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of  
the amounts owed by related parties.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2014 continued 118 119
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Five Year Summary 
For the year ended 31 March 2014
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Results
Revenue 233.4 250.0 260.8 269.0 244.5
Profit from operations excluding amortisation of intangibles and 
non-recurring items
17.7 19.0 24.1 28.4 29.5
Amortisation of intangibles (1.0) (1.6) (2.9) (3.1) (3.1)
Non-recurring items (40.6) (71.8) (22.0) (3.3) (1.2)
(Loss)/profit from operations (23.9) (54.4) (0.8) 22.0 25.2
Net interest payable including non-recurring finance costs (5.3) (4.4) (4.1) (4.3) (4.9)
(Loss)/profit before tax (29.2) (58.8) (4.9) 17.7 20.3
Key statistics
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (40.0p) (79.1p) (4.9p) 17.6p 20.8p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (40.0p) (79.1p) (4.9p) 17.1p 20.1p
Underlying earnings per ordinary share* 12.6p 14.5p 20.1p 24.3p 25.3p
Underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share* 12.1p 13.9p 19.4p 23.5p 24.5p
*Underlying earnings per ordinary share and underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share exclude the effect of amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items. 120 121
NOTICE is hereby given that the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Phoenix IT Group plc (the “Company”) will be 
held at Phoenix House, Oakwell Way, Oakwell Business Park, Birstall, West Yorkshire, WF17 9LU on Thursday 25 
September 2014 at 09.30 am, for the following purposes.  Resolutions 1 to 12 and 16 and 17 will be proposed as 
ordinary Resolutions.  Resolutions 13 to 15 will be proposed as special Resolutions.
1.  To receive the Report of the Directors, the Accounts and the Auditors’ Report on the Accounts and on the auditable 
part of the Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2014;
2.  To approve the Remuneration Committee Report, other than the part containing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, in 
the form set out in the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014;
3.  To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, in the form set out in the Remuneration Committee Report in the 
Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014; 
4.  To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 1p per ordinary share, to be paid on 29 September 
2014 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 August 2014;
5.  To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors to the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next 
General Meeting at which Accounts are laid before the Company;
6.  To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company; 
7.  To re-elect Peter Bertram as a Director of the Company
8.  To re-elect David Garman as a Director of the Company 
9.  To re-elect Jane Aikman as a Director of the Company; 
10.  To elect Robin Taylor who was appointed since the last Annual General Meeting as a Director of the Company;
11.  To elect Steve Vaughan who was appointed since the last Annual General Meeting as a Director of the Company;
12.  That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 
2006 (in substitution for any existing authority) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company 
or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company (together, “Relevant Securities”) 
or otherwise deal with or dispose of Relevant Securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £276,757 provided that 
such authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015 or 24 
December 2015, whichever is earlier, but so that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement 
which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the Directors may allot Relevant 
Securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this Resolution had not expired;
13.  That, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 as set out in the Notice of this meeting, the Directors be empowered 
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies 
Act 2006) for cash pursuant to the general authority conferred by Resolution 12 as set out in the Notice of this meeting 
or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561(1) of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment, 
provided that this power shall be limited to allotments of equity securities: 
(a)  in connection with or pursuant to an offer by way of rights, open offer or other pre-emptive offer to the holders of 
shares in the Company and other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to 
their respective holdings, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary 
or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the 
regulations or requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange in any territory; 
(b)  otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £41,513,  
and such power shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015 
Notice of Annual  
General Meeting
This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any doubt as to what action you 
should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser.  If 
you have sold or transferred all your shares in Phoenix IT Group plc, please pass this document and the accompanying 
form of proxy to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom you made the sale or transfer, for transmission to the 
purchaser or transferee. 120 121
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
or on 24 December 2015, whichever is earlier, but so that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the Directors may allot 
equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this Resolution had not expired;
14.  That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to 
make market purchases (as defined in section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of up to 4,151,364 ordinary shares 
of 1p each in the capital of the Company (being approximately five per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as 
at 31 May 2014) on such terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may from time to time determine, 
provided that:
(a)  the amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company) shall not be more than the higher of 
(1) five per cent above the average of the middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary shares as derived from 
the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days before the date on which the contract for 
the purchase is made, and (2) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest 
current independent bid as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading system and in any event not less than 1p 
per ordinary share; and 
(b)  the authority herein contained shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held 
in 2015 or on 24 December 2015, whichever is earlier, provided that the Company may, before such expiry, make 
a contract to purchase its own shares which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and the 
Company may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority conferred by this 
Resolution had not expired;
15.  That the Company be authorised, pursuant to section 307A of the Companies Act 2006, to call any General Meeting 
of the Company (other than the Annual General Meeting of the Company) by notice of at least 14 clear days provided 
that the authority of this Resolution shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be 
held in 2014;
16.  That the rules of the Phoenix IT Group PLC 2014 Performance Share Plan (the “2014 PSP”) produced in draft to 
this meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be 
authorised to:
(a)  make such modifications to the 2014 PSP as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of 
best practice and for the implementation of the 2014 PSP and to adopt the 2014 PSP as so modified and to do all such 
other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the 2014 PSP; and
(b)  establish further plans based on the 2014 PSP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities 
laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting 
against the limits on individual or overall participation in the 2014 PSP .
17.  That the proposed updated form of the rules of the Phoenix IT Group Share Incentive Plan 2004 produced in draft to 
this meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved to become the Phoenix IT 
Group PLC 2014 Share Incentive Plan (the “2014 SIP”) and the Directors be authorised to:
(a)  make such modifications to the 2014 SIP as they may consider appropriate to procure tax-favoured treatments for the 
2014 SIP and to take account of the requirements of best practice, and for the implementation of the 2014 SIP and 
to adopt the 2014 SIP as so modified and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to 
implement the 2014 SIP; and
(b)  establish further plans based on the 2014 SIP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities 
laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting 
against the limits on individual or overall participation in the 2014 SIP .
Dated: 04 July 2014
Registered Office:
Lakeside House
The Lakes
Bedford Road
Northampton
Northamptonshire
NN4 7HD
By Order of the Board
Dirk Toulmin – Van Sittert
Secretary 122 123
Notes:
1.  Any member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies (who 
need not be a member of the Company) to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member. Completion and 
return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person, should he 
subsequently decide to do so. A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him. 
2.  Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to 
represent you. Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted. Details of 
how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the 
proxy form.
3.  In order to be valid, any form of proxy and power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a notarially 
certified or office copy of such power or authority, must reach the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Ltd, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or of any adjournment of the 
meeting. 
4.  To change your proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above. Where 
you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hard 
copy proxy form, please contact the Company’s Registrars (See note 3). The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments 
(see above) also applies in relation to amended instructions. Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment 
received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded. Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are 
received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as 
replacing and revoking the other or others.
5.  CREST Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment 
service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com)  
CREST Personal Shareholders or other CREST sponsored Shareholders, and those CREST Shareholders who have 
appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be 
able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
6.  In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST 
Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland’s specifications and must 
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of 
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 
proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA 19) by the latest time(s) 
for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken 
to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which 
the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
7.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
8.  CREST Shareholders and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear 
UK & Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings 
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the 
CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or 
has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such 
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST Shareholders and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers 
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system 
and timings.
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 122 123
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
9.  As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, Shareholders who hold shares in 
uncertificated form must be entered on the Company’s share register at 6.00 pm on 23 September 2014 in order to be 
entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting. Such Shareholders may only cast votes in respect of shares 
held at such time. Changes to entries on the relevant register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the 
rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
10.  The total number of ordinary shares of 1p in issue as at 31 May 2014, the last practicable day before printing this 
document was 83,027,284 ordinary shares and the total level of voting rights was 83,027,284 none of which were 
attached to shares held in treasury by the Company.
11.  Shareholders satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish 
a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to:
11.1  the audit of the Company’s Accounts (including the Auditor’s Report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be 
laid before the meeting; or
11.2  any circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual 
General  Meeting, that the Shareholders propose to raise at the meeting;  
 
The Company cannot require the Shareholders requesting the publication to pay its expenses. Any statement 
placed on the website must also be sent to the Company’s Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement 
available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the 
Company has been required to publish on its website.
12.  Copies of the Service Contracts of each of the Directors and the Articles of Association of the Company, will be available 
for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday (Saturdays and 
public holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of 
the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
13.  Copies of the rules of the 2014 PSP and the 2014 SIP will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
offices and at the offices of New Bridge Street at 10 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4YP during normal business 
hours on any weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted) until the close of the Annual General 
Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General 
Meeting.
14.  Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such 
question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: to do so would 
interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information; or the answer 
has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or it is undesirable in the interests of the 
Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
NB:
15.  A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the 
Company’s website: www.phoenix.co.uk/about/investor-relations.
16.  You must not use any electronic address provided either in the notice of meeting or any related documents (including 
the form of proxy) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
17.  A person who is not a member of the Company but has been nominated by a member of the Company (the ‘relevant 
member’) to enjoy information rights (the ‘nominated person’) does not have a right to appoint any proxies under note 1 
above. However, a nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to be appointed 
or to have somebody else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting. If a nominated person does not have such a right or 
has such a right and does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to 
give instructions as to the exercise of voting rights. 124 125 124
Advisers
Phoenix IT Group plc Independent Auditors Solicitors
Registered in England 03476115 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Nabarro LLP
 Chartered Accountants and Lacon House
Registered office Statutory Auditors 84 Theobalds Road
Lakeside House Exchange House London
The Lakes Central Business Exchange WC1X 8RW
Bedford Road Midsummer Boulevard
Northampton Central Milton Keynes Financial public relations
NN4 7HD MK9 2DF FTI Consulting
  Holborn Gate
Financial advisers & stockbrokers Registrars 26 Southampton Buildings
Investec Investment Banking Equiniti Limited London
2 Gresham Street Aspect House WC2A 1PB
London Spencer Road
EC2V 7QP Lancing Remuneration consultants
 West Sussex New Bridge Street
Numis Securities Limited BN99 6DA (an Aon plc company)
The London Stock Exchange Building  6 More London Place
10 Paternoster Square Principal bankers London
London Royal Bank of Scotland SE1 2DA
EC4M 7LT 152 Silbury Boulevard
 Milton Keynes
 MK9 1LT
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting: 25 September 2014
Ex Dividend Date: 20 August 2014
Record Date for Dividend: 22 August 2014
Dividend Payment Date: 29 September 2014    124 125 126 PB
Phoenix IT Group plc
Lakeside House
The Lakes
Bedford Road
Northampton, NN4 7HD
t: +44 (0) 8448 630000
f: +44 (0) 8448 630002
www.phoenix.co.uk
