 Annual report and accounts 2002 ARM Holdings plc Annual report and accounts 2002 2 ARM at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive Officer’s review
8Review of operations
8forging relationships
10 enabling solutions
12 pioneering technologies
14 Directors and advisers
16 Financial review
18 Corporate governance/UK GAAP
21 Directors’ report/UK GAAP
23 Remuneration report/UK GAAP
30 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
31 Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc/UK GAAP
32 Consolidated profit and loss account/UK GAAP
Statement of group total recognised gains and losses/UK GAAP
33 Consolidated balance sheet/UK GAAP
34 Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
35 Consolidated cash flow statement/UK GAAP
36 Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP
56 Selected consolidated financial data/US GAAP
57 Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP
61 Consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income/US GAAP
62 Consolidated balance sheets/US GAAP
63 Consolidated statements of cash flows/US GAAP
64 Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity/US GAAP
65 Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP
79 Report of independent accountants/US GAAP
80 Group directory
Contents ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  1
ARM licenses innovative, power-efficient RISC microprocessor
cores, peripheral solutions and system-on-chip designs to the
world’s major electronics companies. These are used in a
wide range of applications, including those in the automotive,
consumer entertainment, digital imaging, mass storage,
networking, security and wireless industries.
As the world’s leading provider of 16/32-bit embedded RISC
microprocessor solutions, ARM’s presence in the industry now
encompasses more than 75% of the market. Our architecture
is set to become the technology of choice for digital products
worldwide, as old 8-bit applications migrate to 16/32-bit.
If you use a mobile telephone, a personal organiser, watch
digital TV or access the internet, you are likely to be using 
a product which has our technology at its core.
Cover: Lava flowing into the Pacific Ocean, Hawaii. The power of lava is usually hidden from view, 
at the heart of a volcano. The power of ARM IP is at the heart of its Partners’ products. Revenue analysis (%) Royalty units (%) Licence revenues by product (%)
ARM at a glance
2 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Revenues (£m)
Licensing 55%
Royalties 18%
Development systems 15%
Support, maintenance and training 9%
Consulting 3%
ARM7
TM
family 15%
ARM9
TM
family 43%
ARM10
TM
/ARM11/architecture 23%
Non-core licensing 19%
Automotive 2%
Consumer 8%
Imaging 3%
Networking 10%
Secure 4%
Storage 2%
Wireless 71%
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
150.9
146.3
100.7
62.1
42.3
0  50 100 150 200
•
Total revenues up by 3% (7% at constant exchange rates) in 2002, to £150.9 million
•
Our Partners shipped a total of 456 million chips in 2002 based on ARM technology
•
The first core from the ARM11™ family of products was successfully delivered to lead Partners in December 
Royalty revenues (£m)
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
26.8
27.9
25.6
11.1 
3.6
0  5 10 15 20 25 30 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  3
Geographic revenue by market destination 
United States 44%
Austin, Texas
Novi, Michigan
Carlsbad, California
Los Gatos, California
Northborough, Massachusetts
Walnut Creek, California
Europe 18%
Blackburn, UK
Cambridge, UK
Maidenhead, UK
Sheffield, UK
Montigny le Bretonneux, France
Sophia Antipolis, France
Munich, Germany
Kfar Saba, Israel
Asia Pacific 38%
Seoul, South Korea
Taipei, Taiwan
Shin-Yokohama, Japan
Shanghai, PR China
•
ARM remains strongly profitable and cash-generative, despite lower revenues in the second 
half of the year
•
The global reach of ARM's business extended further with the opening of our office in China
Net cash balance at year end (£m)
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
130.3
104.5
75.3
51.8
39.6
0  30 60 90 120 150
Income before tax (US GAAP) (£m)
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
45.4
50.3
35.4
18.0 
9.4
0  10 20 30 40 50 60 Chairman’s statement
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Results
We finished the year with total revenues up 3%, 
to £150.9 million, and licensing revenues up 8%, 
to £83.0 million. Profit before tax was down slightly 
to £47.5 million, from £50.6 million in 2001, before
restructuring costs of £2.0 million in 2002. Improved
management of our working capital contributed to 
an increase in our cash and short-term investments 
to £130.3 million, from £104.5 million at the end of 
the previous year.
The market
The challenging economic environment and downturn 
in the semiconductor industry persisted throughout 2002.
While we showed a healthy growth in the first half of
the year, the industry slow-down caught up with us in
the second half as a number of our Partners deferred
placing licensing orders from quarter to quarter and, 
as a result, licensing activity slowed down. 
This led us to revise our short- to medium-term revenue
expectations in the fourth quarter and to adjust our cost
base accordingly. ARM continues, however, to report
strong profits and to generate cash, and we have
persevered with our policy of investing in the Company’s
future by maintaining a high level of expenditure on
research and development.
Geographic expansion
In July 2002, we opened an office in Shanghai, in the
People’s Republic of China. ARM Consulting (Shanghai)
Co. Ltd., will help to create a comprehensive value chain
for the country’s electronics industry by supporting
existing and prospective Partners, and by becoming
involved in initiatives such as technology transfer and
university programmes.
People
In the fourth quarter, in response to the declining
market, we took the painful, but necessary, decision 
to reduce our total workforce by approximately 12%; 
at the end of the year we employed 721 people, taking
us back to the number we employed at the end of 2001.
The reductions, which were made across all levels and
business areas, will save approximately £5 million a year
in employment costs. 
In March 2002, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Brooks
retired from the Company and we were pleased to
welcome Tim Score as his replacement; in August 2002,
Pete Magowan, Vice President of Business Development,
left us to enter the venture capital industry, and Mike
Inglis was appointed to the ARM Holdings plc board as
Executive Vice President, Marketing. I would like to
thank both Jonathan and Pete for their significant
contributions to the Company’s development.
We strengthened the operational board of the company
by appointing Colm MacKernan as General Counsel and
by promoting Simon Segars, Executive Vice President,
Engineering, and Jerry Ardizzone, Executive Vice
President, Worldwide Sales, to the executive team.
We appreciate the hard work and creativity of all our
people and thank them for their contribution.
Legal action
In May 2002, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a
lawsuit before the Federal District Court for Northern
California, claiming that our Jazelle
®
technology for 
Java acceleration infringes a US patent owned by
Nazomi. We are confident that our products do not
infringe the patent cited in the law suit or any other
Nazomi patent.
ARM’s competitive position in the intellectual property (IP)
licensing business improved during 2002, despite tough
trading conditions. Although the short-term trading outlook is
flattish, our long-term objective to become the architecture 
for the digital world remains on track. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  5
We believe that this action is more straightforward than
the litigation with picoTurbo Inc., which was concluded 
in December 2001, and expect the cost and management
time to be significantly less. We believe that the matter
could be concluded quickly.
We are now protecting our IP even more vigorously. 
We filed twice as many patent applications in 2002 as in
the previous year and now have more than 230 patent
families which cover the scope of our activities; these
comprise 738 patents on file around the world, 245 of
which have matured into issued patents.
Current trading and prospects 
The strategic nature of our relationships with our
Partners enables us to be optimistic about our prospects
but, in the current climate, the timing of the completion
of licensing deals is difficult to predict. In addition, our
reported revenues are exposed to any further weakening
of the US dollar. As a result, we expect our quarterly
revenues to be fairly flat during 2003.
We have, however, received positive feedback from our
Partners on our new ARM1136J-S™ and ARM1136JF-S™
processors. During the year, we will introduce other 
new cores, platform products and Development Systems
products, which should further stimulate demand.
Over the longer term, we believe that the industry
downturn will serve only to strengthen our market
position. The accelerating pace behind the ARM
architecture is illustrated by the expansion of the
third-party community of companies that have chosen
to work closely with us. The quality and flexibility 
of our architecture, combined with our focus on high
performance at low cost, and on good power efficiency,
not only differentiates us from our competitors, but 
also makes us the preferred partner for many of the
world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers.
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman 2002 was a challenging year for our industry and for ARM. 
The strength of our Partnership business model and the
passion and commitment of our employees, however, enabled
us to finish 2002 a significantly stronger company than at the
end of the previous year.
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Partnerships 
Our Partnerships continue to be a key ingredient in our
commercial success. During 2002, we signed 33 new
Partners and 70 new licences: 46 multi-use licences and
24 per-use licences. Of the 33 new Partners signed
during the year, 23 took per-use licences through our
Foundry Programme. At the end of 2002, we had 108
semiconductor Partners compared with 77 at the end 
of 2001. 
In the fourth quarter of the year, US-based company
Flextronics, one of the world’s largest providers of
electronics manufacturing services, became the first
licensee in our new Approved Licensing Programme. 
This enables Flextronics to sub-license ARM products 
as part of a wider design services offering.
Significant opportunities exist to license our technology
to new Partners and to license new technology to our
existing Partners; for example, in the fourth quarter 
we announced that LSI Logic, Qualcomm and Texas
Instruments were among the first five licensees 
of the ARM1136J-S processor, the first core from 
the ARM11 microarchitecture, based on the ARMv6
architecture. In addition to licensing products on a per-
use basis, we also license non-Central Processing Units
(CPUs), which include hardware platforms, application
software, models and peripherals, to new and existing
Partners.
The revenue from the licensing of non-CPU technology
increased during the year to £12.6 million, compared
with £11.9 million in the previous year. The PrimeXsys
TM
Platform, which we launched in 2001, and which
enables licensees to improve the time-to-market of their
application solutions, had been licensed to four Partners
by the end of 2002. During the year, we also announced
the availability of the PrimeXsys Dual Core Platform,
which is primarily for use in networking applications.
In 2002, the proportion of licence revenues earned from
existing Partners increased to 89%, from 80% in 2001,
and, as our Partner base grows and the number of
available products extends, our ability to sign upgrade
and derivative licences will increase.
The Foundry Programme
Our Foundry Programme, which we introduced in 2000,
continued to expand. Under this Programme, we make
our technology available to small “fabless” companies
(companies which do not have the facility to fabricate
silicon), by licensing it on a per-use basis. The fabless
companies then have their chips manufactured by 
one of our Foundry Partners. During the year, four 
more foundries joined the Programme, making a 
total of seven. 
Our first per-use licensee began shipping ARM Powered
®
devices in the first quarter of 2002; by the end of the
year the number of per-use licensees shipping product
had increased to six. Four of our 19 cores which are
available for multi-use licensing have been introduced
into the Foundry Programme.
When we established the Programme, we envisaged
that some per-use licensees would upgrade to multi-use
licences and, to date, four have done so.
The Programme’s lower up-front licence fees, but 
higher per-unit royalties, have attracted a large number
of Partners and have, therefore, increased the number 
of licences sold without having an adverse impact on
the pricing of our multi-use licences.
Royalties and unit shipments
During 2002, our semiconductor Partners shipped a total
of 456 million ARM core-based devices, earning total
royalty revenues of £26.8 million. Royalty revenues are
affected by many factors, including the number of ARM Partners shipping and the mix of core-based chips being
sold; the newer cores tend to generate higher per-unit
payments. Of all the ARM core-based chips sold, 93%
have been based on ARM7 technology but, as royalties
are earned on more recent ARM9, ARM10 and ARM11
core-based chips, we expect the average royalty per
chip to increase. In the longer term, chips sold by per-
use licensees will have a positive impact on the average
royalty rate, reflecting the different business model
deployed in the Foundry Programme.
Royalties are now being earned from products being
shipped in all target end markets – automotive,
consumer entertainment, imaging, mass storage,
microcontrollers, networking, secure and wireless. 
The wireless market, in which we include personal
organisers, continued to be the largest contributor to
royalty revenues, accounting for approximately 64%
(11% of total revenues). 
Development Systems
After a very strong start to the year, sales of
Development Systems slowed and ended the year at
£23.1 million, marginally down on the £23.3 million
reported in 2001. Encouragingly, however, sales of the
RealView
®
Development Solution, which is an important
indicator of the level of ARM technology-based
development activity, were up year on year. The
RealView Development Solution provides a complete
software development solution for creating applications
based on our architecture.
We expect our recently-introduced RealView tools to
have a positive effect on sales in 2003. Revenues from
the sales of Development System products illustrate the
global reach of the ARM
®
architecture: 40% are sold in
East Asia, 31% in Europe and 29% in the US; 30% of
these were sold through our network of distributors.
Product development
Research and development continues to be high on our
agenda. ARM was built on innovation and the new and
exciting products we develop will be the key to our
future success. Our objective is to deliver competitive
advantage to our Partners in all the end markets they
target. In 2002, our investment in research and
development increased by 25%, to £48.7 million, 
and represented 32% of sales.
In the fourth quarter of 2002, we made the first
deliveries of the ARM1136J-S core, which is designed 
to meet the low-power needs of battery-powered and
high-density embedded applications, and is ideal for
innovative applications in networking, wireless,
automotive and consumer entertainment.
I congratulate the engineers who worked on the
development of the ARM1136JF-S core, which was
recently voted IP Processor of 2002, by the analysts 
of Microprocessor Report.
During the year, we launched the ARM11 PrimeXsys
Platform for wireless applications, and the PrimeXsys
Dual Core Platform for networking applications. These
platforms provide system developers with all the
hardware, software and verification IP necessary 
to design a system on chip (SoC). We also announced 
a technology collaboration, aimed at prolonging the
battery life of mobile devices, with National
Semiconductor.
Our technology has been licensed to many of the world’s
leading semiconductor companies and many of our
Partners have demonstrated their confidence in it by
increasing the number of products they license from 
us. Around two-thirds of the top 150 semiconductor
companies have not yet, however, licensed our
technology. These opportunities that exist, combined
with the flexibility of our licensing models and the ARM
total solution offering, combine to give us confidence 
in the future.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  7 8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Review of operations
forging
relationships
The Partnerships we have formed with major
semiconductor companies, such as Philips, Texas
Instruments (TI) and Toshiba, have served us well and
continue to do so. TI, for example, was one of the first
licensees of the ARM1136J-S product, while Toshiba and
Philips were two of more than 25 Partners to sign up to
provide support and technical contributions towards the
development of the next generation of AMBA™ 3.0
technology, an established industry methodology for
system-on-chip (SoC) module assembly. 
Our overriding culture of meeting the market’s
constantly evolving needs has led us to develop 
a number of different styles of Partnership. These range
from our original business model, under which we
license our microprocessor cores, to our Foundry
Programme, which was developed to enable smaller,
fabless, companies to benefit from our expertise.
Whereas our larger Partners license our technology 
on a multi-use basis, the smaller, and typically one-
product, companies license our IP on a per-use basis.
They produce silicon through one of our seven Foundry
Partners (wafer fabricators), which hold licences to
manufacture using our cores. This enables these smaller
companies to mitigate risk and to bring their ARM
Powered products to market quickly.
More recently, a newer type of Partner has emerged
to participate in the ARM Approved Licensing
Programme. This programme enables Partners 
to sub-license ARM core technology and, thereby 
to provide their customers with end-to-end services. 
The benefits to these customers, principally original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs), of dealing with one
party for IP , design and manufacturing are lower costs
and improved time-to-market. Our first Partner in this
new programme is US-based Flextronics Semiconductor.
Our Subscription Licence model, which we developed 
for some of our larger Partners, enables them to pay 
an annual fee and to use our IP during that period. 
This saves time and legal costs because Partners are
able to access our technology on demand under a single
legal agreement. It also helps us to promote the use of
our IP in these companies because it gives development
groups which are planning new designs, quick and easy
access to our technology.
Our ARM Technology Access Programme (ATAP)
extended and formalised our relationship with design
service companies which, by specialising in designing
SoC implementations, enable product development
teams to focus on differentiation and adding value. 
We verify that each centre is able to meet the needs 
of the growing number of our Partners which choose 
to outsource all, or part of, their design or manufacturing
activities. 
We introduced a further initiative, our Approved Training
Centre (ATC) programme, to extend and formalise existing
relationships. This increases the number of organisations
which are authorised to provide ARM training. We give
their teaching staff intensive training and monitor 
them regularly to ensure that they continue to meet 
our standards.
ARM’s many types of Partners include an entire
community of organisations which align their products
and services around the ARM architecture. These include
leading Operating Systems and Real Time Operating
Systems (RTOS) providers, EDA companies, application
software providers, and tools developers. Each
contributes to our network of Partners by enabling 
a wide range of technology solutions that support the
development of ARM Powered products. This makes our
architecture one of the most widely supported 32-bit
RISC microprocessor solutions available today.
As the market evolves, we will continue to create
innovative business models to enable us to take
advantage of new opportunities as well as to provide
access to our technology for an entirely new generation
of companies.
We have a “can do” culture and have always been
prepared to find ways to deliver what our Partners need. 
Above right: Iceberg Alley, off Newfoundland, Canada. Icebergs are usually found in groups, in which they
stay and migrate. ARM’s relationships with its Partners are similarly stable and long lasting. ARM’s Partnership culture has had a major 
role to play in the Company’s success and, in recent years, new and different
Partnership models have been introduced to enable more companies to join 
the ARM community.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  9 ARM provides the tools and the methodologies,
including compilers, debuggers, and development boards to enable developers
to design and debug their hardware and software, and to deliver complete
solutions.
10 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Review of operations/continued
enabling
solutions
Our silicon Partners develop complex chips which will
power the next generation of systems products. Our
PrimeXsys Platform solutions help them to get their
products to market more quickly by speeding up the
process. In 2002, we introduced our ARM11 PrimeXsys
Platform at the same time as the first of our new
ARM11 CPU cores. The PrimeXsys Platform, which
standardises key functions, enables our Partners to focus
on creating differentiated products.
Our RealView family of development tools has been
developed to support what are described as multi-core
designs, in which our Partners may be integrating one or
several ARM cores, together with a Digital Signal Processor
(DSP) core from another source. Because silicon processes
now have much finer geometry, more transistors can be
put on a single chip, which makes the SoC very complex.
RealView tools simplify the process of debugging and
developing the software for multi-core design.
Our RealView tools provide designers with the best
solution for creating and analysing systems based on our
technology. They are designed and used by the same
engineers who created our architecture. We test them 
to the highest level of pre- and post-silicon evaluation
and development. As a result, the ARM RealView
Development Solution provides the broadest possible
range of support for future ARM architectures and
derivatives. ARM RealView tools are fully integrated 
and provide a complete solution to any design or SoC
integration; they give the developer a higher level 
of confidence in getting the product right first time and,
therefore, speed the time-to-market. 
AMBA technology is a further example of an ARM
methodology which enables product designers to
achieve a total solution. It is an open standard, which 
is available from our website through a simple licence
agreement, and is free. It is widely supported by our
Partners and is equally widely accepted as a standard 
for on-chip interconnect.
In December, we announced the next generation of 
the AMBA specification: more than 25 industry-leading
companies are collaborating with us on the development
of the AMBA 3.0 methodology. Given the strength of
commitment to this programme, the technology will
benefit from the most comprehensive industry-wide
support possible for a communication methodology.
In November 2002, we formed an innovative
strategic alliance with US-based National
Semiconductor. We are combining our Intelligent 
Energy Manager™ with National Semiconductor’s
PowerWise™ technology, to increase the battery life 
of mobile telephones, initially by 25–75%, but
eventually by as much as 400%. 
By adjusting performance and power consumption in
real time, we can save energy and meet end-users
expectations. At a time when mobile, or cell, phones 
are increasingly using power-hungry applications, such
as colour, video clips and gaming, this is an important
progression.
We achieved a similarly innovative agreement with
Synopsys Inc., the leading design company for complex
integrated circuits, to give them access to our IP . We
collaborated with them on developing a methodology
which enables them to build an ARM core very quickly.
Working together in this way has enabled our silicon
Partners to get their products to market more quickly
and, thereby, to gain competitive advantage.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  11
Above left: Terraced paddy fields, near Klung Kung, Bali. An ability to achieve maximum production from
limited capacity equally describes ARM’s drive to enable complete solutions.  12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Review of operations/continued
pioneering
technologies
At ARM, we always remember that users of ARM
Powered devices will continue to expect new products
to have an increasing level of functionality; we see our
job as delivering the best combination of processing
performance and low-power usage from ARM cores to
facilitate that. We have steadily expanded and improved
our architecture over the years and, during 2002,
introduced a number of new products which significantly
extend our architecture’s performance.
In April, we announced the ARM11 microarchitecture
and, in October, announced the first implementations 
of our ARM1136J-S and our ARM1136JF-S cores. 
These are highly flexible and deliver new levels of
performance, functionality and flexibility. They provide
the technology for innovative SoC design for a wide
range of applications which touch our everyday lives,
from hand-held portable communicators, such as PDAs,
and internet appliances, to digital TVs, laser printers, 
and automotive and industrial control systems.
The ARM1136JF-S core was recently selected as the
winner of the 2002 Microprocessor Report Analysts’
Choice Award in the Embedded IP category.
We announced our ARM11 PrimeXsys Platform at 
the same time as the ARM11 family of cores. This
platform provides system developers with all the
hardware, software and verification IP they need to
design SoC solutions. It includes out-of-the-box support
for Real Time Operating Systems (RTOS) and open
operating systems, such as SymbianOS and WindowsCE.
The platform increases design productivity and saves
time and cost for developers. 
We extended the PrimeXsys family when we introduced
our Dual Core Platform for networking applications. 
This enables the performance of devices, such as
modems, routers and switches, to be improved without
a concomitant increase in heat and power, and also
enables developers to integrate their own IP while
retaining the flexibility to meet rapidly-changing market
demands.
We made the first deliveries of the ARM11
microprocessor cores family in the fourth quarter of the
year. The ARM11 cores were developed together with
our PrimeXsys Platform to create a fully compatible and
extendable system. The cores feature our innovative
high-performance, low-power instruction set architecture
which facilitates the building of the next generation of
high-volume products, ranging from mobile phones,
PDAs and games consoles to wireless networking
solutions and automotive powertrain control systems.
Our objective is to provide the best and most
innovative technology. We offer the widest range of
cores and peripheral IP in the market because our focus
is on meeting all our Partners’ needs. Our integrated
products give our Partners flexibility and choice 
and have led to us becoming the industry leaders 
in enabling solutions. There is a real benefit to our 
Partners if they standardise on the ARM architecture:
they can streamline their processes by training their
engineers to use one architecture and to work with 
one set of tools. 
We have licensed our technology to many of the world’s
leading semiconductor companies. Their confidence 
in it is evidenced by the increasing number of
ARM Powered products in production today.
Above right: Sahara Desert, Ouargia, Algeria. Innovative means are needed to make deserts bloom.
ARM’s innovations create new ways of solving problems. ARM has always focused on technical
innovation and, within that, on delivering high performance at low power 
and low cost. We continue to increase performance and reduce power.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  13 Sir Robin Saxby age 56
Chairman
Robin Saxby served as Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer between joining
the Company full time in February 1991 
and October 2001, when he was appointed
Executive Chairman. Before joining ARM, 
he worked for European Silicon Structures 
SA (ES2), where he was Vice President of
Northern Europe, Managing Director of ES2
Limited and President of its US affiliate US2.
Between 1984 and 1986, he was Chief
Executive Officer of Henderson Security
Systems Limited and, before that, spent 
11 years with Motorola Semiconductors. 
He has also served as Chairman of the 
Open Microprocessor Initiative Advisory
Group, a European Union panel set up to
advise on collaborative R&D activity in
Europe. In 2000, Robin was awarded an
honorary Doctorate DEng from Liverpool
University. He was also appointed a visiting
professor to his old department of electronics
at the university. In July 2001, he was
awarded an honorary Doctorate DTech from
Loughborough University. He was knighted 
in the 2002 New Year’s Honours List. He is 
a non-executive director of Glotel plc.
Warren East age 41
Chief Executive Officer
Warren East joined ARM in 1994. He set 
up ARM’s consulting business and served 
as Vice President Business Operations from
February 1998. In October 2000 he was
appointed to the board as Chief Operating
Officer and in October 2001 was appointed
Chief Executive Officer. Before joining ARM
he was with Texas Instruments for 11 years
and latterly managed TI’s FPGA marketing 
in Europe.
Tim Score age 42
Chief Financial Officer 
Tim Score joined the Company as Chief
Financial Officer and Director in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, he worked as Finance
Director of Rebus Group Limited, a private
equity-funded software and IT services
company. Between 1997 and 1999, he was
Group Finance Director of William Baird plc,
which he joined from LucasVarity plc, where
he was Group Controller between 1996 and
1997. Between 1991 and 1995 he worked
for BTR plc, where he was Group Financial
Controller from 1992.
Tudor Brown age 44
Chief Operating Officer
Tudor Brown has been with ARM since its
inception. He was previously with Acorn
Computers where he was Principal Engineer,
working exclusively on the ARM R&D
programme from 1984. He served as
Engineering Director and Chief Technical
Officer from 1993 until October 2000 when
he was appointed Executive Vice President
Global Development. In October 2001 he
was appointed to the board as Chief
Operating Officer. 
Mike Inglis age 43
Executive Vice President, Marketing
Mike Inglis joined ARM as Executive Vice
President, Marketing, in June 2002 and 
was appointed to the board in August 2002.
He brings with him over 18 years’
experience in the semiconductor industry.
From 1999 to 2002, Mike led the UK
Communications and High Technology team
at A.T. Kearney Management Consultants.
Before this, he held a number of senior
operational and strategic marketing positions
at Motorola. Before joining Motorola, Mike
worked as a Marketing and Design Manager
at Texas Instruments in its European ASIC,
PAL and FPGA group. 
Michael Muller age 44
Chief Technology Officer
Michael Muller has been with ARM since 
its inception. He was previously with Acorn
Computers, where he was responsible for
hardware strategy and the development 
of portable products. He has been involved
with ARM technology developments from
their beginning in 1982 as a member of
Acorn’s Advanced R&D team. Before joining
Acorn he worked for Orbis Computers where
he specialised in networked distributed
computing and high-speed local area
networks. At ARM he served as Vice
President, Marketing, from 1992 to 1996, 
and as Executive Vice President, Business
Development, from 1996. In October 2000,
he was appointed Chief Technology Officer
and in October 2001 was appointed to 
the board.
Peter Cawdron age 59 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Peter Cawdron was appointed to the board
of the Company in March 1998. From 1983
to 1998 he worked for Grand Metropolitan
PLC where he served as Director of Planning
and, from 1987, as Group Strategy
Development Director. From 1977 to 1983,
he was Chief Financial Officer and Director 
of D’Arcy-MacManus & Masius Worldwide,
Inc. Before that, he spent seven years at 
S.G. Warburg & Co., Ltd as a member of the
Corporate Finance Department and as Senior
General Manager from 1976. From 1961 to
1970 he worked at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell 
& Co, where he qualified as a chartered
accountant in 1966. He serves as Chairman
of Capital Radio plc and as a non-executive
director of a number of companies listed in
the UK, including Compass Group plc, The
Capita Group plc, Christian Salvesen plc,
Express Dairies plc and Johnston Press plc.
Directors and advisers
14  ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Secretary and registered office
Tim Score
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Registered number
2548782
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
United Kingdom
Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA 
United Kingdom
Legal advisers 
UK law
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
US law
Davis Polk & Wardwell
99 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7NG
United Kingdom
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge CB3 0AN
United Kingdom
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 870 600 3984
Depositary
The Bank of New York
101 Barclays Street
New York
New York 10286
United States of America
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  15
Michael Muller Peter Cawdron Doug Dunn Lawrence Tesler John Scarisbrick
Sir Robin Saxby Warren East Tim Score Tudor Brown Mike Inglis
Doug Dunn age 58
Independent Non-Executive Director
Doug Dunn was appointed to the board in
December 1998. He is currently President 
and Chief Executive Officer of ASM Lithography
Holding N.V. From 1993 to 1998 he worked
for Royal Philips Electronics N.V., initially as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
Semiconductor division and a member of the
Philips Group Management Committee. In
1996 he was appointed Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics
division and a member of the Philips board.
From 1980 to 1993 he was Managing Director
of the Plessey and GEC Semiconductor divisions.
Before that he worked for Motorola in several
engineering and management functions. He
was awarded an OBE in 1992 for services to
the electronics industry. He is also a non-
executive director of ST Microelectroncis NV
and Sendo Holdings plc.
Lawrence Tesler age 57 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lawrence Tesler is Vice President of
Engineering for Amazon.com Holdings, Inc.,
the online retailer. From 1980 to 1997, he
worked for Apple Computer, Inc., where he
served as Vice President and Chief Scientist.
Between 1963 and 1980, he was on the
staff of the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center,
President of a software consulting firm, and
a research associate at Stanford University.
He was a member of the ARM board from 
its foundation until August 1997, and
rejoined the board as a non-executive
director in March 1998.
John Scarisbrick age 50
Independent Non-Executive Director
John Scarisbrick was appointed to the ARM
board in August 2001. Before that he served
25 years at Texas Instruments in France, Texas
and England, where he was most recently
responsible for its $5 billion ASP business,
which included DSP , wireless, ASIC, SPARC
and broadband businesses worldwide. He
was previously President of Texas Instruments
Europe and had led the team that created
TI’s DSP business in Houston, Texas. Before
joining TI he worked in design roles at Rank
Radio International and Marconi Space and
Defence Systems. He is a venture partner at
Vortex Partners LLP in Dallas, Texas, and serves
on the Technical Advisory Board of ViVentures,
a Paris-based venture investor; he is also a
director of SoniM, the leading developer of
2.5/3G voice instant messaging applications.
He was appointed Chairman of Cambridge
Positioning Systems Ltd in October 2002. 16 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Results
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2002
were up 3% at £150.9 million against £146.3 million 
in the year ended 31 December 2001. The effective 
US dollar-to-sterling rate, at $1.50 to the pound in 
2002 against $1.45 the previous year, had the effect 
of reducing total reported revenues by approximately 
£5.8 million.
Product revenues, which include licence fees, royalties
and the sale of Development Systems products, were
£132.9 million and represented 88% of the year’s 
total revenues, compared with £128.0 million and 87%
in 2001. Royalty revenues, at £26.8 million compared
with £27.9 million in the previous year. There are now
37 multi-use and six single-use licensees shipping silicon
chips based on our architecture. Licensing revenues
increased by 8% to £83.0 million in 2002, compared
with £76.8 million in 2001. Sales of Development
Systems products, however, decreased slightly from
£23.3 million in 2001 to £23.1 million in 2002.
Service revenues, which include consulting services 
and revenues from support, maintenance and training,
were also slightly down in 2002 at £18.0 million, 12%
of total revenues, compared with £18.3 million, 13% 
of revenues, in 2001. Consulting revenues declined to
£4.4 million from £7.4 million in the previous year 
as resources were reallocated from consulting projects 
to research and development activities. Revenues from
support, maintenance and training increased by 24% 
to £13.6 million, from £10.9 million in 2001.
Gross margin
Gross margin for 2002 improved to 91% against 88% 
for the previous 12 months as a result of the reallocation
of resources from consulting projects to research 
and development activities, and decreased sales of
Development Systems resulting in lower cost of 
goods sold.
Operating expenses
In line with our strategy of continuous innovation,our
investment in research and development increased in 2002
to £48.7 million, 32% of revenues, from £38.9 million,
27% of revenues, in the previous year. Sales and
marketing costs also increased, to £24.5 million, 16% 
of revenues, from £21.4 million, 15% of revenues, 
in 2001. As a result of a reduction in legal costs,
administrative expenses reduced to £21.5 million, 
14% of revenues, from £22.8 million, 16% of revenues
in 2001.
Restructuring costs of £2.0 million were incurred in the
year as a result of a reduction in the total workforce by
approximately 12%, to 721 at year end, giving rise to
projected annual savings in employee costs of
approximately £5 million.
Operating margin
Operating margin decreased to 27% in 2002, from 31%
in 2001, as a result of the reduced revenues reported in
the second half of 2002.
Interest
The benefit of higher cash balances was offset by 
lower interest rates in 2002, resulting in interest for the
12 months of £4.4 million, compared with £4.5 million
in the previous year. 
Earnings and taxation
Profit before taxation was £45.5 million, 30.1% of
revenues, compared with £50.6 million, 34.6% of
revenues, in the previous year. The group’s taxation rate
decreased to 29% in 2002, from 31% in 2001, partly as
a result of research and development tax credits which
have been available in the UK since April 2002.
Fully diluted earnings for the year were 3.2 pence 
a share compared with 3.4 pence for the previous year.
ARM continues to be profitable and cash generative despite
the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry 
which resulted in a slowdown in licensing activity during the
second half of 2002. We will continue to exercise stringent
management of our cost base during 2003 to enable us to
mitigate the impact of lower revenues on profitability.
Financial review Selected financial data/UK GAAP
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
£000 £000* £000* £000* £000*
Turnover 150,922 146,274 100,730 62,120 42,268
Cost of sales (13,185) (17,289) (11,647) (9,803) (8,316)
Gross profit 137,737 128,985 89,083 52,317 33,952
Total operating expenses (96,608) (83,203) (57,927) (35,794) (25,638)
Group operating profit 41,129 45,782 31,156 16,523 8,314
Share of loss of associated undertaking – – (85) – (71)
Total operating profit 41,129 45,782 31,071 16,523 8,243
Net gain on disposals of trade investments – 314 – – –
Gain on part disposal of associated undertaking – – 512 – –
Interest receivable, net 4,373 4,470 3,912 2,266 1,911
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 45,502 50,566 35,495 18,789 10,154
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (13,031) (15,874) (6,007) (261) (3,371)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 32,471 34,692 29,488 18,528 6,783
Equity minority interest (232) (303) (192) (64) (8)
Profit attributable to shareholders 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464 6,775
Dividends – ––– (4,000)
Retained profit for the financial year 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464 2,775
Capital expenditure 15,616 17,349 11,842 5,900 6,402
Cash and short-term investments 130,304 104,467 75,266 51,804 39,591
Shareholders’ funds 174,306 138,111 102,150 69,510 49,718
Employees at end of year (number) 721 722 619 443 354
* The prior years’ figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  17
Balance sheet and cash flow
Net cash inflow of £52.1 million was generated in the
12 months to 31 December 2002; capital expenditure
was £15.6 million and cash and short-term investments
increased by £25.8 million to £130.3 million, from
£104.5 million at the end of 2001.
Trade debtors decreased to £20.5 million, from 
£24.8 million at the end of 2001. The provision for
doubtful debts increased to £2.2 million from 
£0.8 million in 2001, which was a reflection of the
number of smaller Partners which were generated by
the success of our Foundry Programme. Deferred income
was £14.4 million at the end of December, compared
with £19.4 million at the end of December 2001.
The board of directors reviews the structure of the
balance sheet and of free cash generation regularly with
particular reference to the potential uses of the group’s
cash resources. In the light of the current challenging
trading conditions and the prospects of the Company 
in the longer term, the board believes it is appropriate
to retain enough cash to give the Company the flexibility
to continue to invest in product development in the
event of the industry downturn being sustained. It does
not, therefore, recommend payment of a final dividend
for the 12 months ended 31 December 2002.
Tim Score Chief Financial Officer Compliance with the Combined Code
The group complies, and complied throughout 2002, with the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. 
Composition and operation of the board
The board comprises six executive directors and four independent non-executive directors. The executive directors are the Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President of Marketing. The four
independent non-executive directors provide a blend of experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable
knowledge and experience to the board’s deliberations. Peter Cawdron has extensive knowledge of UK public group issues. Doug Dunn has
experience of running large companies in the semiconductor and electronics industry. Lawrence Tesler and John Scarisbrick both have a broad
understanding of the group’s technology and the practices of major US-based technology companies.
The board has six regularly scheduled meetings a year with additional meetings on any pertinent issues, organised as necessary during the year.
The board is responsible for the development of business and commercial strategy, monitoring progress, the approval of major business matters,
policies, operating and capital expenditure budgets, ensuring high standards of corporate governance are maintained, final approval of senior
executive remuneration and succession planning for top management. The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial
arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments. Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information in a form and
quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the state of the business and its performance. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing
and approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the group’s
position, lies with the board. The board delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the group to its executive committee and has a
number of sub-committees, details of which are set out below.
Executive committee
The executive committee is responsible for the implementation of the strategy set by the board. Among other things, this committee is responsible
for approval of standard licence agreements, ensuring the group’s budget and forecasts are properly prepared, ensuring targets are met, and
generally managing and developing the business within the overall budget. Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval
from the main board of the group. The executive committee, which meets monthly, comprises the executive directors, the directors of ARM
Limited, and other senior operational personnel as appropriate. 
Audit committee 
The audit committee has responsibility for, among other things, keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit, the review of 
the annual report and accounts and half-year interim report, the involvement of the external auditors in those processes, considering compliance
with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and for advising the board on the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls. The current audit
committee comprises Peter Cawdron (Chairman), Doug Dunn and John Scarisbrick. 
In addition to considering and making recommendations to the board in respect of the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of
the group’s auditors, the committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the group’s external auditors, value for money of
the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors. The committee has discussed with the
external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors, as required by the Auditing
Standards Board’s Statement of Auditing Standard No. 610: “Communication of matters to those charged with governance”, as well as those
required by the US Independence Standards Board’s Standard No. 1: “Independence discussions with audit committees”. In order to avoid the
possibility that the auditors’ objectivity and independence could be compromised, the group’s tax consulting work is only carried out by the
auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, for example, tax compliance and advisory work relating to the audit. In most
cases, the group has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work. The group does not normally award
general consulting work to the auditors. However, from time to time, the group will engage the auditors to perform advisory work on matters
relating to human resources and royalty audits. In these circumstances, the group will also seek professional advice from another firm of
independent consultants or the group’s legal advisers. 
The committee meets three times a year, once to review the half-year interim results, once before the year end to discuss the annual accounts and
the approach to the audit, and once before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results to review the previous year’s results
and audit findings. The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all of the
information required by the audit committee is available for it to operate effectively. The representatives of the group’s auditors meet with the
audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors being present.
Remuneration committee
A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page 23.
Corporate governance/UK GAAP
18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Nominations committee
The nominations committee has responsibility for proposing to the board any new appointments of both executive and non-executive directors 
and makes recommendations to the board on board composition and balance. It is chaired by the Chairman, and is attended by the four
independent non-executive directors, Peter Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler. The committee meets as required.
Internal control 
The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains an adequate system of risk management and internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, 
high-technology business and can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At the beginning of 2002, a risk review team was set up comprising members from different disciplines across the group. It includes members
from the board and the executive committee as well as Business Unit Managers and Functional Managers. The team meets four times a year and
reports to the board once a year. The team is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which may impact the group’s strategic and business
objectives and monitoring progress of actions designed to mitigate the risks. In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the
group from a detailed weekly meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer to the main board meetings of the group. Each week a business
review meeting is held, the purpose of which is to monitor and control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters requiring
approval that have arisen within the week. Each month an operations meeting, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and attended by managers
representing different functions across the group, is held to review key performance indicators such as revenues, orders booked, costs, product
and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development. Once a quarter, the annual operational plans for the different
disciplines across the group are reviewed at the operations meeting. The outputs of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly
operations meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the main board of the group. These
processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks facing the group 
have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements. They accord with the
guidance on internal control issued in September 1999 by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales. Given the group’s relatively small size of a little over 700 employees, and the high degree of centralisation in the way the business 
is run, the board does not consider that it would be practicable to have its own financial internal audit function for the present. It does, however,
have an operational internal audit function that audits the group’s business and product/project management processes, which are documented,
maintained and continuously improved, for both effectiveness and efficiency. In addition, these processes are audited externally by independent
auditors for compliance with ISO 9001:2000.
Corporate social and ethical policies
While the group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its
employees, customers and suppliers, and the local communities and environments in which it operates. The Chief Financial Officer takes
responsibility for matters relating to corporate social and ethical policies and these matters are considered at board level. A more comprehensive
corporate social responsibility report is available on the group’s website. In 2003, there are plans for the group’s website to include a section
dedicated to corporate social, ethical and environmental issues. The group joined the Institute of Business Ethics in 2000 and, following a 
process of independent verification, the group received confirmation of its admittance to the Good Corporation Network in August 2001. This
qualification assures that the group has been independently verified against a 21-point charter covering the fair treatment and protection of its
employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, the community and the environment. Each year, the group must pass an annual assessment
conducted by an independent verifier that looks at the existence and effectiveness of management practices covered by the 21-point charter.
During 2002, the group successfully retained its membership of the Good Corporation Network. As a company whose primary business 
is the licensing of intellectual property, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected. The group strives for equal
opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of or discrimination against its staff. The group also endeavours to 
be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries 
in which it operates.
Environmental policies
The group’s premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities. The group’s staff makes use of computer-aided
design tools to generate intellectual property. This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions. The Ethical Investment
Research Service, EIRIS, grades the group as a “low impact” business in environmental terms. With the exception of Development Systems
products, the majority of “products” sold by the group comprise microprocessor core designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
However, the group does recognise the increasing importance of environmental issues and these are discussed at board level where the Chief
Financial Officer takes responsibility for these issues. A number of initiatives in this area were started during 2001 and have continued in 2002. 
The group’s environmental policy is published on the group’s website. An environmental action plan is being implemented through various
initiatives. These include improving our understanding of resource consumption and waste creation so that targets can be set for improvement,
ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily, and working with our suppliers to enhance environmental management along the
supply chain.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  19 The group has continued to compile baseline data on energy use, including estimates for both international business travel and transport to, 
and from, work. The data for 2002 is published in the group’s corporate social responsibility report on the group’s website. The group does not
encourage the provision of company cars, which number fewer than 20 in total. Additionally, the provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing
facilities at the group’s UK offices facilitates greener commuting, and the extensive provision of conference telephone and video conferencing
equipment offers an alternative to international travel, where appropriate. A document output study has been established to examine paper
consumption within the group and to consider how an extension of the group’s electronic document management systems might reduce the 
need for paper documents. In 2002, the group decided not to send traditional Christmas cards to its customers, suppliers and business associates.
Instead, the group has sent Christmas cards via electronic mail and has made donations to several charities. The group has a rolling programme 
of environmental improvements to its offices which include the introduction of an aluminium can recycling scheme in the group’s offices in
Cambridge in 2002, the use of less environmentally-damaging refrigerants in the air conditioning systems, and the avoidance of ozone-depleting
fire suppressants in the computer centre.
Relationships with shareholders
The board makes considerable efforts to establish relationships with institutional shareholders. The group has a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders throughout the year other than during close periods. The board also encourages communication with private investors throughout 
the year and part of the group’s website is dedicated to providing investor relations information. At present, around 20 analysts write research
reports on the group. The group publishes telephone numbers on its website enabling shareholders to listen to earnings presentations and audio
conference calls with analysts. All shareholders may register to receive the group’s press releases via the internet, and internet links to recordings
of earnings presentations and audio conference calls are available at the appropriate time on the group’s website. The board actively encourages
participation at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled for 15 April 2003, which is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders. 
A presentation will be made outlining recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer session will follow to enable
shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
By order of the board
Tim Score Company Secretary
Corporate governance/UK GAAP/continued
20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities and review of business
The principal activities of the group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and
systems. The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such that most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers better,
the group has sales offices around the world. These include six offices in the US and offices in Shanghai, PR China; Tokyo, Japan; Seoul, South Korea;
Taipei, Taiwan; Tel Aviv, Israel; Paris, France; and Munich, Germany. Design offices are based in Cambridge, UK; Maidenhead, UK; Sheffield, UK;
Blackburn, UK; Sophia Antipolis, France; and Austin, Texas in the US. A review of business is set out in the Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5,
the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 6 and 7, the review of operations on pages 8 to 13, and the financial review on pages 16 and 17.
Future developments
The group’s stated objective is to establish a new global RISC architecture standard for the embedded microprocessor market. The directors believe
that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology. To this end, the group intends to
sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with more third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that
their products will operate on the ARM architecture. The group also plans to develop new technology to license to existing customers. As a result 
of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the group is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary
technology or resources. 
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and Company have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dividends
With the exception of the dividend paid at the time of its initial public offering in April 1998, the group has never paid nor declared any dividends
on its shares in line with a number of its peer companies in the high technology sector in the US. Although the policy will be kept under review,
the directors envisage making use of the group’s cash resources to make strategic investments in the future in situations where the group can
broaden its product portfolio and the potential for furthering ARM core-based design wins is improved significantly. No interim dividend was
declared during the year and the directors do not recommend the payment of any final dividend for the year.
Research and development
Research and development is of major importance and while the group does not undertake any pure research, it does collaborate closely with
universities worldwide. Key areas of product development for 2003 include the development of additional versions of the ARM11 core and
platform, first implementations of ARM’s intelligent energy management technology, additions to the PrimeXsys range of system IP platforms,
research into future microprocessor architectures, multi-processing solutions and enhanced application software and development tool products.
The group incurred research and development costs of £48.7 million in 2002, compared with £38.9 million in 2001, which have been charged 
to the profit and loss account. 
Donations
The group made charitable donations of £27,939 (2001: £71,027) during the year. Priorities are given to organisations that are local to the group’s
offices, promote education and support the wider understanding of science, mathematics and information technology. The group does not make
any political donations.
Directors in the year
The following served as directors of the group during the year ended 31 December 2002.
Sir Robin Saxby KBE (Chairman)
Warren East (Chief Executive Officer) 
Jonathan Brooks (Chief Financial Officer) resigned 28 March 2002
Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer) appointed 1 March 2002
Tudor Brown (Chief Operating Officer)
Peter Magowan (Executive Vice President, Business Development) resigned 16 August 2002
Michael Muller (Chief Technology Officer)
Mike Inglis (Executive Vice President, Marketing) appointed 14 August 2002
Peter Cawdron (independent non-executive)
Doug Dunn OBE (independent non-executive)
John Scarisbrick (independent non-executive) 
Lawrence Tesler (independent non-executive)
During 2002 Doug Dunn was the senior independent non-executive director.
Directors’ report/UK GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  21 Election of directors
In accordance with the group’s articles of association, Peter Cawdron will retire by rotation at the group’s Annual General Meeting and will seek 
re-election at that meeting. See page 14 for his biography. In accordance with provision A.6.2 of the Combined Code, which requires the election 
of directors by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, Mike Inglis, who was appointed during the year, will submit himself 
for election at the group’s Annual General Meeting. See page 14 for his biography.
Directors’ shareholdings in the group
The interests of the directors in the group’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the report 
of the board on remuneration on page 26.
Substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the group as at 17 February 2003: Percentage of issued
ordinary share capital
Capital Group Companies 16.0%
Morgan Stanley Securities 6.3%
Legal and General Investment Management 3.7%
Fidelity Investment Management 3.6%
Deutsche Asset Management 3.2%
Save for the above, the group has not been notified, as at 17 February 2003, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest
exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the group.
Disabled persons
The group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and, as such, disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career
development within the group. In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and
the group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role. 
Employee involvement
As the group is an intellectual property enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in the decision-making processes 
of the group. To this end, internal conferences and meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the group in discussions
on future strategy and developments. An ARM consultation forum was set up in the group’s UK offices, which consists of over 400 employees,
during 2002 to provide a forum for employees and management to consult and communicate on issues and ideas. Furthermore, employee share
ownership is encouraged and all staff are able to participate in one of the group’s schemes to encourage share ownership. The group has a very
informal and delegated organisational structure. It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trades unions.
Policy on payment of creditors
The group’s policy is to pay suppliers within 30 days of the date of receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request. The average number
of creditor days for the year ended 31 December 2002 was 19 days for the group (2001: 11 days) and nil days for the Company in both years. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the group’s offices in Cambridge, UK, on 15 April 2003 at 2pm. A presentation will be made at this
meeting outlining recent developments in the business. The group will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance of the meeting. Questions should be sent to the Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 
110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
Following the conversion of our auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers to a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) from 1 January 2003,
PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned on 24 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as auditors to fill the
casual vacancy. A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
By order of the board
Tim Score Company Secretary
Directors’ report/UK GAAP/continued
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the group’s policy
for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and
annual bonuses, the level and terms of grant of options and awards, and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such
rights, pension rights and any compensation payments. Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate the committee will also make
recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management. The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation
of the board’s annual report to shareholders on the group’s policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors’
remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 (as amended), the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. 
It is chaired by Doug Dunn. Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler are also members of this committee which meets at least 
twice a year. Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to
remuneration issues for the group. The committee has access to professional advice from outside advisers, generally appointed by the Executive
Vice President Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of this. During 2002, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt, PricewaterhouseCoopers
and the Executive Vice President Human Resources have provided advice or services to the committee. PricewaterhouseCoopers also provided
services as the group’s auditors. Linklaters provided other legal services to the group. Watson Wyatt did not provide any other services to the group
during this period. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Human Resources will normally attend these meetings. No
director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the group’s directors seeks to give full consideration to the
Combined Code including the provisions set out in Schedule A to that code. The committee also monitors developments in the accounting for 
equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The group operates a remuneration policy for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the management skills necessary
for it to remain a leader in its field. This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their
performance and align with the objectives of the group and comprise a mix of performance-related and non-performance-related remuneration.
The committee believes that a director’s total remuneration should seek to recognise his or her worth in the external market. 
The nature of the group’s development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with 
a high level of variable remuneration. Currently, variable remuneration consists of two fundamental elements: annual cash bonus and discretionary
share options. Both of these incentives are performance-related and as a result more than half of each executive director’s remuneration is
targeted to be performance linked. Following a review of the group’s variable remuneration structure, the remuneration committee concluded that,
in order to align better the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, and to ensure that these key individuals are appropriately
incentivised to remain with the group, a higher proportion of executive directors’ remuneration should focus on longer-term objectives. As a result,
a new policy has been adopted. The remuneration committee intends to introduce a shareholding guideline in accordance with that set out in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
At the heart of the new policy is a proposal to introduce a long-term incentive plan providing for the annual grant of “performance shares” – 
a right to receive shares, subject to the group’s performance. The group has consulted with its major shareholders and appropriate institutional
bodies such as the Association of British Insurers regarding the proposed long-term incentive plan, which is being put to shareholders for approval
at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
It is also proposed to establish, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, an Inland Revenue approved share incentive plan, 
as a new element of the group’s “all employee” share incentive arrangements. Details of the proposed share incentive plan and the long-term
incentive plan are set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
Remuneration report/UK GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  23 Incentive arrangements
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the group. There is a 
strong bonus element to executives’ remuneration of up to 50% of basic pay. The group operates an annual cash bonus scheme. Bonuses are
principally tied to the achievement of the group’s financial results, with 50% bonus being awarded if all targets are met. There are three main
targets, namely sales, profit growth and forward orders generated for future periods, representing bonus opportunities of 15%, 20% and 15% of
base salary respectively. A range of possible outcomes for sales, profit and forward orders generated for future periods is agreed at the beginning
of each financial year. If the group’s results exceed the minimum levels of each of the agreed targets, bonuses will be payable on a linear basis
between the minimum and the maximum of the agreed range. No bonuses are payable in respect of 2002 whilst bonuses of 32% were paid to
executive directors for 2001.
A deferred bonus scheme was introduced for executive directors in 2001. This enables executive directors to defer up to 100% of their annual
bonus for a period of up to three years during which time the amount of bonus deferred is increased by 33% per annum. It is intended to
discontinue this scheme. Existing deferrals will, however, be unaffected.
The group operates a number of share option plans and employees (excluding executive directors) can generally receive a number of share options
according to their grade, past performance and length of service in the group. Typically, share options are allocated to employees on an annual
basis. Discretionary options (under the Approved, Unapproved and Incentive Stock Option Schemes) are always issued at market value, while
options issued under the Save As You Earn and Employee Stock Purchase Plans are issued at a 15% discount to market value. In line with practice
among the group’s peers in the technology sector, there are currently no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary
options except for those issued to executive directors. Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the
group do not have performance conditions attached to them. However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment
to the board of the group will have performance conditions attached to them. The executive directors do not currently receive options under the
Approved Scheme and Incentive Stock Option Scheme. Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary
may be issued on the executive director joining the group. In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be
issued each year. These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance condition is
satisfied. For options granted before January 2003 the performance condition is that the group must achieve an average real EPS growth of at least
33.1% (ie. 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Price Index) over a performance period of three years commencing
from the start of the financial year in which the options are granted (the “performance period”). The remuneration committee, as part of its review
of the group’s variable remuneration structure, reviewed the performance condition for discretionary options to ensure that it remained an effective
tool for attracting, motivating and retaining executives, and was in keeping with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers. As a result of
this review, it was decided to change the performance condition from a “cliff-edge” to a “sliding-scale” target for new option grants from January
2003. Under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the group achieves an average real EPS
growth of 9.3% over the performance period. If an average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of
the shares under option will vest after three years. Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 9.3% and 33.1%,
the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis. Although the performance targets are amongst the most
demanding of those set by companies included in the FTSE 350 index, the remuneration committee considers this to be appropriate as the 
group is operating in the technology market which is still expected to grow significantly in the long term.
Pensions
The group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a “money purchase scheme” operated by third-party pension
providers. The rate of group contribution is 10% of the executive’s basic salary (25% in the case of the Chairman) subject to the Inland Revenue
salary capping limits.
Remuneration report/UK GAAP/continued
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Service agreements
Executive directors have ”rolling” service contracts that are terminable by either party on one year’s notice. The service contracts also terminate
when executive directors reach age 65. These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the group on a full-time basis.
The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition,
non-solicitation of the group’s customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the group’s suppliers and employees. In addition,
each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the group’s trade secrets and confidential information and
provides for the group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as a director during the financial year are as follows:
Director Date
Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996
Warren East 29 January 2001
Tim Score 1 March 2002
Tudor Brown 3 April 1996
Michael Muller 31 January 1996
Mike Inglis 17 July 2002
Jonathan Brooks 2 February 1996
Peter Magowan 29 January 2001
Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the group or the executive director, the group in its absolute discretion shall be
entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors
During 2002, each non-executive director received a total fee of £24,000 per annum. This fee was arrived at by reference to fees paid by other
companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the group’s
activities during the year, which is around 10 to 15 working days a year. The group believes that Peter Cawdron, an independent non-executive
director, who currently holds more than five directorships, is able to devote the agreed amount of time to the group’s activities. The remuneration
of the non-executive directors is set by the board of the group and their term of appointment is three years. Non-executive directors do not have
service contracts. Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify
for pension purposes or other benefits. No element of their fees is performance-related.
Performance graphs
A performance graph showing the group’s total shareholder return (TSR) together with the TSR for the FTSE Global Technology Index of 50
companies from 17 April 1998, the date when the group’s shares first commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, is shown
below. The TSR is being calculated in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The TSR for the group’s shares was
67% over this period compared with -30% for the FTSE Global Technology Index for the same period.
TSR on £100 of ARM shares vs FTSE Global Technology Index (£ sterling)
The directors consider the FTSE Global Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe,
which reflects the global environment in which the group operates. In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the group’s
customers as well as companies which utilise ARM technology in their end products. 
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  25
0
500
1,000
ARM share price since flotation
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
31 December 2002 31 December 2001 31 December 2000 31 December 1999 31 December 1998 17 April 1998
FTSE Global Technology Index Directors’ shareholdings in the group
The directors’ beneficial interests in the group’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under the group’s share option schemes,
are set out below. 
31 December 31 December
2002 2001
Director Number Number
R Saxby 25,632,860 26,132,860
W East 174,920 154,920
T Score* 10,000 –
T Brown 1,496,460 1,496,460
M Muller 1,891,860 1,891,860
M Inglis* 10,000 –
D Dunn 48,000 48,000
P Cawdron 98,000 98,000
J Scarisbrick 10,800 10,800
L Tesler 111,000 90,000
*Comparative figures for T Score’s and M Inglis’ shareholdings are as at their date of appointment to the board.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, all of the executive directors (together with all of the employees of the group) are potential
beneficiaries of both the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Trust and the ARM Holdings plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by these trusts, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,796,754 ordinary shares
respectively at 31 December 2002 and 5,000,000 and 2,017,599 shares respectively at 31 December 2001. There have been no changes in
directors’ interests in the group’s shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Remuneration report/UK GAAP/continued
26 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Options over shares in the group
Details of discretionary options beneficially held by directors are set out below:
As at As at
1 January 31 December Exercise
2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2002 price Earliest date Expiry
Director Number Number Number Number Number £of exercise date
R Saxby 600,000 – – – 600,000 0.02 15/07/99 14/07/03
**
140,000 – – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06
**
25,000 – – – 25,000 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07
†
765,000 – – – 765,000
W East 131,520 – – – 131,520 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06
**
8,480 – – – 8,480 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/09
*
3,187 – – – 3,187 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10
*
20,962 – – – 20,962 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07
†
62,909 – – – 62,909 3.815 22/05/04 21/05/08
***
100,000 – – 100,000 2.465 19/04/05 18/04/09
***
227,058 100,000 – – 327,058
T Score†† – 206,896 – – 206,896 2.465 19/04/05 18/04/09***
T Brown 140,000 – – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06
**
3,736 – – – 3,736 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10
*
21,264 – – – 21,264 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07
†
2,091 – – – 2,091 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/11
*
22,909 – – – 22,909 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/08
†
50,000 – – 50,000 2.465 19/04/05 18/04/09
***
190,000 50,000 – – 240,000
M Muller 140,000 – – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06
**
3,736 – – – 3,736 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10
*
17,615 – – – 17,615 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07
†
2,091 – – – 2,091 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/11
*
22,909 – – – 22,909 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/08
†
–50,000 – – 50,000 2.465 19/04/05 18/04/09
***
186,351 50,000 – – 236,351
M Inglis
††
223,515 – – 223,515 2.1475 27/05/03 26/05/09
†
J Brooks 140,000 – – 140,000 – 1.224 11/3/02 10/03/06
**
4,874 – – 4,874 – 6.155 22/5/03 21/05/10
*
20,126 – – 20,126 – 6.155 22/5/01 21/05/07
†
165,000 – – 165,000 –
P Magowan 138,040 – 138,040 – – 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06
**
1,960 – 1,960 – – 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/09
*
4,484 – – 4,484 – 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10
*
13,881 – – 13,881 – 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07
†
62,909 – – 62,909 – 3.815 22/05/04 21/05/08
***
50,000 – 50,000 – 2.465 19/04/05 18/04/09
***
221,274 50,000 140,000 131,274 –
* Denotes share options issued under the group’s approved share option scheme.
** Denotes share options issued under the group’s unapproved share option scheme.
*** Denotes share options issued under the group’s unapproved share option scheme with performance conditions attached.
† Denotes share options issued under the group’s unapproved share option scheme which are exercisable as follows:
25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
†† Denotes number of share options held by T Score and M Inglis on their date of appointment.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  27 Remuneration report/UK GAAP/continued
28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Share options with performance conditions attached normally vest after seven years. If, however, the group achieves an average EPS growth 
of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Price Index over a period of three years commencing from the start 
of the financial year in which the options are granted, then the options will be exercisable after three years from grant. EPS is defined as the
Group’s fully diluted earnings per ordinary share. The method of calculating EPS will be adjusted if necessary so that the calculation of the 
EPS for each relevant financial period of the Group is broadly comparable with that for any other financial period of the Group taken for 
the purposes of the performance condition.
On 30 January 2003, discretionary share options were granted to the following executive directors: Warren East 914,285; Tim Score 777,142; 
Tudor Brown 731,428; Michael Muller 731,428; and Mike Inglis 731,428. The exercise price is 43.75 pence. 
These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied. Where the Group achieves
an average EPS growth of at least 9.3% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Prices Index over a performance period of three
years commencing from the start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years
from grant. For an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Prices Index over the
performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years from grant. Where the average EPS growth is between 9.3% and
33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Prices Index over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Details of options held by directors under the Group’s Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below:
As at As at
1 January 31 December Exercise
2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2002 price Earliest date Expiry
Director Number Number Number Number Number £of exercise date
R Saxby 3,157 – – – 3,157 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
W East 3,157 – – – 3,157 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
T Brown 3,157 – – – 3,157 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
M Inglis* 3,626 – – – 3,626 1.8254 01/07/07 31/12/07
P Magowan 3,157 – – 3,157 – 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
* Denotes number of share options held by M Inglis on the date of appointment as director.
The gains made by Peter Magowan on the exercise of share options were £58,240 (2001: £1,988,400). The share price on the date of exercise
was £1.64.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors’ interests under the Group’s share option schemes since the end of the 2002
financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
The Group’s register of directors’ interests contains full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices
The market value of the shares of the Group as at 31 December 2002 was 48 pence. The closing mid-price ranged from 40.5 pence to 
385.75 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus scheme
Warren East elected to participate in the deferred bonus scheme in 2001 and deferred £12,680, being one-third of his bonus, for three years.
Provided Warren East remains with the Group until 31 December 2004, the bonus payable on that date will be £25,360 representing an increase 
of 100% plus 6% interest per annum on the deferred amount. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  29
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the directors of the Group in respect of services to the Group were paid through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ARM Limited, and
were as follows:
Basic Bonus Pension Total Total 
Fees salary Benefits** payments Subtotal contributions 2002 2001
Director ££££££ £ £
Executive
R Saxby – 200,000 11,559 – 211,559 24,188 235,747 370,095
W East – 180,000 11,606 – 191,606 9,675 201,281 179,022
J Brooks* – 33,410 2,446 – 35,856 2,923 38,779 227,751
T Brown – 145,000 11,606 – 156,606 9,675 166,281 61,648
P Magowan* – 87,208 7,297 – 94,505 6,043 100,548 179,022
M Muller – 145,000 11,606 – 156,606 9,675 166,281 56,131
T Score* – 141,667 10,602 – 152,269 7,290 159,559 –
M Inglis* – 60,645 4,404 – 65,049 3,684 68,733 –
J Urquhart* –––––– – 139,419
Total –992,930 71,126 –1,064,056 73,153 1,137,209 1,213,088
Non-executive
P Cawdron 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 22,000
D Dunn 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 22,000
J Scarisbrick 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 7,333
L Tesler 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 22,000
Total 96,000 – – – 96,000 – 96,000 73,333
Total 96,000 992,930 71,126 – 1,160,056 73,153 1,233,209 1,286,421
*For T Score and M Inglis, salaries shown are from date of appointment. For J Brooks and P Magowan, salaries shown are up to their date of resignation from the board. For J Urquhart, the comparative 
figure shows the salary up to the date of his resignation from the board on 12 October 2001.
** All the executive directors receive family BUPA and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind. In addition, T Score has the use of a company car and R Saxby, W East, T Brown, M Muller 
and M Inglis receive a car allowance.
Jamie Urquhart, a former director of the Group who resigned from the board on 12 October 2001 but remained an employee of the group,took part
in a group-wide redundancy programme and received redundancy payments amounting to £69,675 on leaving the group during 2002.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the group, contributions
for which were all paid during the year.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the group and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the group for the period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are
required to:
•
select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
•
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
•
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the group and for ensuring that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the group’s website. Information published on the internet is accessible in many
countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
30 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc/UK GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  31
We have audited the financial statements on pages 32 to 55 which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting
policies set out on pages 36 to 38. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, on pages
27 to 29, contained in the directors’ remuneration report (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This report, including the opinion, 
has been prepared for and only for the group’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the
auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to
you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the group has not kept proper accounting records, 
if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. The other information comprises only ARM at a glance, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations, directors and advisers, financial review, corporate governance, the directors’ report
and the unaudited part of the remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s 
or Company’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the Company at 31 December 2002 and of the profit
and cash flows of the group for the year then ended;
•
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
•
those parts of the directors’ remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Cambridge
28 February 2003 2002 2002 2001
Notes £000 £000 £000*
Turnover 2 150,922 146,274
Cost of sales (13,185) (17,289)
Gross profit 137,737 128,985
Operating expenses
Research and development (48,674) (38,920)
Exceptional research and development 5 (1,327) –
(50,001)
Sales and marketing (24,516) (21,448)
Exceptional sales and marketing 5 (320) –
(24,836)
Administrative expenses (21,458) (22,835)
Exceptional administrative expenses 5 (313) –
(21,771)
Total operating expenses (96,608) (83,203)
Operating profit 41,129 45,782
Net gain on disposal of fixed asset trade investments – 314
Interest receivable and similar income 4,373 4,470
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2, 5 45,502 50,566
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6 (13,031) (15,874)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 32,471 34,692
Equity minority interest 20 (232) (303)
Retained profit for the financial year 18 32,239 34,389
Earnings per 0.05 pence ordinary share 8
Basic 3.2p 3.4p
Diluted 3.2p 3.4p
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
All activities relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated profit and loss account/UK GAAP
For the year ended 31 December 2002
32 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Statement of group total recognised gains and losses/UK GAAP
2002 2001
Notes £000 £000*
Profit for the financial year 32,239 34,389
Foreign exchange difference on consolidation 18, 19 (807) 14
Total recognised gains for the year 31,432 34,403
Prior year adjustment 18 584
Total gains recognised since last annual report 32,016
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18). 2002 2001
Notes £000 £000*
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 9 9,153 12,427
Tangible assets 10 25,721 22,668
Investments 11 6,395 5,943
41,269 41,038
Current assets
Stocks 12 1,515 581
Debtors 13 33,558 32,204
Short-term investments 15 126,013 94,376
Cash at bank and in hand 15 4,291 10,091
165,377 137,252
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14 (31,483) (39,360)
Net current assets 133,894 97,892
Total assets less current liabilities 175,163 138,930
Provisions for liabilities and charges 16 (16) (210)
Net assets 2 175,147 138,720
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 17 511 507
Share premium account 18 80,883 76,124
Other reserves 18 (663) 144
Profit and loss account 18 93,575 61,336
Equity shareholders’ funds 19 174,306 138,111
Minority interest – equity 20 841 609
Capital employed 175,147 138,720
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
The financial statements on pages 32 to 55 were approved by the board of directors on 28 February 2003 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Robin Saxby Director
Consolidated balance sheet/UK GAAP
As at 31 December 2002
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  33 2002 2001
Notes £000 £000
Fixed assets
Investments 11 2,166 2,388
Current assets
Debtors 13 35,340 35,708
Short-term investments 48,381 42,324
Cash at bank and in hand 50 18
83,771 78,050
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14 (219) (255)
Net current assets 83,552 77,795
Total assets less current liabilities 85,718 80,183
Net assets 85,718 80,183
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 17 511 507
Share premium account 18 80,883 76,124
Profit and loss account 18 4,324 3,552
Equity shareholders’ funds 85,718 80,183
The financial statements on pages 32 to 55 were approved by the board of directors on 28 February 2003 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Robin Saxby Director
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
As at 31 December 2002
34 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 2002 2001
Notes £000 £000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 21 52,087 57,001
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 4,187 4,604
Net cash inflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 4,187 4,604
Taxation
Withholding tax paid (5,011) (2,149)
UK corporation tax paid (10,592) (7,129)
Overseas tax paid (1,155) (365)
Tax paid (16,758) (9,643)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of fixed asset investments (1,500) –
Sale of fixed asset investments – 1,936
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (15,616) (17,349)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 35 71
Purchase of intangible fixed assets (855) (8,568)
Proceeds received by QUEST on allocation of own shares held 222 958
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (17,714) (22,952)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of assets and trade 24 – (1,351)
Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals – (1,351)
Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 21,802 27,659
Management of liquid resources
Purchase of short-term investments 23 (31,637) (24,893)
Financing
Issue of shares 4,763 1,558
Net cash inflow from financing 4,763 1,558
(Decrease)/increase in cash 23 (5,072) 4,324
Details of the group’s net funds are shown in note 23.
Consolidated cash flow statement/UK GAAP
For the year ended 31 December 2002
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  35 1  Principal accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the UK. A summary of the more important accounting
policies, which have been reviewed by the board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18, “Accounting policies”, is set out
below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary
undertakings made up to 31 December 2002. Intra-group transactions and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Changes in accounting policies The group has adopted FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, in these financial statements. The adoption of this standard represents
a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly (see note 18).
Goodwill and intangible assets Purchased goodwill, being the difference between the fair value of consideration and the fair value of net assets acquired,
is capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the group is expected to benefit from it. Goodwill amortisation periods
are determined on a case-by-case basis (see note 9). Provision is made against the carrying value of goodwill where an impairment in value is deemed 
to have occurred. 
Licences and patents purchased for the use of technology are capitalised and amortised over the period in which the group is expected to benefit from
them. These periods range from three to five years.
Trade investments Trade investments are included at cost. There is a regular review of the carrying value of investments, with reference to relevant
financial information and industry conditions; impairment charges are recorded if there is evidence of impairment in value.
Short-term investments Bank deposits, which are not repayable on demand, are treated as short-term investments in accordance with FRS 1, “Cash flow
statements”. Movements in such investments are included under “management of liquid resources” in the group’s cash flow statement.
Pension scheme arrangements The group contributes to defined contribution plans, covering substantially all employees in Europe and the US and to
government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China and Israel. The group contributes to these plans based upon various
fixed percentages of employee compensation and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost and are depreciated from the date that they come 
into use. The principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Leasehold improvements Five years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computers and software Three years
Fixtures and fittings Five to ten years
Motor vehicles Four years
Provision is made against the carrying value of tangible fixed assets where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In general, cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes transport 
and handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective stocks.
Turnover Turnover (excluding VAT) comprises the value of sales of licences, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensed products, revenues from
support, maintenance and training, and consulting contracts and the sale of boards and software toolkits.
Each licence is designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer. Delivery generally occurs within a short time period after signing. Licence 
fees are invoiced according to an agreed set of milestone payments. Typically the first milestone is on signing of the contract, the second is on delivery 
of the customised technology and the third is related to acceptance of the technology by the licensee.
Revenue from the sale of licences is recognised on a percentage-to-completion basis over the period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance.
Under the percentage-to-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood
of such losses is determined. The percentage to completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project
compared with the total estimated project requirement, which corresponds to the costs of earned revenues. Revenue from per-use licences is recognised when
the product is accepted by the customer. 
Where agreements involve multiple elements, the entire fee from such arrangements has been allocated to each of the individual elements based on 
each element’s fair value. Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value is determined by reference to licence agreements with other customers where
elements are sold separately. 
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP
36 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 1  Principal accounting policies continued
Agreements including rights to unspecified products are accounted for using subscription accounting, revenue from the arrangement being recognised over
the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
In addition to the licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post contract support (support, maintenance and training) which consists
of an identified customer contact at the group and telephonic or e-mail support. Fees for post contract support which take place after customer acceptance
are specified in the contract. The fees are determined based on the group’s price list as if sold separately. The price list is established and regularly reviewed
by management. Revenue for post contract support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually
agreed by the group with the licensee.
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence (such as off-the-shelf software) are recognised
upon delivery. At that time, the group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post contract support
have been accrued. Services (such as training) that the group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced
in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is recognised as services are performed and collectability is probable.
The excess of licence fees invoiced over revenue recognised in respect of such fees is recorded as deferred income.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the group’s customers of products containing ARM technology. Revenues are recognised when ARM receives
notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties, normally quarterly in arrears.
Revenue from consulting is recognised when the service has been provided and all obligations to the customer under the consulting agreement have been
fulfilled. For larger consulting projects containing several project milestones, revenue is recognised on a percentage-to-completion basis as milestones are
achieved. Consulting costs are recognised when incurred.
As disclosed above, in accordance with FRS 18, “Accounting policies”, the group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies. In
particular, as discussed in detail above, estimates are made in relation to the use of the percentage-to-completion accounting method, which requires that
the extent of progress toward completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-to-completion method is
itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, customer acceptance is not uncertain. In addition, when allocating revenue to
various elements of multi-element arrangements, it is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately. The
complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition
policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported
in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation Provision is made for deferred taxation, using full provision accounting when an event has taken place by the balance sheet date which
gives rise to an increased or reduced tax liability in the future in accordance with FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not
discounted.
Foreign currency The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the
end of the financial year. Profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Differences
on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies are taken to reserves and reported in the statement of
group total recognised gains and losses.
Other transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences have
been included in operating profit.
Financial instruments The group attempts to reduce its foreign currency exposure by entering into forward contracts to sell US dollars and buy sterling. 
The group accounts for these instruments by revaluing the financial instruments and the associated trade debtors and cash at the year-end rate. The
resulting gain or loss is credited or charged to the profit and loss account for the year.
Research and development All research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Share schemes The group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) are separately administered
trusts which are funded by loans (the ESOP) and loans and gifts (the QUEST) from the group, and the assets of which comprise shares in the Company.
Shares in the Company held by the ESOP are shown at the lower of cost and market value. Shares in the QUEST are shown at their estimated recoverable
amount being the option price of the shares payable by employees. The amounts contributed to the QUEST in excess of the option price are charged against
reserves.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn scheme together with a similar scheme for US employees that allows the grant of share options at a discount 
to the market price at the date of grant. The Company has made use of the exemption under Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) Abstract 17 not to recognise
any compensation charge in respect of these options.
Employer’s National Insurance and similar taxes arise on the exercise of certain share options. In accordance with UITF Abstract 25 a provision is made,
calculated using the market price of the Company’s shares at the balance sheet date, pro-rated over the vesting period of the options.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  37 1  Principal accounting policies continued
Grants Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are credited to the profit and loss account to match the projects’ related expenditure.
Provision for doubtful debts Provision is made for doubtful debts following reviews of individual customer circumstances by management.
2  Segmental analysis
The directors are of the opinion that the group has only one class of business. The group’s operations by geographic area are as follows:
Turnover by destination
2002 2001
£000 £000
Europe 26,731 27,103
US 67,086 72,271
Asia Pacific 57,105 46,900
150,922 146,274
Turnover by origin
2002 2001
Total Inter-segment External Total Inter-segment External
sales sales sales sales sales sales
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 148,578 (10,831) 137,747 142,614 (11,478) 131,136
US 29,041 (21,753) 7,288 27,949 (19,518) 8,431
Asia Pacific 9,415 (3,528) 5,887 9,579 (2,872) 6,707
187,034 (36,112) 150,922 180,142 (33,868) 146,274
Profit before taxation, by origin
2002
Operating profit 2001
pre exceptional Exceptional Profit before Profit before
item item Interest tax tax
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 38,324 (1,509) 4,162 40,977 46,502
US 1,970 (412) 15 1,573 957
Asia Pacific 2,795 (39) 196 2,952 3,107
43,089 (1,960) 4,373 45,502 50,566
Net assets
2002 2001*
£000 £000
Europe 162,038 128,833
US 6,787 5,363
Asia Pacific 6,322 4,524
175,147 138,720
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
38 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 3 Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the group are set out below: 
2002 2001
£ £
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 1,160,056 1,222,948
Aggregate gains made on exercise of share options 58,240 7,386,530
1,218,296 8,609,478
Aggregate group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 73,153 63,473
1,291,449 8,672,951
The emoluments of the highest-paid director of the group are set out below: 
2002 2001
£ £
Emoluments in respect of qualifying services 211,559 218,301
Gains made on exercise of share options – 5,097,177
211,559 5,315,478
Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 24,188 9,450
235,747 5,324,928
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 29. Details of directors’ interests in share options are shown on pages 27 and 28.
4  Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the group during the year was:
2002 2001
Number Number
By activity:
Research and development 437 409
Administration 100 87
Sales and marketing 212 182
749 678
2002 2001
£000 £000
Staff costs (for the above persons):
Wages and salaries 37,732 37,360
Social security costs 3,463 2,989
Other pension costs 1,894 1,591
43,089 41,940
In addition to the above, payments totalling £1,886,000 were made to employees in respect of redundancy.
Of the total pension costs above, £nil (2001: £nil) remained unpaid at the year end.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  39 5  Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging:
2002 2001
£000 £000
Depreciation charge for the year:
Tangible owned fixed assets 12,463 9,327
Amortisation of goodwill 1,352 1,979
Amortisation of other intangible assets 2,777 1,091
(Profit)/loss on disposal of fixed assets (14) 187
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £5,000 (2001: £5,000)) 152 146
Non-audit services 95 183
Hire of plant and machinery – operating leases 1,736 163
Leased buildings – operating leases 3,463 2,938
In 2002 non-audit fees were £95,000 (2001: £183,000) and related to tax compliance and advisory work £37,000 (2001: £63,000), interim reviews, 
SEC-related work and accounting advice £47,000 (2001: £36,000), royalty audits £4,000 (2001: £50,000) and other advisory work £7,000 (2001: £34,000). 
Fees to other major firms of accountants for non-audit services amounted to £114,000 (2001: £207,000).
Exceptional items relate to the cost of payments made for redundancy for 98 employees and for related outplacement services. These were all paid during
the year.
6  Tax on profit on ordinary activities
2002 2001
£000 £000*
Current
UK corporation tax at 30% (2001: 30%) 12,846 14,616
Overseas corporation tax 1,106 1,013
Under/(over) provision in respect of prior years:
UK corporation tax 5 (114)
Overseas corporation tax (68) –
13,889 15,515
Deferred
UK deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences (500) 268
Overseas deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences (358) 91
Subtotal (858) 359
13,031 15,874
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, with the result that the deferred tax charge for 2001 has increased by £268,000 (see note 18).
The taxation charge for 2002 was reduced by £754,000 (2001: £537,000) in relation to tax losses generated by overseas subsidiaries.
Under legislation introduced with effect from 1 April 2002, the tax charge is affected by the availability of UK research and development tax credits. The tax
impact is a reduction in the tax charge for the year of £781,000 (2001: £nil).
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
40 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 6  Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below:
2002 2001
£000 £000
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 45,502 50,566
Taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 30% 13,651 15,170
Effects of:
Over provision in respect of prior years (63) (114)
Accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences 692 (226)
Permanent differences 267 1,143
Higher average tax rates in overseas countries (8) (17)
Losses utilised during the year (650) (441)
Current tax charge for the year 13,889 15,515
The analysis of the deferred tax asset movement for the group is as follows:
Deferred Deferred
tax asset tax asset
2002 2001
£000 £000*
At 1 January 839 1,198
Credited/(charged) to the profit and loss account 858 (359)
At 31 December 1,697 839
* The prior year’s figures have been restated purely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
The analysis of deferred tax assets for the group is as follows:
Amount recognised Amount not recognised
2002 2001 2002 2001
£000 £000* £000 £000*
Tax effect of timing differences because of: 
Excess of tax allowances over depreciation 1,193 584 – –
Losses carried forward – – 544 1,397
Other 504 255 15 60
1,697 839 559 1,457
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
No provision is made for taxation liabilities which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiaries because there is no intention 
in the foreseeable future that such profits will be remitted. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised for the amounts unprovided because of the uncertainty of utilising these losses in the future.
The Company has no potential liability for deferred taxation.
7  Profit for the financial year
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent company’s profit after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £772,000 (2001: £972,000).
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  41 8  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year, excluding those held in the ESOP and the QUEST which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary
shares. The Company had one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year, being those share options granted to employees and directors
where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
2002 2001
Number Per share Number Per share
Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
£000 Thousands Pence £000* Thousands Pence*
Basic EPS
Profit available to ordinary shareholders 32,239 1,012,295 3.2p 34,389 999,742 3.4p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options –8,465 – 24,891
Diluted EPS
Adjusted earnings 32,239 1,020,760 3.2p 34,389 1,024,633 3.4p
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, with the result that the earnings for 2001 have decreased by £268,000 and the basic EPS for 2001
has decreased by 0.1 pence.
9  Intangible fixed assets
Patents and 
licences Goodwill Total
Group £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2002 11,390 5,744 17,134
Additions 855 – 855
At 31 December 2002 12,245 5,744 17,989
Aggregate amortisation
At 1 January 2002 1,325 3,382 4,707
Charge for the year 2,777 1,352 4,129
At 31 December 2002 4,102 4,734 8,836
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 8,143 1,010 9,153
At 31 December 2001 10,065 2,362 12,427
The group has patents and licences which are being amortised over three to five years.
Goodwill arising on previous years’ acquisitions is being written off over two years in the case of ARM France SAS, and three years in the case of Allant
Software Corporation and Noral Micrologics Limited.
The Company does not own any intangible fixed assets.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
42 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 10  Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures,
fittings
Freehold Assets under Leasehold Computers and motor
buildings construction improvements and software vehicles Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2002 190 75 11,863 34,343 2,819 49,290
Exchange differences – – (94) (263) (79) (436)
Additions – – 6,946 8,186 484 15,616
Transfer – (75) 75 – – –
Disposals – – (27) (360) (123) (510)
At 31 December 2002 190 – 18,763 41,906 3,101 63,960
Aggregate depreciation
At 1 January 2002 23 – 4,480 20,531 1,588 26,622
Exchange differences – – (64) (240) (53) (357)
Charge for year 10 – 3,683 8,367 403 12,463
Disposals – – (23) (354) (112) (489)
At 31 December 2002 33 – 8,076 28,304 1,826 38,239
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 157 – 10,687 13,602 1,275 25,721
At 31 December 2001 167 75 7,383 13,812 1,231 22,668
The Company does not own any tangible fixed assets.
11  Fixed asset investments
Listed Other Investment
investments investments in own shares Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost 
At 1 January 2002 – 4,168 2,388 6,556
Additions 1,500 – – 1,500
Shares allocated to satisfy exercises under SAYE scheme – – (222) (222)
At 31 December 2002 1,500 4,168 2,166 7,834
Amounts written off
At 1 January 2002 – 613 – 613
Amounts written off during the year – 826 – 826
At 31 December 2002 – 1,439 – 1,439
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 1,500 2,729 2,166 6,395
At 31 December 2001 –3,555 2,388 5,943
Listed investments During the year the group invested in Superscape plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, taking an 11.99% stake in the
company. The cost and market value of this investment as at 31 December 2002 was £1,500,000. The investment was made in order to broaden the scope
of the group’s collaboration with Superscape plc in the area of 3D technology for wireless devices.
Other investments Included in other investments are the group’s less than 1% holding in the share capital of Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited, an
intellectual property company which develops Bluetooth solutions, and an investment originally representing 3.5% in the share capital of CoWare, Inc., 
a company which develops system-on-chip software for a wide range of applications. The group also has a 0.24% investment in the share capital of
Palmchip Corporation, a private fabless chip company based in California, and a 1.7% investment in the share capital of Pixim, Inc., also a private fabless
chip company based in California. 
Provisions have been made against other investments to reflect any permanent diminution in value. All these investments are held by ARM Limited.
Investment in own shares Investment in own shares includes £1,438,000, being the cost of 5,000,000 shares in the Company held by the group’s 
ESOP which are disclosed as a fixed asset investment in accordance with UITF Abstract 13, “Accounting for ESOP trusts”. The trust was set up in 1998 
and purchased shares at the time of the Company’s flotation using funds provided by the Company. No options had been granted over these shares at 
31 December 2002 and no awards have been made since the trust was created. As at 31 December 2002 and 2001 the trust held 5,000,000 shares
(nominal value £2,500) with a market value of £2,400,000 at 31 December 2002 (2001: £17,950,000). All costs relating to the scheme are dealt 
with in the profit and loss account as they accrue and the trust has waived the right to receive dividends of over and above 0.01 pence per share 
on all shares held. 
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  43 11  Fixed asset investments continued
Investment in own shares held also includes £728,000 relating to 1,796,754 shares held by the group’s QUEST, which was established by the Company
during 1999 to acquire new shares in the Company for the benefit of employees and directors of the group. During the year, 220,846 (2001: 3,925,400)
shares were allocated to satisfy employees’ and directors’ exercises under the Company’s Save As You Earn scheme. The shares held by the QUEST are
valued at the lower of the amounts receivable from employees on exercise of their options and the mid-market price at 31 December 2002. The market
value of the shares at 31 December 2002 was £862,442 (2001: £7,243,180).
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares held by the QUEST, and all costs relating to the scheme are dealt with in the profit and loss
account as they accrue.
Investment Investment
in group in own
undertakings shares Total
Company £000 £000 £000
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2002 –2,388 2,388
Shares allocated to satisfy exercises under SAYE scheme – (222) (222)
At 31 December 2002 –2,166 2,166
Investment in own shares comprises the shares held by the Company’s ESOP and by the Company’s QUEST, as described above.
Interests in group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Proportion of
nominal value
Country of Description of issued
Name of undertaking registration of shares held shares held
ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM QUEST Trustees Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors. ARM QUEST Trustees Limited is the trustee
company of the Company’s QUEST.
The group holds the following investments in subsidiaries via its subsidiary company, ARM Limited.
Proportion of
nominal value
of issued
Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity shares held
ARM, INC. USA Marketing and development 100%
of RISC-based processors
ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based processors 100%
ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based processors 85%
ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing of RISC-based processors 99.9%
ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. P . R. China Marketing of RISC-based processors 100%
Micrologic Solutions Limited England and Wales Dormant 100%
Advanced RISC Machines Limited England and Wales Dormant 100%
Allant Software Corporation USA Dormant 100%
ARM France SAS France Development of RISC-based processors 100%
Nominees of the Company hold 100% of the ordinary share capital of ARM Employee Benefit Trustee Ltd, a company which acts as trustee to the group’s ESOP .
12  Stocks
2002 2001
Group £000 £000
Finished goods 1,515 581
The Company had no stocks at 31 December 2002 and 2001.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
44 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 13  Debtors
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
£000 £000* £000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 20,516 24,809 – –
Amounts owed by group undertakings – – 35,091 35,609
Corporation tax – 550 – –
Other debtors 1,802 1,308 – –
Deferred tax (see note 6) 1,697 839 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 9,543 4,698 249 99
33,558 32,204 35,340 35,708
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, with the result that the deferred tax debtor for 2001 has increased by £584,000.
14  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade creditors 4,730 2,361 – –
Corporation tax 3,828 7,054 190 232
Other taxation and social security 824 784 – –
Other creditors 1,027 1,189 – –
Accruals and deferred income 21,074 27,972 29 23
31,483 39,360 219 255
15  Financial instruments
Use of financial instruments – general The group has three primary objectives in its use of financial instruments, namely the management of foreign
exchange risk, the maximisation of returns on funds held on deposit and the use of strategic trade investments in companies in order to further establish
the ARM architecture. These are managed, respectively, through the use of hedging strategies (primarily forward contracts), money market instruments 
and an ongoing process of assessing potential trade investments and current holdings. 
To meet these objectives the group has used the policies described below which have been applied throughout the current year.
Management of foreign exchange risk The group’s earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally 
in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of the group’s revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while the majority of its
costs are settled in sterling. The group seeks to use forward contracts to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and
value of anticipated US dollar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals) in comparison with its requirement to settle certain
expenses in US dollars. The group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using forward contracts for the sale of US
dollars as appropriate. Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts. As the timing 
of large cash receipts cannot be predicted with certainty, the group enters into forward contracts which allow exercise between two dates, typically
between three and four months from the invoice date. In those cases where customers settle debts before the expiry of the foreign exchange contract, 
the group evaluates whether money market rates available for US dollar investments exceed those for sterling investments. It then seeks to maximise its
returns by remitting US dollars against forward contracts at the beginning or end of the exercise period, depending on the prevailing money market rates 
for US dollars and sterling at the time. 
At 31 December 2002, the group had outstanding forward contracts to sell $54,000,000 (2001: $42,800,000). The group had $33,293,000 
(2001: $34,631,000) of trade debtors denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash balances of $28,645,000 (2001: $22,720,000). Thus 13%
(2001: 24%) of the group’s US dollar current assets were not hedged by matching forward contracts at the year end, a proportion considered appropriate 
in the light of the anticipated US dollar requirements to settle liabilities, particularly in respect of overseas operations.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro. As the amounts involved are not considered significant,
the group does not take out euro forward contracts.
The group, where required, invests profits in the subsidiary in which they were earned. The group does not hedge any foreign net asset investment using
foreign currency loans, as there is currently no requirement for external borrowings.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  45 15  Financial instruments continued
Maximisation of return on funds held on deposit The group’s earnings may be affected by changes in interest rates available on bank deposits. The
group aims to maximise returns from funds held on deposit and uses money market deposits with major financial institutions to do so. Recent maturities
have been up to three months in length, but this varies since close consideration is given to the UK and US money market yield curves before contracts 
are closed. 
Trade investments Investment activity is intended to create long-term strategic alliances with development companies, some of which may be unlisted 
at the time of the investment decision. As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for these securities or that the value of such
investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing ARM’s funds. The directors review holdings in 
such companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the group. Funds for such ventures are strictly
limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline in the value of investments would not be substantial in the context of the group’s 
financial results. During 2002, the group invested in Superscape plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company holds investments in four private companies, Pixim, Inc., CoWare, Inc., Palmchip Corporation and Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited, all of which
develop products based on ARM technology.
External borrowings The group had no long-term debt at 31 December 2002 (2001: £nil) or during the financial year.
Numerical disclosures Numerical disclosures are set out in the tables below. Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all the following
disclosures, other than currency risk disclosures.
Interest rate risk of financial assets
Group 2002 2001
Cash at Cash at
bank and Short-term bank and Short-term
in hand investments Total in hand investments Total
Currency £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling 89 102,821 102,910 425 85,855 86,280
US dollars 2,452 17,113 19,565 5,590 6,904 12,494
European currencies (other than sterling) 610 2,473 3,083 280 1,617 1,897
Other currencies 1,140 3,606 4,746 3,796 – 3,796
At 31 December 4,291 126,013 130,304 10,091 94,376 104,467
Floating rate 4,291 – 4,291 10,091 – 10,091
Fixed rate – 126,013 126,013 – 94,376 94,376
At 31 December 4,291 126,013 130,304 10,091 94,376 104,467
The fixed rate cash and short-term investments in sterling and US dollars were placed with banks for between one week and three months and earn
interest of between 1.2% and 4.625% (2001: 1.65% and 6.1%). Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Financial liabilities Provisions for National Insurance and similar taxes of £16,000 (2001: £210,000) are financial liabilities in sterling on which no interest 
is paid. Maturity depends on when certain share options are exercised.
Fair values of financial instruments
Cash and short-term investments The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is estimated using the settlement rates. The fair value of forward
contracts is estimated at £1,061,000 at 31 December 2002 (2001: £355,000). The increase is due to changes in the sterling/US dollar exchange rate in 2002.
Investments in unlisted companies Those companies in which ARM has invested are early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for
shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits. The directors do not consider it possible to estimate with
precision the fair value of the group’s investments in unlisted companies (carrying value at 31 December 2002: £2,729,000) as they are, by definition, not
traded on an organised market and are unique in their activities. Nevertheless, based on impairment reviews, carried out on a regular basis, the directors
are of the opinion that the fair value of these investments approximates to carrying value.
Investments in listed companies The fair value of listed investments is determined with reference to prices quoted on the London Stock Exchange at
31 December 2002. On this basis, the fair value of the group’s listed investment was equal to its carrying value at 31 December 2002 (2001: no listed
investments).
Provisions The carrying amount of £16,000 approximates to fair value as this is the amount which would be payable if the liability had crystallised at the
balance sheet date.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
46 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 15  Financial instruments continued
Currency exposure The table below shows the extent to which group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their local
currency, net of forward contracts. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are taken to the profit and loss account of 
the individual companies and the group.
European Other
US dollars currencies currencies Total
2002 £000 £000 £000 £000
Functional currency of group operation
Sterling (729) 1,755 (145) 881
Other currencies 966 – – 966
Total 237 1,755 (145) 1,847
2001
Functional currency of group operation
Sterling 10,522 2,108 47 12,677
Other currencies 60 – – 60
Total 10,582 2,108 47 12,737
Hedges The group’s hedging policy is to hedge currency risk using forward foreign currency contracts for foreign currency debtors and cash. Details of
unrecognised and deferred gains and losses are shown below:
Unrecognised Deferred
Gain Loss Total net gain/loss Gain Loss Total net gain/loss
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Gains and losses on hedges at 1 January 2002 – – – 355 – 355
Arising in previous years included in 2002 income – – – (355) – (355)
Gains and losses not included in 2002 income ––––––
Arising in 2002 – – – 1,061 – 1,061
Gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2002 ––– 1,061 – 1,061
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be included in 2003 income – – – 1,061 – 1,061
Gains deferred at 31 December 2002 will be matched by losses of the same amount on the underlying items being hedged.
Financial instruments held for trading purposes The group does not trade in financial instruments.
16  Provisions for liabilities and charges
The movement in the group’s provision is as follows:
2002 2001
£000 £000
At 1 January 210 219
Credited to the profit and loss account (194) (9)
At 31 December 16 210
The provision relates to employer’s National Insurance and similar taxes on certain share options provided in accordance with UITF Abstract 25. 
The provision fluctuates with movements in share price and the exercise of the share options.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  47 17  Called-up share capital
2002 2001
Company £000 £000
Authorised
1,580,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2001: 1,580,000,000) 790 790
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,021,758,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2001: 1,014,767,176) 511 507
6,990,824 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of £4,762,594. The issue of these shares occurred on the
exercise of share options at various times during the year.
Share options The Company had the following ordinary share options outstanding at 31 December 2002:
Period of option
Ordinary shares Exercise price
of 0.05 pence each per share
Date of issue Number £ Earliest date Latest date
15 July 1996 320,000 0.02 15 July 1999 14 July 2006
15 July 1996 600,000 0.02 15 July 1999 14 July 2003
5 March 1997 725,500 0.026 5 March 2000 4 March 2007
30 April 1997 8,000 0.026 30 April 2000 29 April 2004
29 May 1997 80,000 0.0425 29 May 2000 28 May 2004
25 June 1997 70,000 0.0625 25 June 2000 24 June 2004
1 October 1997 150,000 0.0625 1 October 2000 30 September 2004
24 December 1997 230,000 0.0625 24 December 2000 23 December 2004
7 March 1998 660,000 0.1125 7 March 2001 6 March 2008
7 March 1998 55,036 0.1125 7 March 1999 6 March 2003**
17 April 1998* 179,400 0.2445 1 June 2003 30 November 2003
8 June 1998 134,309 0.3875 8 June 1999 7 June 2003**
8 June 1998 115,000 0.3875 8 June 2001 7 June 2005
17 August 1998 125,000 0.5275 17 August 2001 16 August 2008
17 August 1998 54,322 0.5275 17 August 1999 16 August 2003**
16 October 1998 51,000 0.405 16 October 2001 15 October 2008
16 October 1998 34,550 0.405 16 October 1999 15 October 2003**
11 March 1999 2,909,507 1.224 11 March 2002 10 March 2009
11 March 1999 1,489,869 1.224 11 March 2000 10 March 2004**
11 March 1999 4,986,040 1.224 11 March 2002 10 March 2006
4 May 1999 158,259 1.338 4 May 2002 3 May 2009
4 May 1999 42,740 1.338 4 May 2002 3 May 2006
4 May 1999 41,254 1.338 4 May 2000 3 May 2004**
10 June 1999* 11,240 1.099 1 July 2004 31 December 2004
10 August 1999 75,490 1.765 10 August 2002 9 August 2009
10 August 1999 40,002 1.765 10 August 2000 9 August 2004**
10 August 1999 26,010 1.765 10 August 2002 9 August 2006
12 November 1999 91,570 4.26 16 November 2002 15 November 2009
12 November 1999 76,680 4.26 16 November 2002 15 November 2006
1 February 2000 121,250 7.738 1 February 2003 31 January 2010
1 February 2000 52,500 7.738 1 February 2001 31 January 2005**
1 February 2000 70,000 7.738 1 February 2003 31 January 2007
18 April 2000 80,465 6.136 18 April 2003 17 April 2010
18 April 2000 10,000 6.136 18 April 2001 17 April 2005**
18 April 2000 36,035 6.136 18 April 2003 17 April 2007
25 April 2000 50,000 6.27 25 April 2001 24 April 2005**
19 May 2000* 26,481 5.65 1 July 2003 31 December 2003
19 May 2000* 4,896 5.65 1 July 2005 31 December 2005
22 May 2000 346,763 6.155 22 May 2003 21 May 2010
22 May 2000 794,000 6.155 22 May 2001 21 May 2005**
22 May 2000 2,689,555 6.155 22 May 2001 21 May 2007**
7 August 2000 24,250 6.70 7 August 2001 6 August 2005**
7 August 2000 162,500 6.70 7 August 2001 6 August 2007**
13 October 2000 145,750 6.33 13 October 2001 12 October 2005**
13 October 2000 252,500 6.33 13 October 2001 12 October 2007**
15 February 2001 83,000 4.43 15 February 2002 14 February 2006**
15 February 2001 436,500 4.43 15 February 2002 14 February 2008**
14 May 2001 590,521 3.35 14 May 2004 13 May 2011
14 May 2001 1,305,900 3.35 14 May 2002 13 May 2006**
14 May 2001 3,760,529 3.35 14 May 2002 13 May 2008**
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
48 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 17  Called-up share capital continued
Period of option
Ordinary shares Exercise price
of 0.05 pence each per share
Date of issue Number £ Earliest date Latest date
19 May 2001* 203,480 3.069 1 July 2004 31 December 2004
19 May 2001* 28,366 3.069 1 July 2006 31 December 2006
19 May 2001* 22,349 3.069 1 July 2003 30 September 2003
22 May 2001 62,909 3.815 22 May 2004 21 May 2008
†
1 August 2001 58,813 2.84 1 August 2004 31 July 2011
1 August 2001 28,000 2.84 1 August 2002 31 July 2006**
1 August 2001 20,822 2.84 1 August 2002 31 July 2008**
6 November 2001 139,000 3.75 6 November 2004 5 November 2011**
6 November 2001 44,750 3.75 6 November 2002 5 November 2006**
6 November 2001 51,000 3.75 6 November 2002 5 November 2008**
5 March 2002 62,500 3.145 5 March 2003 4 March 2007**
5 March 2002 176,250 3.145 5 March 2003 4 March 2009**
19 April 2002 1,072,098 2.465 19 April 2005 18 April 2012
19 April 2002 4,294,629 2.465 19 April 2003 18 April 2009**
19 April 2002 406,896 2.465 19 April 2005 18 April 2009
†
19 April 2002 1,500,675 2.465 19 April 2003 18 April 2007**
20 June 2002* 905,064 1.82537 1 July 2005 31 December 2005
20 June 2002* 242,922 1.82537 1 July 2007 31 December 2007
20 June 2002* 189,140 1.82537 1 July 2004 30 September 2004
27 May 2002 223,515 2.1475 27 May 2003 26 May 2009**
15 August 2002 128,500 1.505 15 August 2003 14 August 2007**
15 August 2002 378,250 1.505 15 August 2003 14 August 2009**
16 October 2002 68,750 0.425 16 October 2003 15 October 2007**
16 October 2002 120,000 0.425 16 October 2003 15 October 2009**
8 November 2002 3,500 0.5725 8 November 2003 7 November 2007**
8 November 2002 35,000 0.5725 8 November 2003 7 November 2009**
Total 35,051,349
* These relate to options granted under the Company’s savings-related share option schemes.
** Options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
†
These options will vest after seven years unless certain criteria are met, in which case they will vest between three and seven years.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  49 18  Share premium account and reserves
Share 
premium Other Profit and
account reserves loss account
Group £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2002 76,124 144 60,752
Prior year adjustment –– 584
At 1 January 2002 as restated 76,124 144 61,336
Foreign exchange difference on consolidation – (807) –
Premium on exercise of share options 4,759 – –
Retained profit for the year –– 32,239
At 31 December 2002 80,883 (663) 93,575
Other reserves represent exchange differences arising on consolidation of foreign subsidiary undertakings.
Prior year adjustment The group has adopted FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, during the year by means of a prior year adjustment. The current year effect of 
this is to decrease the tax charge by £500,000. The effect for 2001 is to increase the tax charge by £268,000 and to increase shareholders’ funds and the
deferred tax debtor at 31 December 2001 by £584,000.
Share 
premium Profit and
account loss account
Company £000 £000
At 1 January 2002 76,124 3,552
Premium on exercise of share options 4,759 –
Retained profit for the year – 772
At 31 December 2002 80,883 4,324
The adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”, has had no impact on the results of the Company.
19  Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2002 2001
Group £000 £000
*
Profit attributable to shareholders 32,239 34,389
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (807) 14
New share capital issued 4 7
Share premium on issue of new shares 4,759 1,551
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 36,195 35,961
Opening shareholders’ funds as previously reported 137,527 101,298
Prior year adjustment (see note 18) 584 852
Opening shareholders’ funds as restated 138,111 102,150
Closing shareholders’ funds 174,306 138,111
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
20  Minority interests
2002 2001
£000 £000
At 1 January 609 306
Profit and loss account 232 303
Equity minority interests at 31 December 841 609
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
50 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 21  Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from continuing operating activities
2002 2001
£000 £000
Operating profit 41,129 45,782
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets 12,463 9,327
(Profit)/loss on sale of tangible fixed assets (14) 187
Amortisation of goodwill 1,352 1,979
Amortisation of other intangible assets 2,777 1,091
Amounts written off unlisted investments 826 272
(Increase) in stocks (934) (196)
Decrease/(increase) in trade debtors 4,293 (5,896)
Trade debtors converted to unlisted investments – (1,361)
(Increase) in prepayments and accrued income (4,960) (2,037)
Increase in trade creditors 2,369 312
Increase in other taxation and social security 40 194
(Decrease)/increase in accruals, deferred income and other creditors (7,060) 7,338
Movement in provisions for liabilities and charges (194) 9
Net cash inflow from operating activities 52,087 57,001
22  Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2002 2001
£000 £000
(Decrease)/increase in cash for the year (5,072) 4,324
Cash outflow from purchase of short-term investments 31,637 24,893
Change in net funds from cash flows 26,565 29,217
Non-cash items:
Translation difference (728) (16)
Movement in net funds in the year 25,837 29,201
Net funds at start of the year 104,467 75,266
Net funds at end of the year 130,304 104,467
23  Analysis of net funds
Cash at bank Short-term
and in hand investments Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2002 10,091 94,376 104,467
Cash flow (5,072) 31,637 26,565
Translation differences (728) – (728)
At 31 December 2002 4,291 126,013 130,304
24  Cash flow from acquisitions
2002 2001
£000 £000
Acquisitions
Purchase of assets and trade – (1,200)
Acquisition expenses – (151)
Net cash outflow from acquisitions – (1,351)
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  51 25  Capital commitments
2002 2001
Group £000 £000
Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but has not been provided for in the financial statements 1,714 488
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2002 and 2001.
26  Financial commitments and contingencies
At 31 December 2002, the group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2002 2001
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£000 £000 £000 £000
Expiring within one year 321 8 369 –
Expiring between two and five years inclusive 894 1,778 957 57
Expiring in over five years 2,110 – 2,110 –
3,325 1,786 3,436 57
At 31 December 2002 and 2001 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases.
The group has an obligation, if certain criteria are met, to make a $3,000,000 investment representing a minority holding in a fabless semiconductor
company that is set up to create and sell ARM core-based microprocessor cores to be licensed from ARM.
In 2002 a lawsuit was filed against the group claiming that the group’s Jazelle technology for Java™ acceleration infringes a US patent. The group is
confident that its products do not infringe the patent cited in the lawsuit or any other patents, is defending the action vigorously and believes that the
matter could be concluded quickly.
27  Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disclosures”, where
transactions and balances between group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
There were no related party transactions during 2002 or 2001 which require disclosure.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
52 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 28 Summary of significant differences between United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) followed by the group 
and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP)
The financial information set out in this report has been prepared under UK GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP . The principal
differences between the group’s accounting policies under UK GAAP and those that would have been followed had the financial information been prepared
under US GAAP are set out below.
Goodwill Under UK GAAP , goodwill is amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the group is expected to benefit from it. This 
was also the group’s accounting policy under US GAAP prior to 1 January 2002, on which date, following the provisions of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other
intangible assets”, the carrying value of goodwill was frozen and became subject to annual impairment reviews. The transitional impairment review carried
out on adoption of SFAS 142 did not give any indication of impairment.
Acquisitions Under US GAAP , payments to purchase intangible assets that are still in development are charged directly to the profit and loss account. 
Such payments are included within goodwill under UK GAAP , giving rise to a difference in goodwill recognised and the associated amortisation charge.
Marketable securities Under US GAAP , investments in available-for-sale securities are marked to market where the market value is readily determinable
and gains and losses, net of deferred taxation, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Under UK GAAP , the group’s accounting policy is to carry such
investments at cost less any provisions for diminution in value.
Investment in own shares/treasury stock Under UK GAAP , the shares held by the group in the ESOP and the QUEST are included as “investment in own
shares” within fixed asset investments. Investment in own shares is held at the lower of cost and amounts receivable on exercise of options, where
applicable, and market value. Under US GAAP , these shares are treated as treasury stock and are included within shareholders’ equity, at original cost.
Save As You Earn (SAYE) plans Under UK GAAP , the group has taken advantage of the exemption provided by UITF 17, “Employee share schemes”, not 
to recognise any compensation charge in respect of options granted under SAYE plans. Under US GAAP , the group follows the requirements of EITF 00-23,
which does not permit such an exemption in respect of plans where the savings period is in excess of 27 months, as is the case with the group’s Inland
Revenue approved UK SAYE plans. EITF 00-23 applies only to new offers made since 24 January 2002. The compensation charge made under US GAAP 
is calculated as the difference between the market price of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price of the option and is recorded on a 
straight-line basis over the savings period.
Employee share options Under UK GAAP , employer’s taxes that are payable on the exercise of share options are provided for over the vesting period 
of the options. Under US GAAP such taxes are accounted for when the options are exercised.
Tax on US share options In the US, the group is entitled to a tax deduction for the amount treated as compensation under US tax rules for certain
employee share options, which have been exercised by US employees during the year. This amount is equivalent to the difference between the option
exercise price and the fair market value of the shares at the date of exercise. Under UK GAAP the tax benefit arising from this deduction is included in 
the tax charge in the profit and loss account. Under US GAAP , the tax benefit is recorded as an increase in shareholders’ funds.
Embedded derivatives Under US GAAP , where the group enters into sales contracts denominated in a currency that is neither the functional currency 
of the group nor the functional currency of the customer and where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, such derivatives are carried at fair
value. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Embedded derivatives are not revalued to fair value under UK GAAP .
Consolidated profit and loss account Under UK GAAP , gains and losses on disposal of fixed asset trade investments are shown after operating profit. 
Under US GAAP , gains and losses are reported in income from operations. Under UK GAAP , profit before tax is stated before minority interests. Under US
GAAP , income before income tax is stated after minority interests.
Consolidated statement of cash flows The consolidated statement of cash flows prepared under UK GAAP presents substantially the same information as
that required under US GAAP . These presentations differ, however, with regard to classification of items within the statements and as regards the definition
of the cash and cash equivalents.
Under UK GAAP , cash does not include short-term deposits and investments which cannot be withdrawn without notice and without incurring a penalty. 
Such items are shown as short-term investments. Under US GAAP , deposits with a maturity of less than three months at inception which are convertible into
known amounts of cash are included as cash and cash equivalents. Under UK GAAP cash flows are presented separately for operating activities, returns on
investments and servicing of finance, taxation, capital expenditure and financial investments, acquisitions and disposals, management of liquid resources
and financing activities. US GAAP , however, requires only three categories of cash flow activity to be reported: operating, investing and financing. Cash flows
from taxation and returns on investments and servicing of finance shown under UK GAAP are included as operating activities under US GAAP .
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  53 28 Summary of significant differences between United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) followed by the group 
and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) continued
a) Reconciliation of UK GAAP operating profit to US GAAP income from operations
2002 2001
£000 £000
Group operating profit as reported under UK GAAP 41,129 45,782
Adjustments for:
Movement in provision for employer’s taxes on share options (194) (9)
Compensation charge in respect of SAYE options (56) –
Net gains on disposals of trade investments – 314
Difference on amortisation of goodwill 1,352 50
Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives (950) –
Income from operations as reported under US GAAP 41,281 46,137
b) Reconciliation of UK GAAP profit before tax to US GAAP income before income tax
2002 2001
£000 £000
Profit before tax as reported under UK GAAP 45,502 50,566
Adjustments for:
Movement in provision for employer’s taxes on share options (194) (9)
Compensation charge in respect of SAYE options (56) –
Difference on amortisation of goodwill 1,352 50
Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives (950) –
Minority interest (232) (303)
Income before income tax as reported under US GAAP 45,422 50,304
c) Reconciliation of UK GAAP retained profit to US GAAP net income
2002 2001
£000 £000*
Retained profit as reported under UK GAAP 32,239 34,389
Adjustments for:
Movement in provision for employer’s taxes on share options (194) (9)
Compensation charge in respect of SAYE options (56) –
Difference on amortisation of goodwill 1,352 50
Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives (950) –
Tax deduction for US employee share options (754) (428)
Net income as reported under US GAAP 31,637 34,002
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
d) Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity from UK to US GAAP
2002 2001
£000 £000*
Shareholders’ funds as reported under UK GAAP 174,306 138,111
Adjustments for: 
Investment in own shares/treasury stock (18,034) (19,934)
Contribution to QUEST, net of proceeds from allocation of shares 15,868 17,546
Provision for employer’s taxes on share options 16 210
Write-off of in-process research and development (150) (150)
Cumulative difference on amortisation of goodwill 1,414 62
Fair value of embedded derivatives (950) –
Shareholders’ equity as reported under US GAAP 172,470 135,845
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of FRS 19, “Deferred taxation” (see note 18).
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
54 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 28 Summary of significant differences between United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) followed by the group 
and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) continued
e) Reconciliation of UK GAAP cash to US GAAP cash and cash equivalents
2002 2001
£000 £000
Cash as reported under UK GAAP 4,291 10,091
Adjustment for short-term investments treated as cash equivalents under US GAAP 126,013 94,376
Cash and cash equivalents as reported under US GAAP 130,304 104,467
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  55 The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, reference to the financial statements 
of ARM Holdings plc, expressed in sterling, set forth on pages 61 to 78 of this report.
Selected consolidated financial data – US GAAP
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenues 42,268 62,120 100,730 146,274 150,922
Cost of revenues 8,316 9,803 11,647 17,289 13,185
Operating expenses 26,361 36,530 57,846 82,848 96,456
Income from operations 7,591 15,787 31,237 46,137 41,281
Interest, net 1,911 2,266 3,912 4,470 4,373
Share of loss of equity affiliate (71) – (85) – –
Gain on partial disposal of shares in equity affiliate – – 512 – –
Minority interest (8) (64) (192) (303) (232)
Income before income tax 9,423 17,989 35,384 50,304 45,422
Provision for income taxes 3,371 1,757 6,007 16,302 13,785
Net income 6,052 16,232 29,377 34,002 31,637
Diluted earnings per common share 0.4p 1.6p 2.9p 3.3p 3.1p
IPO dividend per common share 0.5p – – – –
Research and development as a percentage of revenues 30.1% 27.6% 26.2% 25.3% 31.3%
Capital expenditure £6,402 £5,900 £11,842 £17,349 £15,616
Cash and cash equivalents £39,591 £51,804 £75,266 £104,467 £130,304
Shareholders’ equity £48,280 £67,113 £100,972 £135,845 £172,470
Total assets £60,580 £83,288 £127,343 £175,814 £205,744
Employees at year end (number) 354 443 619 722 721
Selected consolidated financial data/US GAAP
56 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  57
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. The matters addressed in this 
operating and financial review and prospects, with the exception of the historical information presented, contain forward-looking statements involving 
risks and uncertainties.
Overview ARM designs high-performance, low-cost, power-efficient reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors and related technology 
and software, and licenses this IP to semiconductor companies which, in turn, manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated
circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) based on the ARM architecture to systems companies. ARM also licenses and sells
development systems directly to systems companies and provides consulting and support services to its licensees, systems companies and other system
designers. ARM has developed an innovative, intellectual property-centred and market-driven business model in which it neither manufactures nor sells 
the products incorporating ARM technology, but concentrates on the research and development, design and support of the ARM architecture and supporting
development tools and software.
Market conditions The challenging economic environment and severe downturn in the semiconductor industry persisted throughout 2002. In this context,
ARM reported robust results in the first half of the year. However, when the industry upturn foreseen by many commentators in the second half of 2002
did not materialize, we experienced some deferment of licensing decisions by our Partners and a consequent slowdown in licensing activity. The slowdown
continues to persist.
This slowdown in licensing activity caused us to realign our expectations for short- to medium-term revenue growth and we took the decision to adjust our
cost base to be commensurate with our revised expectations. Despite the unhelpful market background, we continue to invest in the future ARM technology
roadmap by maintaining a high level of research and development expenditure and are, therefore, particularly pleased that even with a slowdown in
licensing activity in the second half we remain strongly profitable and cash generative. Indeed, in the second half alone the total net cash inflow from
operating activities was £30.8 million, giving rise to a year end cash balance of over £130 million.
The table below sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain items reflected in the Company’s consolidated
statements of income.
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
%% %
Revenues:
Product revenues 83.9 87.5 88.1
Service revenues 16.1 12.5 11.9
Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0
Cost of revenues:
Product costs 4.6 5.6 4.3
Service costs 7.0 6.2 4.4
Total cost of revenues 11.6 11.8 8.7
Gross profit 88.4 88.2 91.3
Operating expenses:
Research and development 26.2 25.3 31.3
Sales and marketing 17.7 14.7 16.4
General and administrative 12.2 15.4 14.9
Amortization of goodwill 1.3 1.3 –
Restructuring costs –– 1.3
Total operating expenses 57.4 56.7 63.9
Income from operations 31.0 31.5 27.4
Interest, net 3.9 3.1 2.9
Share of loss of equity affiliate (0.1) – –
Gain on partial disposal of equity affiliate 0.5 – –
Minority interest (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Income before income tax 35.1 34.4 30.1
Provision for income taxes 6.0 11.1 9.1
Net income 29.1 23.3 21.0
Total revenues Total revenues were £150.9 million in 2002, an increase of 3% from £146.3 million in 2001, which was a 45% increase from 
£100.7 million in 2000.
Product revenues Product revenues consist of license fees, sales of development systems and royalties. Product revenues for 2000, 2001 and 2002 were
£84.6 million, £128.0 million and £133.0 million, representing 84%, 87% and 88% of total revenues respectively.
License revenues increased from £45.4 million in 2000 to £76.8 million in 2001 and to £83.0 million in 2002 representing approximately 45%, 52% and
55% of total revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively. The importance of the ARM7 family declined further in 2002, accounting for 36% of revenues 
in 2000, 20% in 2001 and 15% in 2002. This continuing decline reflected the growing range of products available to license from the Company, including  Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP/continued
58 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
a broadening number of ARM9 and ARM10 core family products, the first core in the ARM11 family of products and architectural licenses which give
licensees more rights to modify the technology, peripheral technology, models, sub-systems and application software. Revenues from the ARM9 family 
have become increasingly important, accounting for 31% of revenues in 2000, 44% in 2001 and 43% in 2002. 33 new licensees were signed in 2002
bringing the total number of semiconductor Partners to 108. Of the 33 new licensees, 23 were “per-use” licensees who joined the Foundry Programme,
introduced in 2000 to enable small fabless chip companies to gain access to the Company’s technology at a lower price point. Existing semiconductor
Partners licensed further cores in 2002 with 37 separate products licensed by 25 different Partners during the year. Of these, 21 were for products from
microprocessor core families not previously licensed, and 16 were for further cores within families already licensed. Sales of licenses to the existing
customer base of semiconductor Partners has become a more important part of the business, accounting for approximately 89% of total license fees 
in 2002; this compares to approximately 80% in 2001 and 66% in 2000. 
The sale of non-core licenses, covering items such as platforms, peripherals, embedded trace modules, models, and sub-systems, increased in 2002 
to £12.6 million from £11.9 million in 2001 and £7.8 million in 2000 representing approximately 15% of license revenues in 2002, 15% in 2001 and 
17% in 2000.
Revenues from the sale of Development Systems increased from £13.6 million in 2000 to £23.3 million in 2001, falling slightly to £23.1 million in 2002
representing approximately 14%, 16% and 15% of total revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively. The majority of ARM’s sales of Development
Systems are in US dollars and the US dollar value of sales of development systems in 2002 was approximately 3% higher than in 2001. The effect of the
strong pound against the US dollar was to reduce the sterling value of sales. Sales of Development Systems were also affected by increased competition 
in the debug tools marketplace, which saw the volume of sales of ARM’s debug solutions increasing, but the value of sales decreasing as prices were
cut to remain competitive.
Royalties are either set as a percentage of the licensee’s net sales price per chip or, less frequently, as a fixed amount and are recognized when the
Company receives notification from the customer of product sales. In effect, this means that it is normally in the quarter following the shipments that data
is received and so royalty data for a year reflects actual shipments made from the beginning of October of the previous year to the end of September of the
current year. Royalties increased from £25.6 million in 2000, to £27.9 million in 2001, and decreased to £26.8 million in 2002, representing 25%, 19% and
18% of total revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively. Volume shipments increased from 367 million units in 2000, to 420 million units in 2001,
mainly due to an increase in the sale of products such as printers, digital cameras, smart cards, disk drives and networking products. Unit shipments in 2002
were 456 million, with the increase in volumes coming from increased production of a wide range of electronic devices, including wireless handsets, secure
products and automotive products. The Company expects royalty revenues to grow year on year although they may be subject to significant fluctuations
from quarter to quarter. The proportion of unit shipments into the non-wireless markets has increased in 2002 and the Company expects this trend to
continue into 2003.
Service revenues Service revenues consist of design consulting services and revenues from support, maintenance and training. Service revenues increased
from £16.2 million in 2000, to £18.3 million in 2001, and decreased to £18.0 million in 2002, representing 16%, 13% and 12% of total revenues in 2000,
2001 and 2002 respectively. Consulting revenues decreased from £8.2 million in 2000, to £7.4 million in 2001, and £4.4 million in 2002, as engineering
resource was directed away from consulting projects to research and development activities. Revenues from support, maintenance and training increased
from £8.0 million in 2000 to £10.9 million in 2001 and £13.5 million in 2002. 
Geographic analysis Operating in a global environment, the geographic destinations of the Company’s revenues fluctuate from period to period depending
upon the country of origin of its customers. The pattern of revenues in 2002 was 44% of revenues coming from the US, 25% from Japan, 13% from Asia
Pacific, excluding Japan, and 18% from Europe. In 2001, revenues from the US represented 49%, Japan 23%, Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, 9%, and Europe
19%. In 2000, 55% of revenues came from the US, 18% from Japan, 7% from Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, and 20% from Europe.
Product costs Product costs are limited to variable costs of production such as the costs of manufacture of development systems and costs incurred in
making third-party operating systems compatible with the ARM architecture. Product costs were £4.6 million in 2000, £8.2 million in 2001 and £6.5 million
in 2002 representing 5%, 6% and 4% of total revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively. Approximately two-thirds of total product cost of sales were
made up of development systems costs in 2002, with the balance comprising additional costs related to the costs of third-party operating systems. This
compares to approximately four-fifths of total product cost of sales being made up of development systems costs in 2000 and 2001, with the balance being
costs associated with third-party operating systems. Product gross margin in 2002 increased slightly to 95%, compared to 94% in 2001 and 95% in 2000.
The Company does not currently expect a significant increase in product costs in 2003, although this would be subject to significant fluctuations if
management were obliged to port further operating systems to run on the ARM architecture.
Service costs Service costs include the costs of support and maintenance services to licensees of ARM technology as well as the costs directly attributable 
to consulting work performed for third parties. Cost of services increased from approximately £7.1 million in 2000 to £9.1 million in 2001, and fell to 
£6.7 million in 2002. The gross margins earned on service revenues were approximately 56% in 2000, 50% in 2001, and 63% in 2002. The gross margin
increased in 2002 due to a shift in engineering resource from low-margin consulting projects to more profitable IP-generating activities.
Research and development costs Research and development costs increased from £26.4 million in 2000 to £36.9 million in 2001, and £47.3 million in
2002, representing 26%, 25% and 31% of total revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively. Continued investment in research and development remains
an essential part of the Company’s strategy since its development of new products to license is key to its success. Current projects include the development
of additional versions of the ARM11 core and platform, first implementations of ARM’s intelligent energy management technology, additions to the
PrimeXsys range of system IP platforms, research into future microprocessor architectures, multi-processing solutions and enhanced application software 
and development systems products.
Total engineering headcount increased from 376 at the end of 2000 to 429 at the end of 2001, and was 420 at the end of 2002. In addition, there were
approximately 15 contractors in 2000, 18 in 2001 and 18 in 2002.  ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  59
Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenditure increased from £17.8 million in 2000, to £21.5 million in 2001, and £24.7 million in 2002,
representing 18% of total revenues in 2000, 15% in 2001, and 16% in 2002. Headcount in this area increased from 162 at December 31, 2000, to 198 at
December 31, 2001, and 208 at December 31, 2002. The total number of offices with sales people is currently 14 and this enables improved contact with
the Company’s geographically diverse customer base. In 2001, a further sales office was opened in the US and in 2002 a sales office was opened in
Shanghai, PR China.
General and administrative General and administrative headcount increased from 81 at December 31, 2000, to 95 at December 31, 2001, and was 
93 at December 31, 2002. General and administrative costs rose from £12.3 million in 2000 to £22.5 million in 2001 and were £22.5 million in 2002,
representing 12%, 15% and 15% of total revenues, respectively. In 2001, legal costs increased to £5.5 million, largely attributable to the Company’s 
now-resolved litigation against picoTurbo Inc., human resources costs grew by £2 million, with greater emphasis on employee training, and establishment
costs rose by £1 million with improved office accommodation. In 2002, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a lawsuit against ARM before the Federal District
Court for Northern California claiming that ARM’s Jazelle technology for Java acceleration infringes a US patent owned by Nazomi. ARM is confident that its
products do not infringe the patent cited in the lawsuit or any other Nazomi patents. Total legal costs were £4.1 million in 2002. Expense in relation to
provisions for doubtful debts was £1.4 million in 2002, compared to £0.7 million in 2001 and a release of provision of £0.2 million in 2000, reflecting more
difficult trading conditions for many of our smaller customers. Unrealized future foreign exchange losses on certain committed but not yet invoiced future
revenue streams of £0.9 million (2001: £nil; 2000: £nil) were recorded in accordance with SFAS 133. There was a gain on foreign exchange of £0.1 million 
in 2000, an exchange loss of £0.2 million in 2001 and an exchange gain of £0.5 million in 2002. See “Foreign Currency Fluctuations” below.
Restructuring costs During 2002, the Company incurred restructuring costs of £2.0 million comprising mainly severance payments, all of which were paid
during the fourth quarter following a reduction in total headcount of 98 people representing 12% of the Company’s workforce. It is anticipated that this
reduction in the workforce will reduce employee costs by approximately £5 million per annum. 
Amortization of goodwill and intangible assets The Company purchased the assets of Infinite Designs Limited in March 2000, EuroMIPS Systems SAS 
in June 2000 and Allant Software Corporation in September 2000. In 2001, the Company purchased the assets of Noral Micrologics Limited, a ten-person
company with expertise in debugging software, for a consideration of £1.4 million. Amortization of goodwill of £1.9 million was charged to the income
statement in 2001 and £1.3 million was charged in 2000. In-process research and development costs of £0.2 million relating to the acquisition of Allant
Software Corporation were written off in 2000. There was no charge for goodwill in 2002 following the Company’s adoption of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and
other intangible assets”.
During 2000 a license connected with the rights to use a certain debugging technology for use in the Company’s development systems products was
purchased for £2.8 million. This is being amortized over a period of three years with £0.9 million (2001: £0.9 million, 2000: £0.2 million) amortized 
during 2002. The Company also purchased a new license for £1.1 million in 2001 to enable the Company to produce and license Java technology-related
products. This is being amortized over a period of five years with £0.2 million amortized during 2001 and £0.2 million amortized during 2002. A further
license was purchased in 2002 for £0.2 million. This is being amortized over three years.
Following the conclusion of the Company’s litigation against picoTurbo, Inc. in December 2001, picoTurbo assigned its intellectual property rights to the
Company for a payment of £7.5 million. This is being amortized over five years and £1.5 million was charged to the income statement in 2002.
The Company also purchased a patent for £0.7 million in 2002 which is being amortized over five years. The amortization charge for 2002 was £0.1 million.
The adoption of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other intangible assets”, has not resulted in any impairment of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets.
Interest Interest grew from £3.9 million in 2000 to £4.5 million in 2001 and was £4.3 million in 2002. The growth in interest earned between 2000 and
2001 was lower than the growth in cash balances, and interest earned fell slightly between 2001 and 2002 reflecting the drop in market interest rates
during 2001 and 2002. The Company invested cash balances over periods of up to three months during 2002.
Income before income tax Income before income tax grew from £35.4 million in 2000 to £50.3 million in 2001 and was £45.4 million in 2002, representing
35%, 34% and 30% of total revenues respectively. The slight drop in margins between 2000 and 2001 was partly due to lower returns on cash deposits.
The drop in margins in 2002 was a result of lower than anticipated revenues in the second half of the year.
Tax charge The Company’s effective tax rates were 17% in 2000, 32% in 2001 and 30% in 2002. The principal reason for the lower tax rate in 2000 
was the establishment of a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST), a trust set up to acquire new shares in the Company for the benefit of
employees and directors of the Company. The contribution by the Company to the QUEST for the purchase of shares by the QUEST is a tax-deductible expense
under existing UK tax legislation. The Company made two contributions to the QUEST in March 2000 and November 2000, when the QUEST purchased
1,483,440 shares and 559,559 shares respectively. The Company did not make further contributions to the QUEST in 2001 or 2002 and so the tax rate
returned to normal levels. Full details with respect to the QUEST are disclosed in footnote 1 of the financial statements.
Liquidity and capital resources The Company’s operating activities provided net cash of £42.7 million, £52.0 million and £39.5 million in 2000, 2001 and
2002 respectively. In 2000 the significant items impacting on cash generated from operations were the increase in accounts receivable of £4.7 million and
the increase in deferred revenue of £5.1 million. In 2001, accounts receivable increased a further £6.6 million while deferred revenues grew by £6.7 million 
and in 2002 accounts receivable decreased by £2.9 million and deferred revenues fell by £5.0 million. In 2002 prepaid expenses increased by £5.3 million,
compared to an increase of £1.4 million and £1.0 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company entered into several leases for design automation
tools during 2002, which resulted in the large increase in prepaid expenses. The Company believes that, given its current level of business, it has sufficient
working capital for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2002, the Company recorded approximately £14.4 million in deferred revenues which represented cash or receivables scheduled to 
be recognized as revenues in varying amounts after December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, the Company recorded
approximately £19.4 million and £12.7 million respectively in deferred revenues.
Cash flow from operations has been used to fund the working capital requirements of the Company as well as capital expenditure. Capital expenditure 
in 2002 was £15.6 million, compared to £17.3 million in 2001 and £11.8 million in 2000. The increasing expenditures between 2000 and 2001 were due 
to the need to invest in new design automation tools for a rapidly expanding workforce and the costs of establishing and improving the Company’s design
centers in the UK, France and the US. In 2002, capital expenditure decreased as a result of the Company leasing some of the design automation tools that
would have previously been purchased. In 2000, £4.7 million was spent on improvements to offices. Further investment was made in design tools in the UK
and the US with £6.6 million being spent on computers and software. In 2001, £4.0 million was spent on office improvements with £13.4 million spent on
computer equipment and software. In 2002, £15.6 million was spent on computer equipment, software, leasehold improvements and fixtures and fittings. 
During 2000, the Company purchased the entire share capital of EuroMIPS Systems SAS (now ARM France SAS) and Allant Software Corporation, and the
trade and assets of Infinite Designs Limited. The aggregate sum paid for these three acquisitions amounted to £3.4 million.
In 2001, the Company purchased part of the business of Noral Micrologics Limited for £1.4 million in cash.
The Company envisages making strategic investments in the future, in situations where the Company can broaden its product portfolio, where it can obtain
skilled engineering resources and where the potential for furthering ARM core-based design wins is improved significantly.
During 1996, the Company made two investments in small start-up companies, namely Sirius Communications NV and Palmchip Corporation (“Palmchip”).
These investments amounted to £0.2 million in aggregate. In 1997, the Company made a further investment in Palmchip and converted its existing loan 
to give the Company a 45% shareholding. During 2000 the Company disposed of part of its share in Palmchip for £0.5 million with the result that it was 
no longer treated as an equity affiliate. The Company’s share of the loss of Palmchip up to the disposal date was £0.1 million.
During 2000, the Company made the following investments in available-for-sale securities: £1.3 million in Parthus Technologies plc, £0.7 million in
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited, and £2.1 million in CoWare, Inc. In 2001, the Company made the following investments in available-for-sale securities: 
£0.3 million in LinkUp Systems, Inc., and £1.0 million in Pixim, Inc. In addition, in 2001 the Company sold its investment in Parthus for a profit of 
£0.1 million, and its investment in Sirius Communications NV for a profit of £0.5 million. It recognized a loss on its investment in LinkUp Systems of 
£0.3 million at the end of 2001 when LinkUp’s entire business was purchased by a third party. In 2002, the Company made one investment in an 
available-for-sale security, namely Superscape plc, for a consideration of £1.5 million.
Cash balances at December 31, 2002, were £130.3 million compared to £104.5 million at December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2001, accounts receivable
net of allowances for doubtful debts were £24.8 million and £20.5 million at December 31, 2002, which represented 17% and 14% of revenues, respectively.
Foreign currency fluctuations The Company’s earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally the US dollar
rate, reflecting the fact that most of the Company’s revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars while a high proportion of its costs are in sterling. 
The Company reduces this US dollar/sterling risk where possible by currency hedging. Due to the high value and timing of receipts on individual licenses 
and the requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars, the Company reviews its foreign exchange exposure on a transaction-by-transaction basis. 
It then hedges this exposure using forward contracts for the sale of US dollars, which are negotiated with major UK clearing banks. The average size of 
each forward contract was $3.5 million in 2000, $3.0 million in 2001, and $7.2 million in 2002. The Company does not currently use any other financial
instruments or derivatives, although the Company is reviewing the use of other financial instruments such as currency options. The fair values of the
financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002 are disclosed in footnote 12 to the financial statements. The settlement period 
of the forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 is between January 17 and March 24, 2003.
Risk factors The Company operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change,
short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition. The Company believes that its future operating results
will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors. These include the timing of entering into agreements with new
licensees, the mixture of license fees, royalties and fees from services, the introduction of new technology by the Company, the timing of orders from, and
shipments to, systems companies of ARM core-based microprocessors from the Company’s semiconductor Partners and sudden technological change in the
microprocessor industry.
Other risks include the reliance on semiconductor Partners, dependence upon systems companies, patent protection, attraction and retention of employees,
management of growth, competition and vulnerability to general economic conditions. Risk factors are more fully discussed in the Company’s annual report
on Form 20-F for 2002.
Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP/continued
60 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 2000 2001 2002 2002*
£000 £000 £000 $000
Revenues:
Product revenues 84,562 127,976 132,911 213,987
Service revenues 16,168 18,298 18,011 28,998
Total revenues 100,730 146,274 150,922 242,985
Cost of revenues:
Product costs 4,566 8,209 6,464 10,407
Service costs 7,081 9,080 6,721 10,821
Total cost of revenues 11,647 17,289 13,185 21,228
Gross profit 89,083 128,985 137,737 221,757
Operating expenses:
Research and development 26,359 36,941 47,299 76,151
Sales and marketing 17,841 21,457 24,711 39,785
General and administrative 12,349 22,521 22,486 36,202
Restructuring costs –– 1,960 3,156
Amortization of goodwill 1,297 1,929 ––
Total operating expenses 57,846 82,848 96,456 155,294
Income from operations 31,237 46,137 41,281 66,463
Interest, net 3,912 4,470 4,373 7,040
Share of loss of equity affiliate (85) – ––
Gain on partial disposal of equity affiliate 512 – ––
Minority interest (192) (303) (232) (374)
Income before income tax 35,384 50,304 45,422 73,129
Provision for income taxes 6,007 16,302 13,785 22,194
Net income 29,377 34,002 31,637 50,935
Net income 29,377 34,002 31,637 50,935
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax 75 14 (807) (1,299)
Unrealised holding gain/(loss) on available-for-sale securities, net of tax 2,087 (2,087) ––
Total comprehensive income 31,539 31,929 30,830 49,636
Basic earnings per common share 3.0p 3.4p 3.1p
Diluted earnings per common share 2.9p 3.3p 3.1p
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the December 31, 2002, closing rate of £1.00 = $1.610 and are unaudited (see note 1).
All activities relate to continuing operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  61
Consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income/US GAAP 2001 2002 2002*
£000 £000 $000
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 104,467 130,304 209,789
Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful debts of £2,193,000 (2001: £800,000) 24,809 20,516 33,031
Inventory: finished goods 581 1,515 2,439
Prepaid expenses and other assets 6,006 11,345 18,266
Income taxes receivable 550 ––
Total current assets 136,413 163,680 263,525
Deferred income taxes 839 1,697 2,732
Property and equipment, net 22,668 25,721 41,411
Intangible assets 12,339 10,417 16,771
Investments 3,555 4,229 6,809
Total assets 175,814 205,744 331,248
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 2,361 4,730 7,615
Income taxes payable 7,054 3,828 6,163
Personnel taxes 784 824 1,327
Accrued liabilities 9,741 8,636 13,904
Deferred revenue 19,420 14,415 23,208
Commitments and contingencies (note 10) – ––
Total liabilities 39,360 32,433 52,217
Minority interest 609 841 1,354
39,969 33,274 53,571
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares: £0.0005 par value; 1,580,000,000 authorized (2001: 1,580,000,000);
1,021,758,000 issued (2001: 1,014,767,176) 507 511 823
Additional paid-in capital 65,362 69,566 112,001
Deferred compensation – (313) (504)
Treasury stock, at cost: 6,796,754 ordinary shares (2001: 7,017,599) (19,934) (18,034) (29,035)
Retained earnings 89,766 121,403 195,459
Other comprehensive income:
Cumulative translation adjustment 144 (663) (1,067)
Total shareholders’ equity 135,845 172,470 277,677
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 175,814 205,744 331,248
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the December 31, 2002, closing rate of £1.00 = $1.610 and are unaudited (see note 1).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
62 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Consolidated balance sheets/US GAAP 2000 2001 2002 2002*
£000 £000 £000 $000
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income 29,377 34,002 31,637 50,936
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets 7,777 12,347 15,240 24,536
Write-off of in-process research and development 150 – ––
Stock option compensation – – 56 90
Share of loss of equity affiliates 85 – ––
Deferred income taxes 560 359 (858) (1,381)
Tax effect of disqualifying dispositions – 428 754 1,214
Gain on partial disposal of equity affiliate (512) – ––
Provision for doubtful accounts (248) 673 1,393 2,243
Accounts receivable converted to trade investments – (1,361) ––
Amount written off investments – 613 826 1,330
Other 262 (164) 218 351
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable (4,747) (6,569) 2,900 4,669
Inventory (184) (196) (934) (1,504)
Prepaid expenses and other current assets (996) (1,354) (5,339) (8,596)
Accounts payable 957 312 2,369 3,814
Income taxes payable 2,519 5,322 (2,676) (4,308)
Deferred revenue 5,149 6,743 (5,005) (8,058)
Accrued liabilities and other creditors 2,513 613 (1,105) (1,779)
Personnel taxes 77 194 40 64
Net cash provided by operating activities 42,739 51,962 39,516 63,621
Cash flows from investing activities:
Receipt from partial disposal of equity affiliate 517 – ––
Purchase of equipment (7,182) (13,377) (8,670) (13,959)
Purchase of leasehold improvements (4,660) (3,972) (6,946) (11,183)
Sale of equipment 59 71 35 56
Purchase of patent and licenses (2,822) (8,568) (855) (1,376)
Purchase of investments (4,088) – (1,500) (2,415)
Sale of investments –1,936 ––
Purchase of subsidiaries and businesses, net of cash acquired (3,414) (1,351) ––
Net cash used in investing activities (21,590) (25,261) (17,936) (28,877)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Cash received on issue of shares on exercise of share options 2,320 1,558 4,763 7,668
Proceeds received on issuance of shares – 958 222 357
Net cash provided by financing activities 2,320 2,516 4,985 8,025
Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (7) (16) (728) (1,172)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 23,462 29,201 25,837 41,597
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 51,804 75,266 104,467 168,192
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 75,266 104,467 130,304 209,789
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Cash paid for income taxes 2,928 9,643 16,758
Cash received on interest 3,775 4,604 4,187
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the December 31, 2002, closing rate of £1.00 = $1.610 and are unaudited (see note 1). 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  63
Consolidated statements of cash flows/US GAAP 64 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Ordinary shares Additional Cumulative Unrealized
paid-in translation Treasury holding Deferred Retained
Amount capital adjustment stock gain compensation earnings* Total
Number** £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balances, January 1,
2000 959,854,025 480 56,999 55 (16,808) – – 26,387 67,113
Issue of ordinary shares 2,042,999 1 18,735 18,736
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 38,338,347 19 2,301 2,320
Net income 29,377 29,377
Unrealized holding
gains on available-
for-sale securities 2,087 2,087
Currency translation
adjustment 75 75
Investment in treasury
stock (18,736) (18,736)
Balances, December 31,
2000 1,000,235,371 500 78,035 130 (35,544) 2,087 – 55,764 100,972
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 14,531,805 7 1,551 1,558
Net income 34,002 34,002
Realization of holding
loss on available-
for-sale securities (2,087) (2,087)
Tax effect of
disqualifying dispositions 428 428
Currency translation
adjustment 14 14
Issuance of shares (14,652) 15,610 958
Balances, December 31,
2001 1,014,767,176 507 65,362 144 (19,934) – – 89,766 135,845
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 6,990,824 4 4,759 4,763
Net income 31,637 31,637
Tax effect of 
disqualifying dispositions 754 754
Deferred compensation 
arising on SAYE plan 369 (369) –
Amortization of 
deferred compensation 56 56
Currency translation
adjustment (807) (807)
Issuance of shares (1,678) 1,900 222
Balances, December 31,
2002 1,021,758,000 511 69,566 (663) (18,034) – (313) 121,403 172,470
* The amount of shareholders’ equity available for distribution to shareholders is the amount of profits determined under UK GAAP in the statutory accounts of the parent company. At December 31, 2002
such distributable profits amounted to £4,324,000.
** The number of shares and the dividend per share have been adjusted, where applicable, to reflect the five-for-one share subdivision which took place in April 2000.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity/US GAAP ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  65
1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies
The business of the Company ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Company”) design reduced instruction set computing (RISC)
microprocessors and related technology and software, and sell Development Systems, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and power-efficiency
of high-volume embedded applications. The Company licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in
turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard processors (ASSPs) based
on the Company’s architecture to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. By creating a network of Partners, and working
with them to best utilize the Company’s technology, the Company is establishing its architecture as a RISC processor for use in many high-volume embedded
microprocessor applications, including digital cellular phones, modems and automotive functions and for potential use in many growing markets, including
smart cards and digital video. The Company also licenses and sells development systems direct to systems companies and provides consulting and support
services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers. The Company’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. The Company was formed on October 16,
1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer (UK) Limited, and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines
Holdings Limited until March 10, 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc. Its initial public offering was on April 17, 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM, INC. (incorporated in the US), ARM KK (incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited
(incorporated in South Korea), ARM France SAS (incorporated in France), Allant Software Corporation (incorporated in the US), Advanced RISC Machines
Limited (incorporated in the UK), Micrologic Solutions Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM Taiwan Limited (incorporated in Taiwan) and ARM Consulting
(Shanghai) Co. Limited (incorporated in PR China).
Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP).
The Company maintains its accounting records and prepares its financial statements in British sterling. Purely for the convenience of the reader, the
December 31, 2002, consolidated financial statements have been translated from sterling at the closing rate on December 31, 2002, of £1.00 = $1.610.
Such translations should not be construed as representations that the sterling amounts represent, or have been or could be so converted into US dollars 
at that rate or at any other rate.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries. Intra-group
transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Equity affiliates Companies in which the Company owns between 20% and 50% of the voting stock are treated as equity affiliates. During 2000, the
Company made a partial disposal of its holding in Palmchip Corporation with the result that the remaining holding is below 20% and is, therefore, treated 
as an available-for-sale security. The consolidated statements of income include the group’s share of net income of equity affiliates up to the date of the
partial disposal. The remaining investment is included in the consolidated balance sheet at the value of the group’s share of net assets at the date of
disposal. The group had no equity affiliates at December 31, 2001, or at December 31, 2002.
Investments Publicly traded investments are classed as available for sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.115,
“Accounting for certain investments in debt and securities” and are carried at fair value. Unrealized holding gains or losses on such securities are included,
net of related taxes, in other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses of such securities are reported in earnings. Equity
securities that are not publicly traded are recorded at cost less permanent diminution in value; at December 31, 2002 and 2001, the estimated fair value 
of these investments approximated their recorded basis, based on estimates determined by management. 
The Company invested in two unlisted companies during 2000, one of which was a 3.5% investment in the share capital of CoWare, Inc., a company which
develops system-on-chip software for a wide range of applications, and the other was a less than 1% investment in the share capital of Cambridge Silicon
Radio Limited, an intellectual property company which develops Bluetooth™ solutions. Two further trade investments were made in 2001, one of which was
a 1.7% investment in Pixim, Inc., and the other was a 1.3% investment in LinkUp Systems, Inc. Both of these are fabless chip companies based in California.
Equity shares in both companies were received in settlement of accounts receivable. 
The Company sold its 3% stake in Sirius Communications NV during 2001.
The Company made an investment in Parthus Technologies plc during 2000. This company, although unlisted at the time of investment, subsequently
floated on the London Stock Exchange, and was included in the 2000 consolidated balance sheet at market value at the balance sheet date. This investment
was disposed of in its entirety in 2001.
During 2002, the Company made an 11.99% investment in Superscape plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Intangible assets Purchased patents and licenses to use technology are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a prudent estimate of the
time that the Company is expected to benefit from them. 
An independent valuation is made of any in-process research and development on acquisition and the amount written off immediately. One such project
was acquired during the year to December 31, 2000, and was independently valued at £150,000. 
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP 66 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including
any intangible assets identified and liabilities acquired. 
Prior to 2002, purchased goodwill was capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a prudent estimate of the time that the Company is expected
to benefit from it. Upon adoption of SFAS 142, on January 1, 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill. The value of goodwill carried forward at the
end of 2001 has been frozen at £2,274,000 and goodwill will be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company has completed the transitional
impairment review upon adoption of SFAS 142 (January 1, 2002) and determined that there is no indication of impairment with respect to goodwill.
Impairment charges The Company reviews long-lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) 
of the long-lived assets is less than the carrying amount of such assets, an impairment loss would be recognized, and the assets are written down to their
estimated fair value.
Revenue recognition Revenue consists of license fees received under the terms of license agreements with customers to enable them to use the Company’s
intellectual property (IP), which is customized to each customer’s manufacturing process. The Company receives royalties on sales by the Company’s customers
of products containing ARM technology. It also supplies off-the-shelf software tools, bought-in boards and toolkits, training and consultancy services. 
The Company primarily earns revenues from licensing its IP to leading electronics companies which in turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors,
ASICs and ASSPs based on the Company’s architecture to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. The Company’s IP
consists of software and related documentation which enables a customer to design and manufacture microprocessors and related technology and software.
Most licenses are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer and are generally not time limited in their application. In general, the time
between the signing of a license and final customer acceptance is between six and 15 months. Upgrades or modifications to the licensed IP are not
provided. Following customer acceptance, the Company has no further obligations under the license agreement. Revenue from per-use licenses is
recognized when the product is accepted by the customer.
In accordance with SOP 81-1, “Accounting for performance of construction-type and certain production type contracts”, when license agreements include
deliverables that require “significant production, modification or customization”, contract accounting is applied. Revenues from license fees are recognized
based on the percentage-to-completion method over the period from signing of the license to customer acceptance and the completion of all outstanding
obligations. The amount of revenue recognized is based on the total license fees under the license agreement and the percentage to completion achieved.
The percentage to completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project, compared with the total
estimated project requirement. Revenues are recognized only when collectability is probable. Estimates of total project requirement are based on prior
experience of customization, delivery and acceptance of the same or similar technology and are reviewed and updated regularly by management. 
Under the percentage-to-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognized in the period in which the likelihood
of such losses is determined.
Agreements that include rights to unspecified products are accounted for using subscription accounting, revenue from the arrangement being recognized
over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the 
first product. 
In accordance with SOP 97-2, “Software revenue recognition”, where agreements involve multiple elements that do not require “significant production,
modification or customization”, the entire fee from such arrangements has been allocated to each of the individual elements based on each element’s
relative fair value. Revenue for each element is then recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for that element is met.
In addition to the license fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post contract support (support and maintenance) (PCS) which consists 
of an identified customer contact at the Company, and telephone or e-mail support. Revenue related to PCS is recognized based on vendor-specific objective
evidence (VSOE), determined based on the price of PCS when sold separately. Revenue for PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period for
which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Company with the licensee.
Sales of boards and toolkits are recognized upon delivery. Where necessary, and in the circumstances permitted by SOP 97-2, the costs associated with
providing post contract support have been accrued.
Services, such as consulting and training, which are not essential to the functionality of the IP , are accounted for separately based on VSOE. Revenue 
is recognized as services are performed and collectability is probable.
The excess of fees invoiced over revenue recognized in respect of such fees is recorded as a deferred revenue liability.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Company’s customers of products containing ARM technology. Revenues are recognized when ARM receives
notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties, normally quarterly in arrears.
Revenue from consulting projects, which are typically of a short duration, is recognized when the service has been provided and all obligations to the
customer under the consulting agreement have been fulfilled. For longer-term and more complex consulting projects, typically containing several project
milestones, where significant modification to ARM core-based IP is required, revenue is recognized on a percentage-to-completion basis as milestones are
achieved. This method approximates to percentage to completion based on labor inputs.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs include the cost of redundancy payments to 98 employees and the cost of outplacement services. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  67
1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Research and development All ongoing research and development expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Advertising costs All advertising costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Grants Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are receivable from the European Commission, a European organization which funds
certain research and development activities on application to it for the purposes of furthering research and development activities within the European
Union. The Company retains significant rights to IP developed under projects which are funded under these arrangements. Grants received are intended 
to cover 50% of expected project costs. Grant income is recognized over the period of the project in line with the costs incurred. Unconditional undertakings
have been received from the European Commission to provide the funding, and there is no obligation to refund any amounts already received. Amounts
receivable under these arrangements in the year ended December 31, 2002 were £199,000 (2001: £268,000; 2000: £186,000) and were netted against
related research and development costs.
Pension costs The Company contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension
schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China and Israel. The Company contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of
employee compensation and such contributions are expensed as incurred. The amount of contributions expensed by the Company for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002 were £1,160,000, £1,591,000, and £1,894,000 respectively.
Cash equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturity dates of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Allowance for doubtful debts Allowance is made for doubtful debts following reviews of individual customer circumstances by management.
Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. In general, cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes transport
and handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory.
Property and equipment The cost of property and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property and equipment, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Leasehold improvements Five years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computers and software Three years
Fixtures and fittings Five to ten years
Motor vehicles Four years
Provision is made against the carrying value of tangible fixed assets where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Currency translation The functional currency for the Company’s operations is the local currency in which it operates.
The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Statements of income of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the period. Translation differences are taken to the cumulative
translation adjustment.
The Company utilizes forward exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the business. The Company’s forward exchange contracts do not subject the Company to risk from exchange
rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged. Because the
Company does not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the forward contracts and the related accounts receivable are recorded at fair value at each
period end. All recognized gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative costs in the
income statement. The Company does not enter into foreign exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Other transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences 
have been included in general and administrative costs.
From time to time, the Company enters into sales contracts denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neither the functional currency of the
Company nor the functional currency of the customer. In accordance with SFAS 133, “Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities”, where
there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Company carries such derivatives at fair value. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in the income
statement under general and administrative costs. For the year ended December 31, 2002 the loss on exchange is £950,000 (2001: £nil; 2000: £nil).
Income taxes Income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the asset will not be realized. 68 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Earnings per share Basic earnings per common share is computed based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares. Diluted earnings per
common share is computed by including potential common shares where the effect of their inclusion would be dilutive. The diluted share base for the year
ended December 31, 2002, excludes incremental shares of approximately 19,608,000 (2001: 6,258,000; 2000: 274,000) related to employee stock options.
These shares are excluded due to their antidilutive effect as a result of the exercise price of these shares being higher than the market price. The ordinary
equivalent shares for share options were determined using the treasury stock method.
Accounting for stock-based compensation The Company has elected to use the intrinsic value-based method to account for all its employee 
stock-based compensation plans, under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for stock issued to employees”, 
and related interpretations. Stock-based employee compensation cost in respect of certain SAYE options (see below) of £56,000 is reflected in net income.
No compensation cost is recorded in respect of the other stock option plans, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the
market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. Apart from options issued to certain executive directors, there are no performance
conditions attached to the exercise of options. For executive directors, discretionary share options of up to two times base salary may be issued each year
that will vest after seven years. If, however, the Company achieves fully diluted EPS growth of 33.1% above the rate of inflation over a period of three
years, then all the options are exercisable after three years.
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123, “Accounting for stock-based compensation”, to stock-based employee compensation.
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Net income:
As reported 29,377 34,002 31,637
Deduct: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all
awards, net of related tax effects (8,265) (11,610) (11,165)
Add back: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under the intrinsic value-based method – – 56
Pro forma net income 21,112 22,392 20,528
Basic earnings per common share (pence):
As reported 3.0p 3.4p 3.1p
Pro forma 2.2p 2.2p 2.0p
Diluted earnings per common share (pence):
As reported 2.9p 3.3p 3.1p
Pro forma 2.1p 2.2p 2.0p
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in 2002, 2001 and 2000: risk-free interest rate of 5.1% (2001: 5.1%; 2000: 6.0%); expected life of four years; 80% (2001: 79%;
2000: 74%) volatility; and no dividends.
The Company operates Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) in the US. Options under these schemes
are granted at a 15% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue,
which stipulates that the savings period must be at least 36 months. During the year, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus, contained
within EITF 00-23, that savings plans which have a savings period in excess of 27 months should be treated as compensatory. In accordance with EITF 00-23,
which applies to new offers after January 24, 2002, the Company has recognized a compensation charge in respect of the UK SAYE plans offered since that
date. The compensation charge is calculated as the difference between the market price of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price of the
option and is recorded on a straight-line basis over the savings period. The compensation charge recorded in 2002 is £56,000. The deferred compensation at
December 31, 2002 was £313,000.
In addition, the EITF reached a consensus that an employer’s offer to enter into a new SAYE contract at a lower price than an existing contract causes
variable accounting for all existing awards subject to the offer. Variable accounting commences for all existing awards when the offer is made, and for those
awards that are retained by employees because the offer is declined, variable accounting continues until the awards are exercised, are forfeited, or expire
unexercised. New awards are accounted for as variable to the extent that previous higher priced options are canceled. The compensation charge recorded in
2002 as a result of these provisions is £nil. The number of options to which variable accounting applies is approximately 980,000.
Employee share ownership plans Treasury stock represents the cost of shares in the Company held by the Employee Benefit Trust (ESOP) and the QUEST.
The ESOP was set up on April 16, 1998, to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of employees. No options had been granted over these shares
and no shares had been allocated at December 31, 2002. The market value of unearned shares at December 31, 2002, was approximately £240,000. 
All costs relating to the schemes are recognized in the income statement as they accrue and the ESOP has waived the right to receive dividends of over 
and above 0.01 pence per share on all shares held. For the purpose of earnings per share calculations, the shares are treated as canceled until such time 
as they vest unconditionally. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  69
1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Treasury stock held also includes £728,000 relating to 1,796,754 shares held by the Company’s QUEST, which was established by the Company during 1999. 
The Company established the QUEST to acquire new shares in the Company for the benefit of employees and directors of the Company. No shares were
purchased in 2002 or 2001. In 2000 2,042,999 shares were purchased as detailed below.
On March 13, 2000, and November 7, 2000, the Company provided £14,445,000 and £4,291,000 respectively of which £14,018,000 and £3,769,000
respectively, being £17,787,000 in total, was by way of a gift, and £427,000 and £522,000 respectively, being £949,000 in total, was by way of a loan. 
On the same dates, the QUEST subscribed at market value for 1,483,440 and 559,559 respectively of the Company’s 0.05 pence ordinary shares. 
The shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares. They will be allocated to employees and directors to satisfy their options granted
under the Company’s SAYE schemes.
The cost of all the shares has been treated as treasury stock. The excess of the subscription price over the nominal value, which amounts to £718,082, has
been taken to additional paid-in capital. For the purpose of earnings per share calculations, the shares are treated as canceled until such time as they vest
unconditionally.
During 2002, 220,846 shares (2001: 3,925,400) were allocated from the QUEST following the exercise of share options granted under the Company’s 
SAYE schemes.
Under the terms of the trust deed, dividends have been waived on the shares held by the QUEST, and all costs relating to the scheme are dealt with 
in the income statement as they accrue.
Employer’s taxes on share options Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of
certain share options issued to employees in certain tax jurisdictions. In accordance with EITF 00-16 no provision has been made for the employer’s taxes 
on these share options. These amounts will be recognized in the consolidated income statement when payable.
Recently issued accounting standards In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146 (SFAS 146), “Accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal
activities”. SFAS 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94-3, “Liability
recognition for certain employee termination benefits and other costs to exit an activity (including certain costs incurred in a restructuring)”. SFAS 146
requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Under EITF 94-3, a liability for 
an exit cost was recognized at the date of the commitment to an exit plan. SFAS 146 states that a commitment to a plan, by itself, does not create an
obligation that meets the definition of a liability. Therefore, SFAS 146 eliminates the definition and requirement for recognition of exit costs in EITF 94-3. 
It also established that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the liability. SFAS 146 is to be applied prospectively to exit or disposal 
activities initiated after December 31, 2002. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to have a material effect on its consolidated 
financial statements.
In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including
indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others”. FIN 45 requires the guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value 
of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. It also elaborates on the disclosure to be made by a guarantor in its financial statements about its
obligation under certain guarantees that it has issued and to be made in regard of product warranties. The initial recognition and movement provisions of
this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002; while the provisions of the disclosure
requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. Management does not expect the
adoption of FIN 45 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue 00-21, “Accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables”. This Issue addresses
certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. Specifically, the Issue
addresses how to determine whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting and how arrangement
consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting in the arrangement. The provisions of this Issue are effective for
revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003, with early application permitted. Management is currently evaluating 
the impact that adoption of this Issue will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of variable interest entities”. FIN 46 clarifies the application of
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated financial statements,” to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics 
of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities in which
an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to variable interest entities
in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003. FIN 46 applies to public enterprises as of the beginning of the
applicable interim or annual period. Management does not expect the adoption of FIN 46 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
Companies Act 1985 These financial statements do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985 of Great
Britain (the “Companies Act”). The Company’s statutory accounts, which are its primary financial statements, are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP) in compliance with the Companies Act and are presented in pounds sterling. Statutory
accounts (upon which the auditors gave unqualified reports under Section 235 of the Companies Act and which did not contain statements under sub-
sections 237(2) and (3) of the Companies Act) for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 have been, and those for the year ended December 31,
2002, will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales. Dividends are required to be declared in sterling out of profits available for 
that purpose as determined in accordance with UK GAAP and the Companies Act. 70 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
2  Related party transactions
Until the partial disposal of Palmchip Corporation in 2000, the directors regarded Palmchip as a related party by virtue of its being an associated undertaking;
in 2000, prior to the partial disposal, Palmchip repaid a loan of £248,000 previously made to it by ARM Limited.
3  Income taxes
Income before income tax is analyzed as follows:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
United Kingdom 32,568 46,394 40,646
Foreign 2,816 3,910 4,776
35,384 50,304 45,422
The provision for income taxes consisted of:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Current:
United Kingdom 4,968 14,502 12,852
Foreign 479 1,441 1,791
Total current 5,447 15,943 14,643
Deferred:
United Kingdom 72 268 (500)
Foreign 488 91 (358)
Total deferred 560 359 (858)
Total provision for income taxes 6,007 16,302 13,785
Included in the provision for income taxes is a current tax charge of £754,000 (2001: £428,000; 2000: £nil) and a deferred tax credit of £60,000 
(2001: charge of £146,000; 2000: charge of £617,000) in relation to employee stock options. Such benefits are reflected as additional paid-in capital.
The taxation charge in 2000 was reduced by £5,331,000 following a payment of £17,787,000 to the QUEST detailed in footnote 1. There were no payments
to the QUEST in 2001 or 2002.
Total income tax expense differs from the amounts computed by applying the UK statutory income tax rate of 30% for 2002, 2001 and 2000 to income
before income tax as a result of the following:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
UK statutory rate 30% (2001: 30%; 2000: 30%) 10,615 15,091 13,627
Permanent differences arising on payment to QUEST (5,331) – –
Permanent differences – other* 690 1,150 186
Differences in statutory rates of foreign countries 53 99 115
Other, net (20) (38) (143)
6,007 16,302 13,785
* Permanent differences comprise permanent adjustments, non-deductible stock option compensation and the UK research and development tax credit. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  71
3  Income taxes continued
Significant components of the deferred tax assets are as follows:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Fixed asset temporary differences 852 584 1,193
Temporary difference on available-for-sale securities (458) – –
Non-deductible accruals and reserves 346 255 519
Losses carried forward 1,710 1,397 544
Total deferred tax assets 2,450 2,236 2,256
Valuation allowance (1,710) (1,397) (559)
Net deferred tax assets 740 839 1,697
UK income taxes have not been provided at December 31, 2002, on unremitted earnings of approximately £10,142,000 (2001: £7,401,000; 2000:
£4,641,000) of subsidiaries located outside the UK as such earnings are considered to be permanently invested. If these earnings were to be remitted
without offsetting tax credits in the UK withholding taxes would be approximately £518,000 (2001: £385,000; 2000: £232,000).
The valuation allowance relates to net operating loss carryforwards of certain subsidiaries, where management believe it is more likely than not such
amounts will not be realized. None of the loss carryforwards expires before 2018.
4  Earnings per share
Year ended December 31, 2000
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 29,377,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 29,377,000 970,947,067 3.0p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 57,329,109
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 29,377,000 1,028,276,176 2.9p
Year ended December 31, 2001
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 34,002,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 34,002,000 999,741,581 3.4p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 24,891,393
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 34,002,000 1,024,632,974 3.3p
Year ended December 31, 2002
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 31,637,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 31,637,000 1,012,295,401 3.1p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 8,465,051
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 31,637,000 1,020,760,452 3.1p 72 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
4  Earnings per share continued
The following table summarizes the Company’s reported results along with the adjusted amounts, as if the Company had adopted SFAS 142 and
discontinued goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2000:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Reported net income 29,377 34,002 31,637
Add back goodwill amortized 1,297 1,929 –
Adjusted net income 30,674 35,931 31,637
Basic earnings per share:
Reported net income 3.0p 3.4p 3.1p
Goodwill amortization 0.1p 0.2p –
Adjusted basic earnings per share 3.1p 3.6p 3.1p
Diluted earnings per share:
Reported net income 2.9p 3.3p 3.1p
Goodwill amortization 0.1p 0.2p –
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 3.0p 3.5p 3.1p
5  Business risks and credit concentration
The Company operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which has been characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, short
product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Significant technological changes in the industry could affect
operating results.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk comprise principally cash and cash equivalents and accounts
receivable. The Company generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of the Company’s customers are large, well-established
companies. The Company has not experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or
geographic area.
The Company markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions. For further information see footnote 11. 
At December 31, 2001 and 2002 no customers accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. At December 31, 2000, one customer accounted for
10.4% of accounts receivable. 
As of December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were deposited with major clearing banks in the UK in the form 
of money market deposits for varying periods of up to three months. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  73
6  Investments
On February 1, 2001, the Company purchased part of the business and assets of Noral Micrologics Limited for cash consideration of £1,351,000. The
purchase consideration has all been treated as goodwill, as the book and fair value of the assets acquired was negligible.
On June 21, 2000, all of the issued share capital of EuroMIPS Systems SAS (now ARM France SAS) was purchased for cash consideration of £864,000; and 
on September 18, 2000, all of the issued share capital of Allant Software Corporation was purchased for cash consideration of £2,193,000. 
Further to the cash consideration for the cost of the acquisitions, the acquisition agreements provide for cash bonuses and payments for post-acquisition 
pre-defined services provided by employees. These are being treated as payroll costs of the periods to which the services relate.
Following a detailed review of the acquired companies’ balance sheets and their accounting policies it was considered that no fair value adjustments were
necessary.
Following an independent valuation of the in-process research and development acquired with Allant Software Corporation, £150,000 was written off
through the income statement to research and development.
The combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
Unaudited pro forma results of the Company and the acquired businesses have not been presented as the acquired businesses are immaterial to the
Company’s results.
In 2002, the Company invested £1,500,000 in Superscape plc, an available-for-sale investment. In 2001, the Company disposed of two available-for-sale
investments realizing a gain of £655,000.
In March 2000, the Company disposed of part of its shareholding in Palmchip Corporation, reducing its holding from 45.4% to 4.9%. The Company
recognized a £512,000 profit on the sale of these shares.
Impairments during 2002 against unlisted investments held at the year end amounted to £826,000 (2001: £613,000).
7  Property and equipment
December 31
2001 2002
£000 £000
Owned buildings 190 190
Construction in progress – leasehold improvements 75 –
Leasehold improvements 11,863 18,763
Computers 9,973 10,811
Software 24,370 31,095
Fixtures, fittings and motor vehicles 2,819 3,101
49,290 63,960
Less: accumulated depreciation (26,622) (38,239)
Property and equipment, net 22,668 25,721
Depreciation charged to income for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002 was £6,246,000, £9,327,000 and £12,463,000 respectively. 74 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
8  Intangible assets
Goodwill Patents Licenses Total Goodwill Patents Licenses Total
2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At cost 5,594 7,513 3,877 16,984 5,594 8,196 4,049 17,839
Less: accumulated amortization 3,320 – 1,325 4,645 3,320 1,595 2,507 7,422
Net 2,274 7,513 2,552 12,339 2,274 6,601 1,542 10,417
Goodwill, being the difference between the fair value of the consideration and the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed, arose on purchase of the
following subsidiaries and businesses:
– Micrologic Solutions Limited, purchased in October 1999;
– EuroMIPS Systems SAS, purchased in June 2000 for cash consideration of £764,000 and associated costs of £100,000; goodwill of £779,000 arose;
– Allant Software Corporation, purchased in September 2000 for cash consideration of £2,124,000 and associated costs of £69,000; goodwill of £1,962,000
arose on the acquisition; £150,000 of in-process research and development was written off immediately;
– Infinite Designs Limited, purchased in March 2000 for cash consideration of £375,000; goodwill arose of £375,000 on this acquisition; and
– Noral Micrologics Limited, purchased in February 2001 for cash consideration of £1,351,000; goodwill of £1,351,000 arose on this acquisition.
Until the adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002 (see footnote 1), goodwill was being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods of up to three years,
determined in each case by reference to employee turnover rates in the industry and the individual technology acquired with the acquisitions. In accordance
with SFAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized, and is tested for impairment at least annually.
Licenses to use technology are being amortized over periods of three to five years. The amortization periods for licenses have been determined according 
to their estimated useful economic life.
Patents are being amortized over five years, being the period over which the Company will derive benefit from them.
The estimated amortization expense of intangible assets in each of the next five years is set forth below:
£000
2003 2,617
2004 1,881
2005 1,862
2006 1,738
2007 45 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  75
9  Shareholders’ equity
Share capital There was a share split in April 2000. Shareholders received five shares with a nominal value of 0.05 pence per share for every one share
held with a nominal value of 0.25 pence. 
Share options The board is authorized to issue options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum of 10% of the issued ordinary share
capital in any five-year period. Options issued prior to the listing of the Company are excluded from this calculation.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Approved Incentive Share Option Plan (the “Approved Scheme”), the Company may grant options to directors and employees
meeting certain eligibility requirements. Options under the Approved Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time
the options expire.
Under the Company’s Executive Scheme (the “Executive Scheme”), for which it has not sought approval from the UK Inland Revenue, options are exercisable
one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire. The Company also operates the US ISO Share Option Plan, which is substantially the
same as the Executive Scheme, the main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue. Under both of these schemes
options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100%
maximum on fourth anniversary.
In 1998, the Company set up two savings-related share option schemes for all employees and executive directors of the Company. The number of options
granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is three or five years except for employees of ARM, INC. where the
period is two years. The option price is currently set at 85% of the market share price prior to the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a
six-month period once the savings have been completed except for ARM, INC. where the right to exercise normally only arises for a three-month period
once the savings have been completed. The Company set up two further savings related option schemes in each of 2000, 2001 and 2002 for all employees
and executive directors of the Company, which have the same characteristics as those schemes set up in 1998.
Option activity is summarized as follows:
Outstanding options
Weighted 
average 
Shares exercise price 
Number £
Balances, December 31, 1999 80,814,215 0.318
Granted in year 5,867,630 6.171
Lapsed in year (1,341,025) 1.884
Exercised in year (38,338,347) 0.060
Balances, December 31, 2000 47,002,473 1.214
Granted in year 8,189,032 3.398
Lapsed in year (1,283,752) 3.433
Exercised in year (18,457,205) 0.136
Balances, December 31, 2001 35,450,548 2.199
Granted in year 10,081,501 2.290
Lapsed in year (3,269,030) 1.965
Exercised in year (7,211,670) 0.691
Balances, December 31, 2002 35,051,349 2.557
The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2002 was £2.34 for executive options and £1.83 for sharesave options. 
The weighted average exercise price of options exercisable at December 31, 2002 was £1.71 (December 31, 2001: £1.03). 76 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
9  Shareholders’ equity continued
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at December 31, 2002:
Ordinary Exercise price Exercisable at
shares per share Remaining Exercise December 31
Number £ contractual life period 2002
320,000 0.02 3.5 years 1999 – 2006 320,000
600,000 0.02 0.5 years 1999 – 2003 600,000
725,500 0.026 4.2 years 2000 – 2007 725,500
8,000 0.026 1.3 years 2000 – 2004 8,000
80,000 0.0425 1.4 years 2000 – 2004 80,000
70,000 0.0625 1.5 years 2000 – 2004 70,000
150,000 0.0625 1.8 years 2000 – 2004 150,000
230,000 0.0625 2.0 years 2000 – 2004 230,000
660,000 0.1125 5.2 years 2001 – 2008 660,000
55,036** 0.1125 0.2 years 1999 – 2003 55,036
134,309** 0.3875 0.4 years 1999 – 2003 134,309
115,000 0.3875 2.4 years 2001 – 2005 115,000
125,000 0.5275 5.6 years 2001 – 2008 125,000
54,322** 0.5275 0.6 years 1999 – 2003 54,322
51,000 0.405 5.8 years 2001 – 2008 51,000
34,550** 0.405 0.8 years 1999 – 2003 34,550
2,909,507 1.224 6.2 years 2002 – 2009 2,909,507
1,489,869** 1.224 1.2 years 2000 – 2004 763,619
4,986,040 1.224 3.2 years 2002 – 2006 4,986,040
158,259 1.338 6.3 years 2002 – 2009 158,259
41,254** 1.338 1.3 years 2000 – 2004 27,504
42,740 1.338 3.3 years 2002 – 2006 42,740
75,490 1.765 6.6 years 2002 – 2009 75,490
40,002** 1.765 1.6 years 2000 – 2004 27,502
26,010 1.765 3.6 years 2002 – 2006 26,010
91,570 4.26 6.9 years 2002 – 2009 91,570
76,680 4.26 3.9 years 2002 – 2006 76,680
121,250 7.738 – 2003 – 2010 –
52,500** 7.738 2.1 years 2001 – 2005 26,250
70,000 7.738 – 2003 – 2007 –
80,465 6.136 – 2003 – 2010 –
10,000** 6.136 2.3 years 2001 – 2005 5,000
36,035 6.136 – 2003 – 2007 –
50,000** 6.27 2.3 years 2001 – 2005 25,000
346,763 6.155 – 2003 – 2010 –
794,000** 6.155 2.4 years 2001 – 2005 397,000
2,689,555** 6.155 4.4 years 2001 – 2007 672,388
24,250** 6.70 2.6 years 2001 – 2005 12,125
162,500** 6.70 4.6 years 2001 – 2007 81,250
145,750** 6.33 2.8 years 2001 – 2005 72,875
252,500** 6.33 4.8 years 2001 – 2007 126,250
83,000** 4.43 3.1 years 2002 – 2006 20,750
436,500** 4.43 5.1 years 2002 – 2008 218,250
590,521 3.35 – 2004 – 2011 –
1,305,900** 3.35 3.4 years 2002 – 2006 326,475
3,760,529** 3.35 5.4 years 2002 – 2008 940,132
62,909
†
3.815 – 2008 – 2008 –
58,813 2.84 – 2004 – 2011 –
28,000** 2.84 3.6 years 2002 – 2006 7,000
20,822** 2.84 5.6 years 2002 – 2008 5,205
139,000 3.75 – 2004 – 2011 –
44,750** 3.75 3.8 years 2002 – 2006 11,187
51,000** 3.75 5.8 years 2002 – 2008 12,750
62,500** 3.145 – 2003 – 2007 –
176,250** 3.145 – 2003 – 2009 –
1,072,098 2.465 – 2005 – 2012 –
4,294,627** 2.465 – 2003 – 2009 –
406,896
†
2.465 – 2005 – 2009 –
1,500,675** 2.465 – 2003 – 2007 –
223,515** 2.1475 – 2003 – 2009 –
128,500** 1.505 – 2003 – 2007 – 9  Shareholders’ equity continued
Ordinary Exercise price Exercisable at
shares per share Remaining Exercise December 31
Number £ contractual life period 2002
378,250** 1.505 – 2003 – 2009 –
68,750** 0.425 – 2003 – 2007 –
120,000** 0.425 – 2003 – 2009 –
3,500** 0.5725 – 2003 – 2007 –
35,000** 0.5725 – 2003 – 2009 –
179,400* 0.2445 – 2003 – 2003 –
11,240* 1.099 – 2004 – 2004 –
26,481* 5.65 – 2003 – 2003 –
4,896* 5.65 – 2005 – 2005 –
203,480* 3.069 – 2004 – 2004 –
28,366* 3.069 – 2006 – 2006 –
22,349* 3.069 – 2003 – 2003 –
905,064* 1.82537 – 2005 – 2005 –
242,922* 1.82537 – 2007 – 2007 –
189,140* 1.82537 – 2004 – 2004 –
35,051,349 15,557,525
* These relate to options granted under the Company’s savings-related share option schemes.
** Options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
† These options will vest after seven years unless certain criteria are met, in which case they will vest between three and seven years.
At December 31, 2002, the Company had three share option plans and seven savings-related share option schemes. The Company applies APB Opinion 
No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its plans. 
10  Commitments and contingencies
The Company leases its office facilities and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements which expire at various dates through 2018.
Future minimum lease commitments at December 31, 2002, are as follows:
Operating leases
Years ending December 31 £000
2003 5,149
2004 4,791
2005 3,054
2006 2,250
2007 2,110
Thereafter 17,682
Total minimum lease payments 35,036
Rental expense under operating leases totaled £2,746,000, £3,101,000 and £5,199,000 for the years ended December 31 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively.
The Company has an obligation, if certain criteria are met, to make a $3,000,000 investment, representing a minority holding in a fabless semiconductor
company set up to create and sell ARM core-based microprocessor cores to be licensed from ARM.
In 2002, a lawsuit was filed against the Company claiming that the Company’s Jazelle technology for Java acceleration infringes a US patent. The Company 
is confident that its products do not infringe the patent cited in the lawsuit or any other patents, is defending the action vigorously and believes that the
matter could be concluded quickly.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  77 11  Geographic and segment information
The Company operates in, and is managed as, a single product segment.
The following analysis is of revenues by geographic segment and origin and long-lived assets by group companies in each territory:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Revenues (by market destination):
Europe 20,616 27,103 26,731
US 55,233 72,271 67,087
Japan 18,007 33,548 38,294
Asia Pacific excluding Japan 6,874 13,352 18,810
Total revenues 100,730 146,274 150,922
The Company’s exports from the United Kingdom were £87,096,000, £128,303,000 and £135,713,000 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and
2002 respectively.
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
£000 £000 £000
Revenues (by origin):
Europe 90,248 131,136 137,747
US 5,608 8,431 7,288
Asia Pacific 4,874 6,707 5,887
Total revenues 100,730 146,274 150,922
Long-lived assets, including deferred income taxes:
Europe 23,588 35,626 38,044
US 4,023 3,608 3,751
Asia Pacific 77 167 269
Total long-lived assets 27,688 39,401 42,064
In 2002 and 2001 no single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. In 2000, one US customer accounted for 15% of total revenues.
12  Fair values of financial instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate 
that value:
Cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:
Year ended December 31
2000 2001 2002
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value amount value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 75,266 75,266 104,467 104,467 130,304 130,304
Accounts receivable 18,913 18,913 24,809 24,809 20,516 20,516
Foreign currency contracts 551 551 355 355 1,061 1,061
Embedded derivatives –––– (950) (950)
78 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  79
Report of independent accountants/US GAAP
To the board of directors and shareholders of ARM Holdings plc In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and of cash flow present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion expressed above.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants
Cambridge, England
28 February 2003 80 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Group directory
ARM Ltd
Liberty House
Moorbridge Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8LT
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 427700
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701
Sheffield Science Park
New Spring House
231 Glossop Road
Sheffield S10 2GW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 114 282 8000
Fax: +44 (0) 114 282 8001
Blackburn Design Centre
Belthorn House
Walker Road
Blackburn BB1 2QE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1254 893900
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901
ARM France
12 Avenue des Prés
Montigny le Bretonneux
78059 Saint Quentin en
Yvelines, Cedex
France
Tel: +33 1 30 79 05 10
Fax: +33 1 30 79 05 11
Les Cardoulines B2
Route des Doline
Sophia Antipolis
06560 Valbonne
France
Tel: +33 4 92 96 88 60
Fax: +33 4 92 96 88 79
ARM Germany
Rennweg 33
85435 Erding
Germany
Tel: +49 8122 89209 0
Fax: +49 8122 89209 49
ARM Israel
23 Hataa-as St
44425 Kfar Saba
Israel
Tel: +972 9 7678040
extension 201
Fax: +972 9 7677020
ARM, INC.
1250 Capital of Texas
Highway
Building 3, Suite 560
Austin, TX 78746
United States
Tel: +1 512 327 9249
Fax: +1 512 314 1078
1902 Wright Place
Suite 200
Carlsbad, CA 92008
United States
Tel: +1 760 918 5536
Fax: +1 760 918 5539
750 University Avenue
Suite 150
Los Gatos, CA 95032
United States
Tel: +1 408 579 2200
Fax: +1 408 579 1205
300 W Main Street
Suite 215
Northborough, MA 01532
United States
Tel: +1 508 351 1670
Fax: +1 508 351 1667
Walnut Creek Design Center
1981 N Broadway
Suite 245
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
United States
Tel: +1 925 944 9690
Fax: +1 925 944 9612
Crystal Glen Center
39555 Orchard Hill Place
Suite 600
Novi, MI 48375
United States
Tel: +1 248 374 5055
Fax: +1 248 374 5056
ARM KK
Daini-Ueno Building 8F
3-7-18 Shin-Yokohama
Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi
Kanagawa 222-0033
Japan
Tel: +81 45 477 5260
Fax: +81 45 477 5261
ARM Korea Limited
Room 1115
Hyundai Building
9-4, Soonae-Dong
Boondang-Ku
Sungnam 
Kyunggi-do 463-020
South Korea
Tel: +82 31 712 8234
Fax: +82 31 713 8225
ARM Taiwan Limited
8F no 50
Lane 10
Kee Hu Road
Nei Hu
Taipei (114)
Taiwan
Tel: +886 2 2627 1681
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682
ARM Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd
Room 1112–1113
Building B
Far East International Plaza
No. 317 XianXia Road
Shanghai 200051
PR China
Tel: +86 21 62351296
Fax: +86 21 62351207
ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410 Designed and produced by C&FD. 
Directors’ photography by Bob Wheeler. 
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, which is made from virgin wood
fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests 
in Austria, and from pulp which is totally chlorine-free (TCF) and
elemental chlorine-free (ECF). It is recyclable and biodegradable. ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0) 1223 400410
Further information available at:
www.arm.com
The Architecture for the Digital World
TM
ARM Holdings plc Annual report and accounts 2002
