 ld l ld
connected
Annual report and accounts 2003 2 ARM at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive Officer’s review
8 ARM: connected
8connected community
10 at the heart
12 setting the standard
14 Directors and advisers
16 Financial review
18 Corporate governance/UK GAAP
21 Corporate social responsibility
22 Directors’ report/UK GAAP
24 Remuneration report/UK GAAP
30 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
31 Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc/UK GAAP
32 Consolidated profit and loss account/UK GAAP
Statement of Group total recognised gains and losses/UK GAAP
33 Consolidated balance sheet/UK GAAP
34 Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
35 Consolidated cash flow statement/UK GAAP
36 Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP
56 Selected consolidated financial data/US GAAP
57 Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP
61 Consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income/US GAAP
62 Consolidated balance sheets/US GAAP
63 Consolidated statements of cash flows/US GAAP
64 Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity/US GAAP
65 Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP
79 Report of independent auditors/US GAAP
80 Group directory
Contents ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 1
ARM designs technology that lies at the heart of advanced digital products.
We have a strong record of creating innovative products and industry
standards, supported by a broad, connected community of partners. 
We develop and license our architecture to leading electronics companies,
enabling them to develop reliable total system solutions.
The ARM architecture delivers high-performance, low-cost, power-efficient
processors, data engines, peripherals, software and tools. These solutions
are used in a wide range of applications, including in the automotive,
consumer entertainment, digital imaging, mass storage, networking,
security and wireless industries.
Whether at home, in the office or on the move, you are likely to be
connected using a product which has ARM technology at its core. 2 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
ARM at a glance
Revenue analysis (%) Royalty units (%) Licence revenues by product (%)
Total revenues (£m)
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
128.1
150.9
146.3
100.7
62.1
0  50 100 150 200
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
44.3
26.8
27.9
25.6
11.1
0 10 20 30 40 50
Royalty revenues (£m)
•
Total revenues of £128.1 million in 2003 compared with £150.9 million in 2002
•
Our partners shipped a total of 782 million units in 2003 based on ARM technology (an increase of 71%)
•
R&D expenditure maintained at high levels giving rise to introduction of further innovative products
Licensing 40%
Royalties 34%
Development systems 14%
Support, maintenance and training 10%
Consulting 2%
ARM7
TM
family 18%
ARM9
TM 
family 31%
ARM10
TM
/ARM11
TM
/architecture 33%
Non-core licensing 18%
Automotive 1%
Consumer entertainment 7%
Imaging 7%
Microcontrollers 1%
Networking 10%
Secure 2%
Storage 4%
Wireless 68% ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 3
Geographic revenue by market destination 
Research and development expenditure (£m)
0 10 20 30 40 50
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
48.1
48.7
38.9
27.5
17.0
Net cash balance at year end (£m)
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
159.8
130.3
104.5
75.3
51.8
0 50 100 150 200
•
Additional core (ARM926EJ™) now available in the Foundry Programme
•
Cash and short-term investments of £159.8 million at 31 December 2003, an increase of £29.5 million in the year
•
Annual dividend introduced reflecting confidence in future cash flows
United States 51%
Austin, Texas
Novi, Michigan
Carlsbad, California
Los Gatos, California
Northborough, Massachusetts
Walnut Creek, California
Europe 18%
Blackburn, UK
Cambridge, UK
Maidenhead, UK
Sheffield, UK
Leuven, Belgium
Montigny le Bretonneux, France
Sophia Antipolis, France
Munich, Germany
Kfar Saba, Israel
Asia Pacific 31%
Seoul, South Korea
Taipei, Taiwan
Shin-Yokohama, Japan
Shanghai, PR China Results and dividend
The decisions we took in the fourth quarter 
of 2002 to reduce our cost base, but also 
to maintain our high level of research and
development expenditure throughout the
protracted industry downturn enabled us,
during the year, to introduce a number of new
products based on innovative technologies and
to strengthen our position in becoming the
architecture for the digital world.
Although our full year 2003 revenues were
down on the previous 12 months, our revenues
in 2003 increased from the first quarter onwards.
On total revenues of £128.1 million, we earned
profit before tax of £23.2 million (after adjusting
for the cost of settlement of the dispute with
Herodion of £6.4 million). Good cost control
and working capital management enabled 
us to convert this into net cash generation 
of £29.5 million*.
This strong cash generation, together with our
confidence in the Group’s long-term prospects,
enabled us to continue to make significant
investments in technological innovation, both
organic and through a “bolt-on” strategic
acquisition.
2003 was a year of stable quarter-on-quarter progress, continued
technological innovation, and one in which the ARM
®
architecture
gained increasing global acceptance
The board also decided at the end of 2003 
to initiate the payment of an annual dividend.
We see a return of cash to shareholders
through a dividend as part of a package 
of measures to make the best use of the
business’s cash resources. It is the board’s
intention to increase the dividend over 
time, taking into account the opportunity for
continued investment in the business and the
Group’s underlying operational performance.
The market
Activity in the semiconductor industry gradually
increased as 2003 progressed, giving rise to
improving confidence among our partners,
particularly in respect of the volume of
products shipped. However, tight financial
control by our partners continues to be 
exerted and it is expected that improvements
in licensing revenue will occur gradually during
2004. In the meantime, the expansion of our
existing family of products, together with new
products introduced in 2003, is expected to
contribute to a long-term trend of improving
licensing revenue.
It is encouraging to see that our partners
shipped so many ARM core-based products in
the year: 782 million units, 71% more than in
2002. This gives us confidence that we are
providing our semiconductor partners with the
right technologies to meet the expectations 
of their customers – the Original Equipment
Manufacturers (OEMs). It also demonstrates
that consumers are more readily embracing 
the digital world.
Geographic expansion
ARM’s business is increasingly global. 
In 2003, the geographic source of our
revenues illustrated the global reach of 
the semiconductor industry as well as our 
role at its heart: 51% of full-year revenues
emanated from North America, 31% from 
Asia Pacific, and 18% from Europe.
The balance of world trade is, however,
shifting. China is becoming an increasingly
influential player; what was traditionally an
agrarian society is becoming an industrial one,
which means that its need for electronics to
use in goods that it exports, as well as in
those which it consumes domestically, is
increasing rapidly. 
Currently most of the chips which are used in
China are bought from our partners and are
designed around our intellectual property (IP),
but we are establishing local relationships in
China as the country’s high-technology
industry matures and its companies begin to
develop their own IP . We have been working
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Chairman’s statement
* Net cash generation is the movement in cash and short-term
investments as per the balance sheets at the beginning and 
end of the year. with companies in China for a number of
years: we set up our first office, in Shanghai,
in July 2002. In 2004, we plan to open a
second office, in Beijing. 
During 2003, we signed seven licences in
China, not only with semiconductor companies
but also with foundries and universities.
Watertek became the first ARM Approved
Training Centre in China in January; we
extended our University Programme when
Southeast University licensed the ARM7TDMI
®
core in May, and when Shanghai Jiaotong
University licensed the ARM922T™ core in
December; we signed our first licensing deal
with a Chinese government-supported
organisation, Shanghai ICC, in May; in July 
we extended our Foundry Programme when
we signed an agreement with SMIC; Datang
licensed the ARM946E™ microprocessor core in
September, and in December, Shanghai Fudan
Microelectronics licensed the ARM7TDMI core. 
Many entrepreneurial and innovative ventures
are emerging in other markets. ARM is
working to help these companies as they seek
the right technology to achieve time-to-market
and time-to-volume advantage. We have
signed a number of licences in Israel within
the last two years and expect to announce
more licences during 2004. In addition, we 
are increasingly active in India, where many
engineers have experience of working with
our technology. 
People
We made a conscious decision at the outset 
of 2003 that, excluding acquisitions, we would
keep our headcount stable throughout the
year. Our employees responded magnificently
to the challenge and achieved a lot while
under tight cost constraint. We were delighted
to welcome 25 new employees to ARM with
the acquisition of Adelante Technologies N.V.
(now ARM Belgium N.V.) in July 2003. 
Board changes
Lawrence Tesler will be retiring from the board
at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April
2004, having served two three-year terms 
as a non-executive director. With his strong
technology background and industry
experience, he has made a significant
contribution over the past six years, which 
the board has greatly appreciated.
It is intended that Jeremy Scudamore who is
CEO of Avecia Group (formerly the specialty
chemicals business of Zeneca) be appointed 
as a non-executive director of the Company
immediately following the Annual General
Meeting on 26 April 2004. He has considerable
international business experience and will
bring a broad range of skills to the board that
extend beyond the semiconductor industry.
Current trading and prospects
We enter 2004 with confidence. Our business
continues to make good profits and to generate
cash throughout the toughest downturn that
our industry has witnessed for many years. We
continue to invest in innovation and in products
for the future. We believe that, as the industry
emerges from the downturn, our competitive
position is stronger than it was before. 
The number of new products available for
licensing in 2004, and the momentum behind
our royalty revenues, give us confidence that
this will be another successful year and 
that we will enjoy a return to revenue growth.
Many challenges lie ahead, however, and the
continuing weakness of the US dollar against
sterling will have an impact. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, we 
are confident that the platform we have
established over the past 13 years, together
with the passion and commitment of our
employees, and the work of our partners,
leave us well placed to benefit as the 
digital world gathers pace. 
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 5 The global business climate improved in 2003,
particularly towards the end of the year. As a
result, the technology industry appears to have
shaken off much of the uncertainty which
characterised the first two years of the new
decade and, while we cannot be sure how
long it will take for these improvements to
result in increased licensing activity, the change
in the economic environment is welcome.
The improvement in the economy, combined
with the adjustments to our cost base made 
in the fourth quarter of 2002, enabled us to
improve quarterly revenues throughout 2003
and to achieve strong net cash generation each
quarter. Our decision to maintain a high level
of investment in research and development
(R&D) during the industry downturn enabled 
us to introduce a number of new products.
These are already driving licence revenue and
are underpinning our confidence in our ability
to increase revenue during 2004.
Gradual increases in quarterly revenue and 
tight cost control gave rise to improving margins
(excluding one-off legal settlement costs) as 
the year progressed. The weakness of the
dollar had an impact on revenue growth,
particularly in the second half, but 2003 was
still a year of robust financial performance.
Licensing, product development and 
new technology
Licensing is fundamental to our business: 
it drives royalties and underpins our future
profitability. Activity gradually picked up in 
the third quarter and continued into the fourth.
In 2003, we signed a total of 51 licences for
microprocessors; of these, 25 were multi-use
licences and 26 per-use licences. We signed
licences with 26 new companies, bringing the
total number of semiconductor partners to
128. Of the 26 new partners, seven took
multi-use licences and 19 per-use licences.
2003 was another busy and rewarding year 
in terms of our product development. Market
demand for microprocessor solutions that 
offer increased performance, security and
power efficiency continues.
We introduced a number of new products
during the year which incorporate new
technology features, including the TrustZone™
security extension, the Thumb®-2 core
technology for improved code density and
Intelligent Energy Manager (IEM) hardware
and software for low-power consumption.
These underpin the opportunities for licensing
in 2004 and beyond.
TrustZone technology will greatly improve the
security of mobile devices, which is a major
concern for handset suppliers and service
providers. Our IEM technology is continuing 
our relentless push to improve the power
efficiency of battery-operated devices; and 
we are taking significant steps in enabling 
the development of complex and efficient
solutions, partly through our work with NEC 
in Symmetrical Multi-Processing (SMP). 
These, together with other technologies
announced in 2003, are complementary to 
the growing range of our cores.
In October, we launched two new ARM11
family microprocessors, the ARM1156T2-S™ 
core and the ARM1176JZ-S™ core, which
include a number of these new features; they
are available for licensing now for delivery in 
mid-2004. We delivered the first ARM11 core
family-based product just over a year ago and
are encouraged by the rate at which this
technology is being adopted. So far, our
partners have taken a total of ten licences. 
In December 2003, we announced a new
ARM9 family core, the ARM968E-S™ core, for
deeply embedded applications. Our smallest,
lowest-power, synthesizable ARM9E™ family
core provides an ideal solution for networking
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief Executive Officer’s review
During 2003 we continued to progress our business by developing 
our technology and products. It was a year of stabilisation, but one 
in which we achieved our major business goals applications, but will also be appropriate 
for many applications in the automotive,
consumer entertainment and wireless sectors.
These new cores represent significant
extensions to our range. At the same time, 
we are working on our next-generation
architecture. We signed our first lead partner
for this technology in the third quarter of 2003.
The Foundry Programme
The introduction of the ARM926EJ core to 
our Foundry Programme, which continues to
provide an excellent entry point for companies
which are licensing our technology for the first
time, will help to maintain the momentum 
in the programme. Per-use licensees are now
able to have this product manufactured by 
two of our foundry partners, TSMC and UMC.
Royalty revenues
Substantial licensing in recent years resulted 
in a much higher number of ARM Powered®
devices being shipped than in 2002. Our
partners shipped 782 million ARM Powered
devices in 2003, at a value of £44.3 million,
an increase of 71% on 2002’s record of
456 million units. 
The fact that volumes increased across all
markets demonstrates that our core-based
designs are increasingly the architecture of
choice. There was also a significant increase 
in the number of partners shipping ARM
Powered devices – from 43 at the end of
2002, to 60 by the end of 2003.
Part of this success can be attributed to the
improved economy but more important, we
believe, is the fact that more of our partners
began shipping more ARM Powered products,
including an increasing proportion based on
our newer ARM9 family cores.
We have traditionally been very strong in the
wireless market, but in recent years have
begun to mirror that success elsewhere and,
as a result, have improved the balance and
stability of our business. Unit shipments in
other markets are now growing at the same
rate as those in the wireless market.
Patent portfolio
The protection of our IP and the growth of 
our patent portfolio are key priorities for the
business. In 2003, we filed twice as many
patents as in 2002 and we anticipate that the
rate of filing will continue to increase in 2004.
It is imperative that we defend our IP
vigorously and, in that context, we were
encouraged that the partial summary
judgement ruling in Nazomi’s case against us
for alleged patent infringement found in our
favour. The partial summary judgement ruled
that products using the current commercial
design of the ARM Jazelle® technology do 
not infringe Nazomi’s patent. Nazomi has
appealed against the ruling, but we are
confident that the original ruling will be upheld.
In March 2004, we settled all outstanding
issues with Herodion (picoTurbo Inc.’s
successor entity) relating to the out-of-court
settlement of the patent lawsuit against
picoTurbo in December 2001. Following the
findings of an arbitration panel established to
resolve the issues and subsequent discussions
between the parties, ARM agreed to pay
£6.4 million as part of the settlement
agreement. This amount has been charged 
to the profit and loss account in 2003.
The future
Our commitment to R&D keeps us ahead of
the competition. We maintained high levels 
of investment in innovation in 2003, even
though it was a tough year, and the fruits 
of our labours are being realised with the
introduction of our new technologies. While
better economic conditions should help us to
progress, much of the improvement we expect
in 2004 can be attributed to factors which are
in our control, such as the availability of a
number of new products for licensing.
We fully expect to build on our recent
successes in the coming year.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 7 ARM is connected – to its partners, its
customers, its suppliers, its shareholders, 
to governments, to education, to standards
bodies, and to its employees. It also
enables organisations and consumers to be
connected to one another and to innovative
technology, and to transmit information
around the world – from home, from work
or on the move.
ARM Connected Community
In the 13 years since we founded the
Company, we have developed a unique
partnership business model which, in 2003,
we formalised when we created the ARM
Connected Community. Membership of the
community is open to any company that 
has a product that uses or complements our
technology, or one which helps in the design
of ARM Powered devices. 
These members include semiconductor and
systems companies that develop our ideas 
and innovations into digital products; suppliers
of embedded operating systems (OS) and
development environments; providers of
application software; vendors of electronic
design automation (EDA) tools, which enable
designers to test and verify circuits before
beginning production; vendors of silicon 
based on our system platforms, which provide
the tools and methodologies which enable 
our partners to differentiate their end 
products; and tools developers, which supply
hardware and software solutions for designers
to implement our architecture.
We now have 128 semiconductor partners;
50 development tools partners; 30 OS partners;
and 40 technology partners, which include
TransDimension, for USB on the go; Superscape,
for Swerve i3D applications; SafeNet, 
for wireless security; and Imagination, for MBX
graphic acceleration.
Membership of the Connected Community
brings a range of benefits. The most obvious 
is that members are connected to ARM, which
is widely regarded as one of the UK’s most
successful technology companies and one
which invests more than one-third of its income
in R&D. Many members of the Community are
aligning themselves with the ARM brand to
demonstrate that connection. Other benefits
include access to a range of companies that 
can provide services or components, sales 
leads and opportunities to network and to take
part in promotional programmes. Hundreds of
companies around the world now belong to this
global community that provides solutions, from
design to manufacture, for products based on
our architecture. 
Connected to employees
We value our people. Our investment in
training and retaining them enables us to
maintain our culture of continuous innovation.
Our policies on employment are set out in
more detail in the corporate social responsibility
report on page 21 of this document.
Connected to sharing information
Our IP is a vital element in products which
enable consumers to share and store
information, access and enjoy media content,
and send and receive images, from home,
from work or on the move, and to do it all
securely. 
Our architecture bridges the gap between
individuals and the information-rich outside
world. It is at the heart of the wireless 
market. It powers PDAs and more than 75% 
8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
ARM: connected
Membership of the ARM Connected Community brings a range of benefits, 
which includes being connected to what is widely regarded as one of the 
UK’s most successful technology companies
connected community of the world’s mobile telephones; it enables
consumers to use applications such as the
Nintendo Game Boy Advance and set-top
boxes; it plays a crucial role in creating a
secure infrastructure to protect personal
information in digital products.
It is also popular with the automotive industry
because it is used by a wide range of partners
and thereby helps to simplify the supply 
chain; and it is facilitating the progression 
of microcontrollers (MCUs), used in domestic
products such as washing and dishwasher
machines, and in industrial controllers, 
from 4- and 8-bit to 32-bit solutions, 
which can deliver more flexibility and 
greater performance.
Connected to performance 
In recent years, the demand for technology to
be more efficient and, indeed, to do more has
increased beyond the imagination even of 
H G Wells. We already expect our washing
machines and dishwashers to be able to “read”
how big and how dirty the load is; our cars to
lock by remote control; our video and DVD
machines to record when we are out; our
cameras to produce instant images; and our
mobile telephones to be able to send and
receive voice and text data, e-mails and images.
There is no doubt that manufacturers will
continue to be under pressure to accommodate
more functions into their products. 
Every benefit that is built into a system brings,
however, its challenges: these are principally
power consumption and security, and we have
been paying particular attention to both. 
Power consumption has always been high 
on our agenda. Delivering more compute
power while, at the same time, reducing
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 9
A growing partnership
● 128 semiconductor partners
● 50 development tools partners
● 30 operating systems partners
● 40 technology partners 10 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
ARM: connected/continued
at the heart
power consumption brings benefits to a wide
range of applications. Achieving this continues
to be a driving force in our research and
development activities, but extra functions 
on, for example, a mobile telephone simply
devour battery power and we saw the need 
to find a means of controlling this. 
During the year we launched our Intelligent
Energy Manager (IEM) product, which is
incorporated into our ARM1176JZ-S core. 
IEM technology is what is called a closed-loop
control system: it monitors how much power
the application needs and adjusts the battery
power accordingly. The principle is much the
same as installing a thermostat on a central
heating system. By eliminating waste, IEM
technology enables equipment to be “always
on” without sacrificing usage time. 
We made further strides in improving our
signal processing IP portfolio when we acquired
Belgium-based Adelante Technologies N.V. in
July 2003. The team, now ARM Belgium N.V., is
established as our data engine business and is
already playing an important part in our future.
The market for ever-more sophisticated
multimedia and networking communications
continues to increase, but the rapidly-changing
demands on the technology cannot always 
be met efficiently with conventional signal
processing. In collaboration with other ARM
businesses, ARM Belgium is developing
OptimoDE™, which comprises a configurable
data engine (signal processor) solution with
related IP and tools. OptimoDE technology will
be used in systems together with our existing
cores and other system IP .
The configurability of OptimoDE technology
enables designers to match signal processing
The ARM architecture is at the heart of advanced digital products: it provides 
access to information at home, in the office or on the move. ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 11
Page heads
solutions to the needs of a specific application
or algorithm. This provides excellent processing
in a flexible solution which meets the power
and cost constraints set by the new generation
of algorithms. In addition to high performance,
OptimoDE technology offers low power and a
fast route to implementation.
Connected to security
Security is an issue for a wide range of people
and organisations, from manufacturers, service
providers and network operators to content
creators and end users; and for a wide range
of products, from smart cards, set-top boxes
and mobile telephones to cars and household
appliances. Hackers and viruses that corrupt
computers can equally corrupt other devices
and the more applications there are on, for
example, a mobile telephone, the more
vulnerable it is to attack. Without the owner’s
knowledge, a mobile telephone could send
thousands of text messages or voice calls to
other mobiles and, by doing so, could not only
corrupt or contaminate the other devices, but
could also overload the network to the point
of collapse. This clearly has huge financial
implications for everyone concerned.
Content providers, such as movie companies,
could be faced with unauthorised distribution –
a problem the music industry has contended
with for some time – and car manufacturers
need to be able to protect the computer
systems which control vehicles’ operating 
and safety systems.
Our engineers came up with an innovative
idea that we were able to convert into a new
product: TrustZone technology. This creates 
a barrier – a secure area within a processor
and the system around it within which only
designated, secure tasks can be performed.
Designers have historically tried to implement
secure systems by adding “logic” to a core
design; this is complicated, costly and, in 
the end, the product is never truly protected.
Our approach results in a reliable and secure
system which is integrated in the core, is cost
effective and resistant to software hacks. 
In November, we expanded our smart card
portfolio when we launched our SecurJC™
technology. The increasing demand for smart
cards has created a need for products that 
are secure as well as high performance. Our
SecurJC technology is appropriate for any type
of smart card, including SIM cards. It enables
developers of cards based on JavaCard
technology to focus on application design by
eliminating what is usually the most time-
consuming element of the design cycle – the
need to redevelop an entire implementation. 
Connected to software
We have always maintained the backwards
compatibility of software so that a partner’s
investment in our technology is protected;
equally, in addition to creating innovative new
products, we upgrade and improve existing
technology.
In 1995, we introduced our popular Thumb
solution, a breakthrough technology that
enabled software developers to create highly
compact code to run our architecture, but 
the problem of providing high performance 
at low cost, combined with long battery life,
continued. In May 2003, we launched Thumb-2
core technology, an extension of our 32-bit
architecture. Thumb-2 technology improves
performance and saves power by enabling
system makers to condense software to fit
into a smaller memory device. Because the
code delivers more performance, the processor
Enabling technologies
● Coresight
● Intelligent Energy
Manager
● OptimoDE
● SecurJC
● Swerve
● Thumb-2
● TrustZone setting the standard
can be run at a lower frequency, but still
achieve the same amount of work.
Our significant presence in the wireless industry
has enabled us to work with a number of
leading companies, to facilitate the availability
of high-quality 3D games (which have been
accessible on PCs since 1995) on wireless
devices. In May 2003, we launched our
Swerve solution, which we developed in
collaboration with Superscape Group plc. 
The Swerve Client engine is designed for small
screens and incorporates technology that saves
memory and download time, making it ideal
for applications such as mobile telephones and
PDAs. It opens up a new range of applications
for consumers. It specialises in facilitating
interactive 3D technology and enables designers
and programmers to create content quickly
without needing detailed knowledge of
techniques such as 3D rendering. 
Three of the world’s top five mobile telephone
manufacturers have chosen to incorporate
Swerve technology into their handsets.
Software is becoming increasingly complex:
chips in today’s products incorporate multiple
microprocessors and tens of megabytes of
program code to implement many more
functions in a single device. 
To help OEM product developers create
competitive products, we developed
Coresight™ low-cost debug and trace
technology which gives visibility into the
operation of highly complex embedded
products. This enables developers to meet 
the imperatives of creating reliable, high-
performance products and of bringing them 
to market quickly. 
Connected to Foundry partners
The Connected Community also includes our
Foundry Programme partners. We created this
programme to give smaller semiconductor
manufacturers, which do not have their own
facilities to fabricate silicon (known as fabless
companies), access to our technology. By
licensing foundries to provide a range of
process technologies we are able to protect
our IP while, at the same time, making it
widely available.
During the year, we launched our new
ARM926EJ Prime Starter Kit through the
Foundry Programme; this provides an even
more cost-effective way for these smaller
companies to move quickly from concept to
finished product. The ARM926EJ Prime Starter
Kit enables fabless companies to license a
combined package comprising the ARM926EJ
core and the PrimeXsys Platform, together
with the Embedded Trace Macrocell™ solution.
Connected to the future
Innovation has always been, and will continue
to be, the key to ARM’s success. R&D forms 
a large part of our work schedule and our
constant quest for the next “killer application”
frequently involves us in forming alliances
with other industry-leading companies.
In October 2003, we announced that, in
collaboration with NEC Electronics, we are
developing central processing unit (CPU) cores
based on symmetric multiprocessor (SMP)
technology. SMP technology is about putting a
number of multiple processors on a single
chip. If an application needs a great deal of
power, the workload can be shared across the
processors but, as in IEM technology, it is
scaleable: if three processors are needed to
complete the task, that is what is used; if
12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
ARM: connected/continued
ARM’s Connected Community gives our partners access to standard and proven
designs. We focus on protecting their investment in technology; we also create
innovative products which will set the standard for the future eight are needed, they are available. It’s about
using as much resource as is needed to create
exactly the right solution.
We have always been evangelists for
digitalisation – we believe it delivers greater
opportunities, efficiency and security – and
consumers’ demands for increasingly advanced
digital products are now driving the
semiconductor market.
These, and other, developments emphasise
our culture of innovation, make the best use 
of our partnership model and ensure that the
ARM Community continues to be connected to
the future, for everyone’s benefit.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 13
Investing in the future
● More than one-third of revenue invested in R&D
● 676 patent applications, 290 granted
● Leadership role in establishing standards Sir Robin Saxby Warren East Tim Score Tudor Brown Mike Inglis
Sir Robin Saxby age 57
Chairman
Sir Robin Saxby joined ARM in February 1991 
as Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer. He relinquished his roles as President
and CEO in October 2001. Before joining ARM,
he was with European Silicon Structures SA
(ES2) where he was Vice President, Northern
Europe; Managing Director, ES2 Limited; and
President of US2, ES2’s US affiliate. He was
previously with Motorola Semiconductors and
with Henderson Security Systems Limited. He
has also served as Chairman of the EU panel,
Open Microprocessor Initiative Advisory Group,
which advised on collaborative R&D activity. In
2000, he was awarded an honorary doctorate
DEng from Liverpool University and was
appointed a visiting professor to the
university’s department of electronics. In July
2001, he was awarded an honorary doctorate
DTech from Loughborough University. He was
knighted in the 2002 New Year’s Honours list.
He is a non-executive director of Glotel plc.
Warren East age 42
Chief Executive Officer
Warren East joined ARM in 1994. He set up
ARM’s consulting business and was Vice
President, Business Operations from February
1998. In October 2000 he was appointed to
the board as Chief Operating Officer and in
October 2001 was appointed Chief Executive
Officer. Before joining ARM he was with Texas
Instruments.
Tim Score age 43
Chief Financial Officer 
Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer
and director in March 2002. Before joining
ARM, he was Finance Director of Rebus Group
Limited. He was previously Group Finance
Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller
at LucasVarity plc and Group Financial
Controller at BTR plc.
Tudor Brown age 45
Chief Operating Officer
Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Company, he was Principal
Engineer at Acorn Computers, where he worked
on the ARM R&D programme. At ARM, he was
Engineering Director and Chief Technical Officer
from 1993; in October 2000, he was appointed
Executive Vice President, Global Development
and in October 2001, he was appointed to the
board as Chief Operating Officer.
Mike Inglis age 44
Executive Vice President, Marketing
Mike Inglis joined ARM as Executive Vice
President, Marketing in June 2002, and was
appointed to the board in August that year.
Before joining ARM, he led the UK
Communications and High Technology team 
at A.T. Kearney Management Consultants and
held a number of senior operational and
strategic marketing positions at Motorola. 
He previously worked in marketing, design
and consultancy with Texas Instruments,
Fairchild Camera and Instruments and BIS
Macintosh. He gained his initial industrial
experience with GEC Telecommunications. 
He is a non-executive director of Superscape
Group plc.
Mike Muller age 45
Chief Technology Officer
Mike Muller was one of the founders of 
ARM. Before joining the Company, he was
responsible for hardware strategy and the
development of portable products at Acorn
Computers. He was previously at Orbis
Computers. At ARM he was Vice President,
Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and Executive
Vice President, Business Development until
October 2000 when he was appointed Chief
Technology Officer. In October 2001, he was
appointed to the board.
Peter Cawdron age 60
Independent Non-Executive Director
Peter Cawdron joined the ARM board in March
1998. From 1983 to 1998 he worked for Grand
Metropolitan plc, where he served as Group
Strategy Development Director. He was
previously Chief Financial Officer and a director
of D’Arcy-MacManus & Masius Worldwide, Inc.,
and before that a member of the corporate
finance team at S.G. Warburg & Co., Ltd. He
qualified as a chartered accountant at Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 1966. He is
Chairman of Capital Radio plc and is a non-
executive director of a number of UK listed
companies, including Compass Group plc, 
The Capita Group plc, Christian Salvesen plc, 
Arla Foods UK plc and Johnstone Press plc.
14 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Directors and advisers Mike Muller Peter Cawdron Doug Dunn Lawrence Tesler John Scarisbrick
Doug Dunn age 59
Independent Non-Executive Director
Doug Dunn joined the ARM board in December
1998. He is President and Chief Executive
Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N.V. Before
joining ASML, he was Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics
Division of Royal Philips Electronics N.V. and 
a member of the board. He was previously
Managing Director of the Plessey and GEC
Semiconductor divisions and held several
engineering and management positions at
Motorola. He was awarded an OBE in 1992. 
He is a non-executive director of ST
Microelectronics N.V. and Sendo Holdings plc.
Lawrence Tesler age 58
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lawrence Tesler was a member of the ARM
board from its foundation until August 1997
and rejoined, as a non-executive director, 
in March 1998. He is Vice President,
Engineering for Amazon.com Holdings Inc.
Before joining Amazon he was Vice President
and Chief Scientist for Apple Computer, Inc. 
He was previously on the staff of the Xerox
Palo Alto Research Center, President of 
a software consulting firm and a research
associate at Stanford University. He will be
retiring from the board at the 2004 AGM,
having served two three-year terms.
John Scarisbrick age 51
Independent Non-Executive Director
John Scarisbrick joined the ARM board in
August 2001. He is a venture partner at Vortex
Partners LLP in Dallas, Texas. He worked for
Texas Instruments in the UK, France and the
US for 25 years; he was most recently
responsible for its $5 billion ASP business
worldwide and had previously been President
of Texas Instruments Europe (TI). Before
joining TI, he worked in design roles at Rank
Radio International and Marconi Space and
Defence Systems. He is Chairman of
Cambridge Positioning Systems Ltd; serves on
the Technical Advisory Board of venture
investor ViVentures; and is a director of
Intrinsity, a fabless semiconductor company,
and of SonIM, the leading developer of 2.5/3G
voice instant messaging applications.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 15
ARM Holdings plc
Secretary and registered office
Patricia Alsop
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Registered number
2548782
Stockbrokers
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
United Kingdom
Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
United Kingdom
Legal advisers 
UK law
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
US law
Davis Polk & Wardwell
99 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7NG
United Kingdom
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge CB3 0AN
United Kingdom
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)870 600 3984
Depositary
The Bank of New York
101 Barclays Street
New York
New York 10286
United States of America The cash-generative nature of ARM’s business
model enables us to address the significant
opportunities for ongoing investment in future
growth, research and development activities
and strategic acquisitions.
Revenues
Total revenues for the year ended 31
December 2003 amounted to £128.1 million, 
a decrease of 15% from total revenues of
£150.9 million in the year ended 31 December
2002. The actual average dollar exchange rate
in 2003 was $1.64 (compared with the
effective average exchange rate for ARM of
$1.61) compared with $1.50 in 2002. This had
the effect of reducing total reported revenues
by approximately £9.6 million.
Licensing revenues in 2003 were 
£50.8 million, 40% of total revenues,
compared with £83.0 million, or 55% of total
revenues, in the year to 31 December 2002.
Royalty revenues were £44.3 million,
representing 34% of total revenues, in the
year to 31 December 2003, compared with
£26.8 million, or 18% of total revenues, 
in the year to 31 December 2002. Sales of
development systems were £17.9 million,
14% of total revenues, in 2003 compared 
with £23.1 million, or 15% of total revenues,
in 2002. Service revenues, which include
consulting services and revenues from support,
maintenance and training, were £15.1 million
in 2003, representing 12% of total revenues
compared with £18.0 million, or 12% of 
total revenues, in 2002.
Gross margin
Gross margin for the year to 31 December
2003 was 91%, the same as in 2002.
Operating expenses
Total operating expenses in 2003 were
£98.6 million, compared with £96.6 million 
in 2002.
Research and development (R&D) expenses
in 2003 were £48.1 million, 38% of revenues,
compared with £48.7 million (excluding
restructuring costs of £1.3 million), or 32% of
revenues, in 2002. Sales and marketing costs
decreased from £24.5 million (excluding
restructuring costs of £0.3 million), or 16% 
of revenues in the 12 months to 31 December
2002, to £23.0 million or 18% of revenues in
2003. General and administration expenses
were £27.5 million or 21% of revenues in 
the 12 months to 31 December 2003,
compared with £21.5 million (excluding
restructuring costs of £0.3 million), or 14% 
of revenues, in 2002. The 2003 expenses
included £6.4 million in respect of the one-
off cost of the settlement of the Herodion 
dispute. Excluding this one-off cost, general
and administrative expenses in 2003 were
£21.1 million or 16% of revenues.
Operating margin
Operating margin decreased to 14.4% in 2003,
from 27.3% in 2002, as a result of reduced
revenues and increased legal costs.
Interest receivable
Interest was £4.8 million for the year to
31 December 2003 compared with 
£4.4 million in 2002, reflecting the benefit 
of higher average cash balances in 2003.
Earnings and taxation
For the year ended 31 December 2003, 
profit before tax was £23.2 million, or 18.1%
of revenues, compared with £45.5 million 
or 30.1% of revenues in the year ended 
31 December 2002. The Group’s taxation 
rate increased from 29% in the year to 
31 December 2002 to 34% in 2003, mainly 
as a result of increased costs that are non-
deductible for tax purposes. Fully diluted
earnings for the year ended 31 December 
2003 were 1.5 pence per share compared 
with 3.2 pence per share for the year 
ended 31 December 2002.
16 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Financial review
Careful management of our cost base contributed to sequential
improvements in profitability and good cash generation through 
the year Balance sheet and cash flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities of
£43.7 million was generated in the year; capital
expenditure in the year was £3.6 million. 
Cash and short-term investments increased 
by £29.5 million to £159.8 million at 
31 December 2003.
Trade debtors decreased to £17.3 million at
31 December 2003, from £20.5 million at
31 December 2002. The provision for doubtful
debts decreased to £1.1 million at 31 December
2003, compared with £2.2 million at the end
of 2002. Deferred revenues were £11.1 million
at 31 December 2003, compared with 
£14.4 million at 31 December 2002.
Dividend
The board reviews uses of the Group’s cash
resources on an ongoing basis. In light of the
Group’s strong financial position and the cash
generative nature of its business, the directors
intend to introduce an annual dividend, with
effect from the 2003 financial year. This will
enable us to use our strong cash generation to
return cash to shareholders while maintaining
significant investment in R&D and satisfying
the ongoing capital requirements of the
business. 
Recognising that ARM has significant
opportunities to invest in the business, both
organically and through “bolt-on” acquisitions, 
the directors recommend a combined interim
and final dividend in respect of the year to
31 December 2003 of 0.6 pence per share
which, subject to approval at the Annual
General Meeting on 26 April 2004, will be 
paid on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the
register at 2 April 2004.
From 2004 onwards, the directors intend that
an interim dividend will be paid in October of
each year (commencing in October 2004) and
a final dividend will be paid in May of each
year (commencing in May 2005). The interim
dividend is likely to represent 40% of the total
dividend for the year. Under this policy, the
interim dividend for 2003 would have been
0.25 pence and the final dividend 0.35 pence.
The board intends to adopt a progressive
dividend policy which will take into account
both the opportunity for continued investment
in the business going forward and the
underlying operational performance of 
the Group.
Tim Score Chief Financial Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 17
Selected financial data/UK GAAP
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
£000 £000* £000* £000* £000*
Turnover 128,070 150,922 146,274 100,730 62,120
Cost of sales (11,022) (13,185) (17,289) (11,647) (9,803)
Gross profit 117,048 137,737 128,985 89,083 52,317
Total operating expenses (98,609) (96,608) (83,203) (57,927) (35,794)
Group operating profit 18,439 41,129 45,782 31,156 16,523
Share of loss of associated undertaking – –– (85) –
Total operating profit 18,439 41,129 45,782 31,071 16,523
Net gain on disposals of trade investments – – 314 – –
Gain on part disposal of associated undertaking – –– 512 –
Interest receivable, net 4,801 4,373 4,470 3,912 2,266
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 23,240 45,502 50,566 35,495 18,789
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (7,977) (13,031) (15,874) (6,007) (261)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 15,263 32,471 34,692 29,488 18,528
Equity minority interest (105) (232) (303) (192) (64)
Profit attributable to shareholders 15,158 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464
Dividends (6,106) ––––
Retained profit for the financial year 9,052 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464
Capital expenditure 3,605 15,616 17,349 11,842 5,900
Research and development expenditure 48,131 48,674 38,920 27,518 16,966
Cash and short-term investments 159,786 130,304 104,467 75,266 51,804
Shareholders’ funds 180,435 172,140 135,723 98,804 67,113
Employees at end of year (number) 740 721 722 619 443
* The prior years’ figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP trusts” (see note 20). Compliance with the Combined Code
The Group complies, and complied throughout
2003, with the 1998 Combined Code appended
to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. The Group has reviewed the new
Combined Code on Corporate Governance,
published in July 2003, which applies to
reporting years beginning on or after
1November 2003 and sets out below the
steps it has taken and intends to take in the
light of this new guidance.
Composition and operation of the board
The board comprises five executive directors,
four independent non-executive directors and
the Chairman. The executive directors are the
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer
and Executive Vice President, Marketing. The
four independent non-executive directors are
independent in character and judgement and
there are no relationships or circumstances
which are likely to affect the judgement of any
of them. They provide a blend of experience
and considerable knowledge to the board’s
deliberations. Peter Cawdron, who is the Senior
Independent Director and the financial expert,
has extensive knowledge of UK public group
issues and a strong financial background. Doug
Dunn has experience of running large companies
in the semiconductor and electronics industries.
Lawrence Tesler and John Scarisbrick both 
have a broad understanding of the Group’s
technology and the practices of major 
US-based technology companies.
Lawrence Tesler will be retiring from the 
board at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)
on 26 April 2004 having served two three-year
terms as a non-executive director. It is
intended that Jeremy Scudamore, who is CEO
of Avecia Group (formerly the specialty
chemicals business of Zeneca), be appointed
as a non-executive director of the Company
immediately following the AGM on 26 April
2004. He has considerable international
business experience and will bring a broad
range of skills to the board that extend 
beyond the semiconductor industry.
Peter Cawdron, who was last re-elected as a
director at the 2003 AGM, will complete his
second three-year term as a director of the
Company in March 2004. The board is mindful
of the principles set out in the new Combined
Code. Following a review of the significant
contribution Peter has made in his roles as
Chairman of the audit committee and as the
Senior Independent Director, and also to the
general proceedings of the board, the board
has decided that it is in the Company’s best
interests for Peter to be appointed for a third
three-year term. The directors are subject to
re-election every three years under Article 79
of the Articles of Association.
A resolution to change Article 70 of the
Company’s Articles of Association will be
proposed at the AGM to increase the
maximum number of directors from ten to
twelve. This will enable further non-executive
directors to be appointed, with the intention
that they will comprise at least half the board
(excluding the Chairman) in compliance with
the new Combined Code. In addition, this will
facilitate planning for orderly succession
among the non-executive directors. 
The board had six scheduled meetings during
2003 which were all attended by all the
directors, with the exception of the April
meeting when Mike Muller was absent and
the November meeting when Tudor Brown
was absent (in both cases for business
reasons). There is a procedure in place for
additional meetings on any pertinent issues 
to be organised as necessary during the year.
In addition, the Chairman held two meetings
with the non-executive directors without the
executives present and the non-executive
directors met on one occasion without the
Chairman being present. 
The board is responsible for setting the
Company’s strategic aims and ensuring that
the necessary financial and human resources
are in place for it to meet its objectives. 
The board has a formal schedule of matters
specifically reserved for its decision, which
includes the approval of major business
matters, policies, operating and capital
expenditure budgets, and ensuring high
standards of corporate governance are
maintained. The board is also responsible for
sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements
such as atypical licence agreements and
investments. 
Before each meeting, the board is furnished
with information in a form and of a quality
appropriate for it to discharge its duties
concerning the state of the business and its
performance. The ultimate responsibility for
reviewing and approving the annual report
and accounts and the quarterly reports, and 
for ensuring that they present a balanced
assessment of the Group’s position, lies with
the board. The board delegates day-to-day
responsibility for managing the Group to the
executive committee and has a number of
committees, details of which are set out below.
The board is aware of the principle in the 
new Combined Code that it should undertake
an annual evaluation of its own performance
and that of its committees and individual
directors, and intends to proceed with such 
an evaluation during 2004. In 2003, the
executive committee (which includes the
executive directors other than the Chairman)
undertook a board effectiveness programme,
which included collective and individual
performance evaluation and was assisted 
by third-party facilitators.
During 2003 Mike Muller and Mike Inglis
attended a three-day training course for PLC
directors run jointly by Henley Management
College and Ashridge and Manchester business
schools. Further training for directors is planned
for 2004.
Executive committee
The executive committee is responsible for
implementing the strategy set by the board.
Among other things, this committee is
responsible for approval of standard licence
agreements, ensuring that the Group’s budget
and forecasts are properly prepared, that
targets are met, and generally managing and
developing the business within the overall
budget. Variations from the budget and
changes in strategy require approval from the
main board of the Group. The executive
committee, which meets monthly, comprises
the executive directors (excluding the
Chairman) and the directors of ARM Limited,
and meetings are attended by the Company
Secretary and other senior operational
personnel, as appropriate.
Audit committee 
The audit committee has written terms of
reference which were updated during the 
year to reflect the requirements of the new
Combined Code. The committee has
responsibility for, among other things,
monitoring the integrity of the financial
statements of the Company and any formal
announcements relating to the Company’s
financial performance, and for reviewing any
significant financial reporting judgements
contained in them; reviewing the Company’s
internal controls and risk management systems;
18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance/UK GAAP making recommendations to the board in
relation to the appointment, remuneration and
resignation or dismissal of the Group’s external
auditors; reviewing and monitoring the
external auditors’ independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit
process; developing and implementing policy
on the engagement of the external auditors 
to supply non-audit services; and considering
compliance with legal requirements, accounting
standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority and the requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The committee also keeps under review the
value for money of the audit and the nature,
extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit
services provided by the auditors. The
committee has discussed with the external
auditors their independence, and has received
and reviewed written disclosures from the
external auditors as required by the Auditing
Standards Board’s Statement of Auditing
Standard No. 610, “Communication of matters
to those charged with governance”, as well 
as those required by the US Independence
Standards Board’s Standard No. 1,
“Independence discussions with audit
committees”. To avoid the possibility of the
auditors’ objectivity and independence being
compromised, the Group’s tax consulting work
is carried out by the auditors only in cases
where they are best suited to perform the
work, for example, tax compliance and advisory
work relating to the audit. In most cases, the
Group has engaged another independent firm
of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
The Group does not normally award general
consulting work to the auditors. From time to
time, however, the Group will engage the
auditors to perform advisory work on matters
relating to human resources and royalty audits.
The Group may also seek professional advice
from another firm of independent consultants
or its legal advisers. 
The current audit committee comprises Peter
Cawdron (Chairman), Doug Dunn and John
Scarisbrick. Peter Cawdron is the financial
expert as defined in the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
The committee met three times during 2003,
once before the release of the preliminary
announcement of the 2002 results to review
the results and audit findings, once to review
the half-year interim results and once before
the year end to discuss the approach to the
audit of the 2003 results. All committee
members attended all three meetings. 
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and the Company
Secretary attend all meetings in order to
ensure that all the information required by the
audit committee for it to operate effectively is
available. The representatives of the Group’s
auditors meet with the audit committee at
least once a year without any executive
directors being present.
Remuneration committee
A description of the composition, responsibility
and operation of the remuneration committee
is set out in the remuneration report on 
page 24.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee leads the 
process for board appointments and makes
recommendations to the board in relation 
to any new appointments of executive and
non-executive directors, and on board
composition and balance. It is chaired by 
the Chairman and is attended by the four
independent non-executive directors, Peter
Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and
Lawrence Tesler. The committee met once
during 2003. The committee has written 
terms of reference which were updated during
2003 to reflect the requirements of the new
Combined Code. In relation to the appointment
of Jeremy Scudamore, the services of an
external search consultancy were used.
Internal control/risk management 
The board of directors has overall responsibility
for ensuring that the Group maintains an
adequate system of internal control and 
risk management and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The board has reviewed the
system of internal control including internal
financial controls. Such systems are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risks
inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology
business and can, therefore, provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
At the beginning of 2002, a risk review team
was set up comprising members from the
board and the executive committee as well as
managers representing the different business
units and functions across the Group. During
2003 the risk review process was enhanced 
by the constitution of a risk review committee
consisting of the Chief Technology Officer, the
Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller
and the Company Secretary. The team is
responsible for identifying and evaluating risks
which may impact on the Group’s strategic
and business objectives, and for monitoring
the progress of actions designed to mitigate
such risks. The risk review team receives and
reviews quarterly reports from business unit
managers and corporate functions and its
findings are considered and challenged by the
risk review committee. The team reports to
the executive committee once a year and, in
turn, the risk review committee reports to the
board once a year. 
In July 2003 a disclosure committee was set
up in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002. The committee, which comprises the
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer, the Financial Controller, the General
Counsel and the Company Secretary, is
responsible for ensuring that disclosures made
by the Company to its shareholders and the
investment community are accurate, complete
and fairly present the Company’s financial
condition in all material respects.
In addition, there is a series of interconnected
meetings that span the Group from the
weekly management meeting chaired by the
Chief Executive Officer and the weekly
business review meeting chaired by the Vice
President, Operations, the purpose of which is
to monitor and control all main business
activities, sales forecasts and other matters
requiring approval that have arisen within the
week, to the board meetings of the Group.
Each month an operations meeting, chaired by
the Chief Operating Officer and attended by
managers representing different functions
across the Group, is held to review key
performance indicators such as revenues,
orders booked, costs, product and project
delivery dates and levels of defects found in
products in development. Once a quarter, the
annual operational plans for the different
disciplines within the Group are reviewed at
the operations meeting. The outputs of the
weekly business review meeting and the
monthly operations meeting are reviewed by
the executive committee which, in turn, raises
relevant issues with the board of the Group.
These processes for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant business, operational,
financial, compliance and other risks facing the
Group have been in place for the year under
review and up to the date of approval of the
annual report and financial statements. They
accord with the guidance on internal control
issued in September 1999 by the Internal
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 19 Control Working Party of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
As required by the Turnbull guidance, the
board has considered whether it would be
appropriate for the Company to have its own
financial internal audit function and has
concluded that, taking account of its relatively
small size, and a high degree of centralisation
in the way the business is run, this is not
appropriate at present. It does, however, have
an operational internal audit function that
audits the Group’s business and product/
project management processes. These
processes are documented, maintained and
continuously improved, for effectiveness and
efficiency. In addition, they are audited
externally by independent auditors for
compliance with ISO 9001:2000.
Corporate social and ethical policies
While the Group is accountable to its
shareholders, it also endeavours to take into
account the interests of all its stakeholders,
including its employees, customers and
suppliers and the local communities and
environments in which it operates. The Chief
Financial Officer takes responsibility for matters
relating to corporate social and ethical policies
and these matters are considered at board
level. A corporate social responsibility report is
on page 21 of this report and also on the
Group’s website www.arm.com. The Group
joined the Institute of Business Ethics in 2000
and, following a process of independent
verification, it received confirmation of its
admittance to the GoodCorporation network 
in August 2001. This qualification provides
assurance that it has been independently
verified against a 21-point charter covering 
the fair treatment and protection of its
employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders,
the community and the environment. This
independent verification process is repeated
each year and, during 2003, the Group
successfully retained its membership. 
As a company whose primary business is the
licensing of intellectual property (IP), employees
are highly valued and their rights and dignity
are respected. The Group strives for equal
opportunities for all its employees and does not
tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination
against, its staff. In 2003 ARM was named 
Employer of the Year in the UK National
Business Awards. The Group also endeavours
to be honest and fair in its relationships with
its customers and suppliers and to be a good
corporate citizen respecting the laws of the
countries in which it operates.
Environmental policies
The Group’s premises are composed entirely of
offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools
to generate intellectual property. This involves
neither hazardous substances nor complex waste
emissions. With the exception of Development
Systems products, the majority of “products”
sold by the Group comprise microprocessor
core designs that are delivered electronically
to customers. 
The Group does, however, recognise the
increasing importance of environmental issues
and these are discussed at board level where
the Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for
them. A number of initiatives in this area have
continued in 2003. The Group’s environmental
policy is published on its website. An
environmental action plan is implemented
through various initiatives. These include
monitoring resource consumption and waste
creation so that targets set for improvement are
realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing
controls continue to operate satisfactorily and
working with suppliers to improve environmental
management along the supply chain.
The Group has continued to compile data on
energy use, including estimates for international
business travel and an analysis of employee
transport to and from work. Energy usage and
resource consumption data for 2002 and 2003
are published in the Group’s corporate social
responsibility report on its website. The
provision of cycle sheds, showers and
changing facilities at its UK offices facilitates
greener commuting and the extensive
provision of conference telephone and video
conferencing equipment offers an alternative
to international travel, where appropriate.
A document output study has been
established to examine paper consumption
within the Group and to consider how an
extension of its electronic document
management systems might reduce the need
for paper documents. The Group can also
demonstrate an increase in paper and
packaging recycling and an improvement 
in the facilities in place to promote recycling 
of more materials. Energy usage is monitored
closely to understand how it is used, which
aids the setting of new targets. Renewable
energy sources are also being investigated.
Health and safety
Although ARM operates in an industry and in
environments which are considered low risk
from a health and safety perspective, the
safety of employees, contractors and visitors 
is a priority in all ARM workplaces worldwide.
Continual improvement in safety management
systems is achieved through detailed risk
assessments to identify and eliminate potential
hazards and occupational health assessments
for employees. The UK offices are covered by 
a health and safety committee, fire wardens
and first aiders. Each year the GoodCorporation
verification ensures that the criteria in its
charter are met. The UK offices are also
audited by the British Safety Council and the
Company achieved three stars in the 2003
audit. Other offices have similar cover dependent
on local needs, practices and customs. 
Relationships with shareholders
The board makes considerable efforts to
establish and maintain good relationships 
with institutional shareholders. The Group 
has a regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders throughout the year other 
than during close periods. The board also
encourages communication with private
investors throughout the year and part of 
the Group’s website is dedicated to providing
investor relations information. At present,
around 20 analysts write research reports 
on the Group. The Group publishes telephone
numbers on its website enabling shareholders
to listen to earnings presentations and audio
conference calls with analysts. 
All shareholders may register to receive the
Group’s press releases via the internet, and
internet links to recordings of earnings
presentations and audio conference calls are
available at the appropriate time on its website.
The board actively encourages participation 
at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled 
for 26 April 2004, which is the principal forum
for dialogue with private shareholders. 
A presentation will be made outlining recent
developments in the business and an open
question-and-answer session will follow to
enable shareholders to ask questions about
the business in general.
By order of the board
Patricia Alsop Company Secretary
20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance/UK GAAP/continued ARM considers itself to be a good corporate
citizen. While we know that there will always
be more to do, we strive to reduce the impact
we make on the environment and to increase
our connections with the communities in which
we operate. We also work hard to connect with
our shareholders, partners, suppliers and
employees. 
We are corporate members of the Institute of
Business Ethics (IBE) and were one of the first
members of GoodCorporation, which was
founded in 2001 to help organisations to
develop, manage and monitor their corporate
responsibilities. Based on principles set out by
the IBE, the GoodCorporation charter enables
companies to measure how effective they are
in achieving these responsibilities. Our
commitment to the charter includes being
verified against it each year.
In addition, we are listed on the FTSE4Good
Index and take part in the Business in the
Environment Index and the Corporate
Responsibility Index.
The environment 
Our business focuses on designing IP which
enables devices to use less power and, as a
result, to be more environmentally friendly.
Our activities do not produce harmful waste 
or emissions and the Ethical Investment
Research Service (EIRIS) grades us as an
environmentally “low impact” business.
Nevertheless, we monitor our environmental
performance to enable us to set targets for
reducing paper usage (and increasing the
amount we recycle), and controlling water
consumption. There are recycling bins for
aluminium cans in the majority of our offices
and our air conditioning systems run on less
environmentally damaging refrigerants.
We discourage the supply of company cars: in 
a company of 740 people, there are only 20.
We encourage our people to cycle to work 
or to share car journeys, and we measure
business travel. 
Connecting with local communities 
Our aim is to be a good corporate citizen of the
communities in which we operate. As such, we
support local initiatives and fundraising. In the
UK, we tend to focus on educational projects –
particularly for pupils who are interested in
mathematics, science, IT and business subjects.
This support is sometimes financial, sometimes
in the form of our employees’ time and skills.
Supporting education. Our support for
education stretches from funding an
information technology centre at a local junior
school, to working on specific projects with
students at the Judge Institute, Cambridge
University’s business school. We have helped
three schools near our Cambridge, UK offices
and one near our Maidenhead, UK offices to
achieve specialist school status; we support
mathematics lectures for gifted school
students at the Royal Institution and contribute 
to the funding to train the UK team for the
International Maths Olympics. In addition, we
have relationships with a number of
universities. Our Chairman, for example, is a
visiting professor at Liverpool and we worked
with Loughborough to design a degree course
which is based on the ARM architecture, with
the result that we now have a number of
Loughborough graduates working with us.
Supporting good causes. We encourage our
people to support their local communities.
Some are school governors, some help
children improve their reading skills, others
support charities. Our employees at our Austin,
Texas office have, for example, helped with
Special Olympics Texas and worked on a new
home for an underprivileged family, and
employees at Austin and at Los Gatos have
given their time to charities for the homeless.
We “double the efforts” of employees who
raise money for approved charities by matching
the funds they raise (with the exception of
political donations or other causes that might
damage ARM’s good reputation). Charities for
cancer, children, cystic fibrosis and MS have
been some of the beneficiaries of this scheme.
Connecting with our investors
We take care to provide accurate and timely
information for our investors – large and small.
Board members and other senior managers
communicate regularly with our institutional
shareholders. Our retail investors are sent the
annual report and a six-monthly report each
year. In addition, our website www.arm.com
carries comprehensive information about our
business, partners and products, including all
press releases.
Connecting with employees
Our aim is to attract and retain the best
people available by being a good and ethical
employer. The skills, knowledge and motivation
of our people are crucial to ARM’s success. We
promote and support individuals and teams
through on-the-job and formal training,
coaching and mentoring. Our staff turnover 
is approximately 5% a year.
Our Employee Assistance Programme helps
staff and their families with issues such as
care for children or elderly relatives, legal and
health advice, and stress or other counselling.
We were named Employer of the Year in both
the Midlands and East of England regions, and
in the UK National Business Awards 2003.
Equal opportunities. We need highly-qualified
staff and do not see age, colour, disability,
ethnic origin, gender, political or other opinion,
religion or sexual orientation as a barrier to
employment. If any member of staff becomes
disabled, we assess their needs and abilities
with a view to their continuing in their current
role. If this is impossible, we seek to offer
them alternative employment.
Benefits. Employees receive private healthcare;
permanent health, travel and life insurance;
pensions; sabbaticals; flexible working; stock
options; and a save-as-you-earn share scheme.
We encourage understanding and acceptance
of national and cultural diversity by giving
employees the opportunity to work in our
offices other than in their home country.
Accessibility
We endeavour to provide access to all whether
it be through building design to allow easy
disabled access or through improving access to
our website for those with visual impairments.
Health and safety
The safety of employees, contractors and
visitors is a priority. We measure and analyse
all accidents and “near misses” (we have had
only one RIDDOR reportable accident in the
Company’s history); by monitoring patterns or
trends we can identify potential problems and
work to avoid them. We are verified by
GoodCorporation each year to ensure that we
meet its health and safety requirements and
our UK offices are also audited by the British
Safety Council. In the UK, we have a health
and safety committee and each office has fire
wardens and first aiders. Our overseas offices
have the health and safety cover required by
local legislation. Health and safety is high on
our agenda: we publicise work-related matters,
advise employees to be prepared for winter
driving and to take precautions to prevent hay
fever or flu.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 21
Corporate social responsibility The directors present their annual report and
audited financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2003.
Principal activities and review of business
The principal activities of the Group and its
subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing,
research and development of RISC-based
microprocessors and systems. The nature of
the global semiconductor industry is such that
most of its business is conducted overseas
and, to serve its customers better, the Group
has sales offices around the world. These
include six offices in the US and offices in
Shanghai, PR China; Tokyo, Japan; Seoul, South
Korea; Taipei, Taiwan; Tel Aviv, Israel; Paris,
France and Munich, Germany. Design offices
are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead,
Sheffield, and Blackburn, UK; Sophia Antipolis,
France; Leuven, Belgium; and Austin, Texas in
the US. More information about the business is
set out in the Chairman’s statement on pages
4 and 5, the Chief Executive Officer’s review
on pages 6 and 7, the review of operations on
pages 8 to 13 and the financial review on
pages 16 and 17.
Future developments 
The Group’s stated objective is to establish 
a new global RISC architecture standard for 
the embedded microprocessor market. The
directors believe that to achieve this goal it 
is important to expand the number and range
of potential customers for its technology. The
Group intends to enter into licence agreements
with new customers and to increase the range
of new technology supplied to existing
customers. Relationships will continue to be
established with third-party tools and software
vendors to ensure that their products will
operate with the ARM architecture. As a result 
of its position as an emerging standard in its
industry, the Group is presented with many
opportunities to acquire complementary
technology or resources. It continues to review
these opportunities and in July 2003 the Group
acquired Adelante Technologies N.V. which 
is developing configurable data engine
technology, OptimoDE.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group and
Company have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they have adopted the
going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend a combined interim
and final dividend in respect of the year to
31 December 2003 of 0.6 pence per share
(total cost £6,106,000) which, subject to
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 
26 April 2004, will be paid on 7 May 2004 
to shareholders on the register at 2 April 2004. 
Research and development (R&D)
R&D is of major importance and, as part of 
its research activities, the Group collaborates
closely with universities worldwide. Key 
areas of product development for 2004 include
the development of further power saving
technologies (OptimoDE and central processing
unit (CPU) cores based on symmetric
multiprocessor technology), improved security
through the TrustZone and SecurJC technologies
and developments in superscalar CPU
architectures.
The Group incurred R&D costs of £48.1 million
in 2003, compared with £48.7 million in 2002,
which have been charged to the profit and
loss account. 
Donations
During the year the Group made donations 
for charitable purposes of £42,486 (2002:
£27,939). The total amounts given for each
such purpose were:
Local Cambridge charities £9,411
Promotion of education £6,687
Wider understanding of science, 
maths and information technology £12,500
Medical research £7,439
Relief of poverty £6,449
The Group does not make any political
donations. ARM employees are encouraged to
offer their time and expertise to help charities
and other groups in need. The Group operates a
gift matching system for employee fundraising.
Impact of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
During the year, the Group has considered 
the impact that implementing IFRS in 2005
will have on its financial statements and
reporting functions. The project is ongoing, and
the Group continually monitors the new
announcements being made by the IASB 
in furthering its plans for implementation. 
To date, the key areas that the Group has
reviewed and which may affect the financial
statements are derivatives and financial
instruments, revenue recognition, intangibles,
share-based payments, acquisition accounting
and accounting for R&D costs. Further areas
are currently being assessed, and the Group 
is confident that it is well positioned for the
transition.
Directors in the year
The following served as directors of the
Company during the year ended 31 December
2003:
Sir Robin Saxby KBE (Chairman)
Warren East (Chief Executive Officer) 
Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer) 
Tudor Brown (Chief Operating Officer)
Mike Muller (Chief Technology Officer)
Mike Inglis (Executive Vice President,
Marketing) 
Peter Cawdron (independent non-executive,
Senior Independent Director, financial expert)
Doug Dunn OBE (independent non-executive) 
John Scarisbrick (independent non-executive) 
Lawrence Tesler (independent non-executive)
Election of directors
In accordance with the Group’s Articles of
Association, Warren East will retire by rotation
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting
(AGM) and will seek re-election at that
meeting. (See page 14 for his biography.)
Lawrence Tesler has completed two three-year
terms as a non-executive director and will
retire from the board at the AGM on 26 April
2004. It is intended that Jeremy Scudamore
will be appointed as an additional non-
executive director immediately following the
AGM on 26 April 2004. Further details are
included in the corporate governance report 
on page 18.
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Directors’ report/UK GAAP Directors’ shareholdings in the Company
The interests of the directors in the Company’s
ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which
were beneficially held, are disclosed in the
remuneration report on page 26.
Substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following
substantial interests in the issued share capital
of the Company as at 17 February 2004:
Percentage of issued
ordinary share capital
Capital Group Companies 10.1%
Fidelity Investments 6.9%
Legal and General 
Investment Management 4.5%
Threadneedle Asset Management 4.3%
Janus Capital Corporation 3.8%
Aviva plc 3.0%
Save for the above, the Company has not
been notified, as at 17 February 2004, of any
material interest of 3% or more or any non-
material interest exceeding 10% of the issued
share capital of the Company.
Disabled persons
The Group has a strong demand for highly
qualified staff and, as such, disability is not
seen to be an inhibitor to employment or
career development. In the event of any staff
becoming disabled while with the Group, their
needs and abilities would be assessed and the
Group would, where possible, seek to offer
alternative employment to them if they were
no longer able to continue in their current role. 
Employee involvement
As the Group is an intellectual property
enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are
consulted and involved in its decision-making
processes. To this end, internal conferences
and communications meetings are held
regularly which involve employees from all
parts of the Group in discussions on future
strategy and developments. Furthermore,
employee share ownership is encouraged 
and all staff are able to participate in one 
of the Group’s schemes to encourage share
ownership. The Group has a very informal and
delegated organisational structure. It does not
presently operate any collective agreements
with any trade unions.
Policy on payment of creditors
The Group’s policy is to pay suppliers before
the end of the month following receipt of the
invoice, unless terms have been specifically
agreed in advance. This policy and any specific
terms agreed with suppliers are made known
to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on
request. Trade creditors of the Group at 
31 December 2003 were equivalent to 23 days’
purchases for the Group (2002: 19 days’) and
nil days for the Company in both years. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at the Group’s offices 
in Cambridge, UK, on 26 April 2004 at 2pm. 
A presentation will be made at this meeting
outlining recent developments in the business.
The Group will convey the results of proxy
votes cast at the AGM. Shareholders are
invited to submit written questions in advance
of the meeting. Questions should be sent to
The Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn
Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed
at the AGM.
Notice of the AGM is set out in the circular to
shareholders accompanying this annual report.
By order of the board
Patricia Alsop Company Secretary
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 23 Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Group’s policy
for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and
annual bonuses, the level and terms of grants of options and awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such
rights, pension rights and any compensation payments. Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make
recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management. The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation
of the board’s annual report to shareholders on the Group’s policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors’
remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 (as amended), the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. 
The committee is chaired by Doug Dunn, and Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler are members. The committee met three 
times during 2003 and all meetings were attended by all the committee members, with the exception of the December 2003 meeting when
Lawrence Tesler was unable to attend. Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced
view with respect to remuneration issues for the Group. The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers, generally appointed
by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of this. During 2003, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt,
Deloitte & Touche and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, have provided advice or services to the committee. Linklaters provided other
legal services and Watson Wyatt provided pension advice to the Company during this period. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Executive
Vice President, Human Resources, normally attend for part of the remuneration committee meetings. No director is involved in deciding his own
remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the Group’s directors seeks to give full consideration to the
principles set out in the Combined Code. The committee also monitors developments in the accounting for equity-based remuneration on an
ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the management skills necessary
for it to remain a leader in its field. This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their
performance and align with the objectives of the Group, and comprise a mix of performance-related and non-performance-related remuneration.
The committee believes that a director’s total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market. 
The nature of the Group’s development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high
level of variable remuneration. Currently, variable remuneration consists of three elements: annual cash bonus, discretionary share options and
conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan. All these incentives are performance-related and, as a result, more than half of each
executive director’s remuneration is targeted to be performance linked. Following a review of the Group’s variable remuneration structure, the
remuneration committee concluded that, in order to align better the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, and to ensure 
that these key individuals are appropriately incentivised to remain with the Group, a higher proportion of executive directors’ remuneration should
focus on longer-term objectives. As a result, in 2003 a shareholding guideline was introduced under which executive directors and certain senior
managers are required to build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years. The shareholdings will be built up of shares
received under the Company’s discretionary share option schemes and/or the Long Term Incentive Plan and, in the case of executive directors, 
the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements
The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group. There is a strong
bonus element to executive directors’ remuneration with a bonus of up to 50% of basic pay being available through the executive bonus plan 
if all targets are met. Payment of bonus is subject to the achievement of targets set by the remuneration committee which are directly related 
to the Group’s financial results. No bonuses are payable to executive directors in respect of 2003.
For the 2004 operation of the bonus plan, three targets have been set by the remuneration committee, namely growth in profit before tax 
and growth in revenues (each of which account for 50% of total bonus potential) with the proviso that no bonus will be payable unless earnings
per share exceed a defined target. If the Group’s targets are achieved, bonuses will be payable on a linear basis between the minimum and the
maximum of the agreed range. Annual bonuses can be doubled under the deferred bonus plan if payment is deferred for three years. Details of
the deferred bonus plan are set out on page 29.
The Group operates a number of share option plans and employees generally receive a number of share options according to their grade, past
performance and length of service. Typically, share options are allocated to employees on an annual basis. Discretionary options (under the
Approved, Unapproved and Incentive Stock Option Schemes) are always issued at market value, while options issued under the Save As You Earn
and Employee Stock Purchase Plans are issued at a 15% discount to market value. In line with practice among the Group’s peers in the technology
sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options except for those issued to executive
Remuneration report/UK GAAP
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 directors. Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group do not have performance conditions
attached to them. However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the Group will have
performance conditions attached to them. The executive directors do not currently receive options under the Approved Scheme and Incentive Stock
Option Scheme. Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary may be issued on the executive director
joining the Group. In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be issued each year. These discretionary
options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance conditions are satisfied. 
For options granted before January 2003, the performance condition is that the Group must achieve average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% 
(i.e. 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Prices Index) over a performance period of three years from the start of the
financial year in which the options were granted (the “performance period”). 
For options granted from January 2003 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the 
Group achieves average real EPS growth of 9.3% over the performance period. If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over 
the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years. Where the average real EPS growth over the performance
period is between 9.3% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis. 
For options granted from January 2004 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group
achieves average real EPS growth of 12.5% over the performance period. If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the
performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years. Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period
is between 12.5% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
Pensions
The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase
scheme. The rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executive’s basic salary (25% in the case of the Chairman) subject to the Inland Revenue
salary capping limits.
Service agreements
Executive directors have “rolling” service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one year’s notice. The service contracts also terminate
when executive directors reach age 65. With the exception of the Chairman, these agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services
to the Group on a full-time basis. The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of
employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Group’s customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Group’s
suppliers and employees. In addition, each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Group’s trade
secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of
their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows:
Director Date
Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996
Warren East 29 January 2001
Tim Score 1 March 2002
Tudor Brown 3 April 1996
Mike Muller 31 January 1996
Mike Inglis 17 July 2002
Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion shall be
entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors
During 2003, each non-executive director received a total fee of £24,000 per annum. This fee was arrived at by reference to fees paid by other
companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Group’s
activities during the year, which is around 10 to 15 working days a year. Peter Cawdron, an independent non-executive director who currently
holds more than five directorships, has devoted during his term of office, and continues to be able to devote, the agreed amount of time to the
Group’s activities. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board and their term of appointment is three years. Non-executive
directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify
for pension purposes or other benefits. No element of their fees is performance-related.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Performance graphs
A performance graph showing the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) together with the TSR for the FTSE Global Technology Index of 
50 companies from 31 December 1998 is shown below. The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. The TSR for the Company’s shares was 101% over this period compared with -29% for the FTSE Global Technology Index for 
the same period.
TSR on £100 of ARM shares vs FTSE Global Technology Index (£ sterling)
The directors consider the FTSE Global Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe,
which reflects the global environment in which the Group operates. In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Group’s
customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products. 
Directors’ shareholdings in the Company
The directors’ beneficial interests in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under its share option schemes, are 
set out below. 
31 December 31 December
2003 2002
Director Number Number
Sir Robin Saxby 22,363,060 25,632,860
Warren East 174,920 174,920
Tim Score 10,000 10,000
Tudor Brown 1,496,460 1,496,460
Mike Muller 1,891,860 1,891,860
Mike Inglis 10,000 10,000
Doug Dunn 48,000 48,000
Peter Cawdron 98,000 98,000
John Scarisbrick 10,800 10,800
Lawrence Tesler 111,000 111,000
In addition to the interests disclosed above, all the executive directors (together with all the employees of the Group) are potential beneficiaries 
of both the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Plan and the ARM Holdings plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust. They are,
therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by these trusts, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 721,080 ordinary shares respectively at
31 December 2003, and 5,000,000 and 1,796,754 shares respectively at 31 December 2002. Sir Robin Saxby sold 1,000,000 shares in the Company
on 3 February 2004 taking his interest to 21,363,060 at the date of this report. There have been no other changes in directors’ interests in the
Company’s shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Auditable information
The following information has been audited by the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies
Act 1985.
Remuneration report/UK GAAP/continued
26 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
0
200
400
600
ARM share price 
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
31 December 2003 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 31 December 2000 31 December 1999 31 December 1998         
FTSE Global Technology Index Interests in share options
Details of discretionary options beneficially held by directors are set out below:
As at As at
1 January 31 December Exercise Earliest
2003 Granted Exercised 2003 price date of Expiry
Director Number Number Number Number £exercise date
Sir Robin Saxby 600,000 – (600,000) – 0.02 15/07/99 14/07/03 **
140,000 – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06 **
25,000 – – 25,000 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07 †
765,000 – (600,000) 165,000
Warren East 131,520 – – 131,520 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06**
8,480 – – 8,480 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/09 *
3,187 – – 3,187 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10 *
20,962 – – 20,962 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07 †
62,909 – – 62,909 3.815 22/05/04 22/05/08 ***
100,000 – – 100,000 2.465 19/04/05 19/04/09 ***
– 914,285 – 914,285 0.4375 30/01/06 30/01/10 ***
327,058 914,285 – 1,241,343
Tim Score 206,896 – – 206,896 2.465 19/04/05 19/04/09 ***
– 777,142 – 777,142 0.4375 30/01/06 30/01/10 ***
206,896 777,142 – 984,038
Tudor Brown 140,000 – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06 **
3,736 – – 3,736 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10 *
21,264 – – 21,264 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07 †
2,091 – – 2,091 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/11 *
22,909 – – 22,909 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/08 †
50,000 – – 50,000 2.465 19/04/05 19/04/09 ***
– 731,428 – 731,428 0.4375 30/01/06 30/01/10 ***
240,000 731,428 – 971,428
Mike Muller 140,000 – – 140,000 1.224 11/03/02 10/03/06 **
3,736 – – 3,736 6.155 22/05/03 21/05/10 *
17,615 – – 17,615 6.155 22/05/01 21/05/07 †
2,091 – – 2,091 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/11 *
22,909 – – 22,909 3.35 14/05/04 13/05/08 †
50,000 – – 50,000 2.465 19/04/05 19/04/09 ***
– 731,428 – 731,428 0.4375 30/01/06 30/01/10 ***
236,351 731,428 – 967,779
Mike Inglis 223,515 – – 223,515 2.1475 27/05/03 26/05/09 †
– 731,428 – 731,428 0.4375 30/01/06 30/01/10 ***
223,515 731,428 – 954,943
* Denotes share options issued under the Group’s Approved Share Option Scheme.
** Denotes share options issued under the Group’s Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
*** Denotes share options issued under the Group’s Unapproved Share Option Scheme with performance conditions attached.
† Denotes share options issued under the Group’s Unapproved Share Option Scheme which are exercisable as follows:
25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
No options lapsed in the year.
On 22 April 2003 Sir Robin Saxby exercised an option over 600,000 shares and made a donation of such shares to the University of Liverpool. 
The gain calculated at the exercise date was £330,000 (2002: £nil). The share price on the date of exercise was £0.57.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 27 Share options with performance conditions attached normally vest after seven years. If, however, the Group achieves an average EPS growth of 
at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Price Index (RPI) over a period of three years from the start of the
financial year in which the options are granted, then the options will be exercisable after three years from grant. EPS is defined as the Group’s fully
diluted earnings per ordinary share. The method of calculating EPS will be adjusted if necessary so that the calculation of the EPS for each relevant
financial period of the Group is broadly comparable with that for any other financial period of the Group taken for the purposes of the performance
condition.
On 30 January 2004, discretionary share options were granted to the following executive directors: Warren East 400,000; Tim Score 320,000; Tudor
Brown 320,000; Mike Muller 288,000; and Mike Inglis 288,000. The exercise price is 125 pence and all are subject to performance conditions. 
These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied. Where the Group achieves
an average EPS growth of at least 12.5% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the RPI over a performance period of three years from the
start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years from grant. For an average EPS
growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the RPI over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option
will vest after three years from grant. Where the average EPS growth is between 12.5% and 33.1% greater than the percentage increase (if any)
in the RPI over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Details of options held by directors under the Group’s Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below:
As at As at 31
1 January December Exercise
2003 Granted Lapsed 2003 price Earliest date Expiry
Director Number Number Number Number £of exercise date
Sir Robin Saxby 3,157 – (3,157) – 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
–15,771 – 15,771 0.5865 01/08/06 31/12/06
3,157 15,771 (3,157) 15,771
Warren East 3,157 – (3,157) – 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
–15,771 – 15,771 0.5865 01/08/06 31/12/06
3,157 15,771 (3,157) 15,771
Tim Score – 27,152 – 27,152 0.5865 01/08/08 31/12/08
Tudor Brown 3,157 – – 3,157 3.0685 01/07/04 31/12/04
Mike Inglis 3,626 – (3,626) – 1.8254 01/07/07 31/12/07
–15,771 – 15,771 0.5865 01/08/06 31/12/06
3,626 15,771 (3,626) 15,771
Long Term Incentive Plan
A Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting. Conditional share awards were made on 
25 July 2003 to directors, as follows: 
As at As at
1 January Conditional 31 December
2003 award 2003 Vesting
Director Number Number Number date
Warren East – 248,447 248,447 January 2006
Tim Score – 211,180 211,180 January 2006
Tudor Brown – 198,758 198,758 January 2006
Mike Muller – 198,758 198,758 January 2006
Mike Inglis – 198,758 198,758 January 2006
Conditional awards will vest to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a three-year performance period from 1 January 2003 
to 31 December 2005. The performance conditions are based on the Company’s TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups (each
testing half of the shares comprised in the award). The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors (FTSE 250) and the second comprises
predominantly US companies within the Hi Tech sector (FTSE Global Technology Index). For each comparator group, the number of shares that may
vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the shares if the Company’s TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% will vest in the event of median
performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis. No shares will be received for
below-median performance. In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the
underlying financial performance of the Company. 
Remuneration report/UK GAAP/continued
28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors’ interests under the Group’s share option schemes since the end of the 2003
financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
The Company’s register of directors’ interests contains full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices
The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2003 was 128.5 pence. The closing mid-price ranged from 43.75 pence to 
136.0 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus plan
The deferred bonus plan was introduced in 2001 and enables directors to double their annual bonus if payment is deferred for three years, and 
to receive 6% interest per annum on the deferred element. Warren East elected to participate in the plan in 2001 and deferred £12,680, being
one-third of his bonus, for three years. Provided Warren East remains with the Group until 31 December 2004, the bonus payable on that date 
will be £25,360 representing an increase of 100% plus interest. There are no other outstanding arrangements under this plan.
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the executive directors of the Group in respect of services to the Group were paid through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 
ARM Limited, whilst the non-executive directors were paid through ARM Holdings plc, and were as follows:
Basic Bonus Pension Total Total 
Fees salary Benefits** payments Subtotal contributions 2003 2002
Director ££££££ £ £
Executive
Sir Robin Saxby – 200,000 11,710 – 211,710 24,638 236,348 235,747
Warren East – 200,000 11,710 – 211,710 9,855 221,565 201,281
Tim Score* – 170,000 10,728 – 180,728 9,855 190,583 159,559
Tudor Brown – 160,000 11,710 – 171,710 9,855 181,565 166,281
Mike Muller – 160,000 11,710 – 171,710 9,855 181,565 166,281
Mike Inglis* – 160,000 11,710 – 171,710 9,855 181,565 68,733
Jonathan Brooks*–––––– – 38,779
Pete Magowan* –––––– – 100,548
Total –1,050,000 69,278 –1,119,278 73,913 1,193,191 1,137,209
Non-executive
Peter Cawdron 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 24,000
Doug Dunn 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 24,000
John Scarisbrick 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 24,000
Lawrence Tesler 24,000 – – – 24,000 – 24,000 24,000
Total 96,000 – – – 96,000 – 96,000 96,000
Total 96,000 1,050,000 69,278 – 1,215,278 73,913 1,289,191 1,233,209
*For T Score and M Inglis, the comparative salaries shown are from their date of appointment in 2002. For J Brooks and P Magowan, the comparative figures show the salary up to the date of their 
resignations from the board in 2002.
** All the executive directors receive family BUPA and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind. In addition, T Score has the use of a company car and R Saxby, W East, T Brown, M Muller and 
M Inglis receive a car allowance.
Mike Inglis was appointed as a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc on 16 July 2003. The Group holds 12% of the issued share capital 
of Superscape Group plc and more details about this investment are included in note 13 on page 43. In this capacity, Mike Inglis received
remuneration totalling £7,000 up to 31 December 2003 and was awarded options over 20,000 shares in Superscape Group plc at an option price 
of 33 pence on 7 January 2004. The shares will vest in thirds over the next three years providing that performance targets are met. 
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group, contributions
for which were all paid during the year.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 29 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the directors are
required to:
● select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
● make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
● state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and
● prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue 
in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Group and Company and for ensuring that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website. Information published on the internet is accessible in many
countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
30 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 We have audited the financial statements on pages 32 to 55 which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting
policies set out on pages 36 to 38. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, contained
in the directors’ remuneration report (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law 
and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities. The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors’
remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This report, including the opinion, 
has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no
other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the
auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report 
to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Group has not kept proper accounting records, 
if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. The other information comprises only ARM at a glance, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s review, ARM: connected, directors and advisers, financial review, corporate governance, corporate social
responsibility, the directors’ report and the unaudited part of the remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code
issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the Group’s or Company’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
● the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company at 31 December 2003 and of the profit
and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
● the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
● those parts of the directors’ remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Cambridge
10 March 2004
Independent auditors’ report to the members of ARM Holdings plc/UK GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 31 32 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
2003 2002 2002
Notes £000 £000 £000
Turnover
– continuing operations 127,207 150,922
– acquisitions 2 863 –
2 128,070 150,922
Cost of sales 3 (11,022) (13,185)
Gross profit 3 117,048 137,737
Operating expenses
Research and development 3 (48,131) (48,674)
Exceptional research and development 6 (1,327)
(50,001)
Sales and marketing 3 (23,007) (24,516)
Exceptional sales and marketing 6 (320)
(24,836)
Administrative expenses 3 (27,471) (21,458)
Exceptional administrative expenses 6 (313)
(21,771)
Total operating expenses (98,609) (96,608)
Operating profit
– continuing operations 18,215 41,129
– acquisitions 224 –
Group operating profit 2 18,439 41,129
Interest receivable and similar income 4,801 4,373
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2, 6 23,240 45,502
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 7 (7,977) (13,031)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 15,263 32,471
Equity minority interest 23 (105) (232)
Profit for the financial year 8 15,158 32,239
Dividends proposed 9 (6,106) –
Retained profit for the financial year 20 9,052 32,239
Earnings per 0.05 pence ordinary share
Basic 10 1.5p 3.2p
Diluted 10 1.5p 3.2p
Consolidated profit and loss account/UK GAAP
For the year ended 31 December 2003
Statement of Group total recognised gains and losses/UK GAAP
2003 2002
Notes £000 £000
Profit for the financial year 15,158 32,239
Foreign exchange difference on consolidation 20, 21 (1,425) (807)
Total recognised gains for the year and since last annual report 13,733 31,432 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 33
2003 2002
Notes £000 £000*
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 11 7,547 9,153
Tangible assets 12 16,583 25,721
Investments 13 4,759 4,229
28,889 39,103
Current assets
Stocks 14 931 1,515
Debtors 15 29,829 33,558
Short-term investments 17 129,663 126,013
Cash at bank and in hand 17 30,123 4,291
190,546 165,377
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (38,937) (31,483)
Net current assets 151,609 133,894
Total assets less current liabilities 180,498 172,997
Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 (63) (16)
Net assets 2 180,435 172,981
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 19 512 511
Share premium account 20 81,137 80,883
Other reserves 20 (2,088) (663)
Profit and loss account 20 100,874 91,409
Equity shareholders’ funds 21 180,435 172,140
Minority interest – equity 23 – 841
Capital employed 180,435  172,981
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP trusts” (see note 20).
The financial statements on pages 32 to 55 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2004 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Robin Saxby Director
Consolidated balance sheet/UK GAAP
As at 31 December 2003 2003 2002*
Notes £000 £000
Fixed assets
Investments 13 – –
Current assets
Debtors 15 44,637 35,340
Short-term investments 50,223 48,381
Cash at bank and in hand 50 50
94,910 83,771
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (6,400) (219)
Net current assets 88,510 83,552
Total assets less current liabilities 88,510 83,552
Net assets 88,510 83,552
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 19 512 511
Share premium account 20 81,137 80,883
Profit and loss account 20 6,861 2,158
Equity shareholders’ funds 88,510 83,552
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP trusts” (see note 20).
The financial statements on pages 32 to 55 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2004 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Robin Saxby Director
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
As at 31 December 2003
34 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 2003 2002
Notes £000 £000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 24 43,740 52,087
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 4,930 4,187
Net cash inflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 4,930 4,187
Taxation
Withholding tax paid (2,940) (5,011)
UK corporation tax paid (6,161) (10,592)
Overseas tax paid (824) (1,155)
Tax paid (9,925) (16,758)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of fixed asset investments 13 (1,152) (1,500)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (3,311) (15,616)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 34 35
Purchase of intangible fixed assets 11 (655) (855)
Proceeds received by QUEST on allocation of own shares held 263 222
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (4,821) (17,714)
Acquisitions
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (3,413) –
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertaking 23 –
Net cash outflow for acquisitions 27 (3,390) –
Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 30,534 21,802
Management of liquid resources
(Increase) in short-term investments 26 (3,650) (31,637)
Financing
Issue of shares 19 255 4,763
Net cash inflow from financing 255 4,763
Increase/(decrease) in cash 26 27,139 (5,072)
Details of the Group’s net funds are shown in note 26.
Consolidated cash flow statement/UK GAAP
For the year ended 31 December 2003
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 35 1  Principal accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards in the UK. A summary 
of the more important accounting policies, which have been reviewed by the board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18,
“Accounting policies”, is set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new
accounting standards in the year.
Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Changes in accounting policies The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) 38, “Accounting for ESOP Trusts”, in these financial statements. 
The adoption of this standard represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly (see note 20 and 
the share schemes accounting policy below).
Basis of consolidation The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary
undertakings made up to 31 December 2003. Intra-Group transactions and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation. The results of subsidiaries acquired in
the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date they are acquired. On acquisition, all of the subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities
that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Goodwill and intangible assets Purchased goodwill, being the difference between the fair value of consideration and the fair value of net assets acquired,
is capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from it. Goodwill amortisation periods
are determined on a case-by-case basis (see note 11). Provision is made against the carrying value of goodwill where an impairment in value is deemed 
to have occurred. 
Licences and patents purchased for the use of technology are capitalised and amortised over the period in which the Group is expected to benefit from
them. These periods range from three to five years.
Trade investments Trade investments are initially recorded at cost. There is a regular review of the carrying value of investments, with reference to
relevant financial information and industry conditions; impairment charges are recorded if there is evidence of impairment in value to reduce the carrying
value of the investments to the market value of the shares held.
Short-term investments Bank deposits which are not repayable on demand are treated as short-term investments in accordance with FRS 1, “Cash flow
statements”. Movements in such investments are included under “management of liquid resources” in the Group’s cash flow statement.
Pension scheme arrangements The Group contributes to defined contribution plans, covering substantially all employees in Europe and the United States,
and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China and Israel. The Group contributes to these plans based upon
various fixed percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the expected
useful economic lives of the assets concerned. Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost and are depreciated from the date that they come into use. The
principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Leasehold improvements Five years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computers and software Three years
Fixtures and fittings Five to ten years
Motor vehicles Four years
Provision is made against the carrying value of tangible fixed assets where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In general, cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes transport and
handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective stocks.
Turnover The Group follows the principles of FRS 5 Application Note G in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies. In principle, therefore,
revenue is recognised to the extent that the Group has obtained the right to consideration through its performance. The adoption of FRS 5 Application Note G
has had no impact on amounts received as revenue in this or the previous year.
Turnover (excluding VAT) comprises the value of sales of licences, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees’ ARM-based products, revenues from
support, maintenance and training, and consulting contracts and the sale of boards and software toolkits. Revenue from standard licence products which 
are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when the product is delivered and accepted by the customer.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer. Revenue from the sale of such licences
is recognised on a percentage-to-completion basis over the period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance. Under the percentage-to-completion
method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined. 
The percentage to completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total
estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance. 
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP
36 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 1  Principal accounting policies continued
Where invoicing milestones on licence arrangements are such that the proportion of work performed (calculated on the cost basis described above) is
greater than the proportion of the total contract value which has been invoiced, the Group evaluates whether it has obtained, through its performance to
date, the right to the uninvoiced consideration and therefore whether revenue should be recognised. In particular it considers:
● whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some 
way dependent on customer activity;
● whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Group’s contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled;
● whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs budgeted to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a future
invoice may be raised; and
● the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers support the conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it has the right to consideration, taking into account these criteria, revenue is not
recognised until there is sufficient evidence that the Group has obtained the right to consideration for its performance under such arrangements.
Where agreements involve multiple elements, the entire fee from such arrangements has been allocated to each of the individual elements based on each
element’s fair value. Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value is determined by reference to licence agreements with other customers where
elements are sold separately. 
Agreements including rights to unspecified products are accounted for using subscription accounting, revenue from the arrangement being recognised over
the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
Certain products have been co-developed by the Group and a collaborative partner, with both parties retaining the right to sell licences to the product. 
In those cases where the Group makes sales of these products, the total value of the licence is recorded as turnover and the amount payable to the
collaborative partner is recorded as cost of sales. Where the collaborative partner makes sales of these products, the Group records as turnover the
commission it is due when informed by the collaborative partner that a sale has been made and cash has been collected.
In addition to the licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-contract support (support, maintenance and training) which consists
of an identified customer contact at the Group and telephonic or e-mail support. Fees for post-contract support which take place after customer acceptance
are specified in the contract. The fees are determined based on the Group’s price list as if sold separately. The price list is established and regularly reviewed
by management. Revenue for post-contract support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually
agreed by the Group with the licensee.
The excess of licence fees and post-contract support invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred income.
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence (such as off-the-shelf software) are recognised
upon delivery. At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-contract support
have been accrued. Services (such as training) that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced
in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is recognised as services are performed and collectability is probable.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Group’s customers of products containing ARM technology. Revenues are recognised when ARM receives
notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties, normally quarterly in arrears.
Revenue from consulting is recognised when the service has been provided and all obligations to the customer under the consulting agreement have been
fulfilled. For larger consulting projects containing several project milestones, revenue is recognised on a percentage-to-completion basis as milestones are
achieved. Consulting costs are recognised when incurred.
As disclosed above, in accordance with FRS 18, “Accounting policies”, the Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies. 
In particular, as discussed in detail above, estimates are made in relation to the use of the percentage-to-completion accounting method, which requires
that the extent of progress toward completion of contracts may be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-to-completion method 
is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, customer acceptance is not uncertain. In addition, when allocating revenue 
to various elements of multi-element arrangements, it is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately. 
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue
recognition policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts 
would be reported in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation Provision is made for deferred taxation, using full provision accounting when an event has taken place by the balance sheet date which
gives rise to an increased or reduced tax liability in the future, in accordance with FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Foreign currency The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the
end of the financial year. Profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Differences
on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies are taken to reserves and reported in the statement 
of Group total recognised gains and losses.
Other transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences have
been included in operating profit.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003  37 1  Principal accounting policies continued
Financial instruments The Group attempts to reduce its foreign currency exposure by entering into forward contracts to sell US dollars and buy 
sterling. The Group accounts for these instruments by revaluing the financial instruments and the associated trade debtors and cash at the year-end rate. 
The resulting gain or loss is credited or charged to the profit and loss account for the year.
Research and development All research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Share schemes The Group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) are separately administered
trusts which are funded by loans (the ESOP) and loans and gifts (the QUEST) from the Group, and the assets of which comprise shares in the Company. In
accordance with UITF 38, the Company recognises the assets and liabilities of the ESOP and the QUEST in its own accounts and shares held by the trusts are
recorded at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds until such time as the shares vest unconditionally to employees (see note 20).
In accordance with the requirements of UITF 17, “Employee share schemes”, a charge is made in the profit and loss account representing the fair value at
the date of grant of shares awarded under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan. As the award is conditional on certain performance conditions being met,
this is reflected in the number of shares on which the charge is calculated. The charge is credited back to reserves.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn scheme together with a similar scheme for US employees that allows the grant of share options at a discount 
to the market price at the date of grant. The Company has made use of the exemption under UITF 17 not to recognise any compensation charge in respect
of these options.
Employer’s National Insurance and similar taxes arise on the exercise of certain share options. In accordance with UITF 25 a provision is made, calculated
using the market price of the Company’s shares at the balance sheet date, pro-rated over the vesting period of the options.
Grants Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are credited to the profit and loss account to match the projects’ related expenditure.
Provision for doubtful debts Provision is made for doubtful debts following reviews of individual customer circumstances by management.
2  Segmental analysis
The directors are of the opinion that the Group has only one class of business. The Group’s operations by geographic area are as follows:
Turnover by destination
2003 2002
£000 £000
Europe 23,118 26,731
United States 65,402 67,086
Asia Pacific 39,550 57,105
128,070 150,922
Turnover by origin
2003 2002
Total Inter-segment External Total Inter-segment External
sales sales sales sales sales sales
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 127,297 (8,412) 118,885 148,578 (10,831) 137,747
United States 22,702 (17,809) 4,893 29,041 (21,753) 7,288
Asia Pacific 7,995 (3,703) 4,292 9,415 (3,528) 5,887
157,994 (29,924) 128,070 187,034 (36,112) 150,922
Profit before taxation, by origin
2003 2002
Operating Profit Operating Profit
profit Interest before tax profit Interest before tax
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 14,621 4,591 19,212 36,815 4,162 40,977
United States 1,373 9 1,382 1,558 15 1,573
Asia Pacific 2,445 201 2,646 2,756 196 2,952
18,439 4,801 23,240 41,129 4,373 45,502
The analysis of operating profit and profit before tax for 2002 is stated after charging exceptional costs of £1,509,000 (Europe), £412,000 (United States) and
£39,000 (Asia Pacific).
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
38 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 2  Segmental analysis continued
Net assets
2003 2002*
£000 £000
Europe 169,305 159,872
United States 7,267 6,787
Asia Pacific 3,863 6,322
180,435 172,981
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP trusts” (see note 20).
The above analyses of turnover, profit before tax and net assets in 2003 include contributions from the Group’s acquisition, ARM Belgium N.V. (formerly
Adelante Technologies N.V.), as follows: turnover by destination and origin – Europe: £863,000; profit before tax – Europe: £224,000; net assets – Europe:
£1,438,000.
3  Cost of sales, gross profit and operating expenses
In relation to the acquired entity, ARM Belgium N.V., the total figures for continuing operations in 2003 include the following amounts: cost of sales: 
£nil; gross profit: £863,000; research and development: £1,081,000; sales and marketing: £nil; administrative expenses: £40,000. These figures exclude 
a credit of £482,000 in relation to the release of the pension provision (see note 18).
4  Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Group are set out below: 
2003 2002
£ £
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 1,215,278 1,160,056
Aggregate gains made on exercise of share options 330,000 58,240
1,545,278 1,218,296
Aggregate Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 73,913 73,153
1,619,191 1,291,449
The emoluments of the highest-paid director of the Group are set out below: 
2003 2002
£ £
Emoluments in respect of qualifying services 211,710 211,559
Gains made on exercise of share options 330,000 –
541,710 211,559
Group pension contributions to money purchase schemes 24,638 24,188
566,348 235,747
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 29. Details of directors’ interests in share options are shown on pages 27 and 28.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 39 5  Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2003 2002
Number Number
By activity:
Research and development 430 437
Administration 96 100
Sales and marketing 204 212
730 749
2003 2002
£000 £000
Staff costs (for the above persons):
Wages and salaries 35,747 37,732
Social security costs 3,584 3,463
Other pension costs 1,848 1,894
41,179 43,089
In addition to the above, payments in 2002 totalling £1,886,000 were made to employees in respect of redundancy. Additionally, due to a change in
pension scheme within ARM Belgium N.V. effected post-acquisition, the pension provision in existence at acquisition has been released to the profit and 
loss account and the credit of £1,069,000 is not included in the above numbers.
Of the total pension costs above, £47,000 (2002: £nil) remained unpaid at the year end.
6  Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
2003 2002
£000 £000
Depreciation charge for the year:
Tangible owned fixed assets 12,908 12,463
Amortisation of goodwill 1,299 1,352
Amortisation of other intangible assets 3,342 2,777
Impairment of fixed asset investments 622 826
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (6) (14)
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services
– statutory audit (Company: £5,000 (2002: £5,000)) 166 157
– audit-related regulatory reporting 51 42
Further assurance services
– royalty audits 72 4
– other advisory work 13 7
Tax compliance and advisory work 87 37
Hire of plant and machinery – operating leases 4,433 1,736
Leased buildings – operating leases 3,736 3,463
Fees to other major firms of accountants for non-audit services amounted to £260,000 (2002: £114,000).
Exceptional items in 2002 relate to the cost of payments made for redundancy for 98 employees and for related outplacement services.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
40 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 7  Tax on profit on ordinary activities
2003 2002
£000 £000
Current
UK corporation tax at 30% (2002: 30%) 8,162 12,846
Overseas corporation tax 1,009 1,106
Under/(over) provision in respect of prior years: 
UK corporation tax 72 5
Overseas corporation tax (18) (68)
9,225 13,889
Deferred
UK deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences (1,622) (500)
Overseas deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences 374 (358)
Subtotal (1,248) (858)
7,977 13,031
The taxation charge for 2003 was reduced by £766,000 (2002: £754,000) in relation to tax losses generated by overseas subsidiaries.
Under legislation introduced with effect from 1 April 2002, the tax charge is affected by the availability of UK research and development tax credits. The tax
impact is a reduction in the tax charge for the year of £958,000 (2002: £781,000).
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below:
2003 2002
£000 £000
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 23,240 45,502
Taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 30% 6,972 13,651
Effects of:
Under/(over) provision in respect of prior years 54 (63)
Accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences 1,638 692
Permanent differences 1,202 267
Higher average tax rates in overseas countries (8) (8)
Losses utilised during the year (633) (650)
Current tax charge for the year 9,225 13,889
The analysis of the deferred tax asset movement for the Group is as follows:
Deferred Deferred
tax asset tax asset
2003 2002
£000 £000
At 1 January 1,697 839
Asset relating to losses acquired with subsidiary undertaking (see note 22) 640 –
Credited to the profit and loss account 1,248 858
At 31 December 3,585 1,697
The analysis of deferred tax assets for the Group is as follows:
Amount recognised Amount not recognised
2003 2002 2003 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000
Tax effect of timing differences because of: 
Excess of tax allowances over depreciation 2,844 1,193 – –
Losses carried forward 395 – 420 544
Other 346 504 83 15
3,585 1,697 503 559
No provision is made for taxation liabilities which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiaries because there is no intention in
the foreseeable future that such profits will be remitted. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised for the amounts unprovided because of the uncertainty of utilising these losses in the future.
The Company has no potential liability for deferred taxation.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 41 8  Profit for the financial year
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent company’s profit after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £10,546,000 (2002: £772,000).
9  Dividends proposed
2003 2002
£000 £000
Interim and final proposed of 0.6 pence (2002: nil) per ordinary share 6,106 –
The ESOP trust has waived its right to receive dividends of over 0.01 pence per share, and the QUEST has waived its right to receive any dividends. As such,
dividends will not be payable on the 5,721,080 shares currently held within these trusts.
10  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year, excluding those held in the ESOP and the QUEST which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary
shares. The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year, being those share options granted to employees and directors
where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the contingently issuable shares under
the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). For 2003, no shares that have been allocated for awards under the LTIP have been included in the diluted EPS
calculation as the performance criteria cannot be measured until the conclusion of the performance period.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
2003 2002
Number Per share Number Per share
Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
£000 Thousands Pence £000 Thousands Pence
Basic EPS
Profit available to ordinary shareholders 15,158 1,016,484 1.5p 32,239 1,012,295 3.2p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options – 16,797 –8,465
Diluted EPS
Adjusted earnings 15,158 1,033,281 1.5p 32,239 1,020,760 3.2p
11  Intangible fixed assets
Patents and
licences Goodwill Total
Group £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2003 12,245 5,744 17,989
Additions (see note 22) 655 2,380 3,035
At 31 December 2003 12,900 8,124 21,024
Aggregate amortisation
At 1 January 2003 4,102 4,734 8,836
Charge for the year 3,342 1,299 4,641
At 31 December 2003 7,444 6,033 13,477
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 5,456 2,091 7,547
At 31 December 2002 8,143 1,010 9,153
The Group has patents and licences which are being amortised over three to five years. Goodwill arising on previous years’ acquisitions is being written off
over three years in the case of Allant Software Corporation and Noral Micrologics Limited. Goodwill arising on the current year’s acquisitions of ARM Korea
Limited and ARM Belgium NV (formerly Adelante Technologies N.V.) is being written off over five years.
The Company does not own any intangible fixed assets.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
42 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 12 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures,
fittings
Freehold Leasehold Computers and motor
buildings improvements and software vehicles Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2003 190 18,763 41,906 3,101 63,960
Exchange differences – (179) (146) (67) (392)
Acquisitions (see note 22) – 33 756 175 964
Additions – 1,737 1,803 65 3,605
Disposals – (9) (45) (72) (126)
At 31 December 2003 190 20,345 44,274 3,202 68,011
Aggregate depreciation
At 1 January 2003 33 8,076 28,304 1,826 38,239
Exchange differences – (101) (121) (52) (274)
Acquisitions (see note 22) – 10 572 71 653
Charge for the year 9 4,539 7,950 410 12,908
Disposals – (9) (44) (45) (98)
At 31 December 2003 42 12,515 36,661 2,210 51,428
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 148 7,830 7,613 992 16,583
At 31 December 2002 157 10,687 13,602 1,275 25,721
The Company does not own any tangible fixed assets.
13  Fixed asset investments
Listed Other
investments investments Total
Group £000 £000 £000
Cost 
At 1 January 2003* 1,500 4,168 5,668
Additions 1,152 – 1,152
At 31 December 2003 2,652 4,168 6,820
Amounts written off
At 1 January 2003* –1,439 1,439
Amounts written off during the year – 622 622
At 31 December 2003 –2,061 2,061
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 2,652 2,107 4,759
At 31 December 2002* 1,500 2,729 4,229
* As a result of the Group’s adoption of UITF 38, amounts relating to the shares held in the Group’s ESOP and QUEST are no longer classified as investments and prior year amounts have been restated
accordingly (see note 20).
Listed investments During the year the Group participated in a further financing round in Superscape Group plc, a company listed on the London Stock
Exchange, maintaining a 12% stake in the company. The cost and market value of this investment as at 31 December 2003 were £2,652,000 and
£4,139,000 respectively (2002: £1,500,000 and £1,500,000 respectively). The investment was made in order to broaden the scope of the Group’s
collaboration with Superscape Group plc in the area of 3D technology for wireless devices.
Other investments Included in other investments are the Group’s less than 1% holding in the share capital of Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, 
a company which develops Bluetooth solutions, and an investment representing 3.2% in the share capital of CoWare, Inc., a company which develops
system-on-chip software for a wide range of applications. The Group also has a 0.24% investment in the share capital of Palmchip Corporation, a private
fabless chip company based in California, and a 1.7% investment in the share capital of Pixim, Inc., also a private fabless chip company based in California. 
Provisions have been made against other investments to reflect any impairment in value. All these investments are held by ARM Limited.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 43 13  Fixed asset investments continued
Company
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was £2 at 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002.
Interests in Group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Proportion of
nominal value
Country of Description of issued
Name of undertaking registration of shares held shares held
ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM QUEST Trustees Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors. ARM QUEST Trustees Limited is the trustee
company of the Company’s QUEST.
The Group holds the following investments in subsidiaries via its subsidiary company, ARM Limited.
Proportion of
nominal value
Country of of issued
Name of undertaking registration Principal activity shares held
ARM, Inc. US Marketing and development 100%
of RISC-based processors
ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based processors 100%
ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based processors 100%
ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing of RISC-based processors 99.9%
ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. PR China Marketing of RISC-based processors 100%
Micrologic Solutions Limited England and Wales Dormant 100%
Advanced RISC Machines Limited England and Wales Dormant 100%
Allant Software Corporation US Dormant 100%
ARM France SAS France Development of RISC-based processors 100%
ARM Belgium N.V. Belgium Development of Data Engine processors 100%
Nominees of the Company hold 100% of the ordinary share capital of ARM Employee Benefit Trustee Ltd, a company which acts as trustee to the Group’s
ESOP .
14  Stocks
2003 2002
Group £000 £000
Finished goods 931 1,515
The Company had no stocks at 31 December 2003 and 2002.
15  Debtors
Group Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade debtors 17,320 20,516 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 44,430 35,091
Other debtors 1,580 1,802 – –
Deferred tax (see note 7) 3,585 1,697 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 7,344 9,543 207 249
29,829 33,558 44,637 35,340
All amounts above fall due within one year except that included within prepayments and accrued income is £1,036,000 (2002: £1,606,000) falling due after
more than one year.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
44 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 16  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade creditors 2,691 4,730 – –
Corporation tax 3,140 3,828 240 190
Other taxation and social security 1,047 824 – –
Other creditors 390 1,027 – –
Accruals and deferred income 25,563 21,074 54 29
Dividends payable 6,106 – 6,106 –
38,937 31,483 6,400 219
17  Financial instruments
Use of financial instruments – general The Group has three primary objectives in its use of financial instruments, namely the management of foreign
exchange risk, the maximisation of returns on funds held on deposit and the use of strategic trade investments in companies in order to further establish
the ARM architecture. These are managed, respectively, through the use of hedging strategies (primarily forward contracts), money market instruments and
an ongoing process of assessing potential trade investments and current holdings. 
To meet these objectives the Group has used the policies described below which have been applied throughout the current year.
Management of foreign exchange risk The Group’s earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in
respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while the majority of its costs are
settled in sterling. The Group seeks to use forward contracts to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and value 
of anticipated US dollar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts) in comparison with its requirement 
to settle certain expenses in US dollars. The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using forward contracts for
the sale of US dollars as appropriate. Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts. 
As the timing of large cash receipts cannot be predicted with certainty, the Group enters into forward contracts which allow exercise between two dates,
typically between three and four months from the invoice date. In those cases where customers settle debts before the expiry of the foreign exchange
contract, the Group evaluates whether money market rates available for US dollar investments exceed those for sterling investments. It then seeks to
maximise its returns by remitting US dollars against forward contracts at the beginning or end of the exercise period, depending on the prevailing money
market rates for US dollars and sterling at the time. 
At 31 December 2003 the Group had outstanding forward contracts to sell $44,000,000 (2002: $54,000,000). The Group had $28,591,000 (2002:
$33,293,000) of trade debtors denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash balances of $26,340,000 (2002: $28,645,000). Thus 20% 
(2002: 13%) of the Group’s US dollar current assets were not hedged by matching forward contracts at the year end, a proportion considered appropriate 
in the light of the anticipated US dollar requirements to settle liabilities, particularly in respect of overseas operations.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro. The Group is also required to settle certain expenses 
in euros, primarily in its French and Belgian subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the Group does not take out euro
forward contracts.
The Group, where required, invests profits in the subsidiary in which they were earned. The Group does not hedge any foreign net asset investment using
foreign currency loans, as there is currently no requirement for external borrowings.
After the year end, the Group has decided to consider the use of other financial instruments such as currency options.
Maximisation of return on funds held on deposit The Group’s earnings may be affected by changes in interest rates available on bank deposits. It aims to
maximise returns from funds held on deposit and uses money market deposits with major financial institutions to do so. Recent maturities have been up to
six months in length, but this varies since close consideration is given to the UK and US money market yield curves before contracts are closed. 
Trade investments Investment activity is intended to create long-term strategic alliances with development companies, some of which may be unlisted 
at the time of the investment decision. As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for these securities or that the value of such
investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing ARM’s funds. The directors review holdings in such
companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group. Funds for such ventures are strictly limited 
in order that the financial effect of any potential decline in the value of investments would not be substantial in the context of the Group’s financial results.
During 2003, the Group made a further investment in Superscape Group plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group holds investments in four private companies: Pixim, Inc., CoWare, Inc., Palmchip Corporation and Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, 
which all develop products based on ARM technology.
External borrowings The Group had no long-term debt and no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2003 (2002: £nil) or during the
financial year.
Numerical disclosures Numerical disclosures are set out in the tables below. Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all the following
disclosures, other than currency risk disclosures.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 45 17  Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk of financial assets
Group 2003 2002
Cash at Cash at
bank and Short-term bank and Short-term
in hand investments Total in hand investments Total
Currency £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sterling 9,063 129,421 138,484 89 102,821 102,910
US dollars 15,663 – 15,663 2,452 17,113 19,565
European currencies (other than sterling) 1,915 – 1,915 610 2,473 3,083
Other currencies 3,482 242 3,724 1,140 3,606 4,746
At 31 December 30,123 129,663 159,786 4,291 126,013 130,304
Floating rate 30,123 – 30,123 4,291 – 4,291
Fixed rate – 129,663 129,663 – 126,013 126,013
At 31 December 30,123 129,663 159,786 4,291 126,013 130,304
The fixed rate cash and short-term investments in sterling and US dollars were placed with banks for between one week and six months and earn interest
of between 0.98% and 4.0% (2002: 1.2% and 4.625%). Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Financial liabilities Provisions for National Insurance and similar taxes of £63,000 (2002: £16,000) are financial liabilities in sterling on which no interest 
is paid. Maturity depends on when certain share options are exercised.
Fair values of financial instruments
Cash and short-term investments The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is estimated using the settlement rates. The fair value of forward
contracts is estimated at £2,015,000 at 31 December 2003 (2002: £1,061,000). The increase is due to changes in the sterling/US dollar exchange rate 
in 2003.
Investments in unlisted companies Those companies in which ARM has invested are early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value 
for shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits. The directors do not consider it possible to estimate
with precision the fair value of the Group’s investments in unlisted companies (carrying value at 31 December 2003: £2,107,000) as they are, by definition,
not traded on an organised market and are unique in their activities. However, based on recent fundraising transactions by these companies and, where
possible, following review of relevant financial information prepared by the companies, the directors are of the opinion that the fair value of these
investments approximates to carrying value.
Investments in listed companies The fair value of listed investments is determined with reference to prices quoted on the London Stock Exchange 
at 31 December 2003. On this basis, the fair value of the Group’s listed investment was £4,139,000 at 31 December 2003 (2002: £1,500,000).
Provisions The carrying amount of £63,000 approximates to fair value as this is the amount which would be payable if the liability had crystallized at the
balance sheet date.
Currency exposure The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their local
currency, net of forward contracts. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are taken to the profit and loss account of the
individual companies and the Group.
European Other
US dollars currencies currencies Total
2003 £000 £000 £000 £000
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling (5,489) 1,743 23 (3,723)
Other currencies 377 – – 377
Total (5,112) 1,743 23 (3,346)
2002
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling (729) 1,755 (145) 881
Other currencies 966 – – 966
Total 237 1,755 (145) 1,847
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
46 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 17  Financial instruments continued
Hedges The Group’s hedging policy is to hedge currency risk using forward foreign currency contracts for foreign currency debtors and cash. Details of
unrecognised and deferred gains and losses are shown below:
Unrecognised Deferred
Total net Total net
Gain Loss gain/loss Gain Loss gain/loss
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Gains and losses on hedges at 1 January 2003 – – – 1,061 – 1,061
Arising in previous years included in 2003 income – – – (1,061) – (1,061)
Gains and losses not included in 2003 income ––––––
Arising in 2003 – – – 2,015 – 2,015
Gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 ––– 2,015 – 2,015
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be included in 2004 income – – – 2,015 – 2,015
Gains deferred at 31 December 2003 will be matched by losses of the same amount on the underlying items being hedged.
Financial instruments held for trading purposes The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
18  Provisions for liabilities and charges
The movements in the Group’s provisions are as follows:
Share option Pension Share option
tax provision Total tax
2003 2003 2003 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 16 – 16 210
Acquired with subsidiary undertaking (see note 22) –1,069 1,069 –
Charged/(credited) to the profit and loss account 47 (1,069) (1,022) (194)
At 31 December 63 – 63 16
Share option tax The share option tax provision relates to employer’s National Insurance and similar taxes on certain share options provided in accordance
with UITF 25. The provision fluctuates with movements in share price and the exercise of the share options. 
Pension provision The pension provision, acquired with ARM Belgium N.V., has been fully released to the profit and loss account post-acquisition 
following the transfer by all relevant employees from the original defined benefit scheme to a new defined contribution scheme, resulting in the deficit
being extinguished. 
19  Called-up share capital
2003 2002
Company £000 £000
Authorised
1,580,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2002: 1,580,000,000) 790 790
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,023,345,650 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2002: 1,021,758,000) 512 511
1,587,650 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of £254,946. The issue of these shares occurred on the exercise
of share options at various times during the year.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 47 19  Called-up share capital continued
Share options The Company had the following ordinary share options outstanding at 31 December 2003:
Period of option
Ordinary shares Exercise price
of 0.05 pence each per share
Date of issue Number £ Earliest date Latest date
15 July 1996 320,000 0.02 15 July 1999 14 July 2006
5 March 1997 615,000 0.026 5 March 2000 4 March 2007
29 May 1997 20,000 0.0425 29 May 2000 28 May 2004
25 June 1997 20,000 0.0625 25 June 2000 24 June 2004
1 October 1997 120,000 0.0625 1 October 2000 30 September 2004
24 December 1997 230,000 0.0625 24 December 2000 23 December 2004
7 March 1998 400,000 0.1125 7 March 2001 6 March 2008
7 March 1998 5,001 0.1125 7 March 1999 6 March 2005 **
8 June 1998 35,000 0.3875 8 June 2001 7 June 2005
8 June 1998 1,504 0.3875 8 June 1999 7 June 2005 **
17 August 1998 50,000 0.5275 17 August 2001 16 August 2008
17 August 1998 10,061 0.5275 17 August 1999 16 August 2005 **
16 October 1998 51,000 0.405 16 October 2001 15 October 2008
11 March 1999 2,499,887 1.224 11 March 2002 10 March 2009
11 March 1999 4,471,980 1.224 11 March 2002 10 March 2006
11 March 1999 1,194,369 1.224 11 March 2000 10 March 2004 **
4 May 1999 120,840 1.338 4 May 2002 3 May 2009
4 May 1999 25,160 1.338 4 May 2002 3 May 2006
4 May 1999 26,252 1.338 4 May 2000 3 May 2004 **
10 June 1999* 85,340 1.099 1 July 2004 31 December 2004
10 August 1999 43,495 1.765 10 August 2002 9 August 2009
10 August 1999 3,005 1.765 10 August 2002 9 August 2006
10 August 1999 40,002 1.765 10 August 2000 9 August 2004 **
12 November 1999 80,570 4.26 16 November 2002 15 November 2009
12 November 1999 76,680 4.26 16 November 2002 15 November 2006
1 February 2000 89,000 7.738 1 February 2003 31 January 2010
1 February 2000 43,250 7.738 1 February 2003 31 January 2007
1 February 2000 52,500 7.738 1 February 2001 31 January 2005 **
18 April 2000 75,215 6.136 18 April 2003 17 April 2010
18 April 2000 36,035 6.136 18 April 2003 17 April 2007
18 April 2000 7,500 6.136 18 April 2001 17 April 2005 **
25 April 2000 50,000 6.27 25 April 2001 24 April 2005 **
19 May 2000* 597 5.65 1 July 2005 31 December 2005
22 May 2000 272,599 6.155 22 May 2003 21 May 2010
22 May 2000 2,217,329 6.155 22 May 2001 21 May 2007 **
22 May 2000 625,000 6.155 22 May 2001 21 May 2005 **
7 August 2000 162,500 6.70 7 August 2001 6 August 2007 **
7 August 2000 24,250 6.70 7 August 2001 6 August 2005 **
13 October 2000 181,250 6.33 13 October 2001 12 October 2007 **
13 October 2000 114,500 6.33 13 October 2001 12 October 2005 **
13 October 2000 71,250 6.33 13 October 2004 12 October 2007
15 February 2001 396,500 4.43 15 February 2002 14 February 2008 **
15 February 2001 83,000 4.43 15 February 2002 14 February 2006 **
15 February 2001 30,000 4.43 15 February 2005 14 February 2008
14 May 2001 578,959 3.35 14 May 2004 13 May 2011
14 May 2001 3,472,074 3.35 14 May 2002 13 May 2008 **
14 May 2001 1,193,400 3.35 14 May 2002 13 May 2006 **
14 May 2001 149,500 3.35 14 May 2005 13 May 2008
19 May 2001* 82,822 3.069 1 July 2004 31 December 2004
19 May 2001* 16,495 3.069 1 July 2006 31 December 2006
22 May 2001 62,909 3.815 22 May 2004 22 May 2008 †
1 August 2001 58,813 2.84 1 August 2004 31 July 2011
1 August 2001 20,822 2.84 1 August 2002 31 July 2008 **
1 August 2001 28,000 2.84 1 August 2002 31 July 2006 **
6 November 2001 139,000 3.75 6 November 2004 5 November 2011
6 November 2001 42,500 3.75 6 November 2002 5 November 2008 **
6 November 2001 44,750 3.75 6 November 2002 5 November 2006 **
6 November 2001 8,500 3.75 6 November 2005 5 November 2008
5 March 2002 161,250 3.145 5 March 2003 4 March 2009 **
5 March 2002 62,500 3.145 5 March 2003 4 March 2007 **
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
48 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 19  Called-up share capital continued
Period of option
Ordinary shares Exercise price
of 0.05 pence each per share
Date of issue Number £ Earliest date Latest date
5 March 2002 10,000 3.145 5 March 2006 4 March 2009
19 April 2002 1,061,888 2.465 19 April 2005 18 April 2012
19 April 2002 3,987,212 2.465 19 April 2003 18 April 2009 **
19 April 2002 406,896 2.465 19 April 2005 19 April 2009 †
19 April 2002 1,371,575 2.465 19 April 2003 18 April 2007 **
19 April 2002 162,375 2.465 19 April 2006 18 April 2009
27 May 2002 223,515 2.1475 27 May 2005 26 May 2009 **
20 June 2002* 85,646 1.82537 1 July 2005 31 December 2005
20 June 2002* 36,262 1.82537 1 July 2007 31 December 2007
20 June 2002* 15,244 1.82537 1 July 2004 30 September 2004
15 August 2002 305,750 1.505 15 August 2003 14 August 2009 **
15 August 2002 125,000 1.505 15 August 2003 14 August 2007 **
15 August 2002 5,000 1.505 15 August 2006 14 August 2009
16 October 2002 108,750 0.425 16 October 2003 15 October 2009 **
16 October 2002 68,750 0.425 16 October 2003 15 October 2007 **
16 October 2002 11,250 0.425 16 October 2006 15 October 2009
8 November 2002 35,000 0.5725 8 November 2003 7 November 2009 **
8 November 2002 3,500 0.5725 8 November 2003 7 November 2007 **
30 January 2003 3,705,912 0.4375 30 January 2006 29 January 2013
30 January 2003 15,759,867 0.4375 30 January 2004 29 January 2010 **
30 January 2003 3,885,711 0.4375 30 January 2006 30 January 2010 †
30 January 2003 5,944,771 0.4375 30 January 2004 29 January 2008 **
30 January 2003 757,300 0.4375 30 January 2007 29 January 2010
19 June 2003* 4,145,776 0.5865 1 July 2006 31 December 2006
19 June 2003* 634,270 0.5865 1 July 2008 31 December 2008
19 June 2003* 841,945 0.5865 1 July 2005 30 September 2005
25 July 2003 248,250 0.805 25 July 2004 24 July 2010 **
25 July 2003 31,000 0.805 25 July 2004 24 July 2008 **
5 November 2003 56,500 1.1475 5 November 2004 4 November 2010 **
5 November 2003 10,000 1.1475 5 November 2004 4 November 2008 **
5 November 2003 3,250 1.1475 5 November 2007 4 November 2010
5 November 2003 243,200 1.1475 1 January 2007 4 November 2010
Total 65,491,080
* These relate to options granted under the Company’s savings-related share option schemes.
** Options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
† These options will vest after seven years unless certain criteria are met, in which case they will vest between three and seven years.
Under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan, a further 2,572,646 shares could be awarded to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a
three-year period as detailed in the remuneration report. These shares will be awarded from shares already issued within the ESOP .
20  Share premium account and reserves
Share 
premium Other Profit and
account reserves loss account
Group £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2003, as previously reported 80,883 (663) 93,575
Prior year adjustment –– (2,166)
At 1 January 2003, as restated 80,883 (663) 91,409
Foreign exchange difference on consolidation – (1,425) –
Premium on exercise of share options 254 – –
Shares allocated to satisfy exercises under SAYE schemes – – 263
Credit in respect of employee share awards – – 150 
Retained profit for the financial year –– 9,052
At 31 December 2003 81,137 (2,088) 100,874
Other reserves represent exchange differences arising on consolidation of foreign subsidiary undertakings.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 49 20  Share premium account and reserves continued
Prior year adjustment The Group has adopted UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP Trusts”, during the year by means of a prior year adjustment. There is no
effect on the current or prior year’s profit for either the Group or Company. As a result of the change in accounting policy, the cost of own shares held is
presented as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds. Previously, own shares held were included within investments and were stated at the lower 
of cost and amounts receivable from the exercise of options, where applicable, and market value. The effect for 2002 is to decrease shareholders’ funds 
and investments at 31 December 2002 by £2,166,000 (£1,438,000 in respect of the ESOP and £728,000 in respect of the QUEST) in both the Group and
Company balance sheets. The effect for 2003 is to decrease shareholders’ funds and investments at 31 December 2003 by £1,903,000 in both the Group
and Company balance sheets.
Own shares held Offset in the profit and loss reserve is an amount of £7,569,000 representing the cost of own shares held. This balance consists of own
shares held by the Group’s ESOP and QUEST.
Own shares held include £1,438,000 (2002: £1,438,000), being the cost of 5,000,000 (2002: 5,000,000) shares in the Company held by the Group’s 
ESOP . The trust was set up in 1998 and purchased shares at the time of the Company’s flotation using funds provided by the Company. Conditional awards
under the Group’s LTIP have been granted over these shares at 31 December 2003 but no awards have been made since the trust was created. As at 
31 December 2003 and 2002, the trust held 5,000,000 shares (nominal value £2,500) with a market value of £6,425,000 at 31 December 2003 (2002:
£2,400,000). All costs relating to the scheme are dealt with in the profit and loss account as they accrue and the trust has waived the right to receive
dividends of over and above 0.01 pence per share on all shares held. 
Own shares held also include £6,131,000 (2002: £16,596,000), being the cost of 721,080 shares, nominal value £361 (2002: 1,796,754 shares, nominal value
£898) held by the Group’s QUEST, which was established by the Company during 1999 to acquire new shares in the Company for the benefit of employees
and directors of the Group. Of the £16,596,000 cost of shares held by the QUEST at 31 December 2002, £15,868,000 had originally been contributed by the
Company by means of a gift and was written off against the profit and loss reserve in the years in which such contributions were made. The gifted amounts
therefore do not form part of the prior year adjustment of £728,000. During the year, 1,075,674 shares (2002: 220,846) were allocated to satisfy employees’
and directors’ exercises under the Company’s Save As You Earn scheme. The market value of the shares at 31 December 2003 was £926,588 (2002:
£862,442). The trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares held by the QUEST, and all costs relating to the scheme are dealt with in 
the profit and loss account as they accrue.
Share 
premium Profit and
account loss account
Company £000 £000
At 1 January 2003, as previously reported 80,883 4,324
Prior year adjustment –(2,166)
At 1 January 2003, as restated 80,883 2,158
Premium on issue of new shares 254 –
Shares allocated to satisfy exercises under SAYE schemes – 263
Retained profit for the financial year – 4,440
At 31 December 2003 81,137 6,861
21  Reconciliation of movements in Group shareholders’ funds
2003 2002
£000 £000
Profit attributable to shareholders 15,158 32,239
Equity dividends proposed (6,106) –
9,052 32,239
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (1,425) (807)
Credit in respect of employee share awards 150 –
New share capital issued 1 4
Shares allocated to satisfy exercises under SAYE schemes 263 222
Share premium on issue of new shares 254 4,759
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 8,295 36,417
Opening shareholders’ funds as previously reported 174,306 138,111
Prior year adjustment (see note 20) (2,166) (2,388)
Opening shareholders’ funds as restated 172,140 135,723
Closing shareholders’ funds 180,435 172,140
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
50 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 22 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking
In July 2003, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Adelante Technologies N.V., a Belgian company, for total consideration of £390,000. 
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group:
Accounting
policy Fair value
Book value Revaluation alignment to Group
£000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible 380 (69) – 311
Current assets
Debtors 647 – – 647
Deferred tax asset – 640 – 640
Cash 23 – – 23
Total assets 1,050 571 – 1,621
Creditors
Trade creditors (135) – – (135)
Accruals and deferred revenue (434) – 104 (330)
Provisions
Pensions (482) (587) – (1,069)
Total liabilities (1,051) (587) 104 (1,534)
Net (liabilities)/assets (1) (16) 104 87
Goodwill 303
Satisfied by
Cash consideration 312
Expenses 78
Total consideration 390
The book value of the assets and liabilities have been taken from the management accounts of the company at the date of acquisition at actual exchange
rates on that date. Revaluation adjustments were made to: 
● the value of tangible fixed assets to reflect the fair market value of the company’s assets;
● the pension provision to increase the liability to £1,069,000 as the scheme had a deficit at the time of acquisition. The scheme was valued on
acquisition by qualified actuaries using the projected unit method; and 
● to the deferred tax recognised to reflect the anticipated usage of the company’s brought forward tax losses.
A fair value adjustment was made to deferred revenue to align the company’s revenue recognition policy with that of the Group.
The company’s loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2002 was £1.1 million and for the period from 1 January 2003 until acquisition was 
£1.3 million.
In April 2003, the Group acquired the minority interest, comprising 15% of issued share capital, of ARM Korea Limited, already a subsidiary undertaking, 
for cash consideration of £3,023,000. No fair value adjustments were made and goodwill arising on this acquisition amounted to £2,077,000.
The acquisitions have been accounted for using acquisition accounting.
23  Minority interests
2003 2002
£000 £000
At 1 January 841 609
Profit and loss account 105 232
Acquisition of minority interest in subsidiary undertaking (946) –
Equity minority interests at 31 December – 841
During the year, the Group acquired the minority interest in ARM Korea Limited bringing its holding to 100%. Further details are shown in note 22.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 51 24  Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2003 2002
£000 £000
Operating profit 18,439 41,129
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets 12,908 12,463
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets (6) (14)
Amortisation of goodwill 1,299 1,352
Amortisation of other intangible assets 3,342 2,777
Amounts written off unlisted investments 622 826
Decrease/(increase) in stocks 584 (934)
Decrease in trade debtors 3,458 4,293
Decrease/(increase) in prepayments and accrued income 2,689 (4,960)
(Decrease)/increase in trade creditors (2,468) 2,369
Increase in other taxation and social security 223 40
Increase/(decrease) in accruals, deferred income and other creditors 2,453 (7,060)
Movement in provisions for liabilities and charges 47 (194)
LTIP compensation charge 150 –
Net cash inflow from operating activities 43,740 52,087
25  Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2003 2002
£000 £000
Increase/(decrease) in cash for the year 27,139 (5,072)
Cash outflow from purchase of short-term investments 3,650 31,637
Change in net funds from cash flows 30,789 26,565
Non-cash items:
Translation difference (1,307) (728)
Movement in net funds in the year 29,482 25,837
Net funds at start of the year 130,304 104,467
Net funds at end of the year 159,786 130,304
26  Analysis of net funds
Cash at bank Short-term
and in hand investments Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2003 4,291 126,013 130,304
Cash flow 27,139 3,650 30,789
Translation differences (1,307) – (1,307)
At 31 December 2003 30,123 129,663 159,786
27  Cash flow from acquisitions
2003 2002
£000 £000
Acquisitions
Purchase of shares (3,335) –
Acquisition expenses (78) –
Cash at bank and in hand acquired 23 –
Net cash outflow from acquisitions (3,390) –
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
52 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 28  Capital commitments
2003 2002
Group £000 £000
Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but has not been provided for in the financial statements 1,365 1,714
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2003 and 2002.
29  Financial commitments and contingencies
At 31 December 2003, the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2003 2002
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£000 £000 £000 £000
Expiring within one year 285 89 321 8
Expiring between two and five years inclusive 1,057 1,333 894 1,778
Expiring in over five years 2,114 – 2,110 –
3,456 1,422 3,325 1,786
At 31 December 2003 and 2002 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases.
In May 2002, Nazomi Communications Inc. filed suit against ARM alleging wilful infringement of Nazomi’s US patent No. 6,332,215 by ARM’s Jazelle
technology. ARM answered Nazomi’s complaint in July 2002, denying infringement of the ‘215 patent, asserting various affirmative defences and asserting
counterclaims. ARM moved for summary judgement and a ruling that the current version of its processor designs incorporating the Jazelle technology does
not infringe the ‘215 patent. The district court granted ARM’s motion, holding that the current version of its processor designs incorporating the Jazelle
technology does not infringe the ‘215 patent. Nazomi has appealed the district court’s ruling. The appeal court has not set a date to hear the appeal yet.
ARM is confident that the original ruling by the district court will be upheld on appeal.
30  Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disclosures”, where
transactions and balances between Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
During the year, the Group invested a further £1,152,000 in Superscape Group plc, a company in which Mike Inglis is a non-executive director. Additionally,
the Group purchased a licence for £500,000 from Superscape Group plc and made cross-licence payments of £453,000 to Superscape Group plc. £392,000
was owed to them at 31 December 2003.
There were no other related party transactions during 2003 or 2002 which require disclosure.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 53 31  Summary of significant differences between United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) followed by the Group 
and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP)
The financial information set out in this report has been prepared under UK GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP . The principal
differences between the Group’s accounting policies under UK GAAP and those that would have been followed had the financial information been prepared
under US GAAP are set out below.
Goodwill Under UK GAAP , goodwill is amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from it. This 
was also the Group’s accounting policy under US GAAP prior to 1 January 2002, on which date, following the provisions of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other
intangible assets”, the carrying value of goodwill was frozen and became subject to annual impairment reviews. No write-offs of goodwill arose as a result
of the Group’s impairment reviews.
Amortisation of intangibles Under UK GAAP , intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination are included within the goodwill balance unless
the asset can be identified and sold separately without disposing of the business as a whole. Under US GAAP , such intangible assets may meet the criteria
set out in SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other intangible assets“, for categorisation as intangible assets other than goodwill and are amortised over their useful
economic lives. Under US GAAP , payments made to purchase intangible assets that are still in development are charged directly to the profit and loss
account. Thus differences arise in the amounts of goodwill recognised and the associated amortisation charge.
Marketable securities Under US GAAP , investments in available-for-sale securities are marked to market where the market value is readily determinable
and gains and losses, net of deferred taxation, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Where an impairment is considered to be other than
temporary, the security is written down through the profit and loss account to a new cost basis represented by the fair value of the security on the date 
the impairment was determined. Under UK GAAP , the Group’s accounting policy is to carry such investments at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Under UK GAAP , the fair value of the shares awarded under the LTIP is charged to compensation cost over the period in
respect of which performance conditions apply. To the extent the award is adjusted by virtue of performance conditions being met or not, the compensation
cost is adjusted in line with this. Under US GAAP , the Group follows variable plan accounting for these grants, measuring compensation expense as the
difference between the exercise price and the fair market value of the shares at each period end over the vesting period of the options. Increases in fair
market value of the shares result in a charge and decreases in fair market value of the shares result in a credit, subject to the cumulative amount previously
expensed. 
Save As You Earn (SAYE) plans Under UK GAAP , the Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided by UITF 17, “Employee share schemes”, not to
recognise any compensation charge in respect of options granted under SAYE plans. Under US GAAP , the Group follows the requirements of EITF 00-23,
which does not permit such an exemption in respect of plans where the savings period is in excess of 27 months, as is the case with the Group’s Inland
Revenue approved UK SAYE plans. EITF 00-23 applies only to new offers made since 24 January 2002. The compensation charge made under US GAAP is
calculated as the difference between the market price of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price of the option and is recorded on a straight-
line basis over the savings period. In addition, certain options attract a charge under variable plan accounting under US GAAP .
Employer taxes on share options Under UK GAAP , employer’s taxes that are payable on the exercise of share options are provided for over the vesting
period of the options. Under US GAAP such taxes are accounted for when the options are exercised.
Tax on UK and US share options In the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for the amount treated as compensation under US tax rules for certain
employee share options, which have been exercised during the year. Similarly, in the UK, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for the profit made 
by employees on certain options that have been exercised during the year. In both cases, the amount is equivalent to the difference between the option
exercise price and the fair market value of the shares at the date of exercise. Under UK GAAP the tax benefit arising from this deduction is included in the
tax charge in the profit and loss account whilst under US GAAP , the tax benefit is recorded as an increase in shareholders’ funds.
Embedded derivatives Under US GAAP , where the Group enters into sales contracts denominated in a currency that is neither the functional currency of the
Group nor the functional currency of the customer and where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, such derivatives are carried at fair value. The
resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Embedded derivatives are not revalued to fair value under UK GAAP .
Cash Under UK GAAP , cash does not include short-term deposits and investments which cannot be withdrawn without notice and without incurring 
a penalty. Such items are shown as short-term investments. Under US GAAP , deposits with a maturity of less than three months at inception which are
convertible into known amounts of cash are included as cash and cash equivalents. Deposits with a maturity at inception of between three months and 
one year are shown as short-term investments.
Consolidated profit and loss account Under UK GAAP , gains and losses on disposal of fixed asset trade investments are shown after operating profit. Under
US GAAP , gains and losses are reported in income from operations. Under UK GAAP , profit before tax is stated before minority interests. Under US GAAP ,
income before income tax is stated after minority interests.
Consolidated statement of cash flows The consolidated statement of cash flows prepared under UK GAAP presents substantially the same information 
as that required under US GAAP . 
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP/continued
54 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 31  Summary of significant differences between United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) followed by the Group 
and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) continued
Under UK GAAP cash flows are presented separately for operating activities, returns on investments and servicing of finance, taxation, capital expenditure
and financial investments, acquisitions and disposals, management of liquid resources and financing activities. US GAAP , however, requires only three
categories of cash flow activity to be reported: operating, investing and financing. Cash flows from taxation and returns on investments and servicing of
finance shown under UK GAAP are included as operating activities under US GAAP .
Dividends payable Under UK GAAP , dividends declared after the period end are recorded in the period to which they relate. Under US GAAP , they are
recorded in the period in which they are declared.
a) Reconciliation of UK GAAP profit to US GAAP net income
2003 2002
£000 £000
Profit for the financial year as reported under UK GAAP 15,158 32,239
Adjustments for:
Employer’s taxes on share options 47 (194)
Compensation charge in respect of SAYE schemes (310) (56)
Compensation charge in respect of LTIP (91) –
Write-back of goodwill 1,299 1,352
Amortisation of intangibles (42) –
Embedded derivatives (1,141) (950)
Tax on UK and US employee share options (966) (754)
Impairment of marketable security (938) –
Net income as reported under US GAAP 13,016 31,637
b) Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity from UK to US GAAP
2003 2002
£000 £000*
Shareholders’ funds as reported under UK GAAP 180,435 172,140
Adjustments for: 
Employer’s taxes on share options 63 16
Cumulative difference on amortisation of goodwill 2,713 1,414
Cumulative difference on amortisation of intangibles (192) (150)
Embedded derivatives (2,091) (950)
Unrealised gain on marketable security 1,041 –
Dividends payable 6,106 –
Shareholders’ equity as reported under US GAAP 188,075 172,470
* The prior year’s figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of UITF 38, “Accounting for ESOP trusts” (see note 20).
c) Reconciliation of UK GAAP cash to US GAAP cash and cash equivalents
2003 2002
£000 £000
Cash as reported under UK GAAP 30,123 4,291
Adjustment for short-term investments treated as cash equivalents under US GAAP 100,599 126,013
Cash and cash equivalents as reported under US GAAP 130,722 130,304
d) Reconciliation of UK GAAP short-term investments to US GAAP short-term investments
2003 2002
£000 £000
Short-term investments as reported under UK GAAP 129,663 126,013
Adjustment for short-term investments treated as cash equivalents under US GAAP (100,599) (126,013)
Short-term investments as reported under US GAAP 29,064 –
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 55 The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the financial statements of ARM
Holdings plc (“the Company”), expressed in sterling, set forth on pages 61 to 78 of this report.
Selected consolidated financial data – US GAAP
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenues 62,120 100,730 146,274 150,922 128,070
Cost of revenues (9,803) (11,647) (17,289) (13,185) (11,022)
Operating expenses (36,530) (57,846) (82,848) (96,456) (99,785)
Income from operations 15,787 31,237 46,137 41,281 17,263
Interest, net 2,266 3,912 4,470 4,373 4,801
Share of loss of equity affiliate – (85) – – –
Gain on partial disposal of shares in equity affiliate – 512 – – –
Minority interest (64) (192) (303) (232) (105)
Income before income tax 17,989 35,384 50,304 45,422 21,959
Provision for income taxes (1,757) (6,007) (16,302) (13,785) (8,943)
Net income 16,232 29,377 34,002 31,637 13,016
Diluted earnings per common share 1.6p 2.9p 3.3p 3.1p 1.3p
Research and development as a percentage of revenues 27.6% 26.2% 25.3% 31.3% 37.6%
Capital expenditure £5,900 £11,842 £17,349 £15,616 £3,605
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments £51,804 £75,266 £104,467 £130,304 £159,786
Shareholders’ equity £67,113 £100,972 £135,845 £172,470 £188,075
Total assets £83,288 £127,343 £175,814 £205,744 £222,997
Employees at year end (number) 443 619 722 721 740
Selected consolidated financial data/US GAAP
56 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. The matters addressed in this operating
and financial review and prospects, with the exception of the historical information presented, contain forward-looking statements involving risks and
uncertainties.
Overview ARM designs high-performance, low-cost, power-efficient reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors and related technology and
software, and licenses this IP to semiconductor companies which, in turn, manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated
circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) based on the ARM architecture to systems companies. ARM also licenses and sells
development systems directly to systems companies and provides consulting and support services to its licensees, systems companies and other system
designers. ARM has developed an innovative, intellectual property-centred and market-driven business model in which it neither manufactures nor sells the
products incorporating ARM technology, but concentrates on the research and development, design and support of the ARM architecture and supporting
development tools and software.
Market conditions The challenging economic environment in the semiconductor industry experienced in recent years persisted throughout 2003 and the
industry remained competitive. Despite this, the outlook from our partners has developed a more positive tone supported by increased product shipments
resulting in increased royalty income for the Company. Both our royalty revenues and units have increased significantly compared with 2002 and quarter on
quarter throughout 2003. Partners have remained cautious, though, in licensing new technology and this has had a direct impact on our licensing activity.
The decision in 2002 to adjust our cost base in line with our expectations of short- to medium-term revenue growth has ensured that the Company 
has remained profitable through 2003, with operating margins also increasing quarter on quarter (excluding one-off legal settlement costs). Despite 
this decision, we have continued to invest heavily in research and development which has resulted in a variety of new products being released during 
2003, including the ARM1156™ and ARM1176™ cores, as well as new features and enhanced functionality with the TrustZone security extension and
Thumb-2 core technology.
As well as remaining profitable, the Company has been robustly cash generative, with net cash inflows from operating activity of £38.7 million, giving rise
to a year-end cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance of £159.8 million.
The table below sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by certain items reflected in the Company’s consolidated
statements of income.
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
%% %
Revenues:
Product revenues 87.5 88.1 88.2
Service revenues 12.5 11.9 11.8
Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0
Cost of revenues:
Product costs 5.6 4.3 4.8
Service costs 6.2 4.4 3.8
Total cost of revenues 11.8 8.7 8.6
Gross profit 88.2 91.3 91.4
Operating expenses:
Research and development 25.3 31.3 37.6
Sales and marketing 14.7 16.4 17.9
General and administrative 15.4 14.9 22.4
Restructuring costs – 1.3 –
Amortization of goodwill 1.3 – –
Total operating expenses 56.7 63.9 77.9
Income from operations 31.5 27.4 13.5
Interest, net 3.1 2.9 3.7
Minority interest (0.2) (0.2) (0.1)
Income before income tax 34.4 30.1 17.1
Provision for income taxes 11.1 9.1 7.0
Net income 23.3 21.0 10.1
Total revenues Total revenues were £128.1 million in 2003, a decrease of 15% from £150.9 million in 2002, which was a 3% increase from £146.3 million
in 2001. The actual average dollar exchange rate in 2003 was $1.64 (compared with the effective average rate for ARM of $1.61) compared with £1.50 in
2002. This had the effect of reducing total reported revenues by approximately £9.6 million.
Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 57 Product revenues Product revenues consist of license fees, sales of development systems and royalties. Product revenues for 2001, 2002 and 2003 were
£128.0 million, £132.9 million and £113.0 million, representing 87%, 88% and 88% of total revenues respectively.
License revenues increased from £76.8 million in 2001 to £83.0 million in 2002 and decreased to £50.8 million in 2003 representing approximately 52%,
55% and 40% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. 
The continuing importance of the ARM7 family was evident in 2003, accounting for 18% of licensing revenues in 2003, compared with 15% in 2002 and
20% in 2001. This proportion reflected the increasing volume of per-use licenses signed within the Foundry Programme. Revenues from the ARM9 family
have declined, accounting for 44% of revenues in 2001, 43% in 2002 and 31% in 2003, partly due to more per-use licenses being taken than full
implementation licenses, and partly due to the growing range of other cores available to license from the Company. These include a broadening number 
of ARM9, ARM10 and ARM11 core family products (including the ARM926 in the Foundry Programme, the ARM 968, ARM1156 and ARM1176), the first 
core in the next-generation family of ARM products and architectural licenses which give licensees more rights to modify the technology, peripheral
technology, models, sub-systems and application software. 51 new licenses were signed in 2003, as well as 26 new licensees bringing the total number 
of semiconductor partners to 128 at the end of 2003. Of the 51 new licenses, 26 were per-use licenses within the Foundry Programme, introduced in 2000
to enable small fabless chip companies to gain access to the Company’s technology at a lower price point. Sales of licenses to the existing customer base of
semiconductor partners has become a more important part of the business, accounting for more than 90% of total license fees in 2003; this compares with
approximately 89% in 2002 and 80% in 2001. These existing partners take licenses to new core families not previously licensed or derivatives of cores
already licensed.
The sale of non-core licenses, covering items such as platforms, peripherals, embedded trace modules, models, and sub-systems, decreased in 2003 to 
£8.9 million from £12.6 million in 2002 and £11.9 million in 2001 representing approximately 18% of license revenues in 2003, 15% in 2002 and 15% 
in 2001.
Revenues from the sale of Development Systems decreased from £23.3 million in 2001 to £23.1 million in 2002 to £17.9 million in 2003 representing
approximately 16%, 15% and 14% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. The majority of ARM’s sales of Development Systems are in 
US dollars and the US dollar value of sales of Development Systems in 2003 was approximately 16% lower than in 2002. Sales of Development Systems
have continued to be affected by increased competition in the debug tools marketplace. To assist in the future development of our Development Systems
business, we have put in place a new management team and increased resource within this group to progress the products, upgrades and releases
available. The first indicators of these actions have shown through in the latter stages of the year and will continue further into 2004.
Royalties are either set as a percentage of the licensee’s net sales price per chip or, less frequently, as a fixed amount and are recognized when the
Company receives notification from the customer of product sales. In effect, this means that it is normally in the quarter following the shipments that data
is received and so royalty data for a year reflects actual shipments made from the beginning of October of the previous year to the end of September of the
current year. Royalties decreased from £27.9 million in 2001 to £26.8 million in 2002, and increased to £44.3 million in 2003, representing 19%, 18% and
34% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. Volume shipments increased from 420 million units in 2001 to 456 million units in 2002, mainly
due to increased production of a wide range of electronic devices, including wireless handsets, secure products and automotive products. Unit shipments in
2003 were 782 million, with the increase in volumes coming from all market segments. We have seen the Company becoming less reliant on the wireless
sector where, although actual unit shipments have significantly increased in 2003, their contribution has consistently fallen below 70% of total reported
units. The consumer entertainment and storage market segments have shown the largest relative growth in the year. The Company expects the trend of
increasing proportions of unit shipments into the non-wireless markets to continue into 2004. The Company expects royalty revenues to grow year on year
although they may be subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. 
Service revenues Service revenues consist of design consulting services and revenues from support, maintenance and training. Service revenues decreased
from £18.3 million in 2001 to £18.0 million in 2002 to £15.1 million in 2003, representing 13%, 12% and 12% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 
2003 respectively. Consulting revenues decreased from £7.4 million in 2001 to £4.4 million in 2002 and £2.4 million in 2003, as engineering resource 
was directed away from consulting projects to research and development activities. Revenues from support, maintenance and training increased from 
£10.9 million in 2001 to £13.6 million in 2002 and decreased to £12.7 million in 2003. 
Geographic analysis Operating in a global environment, the geographic destinations of the Company’s revenues fluctuate from period to period depending
upon the country of origin of its customers. The pattern of revenues in 2003 was 51% of revenues coming from the US, 19% from Japan, 12% from Asia
Pacific, excluding Japan, and 18% from Europe. In 2002, revenues from the US represented 44%, Japan 25%, Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, 13%, and Europe
18%. In 2001, 49% of revenues came from the US, 23% from Japan, 9% from Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, and 19% from Europe.
Product costs Product costs are limited to variable costs of production such as the costs of manufacture of Development Systems, amortization of our third-
party technology licenses and cross-license payments to collaborative partners. Product costs were £8.2 million in 2001, £6.5 million in 2002 and £6.2 million
in 2003 representing 6%, 4% and 5% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. Approximately two-thirds of total product cost of sales were
made up of Development Systems costs in 2003, with the balance comprising additional costs related to the costs of third-party licenses and cross-license
payments to collaborative partners. This compares to approximately four-fifths of total product cost of sales being made up of Development Systems costs in
2001 and two-thirds in 2002, with the balance being costs associated with third-party licenses. Product gross margin in 2003 was 95%, compared to 95% in
2002 and 94% in 2001. The Company does not currently expect a significant increase in product costs in 2004, although this would be subject to significant
fluctuations if management were obliged to port further operating systems to run on the ARM architecture.
Service costs Service costs include the costs of support and maintenance services to licensees of ARM technology as well as the costs directly attributable 
to consulting work performed for third parties. Cost of services decreased from approximately £9.1 million in 2001 to £6.7 million in 2002 to £4.9 million in
2003. The gross margins earned on service revenues were approximately 50% in 2001, 63% in 2002 and 68% in 2003. In 2003, the Company elected to
allocate more engineering resource to research and development activities, thus enabling the Company to develop more innovative products and
technologies during the year.
Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP/continued
58 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Research and development costs Research and development costs increased from £36.9 million in 2001 to £47.3 million in 2002 and £48.1 million in 2003,
representing 25%, 31% and 38% of total revenues in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. Continued investment in research and development remains an
essential part of the Company’s strategy since the development of new products to license is key to its ongoing success. Key areas of product development
for 2004 include the development of further power-saving technologies (OptimoDE and central processing unit (CPU) cores based on symmetric
multiprocessor technology), improved security through the TrustZone and SecurJC technologies and developments in superscalar CPU architectures.
Total engineering headcount decreased from 429 at the end of 2001 to 420 at the end of 2002, and was 442 at the end of 2003. The increase in 2003 was
predominantly due to the acquisition of ARM Belgium N.V.
Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenditure increased from £21.5 million in 2001 to £24.7 million in 2002 and was £23.0 million in 2003,
representing 15% of total revenues in 2001, 16% in 2002, and 18% in 2003. Headcount in this area increased from 198 at 31 December 2001 to 208 at 
31 December 2002, and decreased to 203 at 31 December 2003. The total number of offices with sales people is currently 14 and this enables improved
contact with the Company’s geographically diverse customer base. In 2001, a further sales office was opened in the US and in 2002 a sales office was
opened in Shanghai, PR China. Additional sales offices are expected to be opened in India and PR China during 2004.
General and administrative General and administrative headcount decreased from 95 at 31 December 2001 to 93 at 31 December 2002, and was 
95 at 31 December 2003. General and administrative costs were £22.5 million in both 2001 and 2002 and increased to £28.7 million in 2003, representing
15%, 15% and 22% of total revenues respectively. Costs in 2003 include £1.6 million of impairments made to investments (2002: £0.8 million; 2001: 
£0.6 million). Legal costs fluctuated from £5.5 million in 2001 to £2.5 million in 2002 and £9.1 million in 2003 largely as a result of annual variations in 
the amount of legal expenses relating to patent protection cases and other similar costs. The primary reason for the increase in legal costs from 2002 to
2003 was the provision for settlement of the Herodion arbitration. Expense in relation to provisions for doubtful debts was £1.4 million in 2002, compared
with £0.7 million in 2001 and a net release of £1.1 million in 2003. Unrealized future foreign exchange losses on certain committed but not yet invoiced
future revenue streams of £1.1 million (2002: £1.0 million; 2001: £nil) were recorded in accordance with SFAS 133. There was a loss on foreign exchange 
of £0.2 million in 2001, an exchange gain of £0.5 million in 2002 and an exchange gain of £0.9 million in 2003. See “Foreign Currency Fluctuations” below.
Restructuring costs During 2002, the Company incurred restructuring costs of £2.0 million comprising mainly severance payments, substantially all of which
were paid during the fourth quarter of 2002 following a reduction in total headcount of 98 people representing 12% of the Company’s workforce. 
Amortization of goodwill and intangible assets The Company purchased the assets of Infinite Designs Limited in March 2000, EuroMIPS Systems SAS in
June 2000 and Allant Software Corporation in September 2000. In 2001, the Company purchased the assets of Noral Micrologics Limited, a ten-person
company with expertise in debugging software, for a consideration of £1.4 million. Amortization of goodwill of £1.9 million was charged to the income
statement in 2001. There was no charge for goodwill in 2002 or 2003 following the Company’s adoption of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other intangible assets”.
During 2000 a license connected with the rights to use a certain debugging technology for use in the Company’s development systems products was
purchased for £2.8 million. This is being amortized over a period of three years with £0.7 million (2002: £0.9 million, 2001: £0.9 million) amortized during
2003. The Company also purchased a new license for £1.1 million in 2001 to enable the Company to produce and license Java technology-related products.
This is being amortized over a period of five years with £0.2 million amortized during 2001, £0.2 million amortized during 2002 and a further £0.2 million
amortized during 2003. A further license was purchased in 2002 for £0.2 million. This is being amortized over three years with £0.1 million amortized during
2003. An additional two licenses were purchased in 2003 totalling £0.7 million and these are being amortized over three years with £0.2 million being
amortized in the year.
Following the out-of-court settlement of the Company’s litigation against picoTurbo, Inc. in December 2001, picoTurbo assigned its intellectual property rights
to the Company for a payment of £7.5 million. This is being amortized over four years and £1.5 million was charged to the income statement in 2002 and 
£2.0 million in 2003.
The Company also purchased a patent for £0.7 million in 2002 which is being amortized over five years. The amortization charge for 2002 was £0.1 million
and for 2003 was £0.1 million.
The adoption of SFAS 142, “Goodwill and other intangible assets”, has not resulted in any impairment of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets.
Interest Interest receivable fell from £4.5 million in 2001 to £4.4 million in 2002 and increased to £4.8 million in 2003. The growth in interest earned
between 2002 and 2003 was due to higher average cash balances, and interest earned fell slightly between 2001 and 2002 reflecting the drop in market
interest rates during 2001 and 2002. The Company invested cash balances over periods of up to six months during 2003.
Income before income tax Income before income tax was £50.3 million in 2001, £45.4 million in 2002 and £22.0 million in 2003, representing 34%, 30%
and 17% of total revenues respectively. The drop in margins in 2002 was a result of lower than anticipated revenues in the second half of the year, whilst
the drop in margin in 2003 was due to lower revenues and higher legal costs (including one-off settlement costs) not being entirely offset by reduced other
operating expenses.
Tax charge The Company’s effective tax rates were 32.4% in 2001, 30.3% in 2002 and 40.7% in 2003. The effective tax rate fell in 2002 as a result of 
the Company’s ability to claim research and development tax credits for most of the year, but increased in 2003 due to the impact of certain cash and 
non-cash accounting charges not being deductible for tax purposes.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 59 Liquidity and capital resources The Company’s operating activities provided net cash of £52.0 million, £39.5 million and £38.7 million in 2001, 2002 and
2003 respectively. In 2001 the significant items impacting on cash generated from operations were the increase in accounts receivable of £6.6 million and
the increase in deferred revenue of £6.7 million. In 2002, accounts receivable decreased £2.9 million while deferred revenues fell by £5.0 million and in
2003 accounts receivable decreased by a further £4.5 million and deferred revenues fell by £3.4 million. Accounts payable in 2003 fell by £2.5 million
compared with increases in 2002 and 2001 of £2.4 million and £0.3 million respectively. In 2003 prepaid expenses decreased by £2.8 million, compared 
with an increase of £5.3 million and £1.4 million in 2002 and 2001 respectively. The Company entered into several leases for design automation tools
during 2002, which resulted in the large increase in prepaid expenses, but fell in 2003 as a result of the lease payments being for shorter prepaid periods
than in previous years. The Company believes that, given its current level of business, it has sufficient working capital for the foreseeable future.
At 31 December 2003, the Company recorded approximately £11.1 million in deferred revenues which represented cash or receivables scheduled to be
recognized as revenues in varying amounts after 31 December 2003. At 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001, the Company recorded approximately
£14.4 million and £19.4 million respectively in deferred revenues.
Cash flow from operations has been used to fund the working capital requirements of the Company as well as capital expenditure. Capital expenditure in
2003 was £3.6 million, compared with £15.6 million in 2002 and £17.3 million in 2001. Expenditure in 2001 was high due to the need to invest in new
design automation tools for a rapidly expanding workforce and the costs of establishing and improving the Company’s design centers in the UK, France and
the US. In 2002, capital expenditure decreased as a result of the Company leasing some of the design automation tools that would have previously been
purchased. Capital expenditure in 2003 was much lower as a result of the increased leasing of the design automation tools and the much lower level of
recruitment. In 2001, £4.0 million was spent on office improvements with £13.4 million spent on computer equipment and software. In 2002, £8.2 million
was spent on computer equipment and software and £7.4 million on leasehold improvements and fixtures and fittings. In 2003, £1.8 million was spent on
computer equipment and software and £1.8 million on leasehold improvements and fixtures and fittings.
In 2001, the Company purchased part of the business of Noral Micrologics Limited for £1.4 million in cash.
In 2003, the Company acquired the 15% minority interest in ARM Korea Limited for cash consideration of £3.0 million bringing its holding to 100%. The
Company also acquired the entire share capital of Adelante Technologies N.V. (now renamed ARM Belgium N.V.) for total consideration of £0.4 million.
The Company envisages making strategic investments in the future, in situations where the Company can broaden its product portfolio, where it can obtain
skilled engineering resources and where the potential for furthering ARM core-based design wins is improved significantly.
In 2001, the Company made the following investments in available-for-sale securities: £0.3 million in LinkUp Systems, Inc., and £1.0 million in Pixim, Inc.
In addition, in 2001 the Company sold its investment in Parthus for a profit of £0.1 million, and its investment in Sirius Communications N.V. for a profit of
£0.5 million. It recognized a loss on its investment in LinkUp Systems of £0.3 million at the end of 2001 when LinkUp’s entire business was purchased by 
a third party. In 2002, the Company made one investment in an available-for-sale security, namely Superscape Group plc, for a consideration of £1.5 million.
In 2003 the Company invested a further £1.2 million in Superscape Group plc as part of a further funding round, thus maintaining its 12% holding.
Cash and short-term investment balances at 31 December 2003 were £159.8 million compared to £130.3 million at 31 December 2002. At 31 December
2002, accounts receivable net of allowances for doubtful debts were £20.5 million and £17.3 million at 31 December 2003, which represented 14% and
14% of revenues respectively.
Foreign currency fluctuations The Company’s earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally the US dollar
rate, reflecting the fact that most of the Company’s revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars while a high proportion of its costs are in
sterling. 
The Company reduces this US dollar/sterling risk where possible by currency hedging. Due to the high value and timing of receipts on individual licenses
and the requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars, the Company reviews its foreign exchange exposure on a transaction-by-transaction basis. It
then hedges this exposure using forward contracts for the sale of US dollars, which are negotiated with major UK clearing banks. The average size of each
forward contract was $3.0 million in 2001, $7.2 million in 2002, and $4.6 million in 2003. The Company does not currently use any other financial
instruments or derivatives, although the Company is reviewing the use of other financial instruments such as currency options. The fair values of the
financial instruments outstanding at 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003 are disclosed in footnote 13 to the financial statements. The settlement period of
the forward contracts outstanding at 31 December 2003 is between 12 January 2004 and 26 March 2004.
Risk factors The Company operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change,
short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition. The Company believes that its future operating results
will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors. These include the timing of entering into agreements with new
licensees, the mixture of license fees, royalties and fees from services, the introduction of new technology by the Company, the timing of orders from, and
shipments to, systems companies of ARM core-based microprocessors from the Company’s semiconductor partners and sudden technological change in the
microprocessor industry. 
Other risks include the reliance on semiconductor partners, dependence upon systems companies, patent protection, attraction and retention of employees,
management of growth, competition and vulnerability to general economic conditions. Risk factors are more fully discussed in the Company’s annual report
on Form 20-F for 2003.
Operating and financial review and prospects/US GAAP/continued
60 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 2001 2002 2003 2003*
£000 £000 £000 $000
Revenues:
Product revenues 127,976 132,911 112,958 202,195
Service revenues 18,298 18,011 15,112 27,050
Total revenues 146,274 150,922 128,070 229,245
Cost of revenues:
Product costs (8,209) (6,464) (6,171) (11,046)
Service costs (9,080) (6,721) (4,851) (8,683)
Total cost of revenues (17,289) (13,185) (11,022) (19,729)
Gross profit 128,985 137,737 117,048 209,516
Operating expenses:
Research and development (36,941) (47,299) (48,131) (86,155)
Sales and marketing (21,457) (24,711) (22,960) (41,098)
General and administrative (22,521) (22,486) (28,694) (51,362)
Restructuring costs –(1,960) ––
Amortization of goodwill (1,929) – ––
Total operating expenses (82,848) (96,456) (99,785) (178,615)
Income from operations 46,137 41,281 17,263 30,901
Interest, net 4,470 4,373 4,801 8,594
Minority interest (303) (232) (105) (188)
Income before income tax 50,304 45,422 21,959 39,307
Provision for income taxes (16,302) (13,785) (8,943) (16,008)
Net income 34,002 31,637 13,016 23,299
Net income 34,002 31,637 13,016 23,299
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax 14 (807) (1,425) (2,551)
Unrealised holding (loss)/gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax (2,087) – 1,979 3,542
Total comprehensive income 31,929 30,830 13,570 24,290
Basic earnings per common share 3.4p 3.1p 1.3p
Diluted earnings per common share 3.3p 3.1p 1.3p
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the 31 December 2003 closing rate of £1 = $1.79 and are unaudited (see footnote 1).
All activities relate to continuing operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 61 2002 2003 2003*
£000 £000 $000
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 130,304 130,722 233,992
Short-term investments – 29,064 52,025
Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful debts of £1,115,000 (2002: £2,193,000) 20,516 17,320 31,003
Inventory: finished goods 1,515 931 1,666
Prepaid expenses and other assets 11,345 8,924 15,974
Total current assets 163,680 186,961 334,660
Deferred income taxes 1,697 3,139 5,619
Property and equipment, net 25,721 16,583 29,684
Intangible assets 10,417 10,068 18,022
Investments 4,229 6,246 11,180
Total assets 205,744 222,997 399,165
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 4,730 2,691 4,817
Income taxes payable 3,828 3,140 5,621
Personnel taxes 824 1,047 1,874
Accrued liabilities 8,636 16,912 30,272
Deferred revenue 14,415 11,132 19,926
Total liabilities 32,433 34,922 62,510
Minority interest 841 ––
33,274 34,922 62,510
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares: £0.0005 par value; 1,580,000,000 authorized 
(2002: 1,580,000,000); 1,023,345,650 issued (2002: 1,021,758,000) 511 512 916
Additional paid-in capital 69,566 63,321 113,345
Deferred compensation (313) (2,499) (4,473)
Treasury stock, at cost: 5,721,080 ordinary shares (2002: 6,796,754) (18,034) (7,569) (13,548)
Retained earnings 121,403 134,419 240,610
Other comprehensive income:
Unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax – 1,979 3,542
Cumulative translation adjustment (663) (2,088) (3,737)
Total shareholders’ equity 172,470 188,075 336,655
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 205,744 222,997 399,165
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the 31 December 2003 closing rate of £1 = $1.79 and are unaudited (see footnote 1).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated balance sheets/US GAAP
62 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 2001 2002 2003 2003*
£000 £000 £000 $000
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income 34,002 31,637 13,016 23,299
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets 12,347 15,240 16,292 29,163
Stock option compensation – 56 551 986
Deferred income taxes 359 (858) (1,248) (2,234)
Tax effect of disqualifying dispositions 428 754 966 1,729
Provision for doubtful accounts 673 1,393 (1,078) (1,930)
Accounts receivable converted to trade investments (1,361) – ––
Amount written off investments 613 826 1,560 2,792
Other (164) 218 99 177
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable (6,569) 2,900 4,536 8,120
Inventory (196) (934) 584 1,045
Prepaid expenses and other current assets (1,354) (5,339) 2,806 5,023
Accounts payable 312 2,369 (2,468) (4,418)
Income taxes payable 5,322 (2,676) (688) (1,231)
Deferred revenue 6,743 (5,005) (3,397) (6,080)
Accrued liabilities and other creditors 613 (1,105) 6,991 12,514
Personnel taxes 194 40 223 399
Net cash provided by operating activities 51,962 39,516 38,745 69,354
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of equipment (13,377) (8,670) (1,574) (2,818)
Purchase of leasehold improvements (3,972) (6,946) (1,737) (3,109)
Sale of equipment 71 35 34 61
Purchase of patent and licenses (8,568) (855) (655) (1,172)
Purchase of investments – (1,500) (1,152) (2,062)
Purchase of short-term investments – – (29,064) (52,025)
Sale of investments 1,936 – ––
Purchase of subsidiaries and businesses, net of cash acquired (1,351) – (3,390) (6,068)
Net cash used in investing activities (25,261) (17,936) (37,538) (67,193)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Cash received on issue of shares on exercise of share options 1,558 4,763 255 456
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 958 222 263 471
Net cash provided by financing activities 2,516 4,985 518 927
Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (16) (728) (1,307) (2,340)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29,201 25,837 418 748
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 75,266 104,467 130,304 233,244
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 104,467 130,304 130,722 233,992
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Cash paid for income taxes 9,643 16,758 9,925
Cash received on interest 4,604 4,187 4,930
* US dollar amounts have been translated from sterling at the 31 December 2003 closing rate of £1 = $1.79 and are unaudited (see footnote 1). 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated statements of cash flows/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 63 Additional Cumulative Unrealized
Ordinary shares
paid-in translation Treasury holding Deferred Retained
Amount capital adjustment stock gain compensation earnings* Total
Number £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balances,
1 January 2001 1,000,235,371 500 78,035 130 (35,544) 2,087 – 55,764 100,972
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 14,531,805 7 1,551 1,558
Net income 34,002 34,002
Realization of holding
loss on available-
for-sale securities (2,087) (2,087)
Tax effect of 
disqualifying dispositions 428 428
Currency translation
adjustment 14 14
Issuance of shares (14,652) 15,610 958
Balances,
31 December 2001 1,014,767,176 507 65,362 144 (19,934) – – 89,766 135,845
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 6,990,824 4 4,759 4,763
Net income 31,637 31,637
Tax effect of 
disqualifying dispositions 754 754
Deferred compensation 
arising on SAYE plan 369 (369) –
Amortization of 
deferred compensation 56 56
Currency translation
adjustment (807) (807)
Issuance of shares (1,678) 1,900 222
Balances,
31 December 2002 1,021,758,000 511 69,566 (663) (18,034) – (313) 121,403 172,470
Shares issued on 
exercise of options 1,587,650 1 254 255
Net income 13,016 13,016
Unrealized holding gains
on available-for-sale
securities 1,979 1,979
Tax effect of 
disqualifying dispositions 966 966
Deferred compensation 
arising on share schemes 2,737 (2,737) –
Amortization of 
deferred compensation 551 551
Currency translation
adjustment (1,425) (1,425)
Issuance of shares (10,202) 10,465 263
Balances,
31 December 2003 1,023,345,650 512 63,321 (2,088) (7,569) 1,979 (2,499) 134,419 188,075
* The amount of shareholders’ equity available for distribution to shareholders is the amount of profits determined under UK GAAP in the statutory accounts of the parent company. At 31 December 2003 such
distributable profits amounted to £6,861,000 after taking into account the proposed dividend of £6,106,000 for 2003.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity/US GAAP
64 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies
The business of the Company ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Company”) design reduced instruction set computing (RISC)
microprocessors and related technology and software, and sell Development Systems, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and power-efficiency
of high-volume embedded applications. The Company licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in
turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard processors (ASSPs) based
on the Company’s architecture to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. By creating a network of Partners, and working
with them to best utilize the Company’s technology, the Company is establishing its architecture as a RISC processor for use in many high-volume embedded
microprocessor applications, including digital cellular phones, modems and automotive functions and for potential use in many growing markets, including
smart cards and digital video. The Company also licenses and sells Development Systems direct to systems companies and provides consulting and support
services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers. The Company’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. The Company was formed on 16 October
1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer (UK) Limited, and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines
Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc. Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM, INC. (incorporated in the US), ARM KK (incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited
(incorporated in South Korea), ARM France SAS (incorporated in France), ARM Belgium N.V. (formerly Adelante Technologies N.V., incorporated in Belgium 
and acquired and renamed during 2003), Allant Software Corporation (incorporated in the US), Advanced RISC Machines Limited (incorporated in the UK),
Micrologic Solutions Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM Taiwan Limited (incorporated in Taiwan) and ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Limited (incorporated
in PR China).
Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP).
The Company maintains its accounting records and prepares its financial statements in UK sterling. Purely for the convenience of the reader, the 
31 December 2003 consolidated financial statements have been translated from sterling at the closing rate on 31 December 2003 of £1.00 = $1.79. Such
translations should not be construed as representations that the sterling amounts represent, or have been or could be so converted into US dollars at that
rate or at any other rate.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries. Intra-group
transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation. The results of subsidiaries acquired in the year are
included in the income statement from the date they are acquired. On acquisition, all of the subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities that exist at the date of
acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Investments Publicly traded investments are classed as available for sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.115,
“Accounting for certain investments in debt and securities”, and are carried at fair value. Unrealized holding gains or losses on such securities are included,
net of related taxes, in other comprehensive income. Other-than-temporary impairment losses and realized gains and losses of such securities are reported
in earnings. Equity securities that are not publicly traded are recorded at cost less permanent diminution in value; at 31 December 2003 and 2002, the
estimated fair value of these investments approximated their recorded basis, based on estimates determined by management. 
Two trade investments were made in 2001, one of which was a 1.7% investment in Pixim, Inc., and the other was a 1.3% investment in LinkUp Systems,
Inc. Both of these are fabless chip companies based in California. Equity shares in both companies were received in settlement of accounts receivable. 
The Company sold its 3% stake in Sirius Communications N.V. during 2001.
During 2002, the Company made a 12% investment in Superscape Group plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Company made an
additional investment in Superscape Group plc during 2003 maintaining its percentage shareholding.
Intangible assets Purchased patents and licenses to use technology are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a prudent estimate of the
time that the Company is expected to benefit from them. 
An independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, and such assets are capitalized and amortized over
a period of two to five years, being a prudent estimate of the time that the Company is expected to benefit from them, with the exception of in-process
research and development which is written off immediately. 
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including
any intangible assets identified and liabilities acquired. 
Prior to 2002, purchased goodwill was capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a prudent estimate of the time that the Company is expected
to benefit from it. Upon adoption of SFAS 142, on 1 January 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill. The value of goodwill carried forward at the
end of 2001 has been frozen at £2,274,000 and goodwill will be tested for impairment at least annually. An annual impairment review in 2003 determined,
by way of a comparison of the Company’s market capitalization to shareholders’ equity, that there was no indication of impairment with respect to goodwill.
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 65 1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Impairment charges The Company reviews long-lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of
the long-lived assets is less than the carrying amount of such assets, an impairment loss would be recognized, and the assets are written down to their
estimated fair value.
Revenue recognition Revenue consists of license fees received under the terms of license agreements with customers to enable them to use the
Company’s intellectual property (IP), which is customized to each customer’s manufacturing process. The Company receives royalties on sales by the
Company’s customers of products containing ARM technology. It also supplies off-the-shelf software tools, bought-in boards and toolkits, training and
consultancy services. 
The Company primarily earns revenues from licensing its IP to leading electronics companies which in turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors,
ASICs and ASSPs based on the Company’s architecture to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. The Company’s IP consists
of software and related documentation which enables a customer to design and manufacture microprocessors and related technology and software. Most
licenses are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer and are generally not time limited in their application. In general, the time
between the signing of a license and final customer acceptance is between six and 15 months. Upgrades or modifications to the licensed IP are not
provided. Following customer acceptance, the Company has no further obligations under the license agreement. Revenue from per-use licenses is
recognized when the product is accepted by the customer.
In accordance with SOP 81-1, “Accounting for performance of construction-type and certain production type contracts”, when license agreements include
deliverables that require “significant production, modification or customization”, contract accounting is applied. Revenues from license fees are recognized
based on the percentage-to-completion method over the period from signing of the license to customer acceptance and the completion of all outstanding
obligations. The amount of revenue recognized is based on the total license fees under the license agreement and the percentage-to-completion achieved.
The percentage-to-completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project, compared with the total
estimated project requirement. Revenues are recognized only when collectability is probable. Estimates of total project requirement are based on prior
experience of customization, delivery and acceptance of the same or similar technology and are reviewed and updated regularly by management. Under
the percentage-to-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognized in the period in which the likelihood of 
such losses is determined.
Agreements that include rights to unspecified products are accounted for using subscription accounting, revenue from the arrangement being recognized
over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the 
first product. 
In accordance with SOP 97-2, “Software revenue recognition”, where agreements involve multiple elements that do not require “significant production,
modification or customization”, the entire fee from such arrangements has been allocated to each of the individual elements based on each element’s
relative fair value. Revenue for each element is then recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for that element is met.
Certain products have been co-developed by the Company and a collaborative partner, with both parties retaining the right to sell licenses to the product. 
In those cases where the Company makes sales of these products, the total value of the license is recorded as revenue and the amount payable to the
collaborative partner is recorded as cost of sales. Where the collaborative partner makes sales of these products, the Company records as revenue the
commission it is due when informed by the collaborative partner that a sale has been made and cash has been collected.
In addition to the license fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-contract support (support and maintenance) (PCS) which consists 
of an identified customer contact at the Company, and telephone or e-mail support. Revenue related to PCS is recognized based on vendor-specific objective
evidence (VSOE), determined based on the price of PCS when sold separately. Revenue for PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period for
which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Company with the licensee.
Sales of boards and toolkits are recognized upon delivery. Where necessary, and in the circumstances permitted by SOP 97-2, the costs associated with
providing post contract support have been accrued.
Services, such as consulting and training, which are not essential to the functionality of the IP , are accounted for separately based on VSOE. Revenue is
recognized as services are performed and collectability is probable. The excess of fees invoiced over revenue recognized in respect of such fees is recorded
as a deferred revenue liability.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Company’s customers of products containing ARM technology. Revenues are recognized when ARM receives
notification from the customer of product sales, or receives payment of any fixed royalties, normally quarterly in arrears.
Revenue from consulting projects, which are typically of a short duration, is recognized when the service has been provided and all obligations to the
customer under the consulting agreement have been fulfilled. For longer-term and more complex consulting projects, typically containing several project
milestones, where significant modification to ARM core-based IP is required, revenue is recognized on a percentage-to-completion basis as milestones are
achieved. This method approximates to percentage to completion based on labor inputs.
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
66 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Research and development All ongoing research and development expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Costs include salaries,
relevant EDA tools costs and other directly related expenditure as well as a proportion of central facilities costs.
Grants Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are receivable from the European Commission, a European organization which funds
certain research and development activities on application to it for the purposes of furthering research and development activities within the European
Union. The Company retains significant rights to IP developed under projects which are funded under these arrangements. Grants received are intended to
cover 50% of expected project costs. Grant income is recognized over the period of the project in line with the costs incurred. Unconditional undertakings
have been received from the European Commission to provide the funding, and there is no obligation to refund any amounts already received. Amounts
receivable under these arrangements in the year ended 31 December 2003 were £226,000 (2002: £199,000; 2001: £268,000) and were netted against
related research and development costs.
Pension costs The Company contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension
schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China and Israel. The Company contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages 
of employee compensation and such contributions are expensed as incurred. The amount of contributions expensed by the Company for the years ended 
31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003 were £1,591,000, £1,894,000, and £1,848,000 respectively.
Cash equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturity dates of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Short-term investments The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months but less than one
year to be short-term investments.
Allowance for doubtful debts Allowance is made for doubtful debts following reviews of individual customer circumstances by management. 
Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. In general, cost is determined on a first-in-first-out basis and includes transport
and handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory.
Property and equipment The cost of property and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property and equipment, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Leasehold improvements Five years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computers and software Three years
Fixtures and fittings Five to ten years
Motor vehicles Four years
Provision is made against the carrying value of property and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Currency translation The functional currency for the Company’s operations is the local currency in which it operates.
The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Statements of income of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the period. Translation differences are taken to the cumulative
translation adjustment.
The Company utilizes forward exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the business. The Company’s forward exchange contracts do not subject the Company to risk from exchange
rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged. Because the
Company does not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the forward contracts and the related accounts receivable are recorded at fair value at each
period end. All recognized gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative costs in the
income statement. The Company does not enter into foreign exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Other transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences have
been included in general and administrative costs.
From time to time, the Company enters into sales contracts denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neither the functional currency of the
Company nor the functional currency of the customer. In accordance with SFAS 133, “Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities”, where
there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Company carries such derivatives at fair value. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in the income
statement under general and administrative costs. For the year ended 31 December 2003 the loss on exchange is £1,141,000 (2002: £950,000; 2001: £nil).
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 67 1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Income taxes Income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the asset will not be realized.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per common share is computed based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares. Diluted earnings per
common share is computed by including potential common shares where the effect of their inclusion would be dilutive. The diluted share base for the 
year ended 31 December 2003 excludes incremental shares of approximately 18,948,000 (2002: 19,608,000; 2001: 6,258,000) related to employee stock
options. These shares are excluded due to their antidilutive effect as a result of the exercise price of these shares being higher than the market price. 
The ordinary equivalent shares for share options were determined using the treasury stock method.
Accounting for stock-based compensation The Company has elected to use the intrinsic value-based method to account for all its employee stock-based
compensation plans, under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for stock issued to employees”, and related
interpretations. Stock-based employee compensation cost in respect of certain SAYE options (see below) of £310,000 and in respect of the LTIP of £241,000
is reflected in net income. No compensation cost is recorded in respect of the other stock option plans, as all options granted under those plans had an
exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. Apart from certain options issued to executive directors,
there are no performance conditions attached to the exercise of options. For executive directors, discretionary share options of up to two times base salary
may be issued each year that will vest after seven years. If, however, the Company achieves defined levels of EPS growth above the rate of inflation over 
a period of three years, then the options are exercisable after three years.
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123, “Accounting for stock-based compensation”, to stock-based employee compensation.
Year ended 31 December 
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Net income:
As reported 34,002 31,637 13,016
Deduct: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under fair value-based method 
for all awards, net of related tax effects (11,610) (11,165) (15,794)
Add back: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under the intrinsic value-based method – 56 551
Pro forma net income/(loss) 22,392 20,528 (2,227)
Basic earnings/(loss) per common share (pence):
As reported 3.4p 3.1p 1.3p
Pro forma 2.2p 2.0p (0.2p)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per common share (pence):
As reported 3.3p 3.1p 1.3p
Pro forma 2.2p 2.0p (0.2p)
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in 2003, 2002 and 2001: risk-free interest rate of between 3.2% and 4.9% (2002: 5.1%; 2001: 5.1%); expected life of between
one and five years; between 60% and 127% (2002: 80%; 2001: 79%) volatility; and no dividends. 
The Company operates Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) in the US. Options under these schemes
are granted at a 15% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue,
which stipulates that the savings period must be at least 36 months. During 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus, contained
within EITF 00-23, that savings plans which have a savings period in excess of 27 months should be treated as compensatory. In accordance with EITF 00-23,
which applies to new offers after 24 January 2002, the Company has recognized a compensation charge in respect of the UK SAYE plans offered since 
that date. The compensation charge is calculated as the difference between the market price of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price 
of the option and is recorded on a straight-line basis over the savings period. The compensation charge recorded in 2003 is £310,000 (2002: £56,000). 
The deferred compensation at 31 December 2003 was £1,081,000 (2002: £313,000). 
In addition, the EITF reached a consensus that an employer’s offer to enter into a new SAYE contract at a lower price than an existing contract causes
variable accounting for all existing awards subject to the offer. Variable accounting commences for all existing awards when the offer is made, and for those
awards that are retained by employees because the offer is declined, variable accounting continues until the awards are exercised, are forfeited, or expire
unexercised. New awards are accounted for as variable to the extent that previous higher priced options are canceled. The compensation charge recorded in
2003 as a result of these provisions is £109,000 (2002: £nil). The number of options to which variable accounting applies is approximately 950,000 (2002:
980,000).
The Company has an LTIP on which it is also required to recognize a compensation charge under the EITF, calculated as the difference between the exercise
price and the fair market value of the shares at the period end, over the vesting period of the options. During 2003, a charge of £241,000 was incurred and
deferred compensation at 31 December 2003 was £1,418,000
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
68 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 1  The Company and a summary of its significant accounting policies continued
Employee share ownership plans Treasury stock represents the cost of shares in the Company held by the Employee Benefit Trust (ESOP) and the QUEST. 
The ESOP was set up on 16 April 1998 to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of employees. Under the group’s Long Term Incentive Plan,
2,572,646 shares could be awarded from shares already issued within the ESOP . The market value of unearned shares at 31 December 2003 was £6,425,000. 
All costs relating to the schemes are recognized in the income statement as they accrue and the ESOP has waived the right to receive dividends of over and
above 0.01 pence per share on all shares held. For the purpose of earnings per share calculations, the shares are treated as canceled until such time as they
vest unconditionally.
Treasury stock held also includes £6,131,000 relating to 721,080 shares held by the Company’s QUEST, which was established by the Company during 1999.
The Company established the QUEST to acquire new shares in the Company for the benefit of employees and directors of the Company. No shares were
purchased in 2003, 2002 or 2001.
The shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares. They will be allocated to employees and directors to satisfy their options granted
under the Company’s SAYE schemes.
During 2003, 1,075,674 shares (2002: 220,846) were allocated from the QUEST following the exercise of share options granted under the Company’s SAYE
schemes. Under the terms of the trust deed, dividends have been waived on the shares held by the QUEST, and all costs relating to the scheme are dealt
with in the income statement as they accrue.
Employer’s taxes on share options Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of
certain share options issued to employees in certain tax jurisdictions. In accordance with EITF 00-16 no provision has been made for the employer’s taxes 
on these share options. These amounts will be recognized in the consolidated income statement when payable.
Recently issued accounting standards In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), “Consolidation of variable interest entities”. 
FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No 51, “Consolidated financial statements”, to certain entities in which the equity investors
do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after 31 January 2003 and 
as of 1 January 2004 to variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it acquired before 1 February 2003. FIN 46 applies to
public enterprises as of the beginning of the applicable interim or annual period. Management does not expect the adoption of FIN 46 to have a material
effect on its consolidated financial statements.
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150 (SFAS 150), “Accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity”. The
statement addresses the accounting for certain financial instruments that, under previous guidance, issuers could account for as equity and requires that
these instruments be classified as liabilities in statements of financial position. This statement is effective prospectively for financial instruments entered into
or modified after 31 May 2003 and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after 15 June 2003. This statement shall be
implemented by reporting the cumulative effect of a change in an accounting principle for financial instruments created before the issuance date of the
statement and still existing at the beginning of the interim period of adoption. The adoption of SFAS 150 has not, to date, had any significant impact on 
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
Companies Act 1985 These financial statements do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985 of 
Great Britain (the “Companies Act”). The Company’s statutory accounts, which are its primary financial statements, are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP) in compliance with the Companies Act and are presented in pounds sterling.
Statutory accounts (upon which the auditors gave unqualified reports under Section 235 of the Companies Act and which did not contain statements under
sub-sections 237(2) and (3) of the Companies Act) for the years ended 31 December 2001 and 2002 have been, and those for the year ended 31 December
2003 will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales. Dividends are required to be declared in sterling out of profits available for 
that purpose as determined in accordance with UK GAAP and the Companies Act.
2  Related party transactions
During the year, the Company invested a further £1,152,000 in Superscape Group plc, a company in which Mike Inglis is a non-executive director.
Additionally, the Company purchased a license for £500,000 from Superscape Group plc and made cross-license payments of £453,000 to Superscape 
Group plc. £392,000 was owed to them at 31 December 2003.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 69 3  Income taxes
Income before income tax is analyzed as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
United Kingdom 46,394 40,646 16,356
Foreign 3,910 4,776 5,603
50,304 45,422 21,959
The provision for income taxes consisted of:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Current:
United Kingdom 14,502 12,852 8,434
Foreign 1,441 1,791 1,447
Total current 15,943 14,643 9,881
Deferred:
United Kingdom 268 (500) (1,622)
Foreign 91 (358) 684
Total deferred 359 (858) (938)
Total provision for income taxes 16,302 13,785 8,943
Included in the payable for income taxes is a current tax benefit of £656,000 (2002: £814,000; 2001: £282,000) and a deferred tax charge of £310,000
(2002: credit of £60,000; 2001: charge of £146,000) in relation to employee stock options. Such benefits are reflected as additional paid-in capital.
Total income tax expense differs from the amounts computed by applying the UK statutory income tax rate of 30% for 2003, 2002 and 2001 to income
before income tax as a result of the following:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
UK statutory rate 30% (2002: 30%; 2001: 30%) 15,091 13,627 6,588
Permanent differences – other* 1,150 186 1,803
Differences in statutory rates of foreign countries 99 115 92
Other, net (38) (143) 460
16,302 13,785 8,943
* Permanent differences comprise permanent adjustments and the UK research and development tax credit.
Significant components of the deferred tax assets are as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Fixed asset temporary differences 584 1,193 2,844
Temporary difference on available-for-sale securities – – (446)
Non-deductible accruals and reserves 255 519 429
Losses carried forward 1,397 544 815
Total deferred tax assets 2,236 2,256 3,642
Valuation allowance (1,397) (559) (503)
Net deferred tax assets 839 1,697 3,139
UK income taxes have not been provided at 31 December 2003 on unremitted earnings of approximately £6,891,000 (2002: £10,142,000; 2001:
£7,401,000) of subsidiaries located outside the UK as such earnings are considered to be permanently invested. If these earnings were to be remitted
without offsetting tax credits in the UK, withholding taxes would be approximately £347,000 (2002: £518,000; 2001: £385,000). The valuation allowance
relates to net operating loss carryforwards of certain subsidiaries, where management believes it is more likely than not such amounts will not be realized.
None of the loss carryforwards expires before 2018. The future use of the net operating losses carried forward in ARM Inc. may be restricted in the event 
of a purchase by a third party, whereby the level of losses to be utilized on an annual basis would be limited to 4% of the market value of ARM Inc. at the
date of the transaction. There is no such restriction on the losses carried forward in ARM Belgium N.V.
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
70 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 4  Earnings per share
Year ended 31 December 2001
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 34,002,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 34,002,000 999,741,581 3.4p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 24,891,393
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 34,002,000 1,024,632,974 3.3p
Year ended 31 December 2002
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 31,637,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 31,637,000 1,012,295,401 3.1p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 8,465,051
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 31,637,000 1,020,760,452 3.1p
Year ended 31 December 2003
Income Shares Per share
£ Number Amount
Net income 13,016,000
Basic EPS:
Income available to common stockholders 13,016,000 1,016,484,029 1.3p
Effect of dilutive securities:
Stock options 16,823,410
Diluted EPS: 
Income available to common stockholders plus assumed conversion 13,016,000 1,033,307,439 1.3p
The following table summarizes the Company’s reported results along with the adjusted amounts, as if the Company had adopted SFAS 142 and
discontinued goodwill amortization as of 1 January 2001:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Reported net income 34,002 31,637 13,016
Add back goodwill amortized 1,929 – –
Adjusted net income 35,931 31,637 13,016
Basic earnings per share:
Reported net income 3.4p 3.1p 1.3p
Goodwill amortization 0.2p – –
Adjusted basic earnings per share 3.6p 3.1p 1.3p
Diluted earnings per share:
Reported net income 3.3p 3.1p 1.3p
Goodwill amortization 0.2p – –
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 3.5p 3.1p 1.3p
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 71 5  Business risks and credit concentration
The Company operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry which has been characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, short
product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Significant technological changes in the industry could affect
operating results.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk comprise principally cash and cash equivalents and accounts
receivable. The Company generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of the Company’s customers are large, well-established
companies. The Company has not experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or
geographic area.
The Company markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions. For further information see footnote 12.
At 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003, no customers accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. 
As of 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were deposited with major clearing banks
and building societies in the UK in the form of money market deposits for varying periods of up to six months.
6  Acquisitions
In July 2003, the Company purchased the entire share capital of Adelante Technologies N.V. (now ARM Belgium N.V.), a Belgian company, for total consideration
of £390,000, comprising £312,000 cash consideration and £78,000 of related acquisition expenses. ARM Belgium N.V. is a developer of data engine
processors for data intensive tasks, and will enable ARM to provide innovative IP solutions to meet the growing challenges of our partners.
The following table sets out the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition:
Fair value
to Company
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 23
Accounts receivable 647
Total current assets 670
Deferred income taxes 640
Property and equipment, net 311
Intangible assets 302
Goodwill 1
Total assets acquired 1,924
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable (135)
Accrued liabilities and deferred revenue (330)
Pension provision (1,069)
Total liabilities assumed (1,534)
Net assets acquired 390
Of the £302,000 of acquired intangible assets, £167,000 was assigned to developed technology that is being amortized over five years and £135,000 
to customer relationships that is being amortized over two years. The company’s loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2002 was £1.1 million 
and for the period from 1 January 2003 until acquisition was £1.3 million.
In April 2003, the Company acquired the 15% minority holding in ARM Korea Limited, already a subsidiary undertaking (net assets acquired of £946,000), 
for cash consideration of £3,023,000, bringing the Company’s holding to 100%. Goodwill resulting from this acquisition amounted to £2,077,000. There were
no separately identifiable intangible assets.
On 1 February 2001, the Company purchased part of the business and assets of Noral Micrologics Limited for cash consideration of £1,351,000. The purchase
consideration has all been treated as goodwill, as the book and fair value of the assets acquired were negligible. Further to this cash consideration, the
acquisition agreement provided for cash bonuses and payments for post-acquisition pre-defined services provided by employees. These are being treated 
as payroll costs of the periods to which the services relate.
The combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
72 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 7  Investments
In 2002, the Company invested £1,500,000 in Superscape Group plc, an available-for-sale investment. A further £1,152,000 was invested in Superscape
Group plc during 2003 as part of a further funding round. 
In 2001, the Company disposed of two available-for-sale investments realizing a gain of £655,000.
Impairments during 2003 against unlisted investments held at the year end amounted to £622,000 (2002: £826,000; 2001: £613,000) and against listed
investments held at the year end amounted to £938,000.
8  Property and equipment
31 December
2002 2003
£000 £000
Owned buildings 190 190
Leasehold improvements 18,763 20,345
Computers 10,811 11,168
Software 31,095 33,106
Fixtures, fittings and motor vehicles 3,101 3,202
63,960 68,011
Less: accumulated depreciation (38,239) (51,428)
Property and equipment, net 25,721 16,583
Depreciation charged to income for the years ended 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003 was £9,327,000, £12,463,000 and £12,908,000 respectively.
9  Intangible assets
Developed Customer
Goodwill Patents Licenses technology relationships Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2003 5,594 8,196 4,049 – – 17,839
Additions 2,078 – 655 167 135 3,035
At 31 December 2003 7,672 8,196 4,704 167 135 20,874
Aggregate amortization
At 1 January 2003 3,320 1,595 2,507 – – 7,422
Charge for the year – 2,145 1,197 14 28 3,384
At 31 December 2003 3,320 3,740 3,704 14 28 10,806
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 4,352 4,456 1,000 153 107 10,068
At 31 December 2002 2,274 6,601 1,542 – – 10,417
Until the adoption of SFAS 142 on 1 January 2002 (see footnote 1), goodwill was being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods of up to three years,
determined in each case by reference to employee turnover rates in the industry and the individual technology acquired with the acquisitions. In accordance
with SFAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized, and is tested for impairment at least annually.
Licenses to use technology are being amortized over periods of three to five years. The amortization periods for licenses have been determined according 
to their estimated useful economic life.
Patents are being amortized over four to five years, developed technology (the main IP of the company existent at acquisition and generating revenue) 
over five years and customer relationships (relationships with customers which were generating revenue at acquisition) over two years, being the periods
over which the Company is expected to derive benefit from them.
The estimated amortization expense of intangible assets in each of the next five years is set forth below:
£000
2004 2,700
2005 2,652
2006 266
2007 79
2008 19
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 73 10  Shareholders’ equity
Share options The board is authorized to issue options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum of 10% of the issued ordinary share
capital in any five-year period. Options issued prior to the listing of the Company are excluded from this calculation.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Company may grant options to directors and employees
meeting certain eligibility requirements. Options under the Executive Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time
the options expire.
Under the Company’s Unapproved Scheme (the “Unapproved Scheme”), for which it has not sought approval from the UK Inland Revenue, options are
exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire. The Company also operates the US ISO Share Option Plan, which is
substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue. Under both
of these schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third
anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
There are two further schemes for our French and Belgian employees (the “French Scheme” and the “Belgian Scheme”). In the French Scheme, options are
exercisable between four and seven years after their issue, whilst in the Belgian Scheme, options are exercisable from 1 January following the third
anniversary after their issue, up to seven years from issue.
In 1998, the Company set up two savings-related share option schemes for all employees and executive directors of the Company. The number of options
granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is three or five years except for employees of ARM, Inc. where the
period is two years. The option price is currently set at 85% of the market share price prior to the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a
six-month period once the savings have been completed except for ARM, Inc. where the right to exercise normally only arises for a three-month period
once the savings have been completed. The Company set up two further savings-related option schemes in each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 for
all employees and executive directors of the Company, which have the same characteristics as those schemes set up in 1998.
Outstanding options
Weighted average
Shares exercise price
Number £
Balances, 31 December 2000 47,002,473 1.214
Granted in year 8,189,032 3.398
Lapsed in year (1,283,752) 3.433
Exercised in year (18,457,205) 0.136
Balances, 31 December 2001 35,450,548 2.199
Granted in year 10,081,501 2.290
Lapsed in year (3,269,030) 1.965
Exercised in year (7,211,670) 0.691
Balances, 31 December 2002 35,051,349 2.557
Granted in year 37,537,323 0.468 
Lapsed in year (4,434,268) 2.566
Exercised in year (2,663,324) 0.194
Balances, 31 December 2003 65,491,080 1.455
The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2003 was £0.30 for options in the Executive Scheme, £0.27 for options in the
Unapproved, ISO, French and Belgian Schemes and £0.45 for sharesave options. 
The weighted average exercise price of options exercisable at 31 December 2003 was £2.45 (31 December 2002: £1.71).
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
74 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 10  Shareholders’ equity continued
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December 2003:
Ordinary Exercise price Exercisable at
shares per share Remaining Exercise 31 December
Number £contractual life period 2003
320,000 0.02 2.5 years 1999 – 2006 320,000
615,000 0.026 3.2 years 2000 – 2007 615,000
20,000 0.0425 0.4 years 2000 – 2004 20,000
20,000 0.0625 0.5 years 2000 – 2004 20,000
120,000 0.0625 0.8 years 2000 – 2004 120,000
230,000 0.0625 1.0 years 2000 – 2004 230,000
400,000 0.1125 4.2 years 2001 – 2008 400,000
5,001** 0.1125 1.2 years 1999 – 2005 5,001
35,000 0.3875 1.4 years 2001 – 2005 35,000
1,504** 0.3875 1.4 years 1999 – 2005 1,504
50,000 0.5275 4.6 years 2001 – 2008 50,000
10,061** 0.5275 1.6 years 1999 – 2005 10,061
51,000 0.405 4.8 years 2001 – 2008 51,000
2,499,887 1.224 5.2 years 2002 – 2009 2,499,887
4,471,980 1.224 2.2 years 2002 – 2006 4,471,980
1,194,369** 1.224 0.2 years 2000 – 2004 1,194,369
120,840 1.338 5.3 years 2002 – 2009 120,840
25,160 1.338 2.3 years 2002 – 2006 25,160
26,252** 1.338 1.3 years 2000 – 2004 26,252
43,495 1.765 5.6 years 2002 – 2009 43,495
3,005 1.765 2.6 years 2002 – 2006 3,005
40,002** 1.765 0.6 years 2000 – 2004 40,002
80,570 4.26 5.9 years 2002 – 2009 80,570
76,680 4.26 2.9 years 2002 – 2006 76,680
89,000 7.738 6.1 years 2003 – 2010 89,000
43,250 7.738 3.1 years 2003 – 2007 43,250
52,500** 7.738 1.1 years 2001 – 2005 39,375
75,215 6.136 6.3 years 2003 – 2010 75,215
36,035 6.136 3.3 years 2003 – 2007 36,035
7,500** 6.136 1.3 years 2001 – 2005 5,625
50,000** 6.27 1.3 years 2001 – 2005 37,500
272,599 6.155 6.4 years 2003 – 2010 272,599
2,217,329** 6.155 3.4 years 2001 – 2007 1,662,993
625,000** 6.155 1.4 years 2001 – 2005 468,750
162,500** 6.70 3.6 years 2001 – 2007 121,875
24,250** 6.70 1.6 years 2001 – 2005 18,187
181,250** 6.33 3.8 years 2001 – 2007 135,937
114,500** 6.33 1.8 years 2001 – 2005 85,875
71,250 6.33 3.8 years 2004 – 2007 –
396,500** 4.43 4.1 years 2002 – 2008 198,250
83,000** 4.43 2.1 years 2002 – 2006 41,500
30,000 4.43 4.1 years 2005 – 2008 –
578,959 3.35 7.4 years 2004 – 2011 –
3,472,074** 3.35 4.4 years 2002 – 2008 1,736,037
1,193,400** 3.35 2.4 years 2002 – 2006 596,700
149,500 3.35 4.4 years 2005 – 2008 –
62,909† 3.815 4.4 years 2004 – 2008 –
58,813 2.84 7.6 years 2004 – 2011 –
20,822** 2.84 4.6 years 2002 – 2008 10,411
28,000** 2.84 2.6 years 2002 – 2006 14,000
139,000 3.75 7.8 years 2004 – 2011 –
42,500** 3.75 4.8 years 2002 – 2008 21,250
44,750** 3.75 2.8 years 2002 – 2006 22,375
8,500 3.75 4.8 years 2005 – 2008 –
161,250** 3.145 5.2 years 2003 – 2009 40,310
62,500** 3.145 3.2 years 2003 – 2007 15,625
10,000 3.145 5.2 years 2006 – 2009 –
1,061,888 2.465 8.3 years 2005 – 2012 –
3,987,212** 2.465 5.3 years 2003 – 2009 996,803
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 75 10  Shareholders’ equity continued
Ordinary Exercise price Exercisable at
shares per share Remaining Exercise 31 December
Number £contractual life period 2003
406,896† 2.465 5.3 years 2005 – 2009 –
1,371,575** 2.465 3.3 years 2003 – 2007 342,893
162,375 2.465 5.3 years 2006 – 2009 –
223,515† 2.1475 5.4 years 2005 – 2009 –
305,750** 1.505 5.6 years 2003 – 2009 76,437
125,000** 1.505 3.6 years 2003 – 2007 31,250
5,000 1.505 5.6 years 2006 – 2009 –
108,750** 0.425 5.8 years 2003 – 2009 27,187
68,750** 0.425 3.8 years 2003 – 2007 17,187
11,250 0.425 5.8 years 2006 – 2009 –
35,000** 0.5725 5.9 years 2003 – 2009 8,750
3,500** 0.5725 3.9 years 2003 – 2007 875
3,705,912 0.4375 9.1 years 2006 – 2013 –
15,759,867** 0.4375 6.1 years 2004 – 2010 –
3,885,711† 0.4375 6.1 years 2006 – 2010 –
5,944,771** 0.4375 4.1 years 2004 – 2008 –
757,300 0.4375 6.1 years 2007 – 2010 –
248,250** 0.805 6.6 years 2004 – 2010 –
31,000** 0.805 4.6 years 2004 – 2008 –
56,500** 1.1475 6.8 years 2004 – 2010 –
10,000** 1.1475 4.8 years 2004 – 2008 –
3,250 1.1475 6.8 years 2007 – 2010 –
243,200 1.1475 6.8 years 2007 – 2010 –
85,340* 1.099 1.0 years 2004 – 2004 –
597* 5.65 2.0 years 2005 – 2005 –
82,822* 3.069 1.0 years 2004 – 2004 –
16,495* 3.069 3.0 years 2006 – 2006 –
85,646* 1.82537 2.0 years 2005 – 2005 –
36,262* 1.82537 4.0 years 2007 – 2007 –
15,244* 1.82537 0.8 years 2004 – 2004 –
4,145,776* 0.5865 3.0 years 2006 – 2006 –
634,270* 0.5865 5.0 years 2008 – 2008 –
841,945* 0.5865 1.8 years 2005 – 2005 –
65,491,080 17,749,862
* These relate to options granted under the Company’s savings-related share option schemes.
** Options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
† These options will vest after seven years unless certain criteria are met, in which case they will vest between three and seven years.
Under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan, a further 2,572,646 shares could be awarded to the extent that performance criteria are satisfied over 
a three-year period. These shares will be awarded from shares already issued within the ESOP .
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
76 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 11  Commitments and contingencies
The Company leases its office facilities and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements which expire at various dates through
2018.
Future minimum lease commitments at 31 December 2003, are as follows:
Operating leases
Years ending 31 December £000
2004 4,877
2005 3,409
2006 2,357
2007 2,114
2008 2,114
Thereafter 15,606
Total minimum lease payments 30,477
Rental expense under operating leases totalled £3,101,000, £5,199,000 and £8,169,000 for the years ended 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively.
In May 2002, Nazomi Communications Inc. filed suit against ARM alleging wilful infringement of Nazomi’s US patent No. 6,332,215 by ARM’s Jazelle
technology. ARM answered Nazomi’s complaint in July 2002, denying infringement of the ‘215 patent, asserting various affirmative defences and asserting
counterclaims. ARM moved for summary judgement and a ruling that the current version of its processor designs incorporating the Jazelle technology does
not infringe the ‘215 patent. The district court granted ARM’s motion, holding that the current version of its processor designs incorporating the Jazelle
technology does not infringe the ‘215 patent. Nazomi has appealed the district court’s ruling. The appeal court has not set a date to hear the appeal yet.
ARM is confident that the original ruling by the district court will be upheld on appeal.
Guarantees It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that
the technology licensed is held to infringe the intellectual property of a third party. Consistent with such practice, the Company provides such indemnification
to its licensees but subject, in all cases, to a limitation of liability. The obligation for the Company to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and
is usually contingent upon a third party bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Company to the licensee infringes
such third party's intellectual property rights. The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the license and will continue in perpetuity.
The Company does not provide for any such guarantees unless it has received notification from the other party that they are likely to invoke the guarantee.
Any such provision is based upon the directors’ estimate of the expected costs of any such claim.
12  Geographic and segment information
The Company operates in, and is managed as, a single product segment.
The following analysis is of revenues by geographic segment and origin and long-lived assets by Group companies in each territory:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Revenues (by market destination):
Europe 27,103 26,731 23,118
US 72,271 67,086 65,402
Japan 33,548 38,295 24,135
Asia Pacific excluding Japan 13,352 18,810 15,415
Total revenues 146,274 150,922 128,070
The Company’s exports from the UK were £128,303,000, £135,713,000 and £115,072,000 for the years ended 31 December 2001, 2002 and 2003
respectively.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 77 12  Geographic and segment information continued
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
£000 £000 £000
Revenues (by origin):
Europe 131,136 137,747 118,885
US 8,431 7,288 4,893
Asia Pacific 6,707 5,887 4,292
Total revenues 146,274 150,922 128,070
Long-lived assets, including deferred income taxes:
Europe 35,626 38,044 33,085
US 3,608 3,751 2,771
Asia Pacific 167 269 180
Total long-lived assets 39,401 42,064 36,036
In 2003, 2002 and 2001 no single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. 
13  Fair values of financial instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate 
that value:
Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity
of those instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2001 2002 2003
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value amount value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 104,467 104,467 130,304 130,304 130,722 130,722
Short-term investments –––– 29,064 29,064
Accounts receivable 24,809 24,809 20,516 20,516 17,320 17,320
Foreign currency contracts 355 355 1,061 1,061 2,015 2,015
Embedded derivatives – – (950) (950) (2,091) (2,091)
14  Post balance sheet events
At the 2004 Annual General Meeting of the Company on 26 April 2004, a dividend of 0.6 pence per share (total cost £6,106,000) will be proposed in
respect of the 2003 financial year, and if approved will be paid on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at 2 April 2004.
Notes to the financial statements/US GAAP/continued
78 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 To the board of directors and shareholders of ARM Holdings plc In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and of cash flow present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ARM
Holdings plc and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2003 and 2002 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended 31 December
2003, 2002 and 2001 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted
our audit of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion expressed above.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants
Cambridge, England
10 March 2004
Report of independent auditors/US GAAP
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 79 Group directory
80 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
ARM Limited
Liberty House
Moorbridge Road
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 8LT
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 427700
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701
Sheffield Science Park
New Spring House
231 Glossop Road
Sheffield S10 2GW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 114 282 8000
Fax: +44 (0) 114 282 8001
Blackburn Design Centre
Belthorn House
Walker Road
Blackburn BB1 2QE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1254 893900
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901
ARM France
12 Avenue des Prés
Montigny le Bretonneux
78059 Saint Quentin en
Yvelines, Cedex
France
Tel: +33 1 30 79 05 10
Fax: +33 1 30 79 05 11
Les Cardoulines B2
Route des Doline
Sophia Antipolis
06560 Valbonne
France
Tel: +33 4 92 96 88 60
Fax: +33 4 92 96 88 79
ARM Belgium
Geldenaaksebaan 329 
1st fl.
3001 Leuven-Heverlee
Belgium
Tel: +32 16 391 411
Fax: +32 16 406 076
ARM Germany
Rennweg 33
85435 Erding
Germany
Tel: +49 8122 89209 0
Fax: +49 8122 89209 49
ARM Israel
23 Hataa-as St
44425 Kfar Saba
Israel
Tel: +972 9 7678040
extension 201
Fax: +972 9 7677020
ARM, Inc.
1250 Capital of Texas
Highway
Building 3, Suite 560
Austin, TX 78746
United States
Tel: +1 512 327 9249
Fax: +1 512 314 1078
1902 Wright Place
Suite 200
Carlsbad, CA 92008
United States
Tel: +1 760 918 5536
Fax: +1 760 918 5539
750 University Avenue
Suite 150
Los Gatos, CA 95032
United States
Tel: +1 408 579 2200
Fax: +1 408 579 1205
300 W Main Street
Suite 215
Northborough, MA 01532
United States
Tel: +1 508 351 1670
Fax: +1 508 351 1667
Walnut Creek Design Center
1981 N Broadway
Suite 245
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
United States
Tel: +1 925 944 9690
Fax: +1 925 944 9612
Crystal Glen Center
39555 Orchard Hill Place
Suite 600
Novi, MI 48375
United States
Tel: +1 248 374 5055
Fax: +1 248 374 5056
ARM KK
Daini-Ueno Building 8F
3-7-18 Shin-Yokohama
Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi
Kanagawa 222-0033
Japan
Tel: +81 45 477 5260
Fax: +81 45 477 5261
ARM Korea Limited
Room 1115
Hyundai Building
9-4, Soonae-Dong
Boondang-Ku
Sungnam 
Kyunggi-do 463-020
South Korea
Tel: +82 31 712 8234
Fax: +82 31 713 8225
ARM Taiwan Limited
8F no 50
Lane 10
Kee Hu Road
Nei Hu
Taipei (114)
Taiwan
Tel: +886 2 2627 1681
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682
ARM Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd
Room 1112–1113
Building B
Far East International Plaza
No. 317 XianXia Road
Shanghai 200051
PR China
Tel: +86 21 62351296
Fax: +86 21 62351207
ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410 Designed and produced by C&FD. 
Directors’ photography by Bob Wheeler. 
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, which is made from virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests 
in Austria, and from pulp which is totally chlorine-free (TCF) and elemental chlorine-free (ECF). It is recyclable and biodegradable. ARM Holdings plc
110 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0) 1223 400410
Further information available at:
www.arm.com
gp p
THE ARCHITECTURE FOR THE DIGITAL WORLD
™
